Welcome to The Basin's Conspiracy, I'm Eni Ashbrotsky.
And I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we have a guest, Chase, and we're going to be talking
about digital rights.
Do you want to tell us what that subject is?
Hello, I'm Chase, and yeah, I'm here to talk about digital rights.
So, well, firstly, to be painful, I'm not even sure I'm a fan of the term digital rights,
to me it's really just your standard rights, just as they exist when you happen to be in
front of a computer or a phone or any other digital device.
That does seem to make it almost sound like a lesser right, it's like these aren't your
normal rights, these are your special digital rights.
Yeah, exactly.
It's kind of like the way the homophobic people were like, well, these gays want special
rights.
I'm like, no, we just want the same rights you have.
Exactly.
Digital rights are the same thing, they're just your rights.
So what are these digital rights?
Or what are these rights that extend to the digital domain?
Fundamentally, it's all the same rights.
We, the right to a freedom of speech, the right to some privacy, personal space, personal
privacy, and man, that's about it for digital rights.
So why should I be worried about my digital rights?
Don't I have the right to freedom of speech?
You do in the real world, but when it gets to digital, it gets real gray really quick.
Facebook is a fantastic example of this.
When you post things on Facebook, Facebook has an internal algorithm that determines who
sees them and when they see them and how many of your friends see them.
And this is rated by a lot of things, mostly by what Facebook thinks your friends want
to see, which may not be what you're saying, which isn't fantastic on its own, but also
certain topics that Facebook just avoids.
They don't want talked about on their site, so even if you post about it, they just
blanket block it from anyone seeing.
They don't notify you, and it's not a direct blocking of freedom of speech, but it's a
subtle undermining of it, and it can be very problematic.
That's one example.
I mean, I see what you're saying, and I dislike that as well, but since it's their platform,
do they have some right to do that if they've determined that that is what their customers
want and what will serve their corporate not getting sued and or losing customers' interests?
They're absolutely allowed to do it.
They're legally fine to do it, but...
But they shouldn't be.
I don't want to say ethically.
I guess it is, but ethically, they shouldn't be because they are in ways interfering with
your freedom of speech.
And...
Now, if they didn't have those blanket prohibitions on certain topics, which I agree is bullshit,
and instead just weighted stories based on what your friends want to see, wouldn't that
be okay?
Because then they're providing a service to the people who use Facebook.
I used to, back when this was actually an option, and I had less than five bazillion
friends, I just had my feed set up chronologically.
I would see things as they came in and scroll through it until I caught up with the last
thing, and obviously I can't do that anymore.
But that privileges people who just spam Facebook constantly.
And I don't want to reward people who spam Facebook constantly with crap.
I want to see the stuff that's actually interesting to me.
And if Facebook knows what that is, I am very happy that they promote things like Robin
Wiblin stuff to the beginning of my feed.
And it is in their interest to do so, and I'm sure they will continue to do it.
The reason it can be a problem is it, to me, it's one of the big causes of sensory bubbling
information.
What am I looking for here?
Accessibility?
No.
Polarization in society?
Yeah.
The term I don't think is exactly sensory bubbling, but it's your news bubble, your information
source bubble.
Sure.
Is there a term?
I've heard the term info bubble.
Echo chamber is good, info bubble?
Yeah.
All right.
Sorry.
Where were we?
What did you last ask?
I asked, isn't that a useful service to cut out the boring crap and give me the stuff
I actually want to see?
Yeah.
Yes.
It's a very useful service, and it is in Facebook's interest to do it, but it very
much leads to a sensor bubbling phenomena, a news bubbling.
It gives you your own echo chamber.
It limits your exposure to all disagreeing opinions, alternate perspectives, and that
can be a very dangerous thing.
Personally, I think some of those effects have already manifested on Facebook.
If you have seen any of your friends kind of lean their political leanings ever more
radical, but specifically while on Facebook, I think that some of the reasons, some of
the reason we see stuff like that and how it can cause issues.
There is some things I see on Facebook that I don't get from people when I see them face
to face, but I always just attribute that to internet balls.
Yeah.
Of course.
It's always easier in text.
We talked about this earlier, and my counterpoint to that, and I know you had a pretty good
argument against it, but my counterpoint to that was people always naturally filter
themselves anyway, that when I was much more active in online communities, I would go to
an atheist forum and just talk with other atheists about atheist things.
Every now and then, if a Christian showed up, we would either rip into him if he was
an asshole, or sometimes have decent moderate debates, but it was very much a social bubble
and very insulated, and we knew that, and we were okay with it, is what we wanted.
I think you just kind of hit on what makes it different, is you knew it.
You were aware of it when you were there.
It's easy to recognize, or at least easier to recognize as a social bubble, as kind of
outside of how the rest of the world talks, how the rest of the world thinks, and it's
more a conscious choice instead of it being decided by some skeezy algorithm in some corporate
headquarters, what you should talk and think about.
I don't know why you got a diss on the algorithm, man.
This is a perfectly nice algorithm with a wife and two algorithm children.
I think it's related.
There's been concerns on Reddit that there's non-user-controlled manipulation of front-page
content.
I think what you're describing is the difference between going to r slash atheism versus your
front page being filtered without you being able to adjust that.
Then you're getting a skewed view of the world without knowing it.
Exactly.
The overall concern there is that if you're going, first of all, don't use Facebook for
news, but if for some reason you are, people might be going in anticipating that they're
getting a somewhat balanced or proportional view, and they're probably not, right?
I'm going to make a confession that I get most of my news from Facebook because the
actual news that I was at my parents just a week ago and they turned on the evening
news, this is depressing.
This is awful bullshit.
I do not want this poured into my eyeballs every single fucking evening.
When I do hear about things, it's generally because enough of my friends are talking about
them that it has made its way to me.
I get most of mine from either news alerts on my phone or from the NPR five-minute flash
briefing from the digital assistant that if I say its name, it'll activate.
That updates every hour.
A couple days a day, I can be like, hey, what's my flash briefing?
That updates every hour?
Every hour or two, I think.
I'll start checking it more often.
It's kind of cool.
Then that way, if there's something that I find interesting, I can dive into that.
Yeah, you're right.
Sitting and just watching the news, that sounds like a nightmare.
I guess moving away from Facebook and Reddit, there were some other really interesting examples
of how a consumer's right to either possess information or own information that they've
stored digitally or manipulate information or other stuff digitally.
I totally want to get back to that because that is super interesting, but I don't want
to move off Facebook just yet because what other option do we have for mass communication
with our friends?
I mean, the whole point of a social network is that more people are on it, the more useful
it is.
So, pretty much you're stuck with the best one or the largest one.
Well, yes, and optimally, there would be a...
Do we just have to put pressure on Facebook through legal or social means to not be dicks?
Is that our only choice?
The solution, I actually don't know what the solution is.
The solution is to spend as much time as you can with companies that aren't doing this.
If there's any alternative you know, if there's any other company, any other way you know
to do this, whether it be even just a group messaging app to keep in contact with people,
there are a few very small open source projects that easily accomplish most of Facebook's useful
side, but as you said, it really matters what network your friends are on.
If they're not there, it's not of tremendous value, but the more we can push to these alternatives
that are ethically correct or more ethically correct, I think the better things will be
in the future for literally everyone.
And I think just the fact that those exist makes things a little better?
Yeah, absolutely.
And that's what we really have to be careful of is those do exist for now.
If you want to have a personal secure communication with someone, you still can.
It's a lot of work and it's harder than...
It's a lot harder than you might believe to have a truly secure conversation with someone,
but you still can today.
And depending on how net neutrality rulings go and how ridiculously large Facebook continues
to grow, it's not unreasonable to think that at some point you might not have the freedom
to do that.
And the sooner we can head that off, the better all of computers will be for the future.
I personally, when Amazon came out with their eReader, the Kindle, and Barnes & Noble came
without, there's the nook.
Even though the Amazon had a little bit more usability and breadth of scope, I went with
the nook because it doesn't have the terrible DRM on their stuff.
All everything you got for the nook was DRM free.
It's kind of disappointing in that the nook has more or less been outcompeted.
They're not really supporting it as much anymore, but you can still buy all the eBooks you want
off Barnes & Noble without the DRM.
And I think the fact that that did exist as an option, even though only like 5%, 10% of
the marketplace may be used it, is part of the thing that helped push Amazon into getting
rid of their awful DRM.
And I am glad to have helped support the cause for a little bit.
Exactly.
And I still use the nook because I mean, it's just as good.
That's a great example of just leaning towards the freer, better platform and how that can
affect these big scary corporations.
But I do worry, as you said, that if the nook goes away entirely and or Barnes & Noble
goes out of business or something, what is the check on Amazon at that point?
Exactly.
Yeah.
Why wouldn't they go back to their crazy?
And that all falls under DMCA law, which is a huge complicated monstrosity that if we
have time, maybe we'll cover in the end, but it's one of the big things that interferes
with your own digital rights and your access to your own software, to your own hardware
and to truly, it's one of the things that really limits you from truly owning and controlling
your own machines.
It basically strips away what rights you have to your own stuff.
It says that the things you have are not actually yours is, God, I hate the DCMA or
DMCA.
Yeah.
