where maybe I like to unface book or something who knows the perceptions that
even if they do have all this information, they're just using it to try and target ads,
which I'm like the only person I've met who's kind of OK with that.
No, I love that fact that I will sometimes hear about a band that I like and that isn't
very popular coming to my town.
Right.
I'm like, this is I would pay for the service.
I'm glad I get it for free.
Yeah.
And that's kind of actually what you were saying earlier, Inyash, which is the this is
providing a service.
It is helpful and that that's one of the big that's how these companies that's
how they defend themselves.
That's what they say they're doing.
And in the large part, yes, they are.
It is a very handy service.
But to me, they're not nearly as transparent as they should be about this.
This should be big red text first when you come on, which is we're we're collecting
all sorts of things about you in very subtle ways, very technical ways.
You know, we can track what websites you go to from here, what you do before you
come here, all sorts of things and they don't.
They don't really share that.
They don't consumers don't really know that.
And people might change the behavior if they did.
It surprised me.
It's already changed my behavior a little bit when you told me the quote,
unquote, private conversation I'm having with someone in Facebook Messenger is
seen not only by me and the person I'm talking to, but Facebook and their system
for determining what words I'm going to type next or something.
Sure.
And all their advertising partners are going to use that to help target
advertisements at me like by personal conversation, which is feels weird.
I don't mind them doing that for things.
I post on Facebook, my wall itself, but the things I'm talking about with
other people being scanned as well starts to feel weird.
Yeah.
And most of those personal chats, as far as I know, aren't, I don't think
are shared with advertisers yet, but Facebook certainly keeps track of all of
them.
They use it for all sorts of learning algorithms on what they do.
That's actually all outlined in their privacy policy.
If you read the page, God knows what, but it's not only that in these
personal conversations, you also have, well, the keyboard on your phone is
reporting back to Google.
It's analytics.
If you have an, if you have an Android or Apple, if you have an Apple on top
of that, the operating system on your phone is keeping track of these.
And that might be controlled by Google.
So now Google and Facebook have it.
And if you go even a step further, which not too long ago would have, would
have been called a conspiracy theory as of when did the songs first do
his big leaks 2014?
It's been a few years now.
I don't remember exactly when.
I feel like it's longer ago than that, but who knows.
Yeah.
It's not super important.
So what would have been called conspiracy theories up until quite recently
is that literally the government has access to this.
The, there were big reveals on, you know, the whole NSA, phone tapping, the
metadata collection, the interference with computers as they are.
And that's the thing that happens.
And not only does it happen, it's incredibly widespread.
It is actually extremely difficult to have a truly secure conversation
with anyone nowadays to a ridiculous degree.
There was a time, and I think this was known even before the Assange
WikiLeaks thing.
That was Snowden.
Sorry.
Or well, Snowden worked with Assange though.
Yeah, I know, but I'm sorry.
The government for a long time actually forced chip manufacturers to put code
in their firmware that what reported back to them or did something with your
data, that was actually an even worse example.
So one of the, the arguments, like we were just saying, if you want to have
a secure conversation, all right, don't use Facebook Messenger.
Don't use your Android phone controlled by Google.
Use the hardware you own and that you bought and that doesn't go through
any corporation that you're privately emailing directly to another person.
It doesn't go through anyone's server, but yours and theirs.
And you say, yeah, sure, that should be completely secure.
And it's still not because there was a, what's called the equation group malware.
It's the NSA's, although arguably the CIA's, no one really knows.
It did a whole lot of things.
It was ostensibly built to help counter Iranian nuclear threats, but at some
point it ended up on 30 something percent of all computers in the world.
And what it would do is if it saw you encrypting something so you could send
it securely to someone else without it being read by any intermediate parties,
it would weaken that encryption.
It would see the encryption key go to the heart of your computer and subtly rewrite it.
And that's on your computer that you bought that doesn't go through any
server, no ULAs, no nothing that should be a secure communication that still isn't.
It was literally on the hardware itself.
Yeah, it was it was on a chip came in coming out of the plant that way.
And which is I heard one of the reasons that many governments now
consider it part of national security policy to be able to create their own
hardware in the country.
Absolutely.
One of the only because you can't trust hardware that you get from the U.S.
One of the only secure computers you can buy today is sold by Richard
Stallman at the Free Software Foundation.
It's a early 2000s think pad.
It's one of the only laptops that doesn't have a huge block of mysterious code
running in a chip you have no control over and aren't allowed to look at.
Lest we come off suddenly conspiracy theorists will link to all this stuff
on the episode description just because this.
Well, my first time being exposed to this, I'm just like, this sounds like
it sounds like you should be wearing a tin foil hat.
This can't be real.
No, but this is well known now.
It was it was it was reported on at NPR and various news media outlets when it became known.
And even more recently, as of as of this recording, just a few days ago,
WikiLeaks has posted a bunch of as of yet technically unverified leaks about
CIA internal operations that detail CIA's extensive research into
interfering with automotive computers into interfering with hardware
manufacturer for personal computers and a huge set of spying tools to interfere
with what should be secure communications in you and another party.
So what is it that they do?
What do you mean?
Well, the new one that just came out on WikiLeaks, I'm not sure I can answer that.
OK, I'm not sure I know enough detail.
It just came out just a few days ago and I haven't read all of it, but the newest
one was a set of tools, a set of data collecting tools, mostly.
So four places like Facebook that either have this publicly or privately shared
or for Google, a set of tools that can let them scour everything accessible
to compile as much information about a single person as you can.
So you say, oh, it's not bad, Fitbit has this, it's not bad.
Facebook has this part, it's not bad that my Alexa has this part of my history.
But you start mushing that all together and you can come up with a lot of
information about a person they may not have meant to share.
And a lot of the more recent tools are that, but that even stacks with
the additional information they have from what should be secure computers.
I've got a fun tie in since you name dropped the Amazon Home Assistant,
the one in the corner activated and was listening.
I remember reading something a few weeks ago, maybe a few months
where it was either an actual terrorist or suspected one.
Somebody was trying to get the as much conversation as they could from Amazon
that was stored on their Amazon Home Assistant, the Echo, I don't want to
say its other name because it will start talking in the background.
And they were, as far as I could see, unable to.
So like Amazon just really didn't store much.
Like so when you say, when you use the activation word, it'll store what you
say after that until it starts processing what you said.
And then it won't save anything else.
At least that anyone could find in this one thing.
Yes.
So firstly, there are certain things, there are many things that could be
captured because the keyword isn't just Amazon Home.
As you guys know, you have one.
There are a couple of things I can wake it up.
A fair number of words that can wake it up accidentally.
Home is one of them.
Is it?
Right.
What about, um, um, assassinating the president?
Well, ostensibly, according to Amazon that you let know.
But as crazy as it sounds, we don't know if that's the only thing
running on that.
You don't have the right to look into it and make sure the only softer
running on it is Amazon's.
For all you know, anyone's could be.
It could be a compromise system by a kid down the street or by a foreign state.
And there's really no way to know because you don't have control over it.
You have to trust that Amazon kept it secure and that it's in their interest to do that.
And Amazon might not even know.
And it might not, they might not have a real strong incentive to work
really hard to secure this because no one cares.
No one raises an issue about this.
So it's more than just, just Amazon having it for sure.
And that's, it is something to think about.
And I know that we've talked about this before, but just because it might be on
someone else's mind, it might just be, might not just be me.
What is, as long as I'm not talking about doing anything illegal, why do I,
what, why would I want to have a private conversation?
I mean, that sounds like a stupid question, except let's say if I was like, well,
you know what, I'm okay with something looking over all my, my Facebook
conversations, just to see if there's any keywords that pop up and, you know,
maybe not saving everything else.
Maybe who knows, because I'm concerned about my national security.
And because, so I'm willing to sign that away.
And because they're not doing anything bad to me right now, I'm kind of fine with
that. I think that's the, the steelman position for this really is national security.
Right.
There's no one's coming out and saying, yeah, we're doing it because we're, you
know, they're not mustache twirling, you know, super villains.
If we can catch one terrorist, it makes it worth violating all these rights.
Totally, totally correct.
Well, I think that's more or less their articulation, maybe some, some
keywords in or out of there, right?
What is the comeback to that?
So like, I'm not, I'm not doing anything illegal.
Why do I care if Facebook creates my, my messenger conversations?
Hmm.
Did I accidentally win?
No, I'm kidding.
The risk always is, uh, it's the same reason a police require a warrant for a
wiretap or police require a warrant to come into your home and investigate what
you're doing.
They're fundamental freedom of speech and freedom to have a functional
democracy reasons why this has to be this way.
