And those same, those same needs continue into the digital domain.
The same needs to a reasonable level of privacy.
I actually really wish I could articulate those offhand, but.
It does seem like privacy is a thing that most people just want instinctively.
I hear a lot of celebrities are unhappy about the fact that, uh, they don't have
very much privacy in their lives, even though if they aren't doing anything
illegal, why should they care, right?
But it does feel like the same kind of thing where if there's a cop standing
in your house at all times watching to make sure you aren't breaking any laws.
Someone could say, well, if you aren't breaking any laws, what's the big deal?
Got nothing to hide.
But on the other hand, just having someone there constantly with the threat
of violence in case you fuck something up can be extremely stressful.
And I would assume, you know, even bad for your health.
I completely agree with you guys.
I just wanted to get that conversation.
No, I think that's a really good question.
And I wish I could better come up with the term for why that's so dangerous to
have that police officer always standing in your living room.
I mean, it would make things safer.
You would never assault someone while that police officer is always there.
Yeah.
So like celebrities, you know, or anybody has has the rights to, um, like it's
illegal, I think in most states to try and take pictures to someone's window if
they're inside their house.
You know, if their front door is open, if they're on their lawn, that's where
like paparazzi pictures come out of famous people or something.
But the idea that I'm at home, this is my space.
I'm going to do what I want here.
And I don't want to worry about looking bad if, you know, whatever, whatever it
is, right? Whether I'm doing anything illegal or not, I just don't want to
have to look glamorous in case someone posted this picture online.
I should be allowed to say, no, that's, you guys can't have that picture.
But as far as like making things safer, you know, we talked about before some
parts of the United States, like certain intersections, especially, but my
understanding is that in large parts of the United Kingdom, there's like surveillance
cameras all over the place.
And they're, they're not at least the ones that people see aren't like hidden
secret ones.
They're just like, you know, on street lamps or whatever.
I mean, they might act as a bit of a deterrent because people will say, oh,
by mug this person, that camera will see me.
But they also act as a way to corroborate your story.
It's kind of why people like police body cams, right?
So that in that way there's, there's uncontestable accountability saying, no,
no, look at 313, I was mugged by this ATM, you can check the camera.
I guess what I'm getting at is that sort of ties into people don't have this
expectation of privacy when they leave their house, right?
Right. And that's an example of laws that made a lot of sense in the past and
don't make quite as much sense now because it makes a lot of sense.
Sure, you're outside your house, you're, you have no expectation of privacy.
We are allowed to watch you, you know, track you, see what you're doing.
And that makes enough sense, except as technology evolves and as things change,
we end up with a situation where instead of just being able to look at you or
being one person, be able to see what you're doing, we can now aggregate all
of the video data of everything you did in that entire day down to the minute.
And hopefully that will only be used to do good for the citizens.
But at some point, you are trusting a branch of your government with all
of this information about you and you start aggregating this from not just
webcam, but from all of this information they have illegal and legal access to.
And it becomes, it becomes a dangerous amount of information.
It's one of those, what's that well-quoted stab?
I'm not sure if it's true, but that the average person commits a felony a day.
And that under perfect observation, you could put anyone in jail and you living
in a state, you know, living under laws like that is very dangerous.
You can put anyone away you want to at any time without them having committed
a specific crime, without them having committed any more crime than the
neighbor, you can put them away because you just have the ability to look it up.
Yeah.
Because everything's because everyone's against some law.
It's, I don't remember exactly which reporter it was, but there's reported
that followed cops around for a while and apparently the cops in this particular
precinct have a game called, they call it the 10 minute game.
Anytime someone is riding around with them to see what they do, they tell them,
pick out any car at random you want at any time and within 10 minutes, I'll be
able to pull them over for something.
And it's never failed.
Apparently they, someone just points out a car, the cop follows him for 10 minutes
and eventually something happens.
They're like, you're pulled over and that, I mean, that's, you can do that same
thing.
There's so many laws out there.
Everyone is breaking something at some point.
At that point, I start to really get worried about our legal system because it
means that basically the only reason you're not in jail is because you haven't
pissed off the right people.
Exactly.
And that's, that's not the right way to run things.
Yeah.
In that case, the, in a society like that, your only point of defense is not to
come to the attention of the powerful.
Don't do anything that would piss off someone.
And I think we all agree.
We don't want to live in that society.
No, it's not safe to rock the boat even a little.
Uh, I think the other, the main comeback about, you know, unsecure communication,
whether it's, if, whether you're doing anything nefarious or not, there's no
such thing as like a backdoor that only the trustworthy agent has access to.
So even if, even if we lived in a, in a world where we just, we had a national
security agency that we were all just all behind, we said, Hey, there, we know
that the super trust worthy, no one in that, that industry has done anything bad.
And even if it's like the mythological version of Jesus himself in charge of it.
Right.
Um, and this isn't, I'm not making a jab at the NSA, but you could just say that
even if you're on board with everything they're doing, there's no such thing
technologically as giving only them a backdoor to your stuff.
Once you weaken it like that, you, you fundamentally compromise its security to
anybody who has the time and money and effort to go in and, and figure it out.
So like people will put like sticky notes on their cameras and their computers.
Um, not everybody, but some people will include a carry a phone in their pocket.
Right.
And then carry a phone in their pocket with a microphone and everything.
Right.
So like, I'm not super worried about some NSA agent looking at me and my, you
know, watching me read on my computer, right?
But if I wasn't in a different circumstance and maybe if I was trying to avoid
a stalker or, you know, if I was a celebrity that I didn't want people
looking, you know, that's basically being stalked all the time.
Right.
So it's not just the NSA person looking at your computer.
It's anybody.
Once the backdoor is open, it's not just like one person can look in.
You don't even have to worry about doing something illegal.
It's just about kind of wanting to be able to mind your own business and have
people stay out of your business for a while.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and today we still have options to do that.
It is still possible to communicate securely, but that if we were, if we
don't watch it carefully, we may lose that.
And is that because of the DMCA?
Well, no, no, I mean, to some degree, yes.
It's one of the things that makes it easier to enforce, but it's just because
of the way communications move today.
As everyone moves up to Facebook and off of their own personal computers that
you control, it becomes harder and harder to do.
You moved and or I do move to more and more computation is done in the cloud.
Exactly.
Exactly.
I feel like I hit all the points I was thinking of.
Yeah.
And, and just to, just to counter just a little bit further, a good example would
be depending, it depends a lot on who has access to this data.
So if it's all logged by your perfect NSA, even if we assume as a magical way to
do it without invalidating the security of all software, how long is it before
you're in a trial for who knows a speeding ticket, a something really minimal
and someone can pull up a recording you said four years ago in your home about
hey, wouldn't it be funny if Donald Trump's hair caught fire and he died of it?
And bam, you've now broken a whole other set of laws.
Like it's very important who has access to this.
That reminds me, you did bring us something really interesting.
Last time we talked about this, which was if I'm arrested for something, say, say
if I'm being charged with murder, the police can go to my, whatever my cell
provider and figure out where I was at all times for as far back as they think
is necessary, but it's apparently you said it was either way harder or impossible
for like my defense lawyer to do the same thing.
Yeah, because one of a lot of police agencies not only can go subpoena
that from the wireless provider, which may or may not have it, but a lot of them
now recently have been deploying their own.
Basically, it's a hacking device.
It's a fake cell tower that your phone can connect to as it drives by that they
own and they say, oh, look, this cell phone's right here.
And because of the way the 911 system works, your phone will report its
location to that fake cell tower immediately.
And they have access to that because it's their device and you and your
defense lawyer very much don't.
That's weird that I mean, Stingray system, right?
Stingray system.
And that's horrifying.
Just recently, they require a warrant for that up until now.
They don't even that's when it first came to my attention was when I heard
that warrants are now required for this.
I was like, oh, this was a thing before a warrant.
And so that's interesting.
Like with no probable cause, you could be put under that level of investigation.
And what, what, what to me really blew my mind is that the prosecution can go
get this information pretty much really easily.
I guess now they need a warrant, but I mean, that's not super hard to get
depending on what the warrants for.
But if that information could exonerate me, I can't get that from my lawyer.
I mean, no, that's insane because if that information's out there and it's
from my stuff, I mean, this is like, this is what really drives me.
Uh, like this really drives this issue home for me.
This whole umbrella of, of digital rights is that if my phone can tell me,
yeah, at 3.30 last night, Steven was in fact at home watching Netflix and
playing, you know, clash of clans on his phone, we can see everything from where
he's at. Therefore, he couldn't have committed this murder in, you know,
two cities over, uh, but that, that blows my mind.
Like, why, why isn't that information easily easy to find for my defense?
I mentioned this, uh, earlier when we were talking, the, the one that I find
really crazy is the, uh, again, it's a pacemaker one, the one where a guy is
being charged for, uh, insurance fraud for burning down his own house to collect
the insurance. There's recording of him calling 911 saying, oh, my house is on
fire, blah, blah, blah, and they're all worried about putting on a pretty good
show about it. Police went and accessed the data from his pacemaker and they
saw that his heart rate at the time was not very elevated.
It was basically a resting heart rate.
And they said, look, there is no way someone who's actually panicked about a
fire happening has a heart rate that low.
He is probably not even in the house at this point.
