So, uh, they're using that as part of their prosecution, that he very
obviously was not actually in panicked or fear for his life.
And if you were to try to do that the other way around, you aren't going to
get your pacemaker data from the company that holds it.
You don't have the power to subpoena them and get that and see, be like, look,
you say I was murdering someone at 2am last night, but here is the data
from my pacemaker that shows I have a resting heart rate and I was probably
asleep at that moment.
I certainly was not stabbing the shit out of some dude.
So that the fact that they have access to that information and they will use
it to prosecute you, but you do not get access to it to defend yourself is
something that very much bothers me.
It's, that's pretty mind blowing.
I mean, again, this whole thing of like they have access to it.
I know who they are, like that we're talking about, but this is, this is
probably the most tinfoil hat conversation that I've, that I, that I can
fully get behind.
Well, I was actually going to ask, I'm not entirely sure the laws on medical
data, whether you can subpoena that and a prosecutor can or can't.
I'm not entirely sure how that works.
Okay.
Um,
You think they may have been going past their legal reach and it might get
thrown out?
No, no, I think they can.
I'm just not sure if you can't, I'm not sure if that's the case.
I haven't actually looked up the specific case.
I'd be really curious to see it though.
I mean, this also could just show that the guy knows how to keep
his cool under pressure.
Right.
Yeah.
So, I mean, maybe he's just super Zen and he's like, all right, well,
panicking won't help.
Right.
So I'm, and I mean, also your heart, it would be elevated if you're faking
a fire too, right?
Or if you're faking, if you're faking, uh, an accidental fire.
I know.
And I guess back to the point you were making is he should have access to that
without any question.
He shouldn't have to go hire a lawyer and file legal documents with a medical
company providing this.
It's his, he owns it.
It's in his body.
It's madness that that's the only way he has to access his own data.
And I think really the, the, the home driving point for this too was that as we,
we alluded to earlier with, you know, smartwatches and other, other things.
I mean, phones are, are definitely there.
But the second phones stop being external and something, some parts of the phone,
you know, whether it's an implanted Fitbit or, you know, a pacemaker is a very
early version of this where we're well on the way to getting, you know,
technology in our bodies, in our brains.
And if, if there isn't some reform between now and then you can get a software
push to your brain chip that does God knows what, right?
How long is it going to be until you don't actually own your own body?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Someone, some corporation has legal rights to it and you have to abide by
whatever they decide.
Yeah.
That's terrifying.
The most invasive thing that I can think of as far as brain stuff is they can
treat Parkinson's with like a deep implant that does, I think it activates dopamine.
Yeah.
The deep brain stimulation, low voltage things.
Exactly.
I don't remember what it's called, but it's out of my, I'm just not finding the word.
I don't know if that's even the kind of thing that has remote update capability or not.
It's wouldn't want it to.
Well, I wouldn't want it to either.
But I mean, it's one thing to acknowledge that if, for whatever reason,
there's a better version, for example, that first woman with the heart of the
pacemaker, the idea that for whatever idiot reason it has a governor at 120 beats a
minute or 150, whatever it is, and then it just tanks to 60, that sounds like a bug.
And it probably was a bug.
Yeah.
So like the idea that they could fix that without having to crack my chest open
sounds great, right?
But I should be fully in the loop.
And the idea that, that kind of reasoning and privacy on behalf of the
product owner, not you could work for something like a brain implant is kind of
terrifying.
I mean, you remember how much people, I don't know if you remember, but I remember
how much some people I know freaked out when Windows pushed the Windows 10 update
onto their computers and they didn't want it.
They wanted their old Windows still.
Like how much worse is it when a company pushes their update into your chest when
you didn't want it?
Or worse, Microsoft, for whatever corporate interest, whatever corporate reason
that's not yours, they could decide, oh, we're done with Windows off.
Like then it's not in their interest to do so.
But the fact that they legally can is worrying and it should be.
So we are round and close on when we should be ramping up ish.
Did you want to talk about the DMCA a bit?
I think we've covered it fairly well.
Okay.
Yeah, it's dangerous.
The only thing I wanted to bring up is fantastic organization that's really
helping get this legal ground pushed into the modern age is the electronic
frontier, Frontier Foundation.
Their charity that fights a lot of big legal cases.
They fight patent trolls.
They fought a case not too long ago.
That allowed podcasts to be recorded and distributed, which was someone with a
media company was there was actually, yeah, they were trying to, uh, they
claiming that they had their right on the concept of, of what a podcast even
does recording content and then giving it to people broadly, uh, then it was
fought because, uh, someone managed to find back like in the 80s, a group that
had made just a cassette tape recording of, of the sort of like a podcast
explaining set tape and they would record, you know, lots of copies of it and
then pass them out to their friends and various subscribers across the city or
the state and the EFF was like, see precedent.
This company was not the first one to do it.
It was this small group in Kansas or wherever.
And yeah, but the fact that for a little while it was the very concept of a
podcast was in jeopardy, something that is so simple and fundamental and not
something a corporation can like claim they invented, you know, uh, was madness.
My favorite example of patent rolls and I can't remember which two corporations
were having a, a peeing contest about this, but it was, uh, who owns the tablet.
And there was some back and forth and correct me if I'm wrong.
Um, but my understanding was that, uh, in 2001, a space Odyssey, there's a
tablet on like one of the computer chairs or something.
And they're like, concept existed before, before either of us.
I, apparently on Apple products, you can't get swipe on your keyboard or just
wipe your finger around.
I certainly don't have a swipe.
I don't know if I can't get it, but probably not.
Yeah.
If somebody owns that.
And, but that's fair.
Like that, that's a recent development that someone built and patented and did.
And that's fair enough.
We're not talking about someone trying to patent the idea of an online
shopping cart, which is a famous patent for all that tried to shut down
basically every vendor on the entire internet.
Anyone who couldn't pay the huge legal fees to fight it was just, well,
well, too bad.
Give us half your money.
Yeah.
I love the EFF.
I heart them.
They're doing God's work.
And they're one of the charities that I donate to annually.
I think that's, yeah, I think that about summarizes it.
I did have a question.
You guys mentioned DRM a few times.
What does that stand for?
And what exactly is that?
It stands for digital rights management.
And that is how companies get to say that I own this block of information.
And I will try to lock it down in any way that I can.
There's a famous XKCD comic about it where you buy something and it has DRM on it.
And then eventually you want to transfer it to somewhere or you want to use it
on a different device or something and you can't because the DRM blocks you
from doing that.
So then you have to go and pirate a copy.
And so now you have a pirated copy of the thing you purchased legally and
you're a felon or you can just pirate it anyway.
And you have broken the same laws and you have the same product, but you
haven't paid the money for it.
So it's basically a way to punish people who have legally bought a product.
Yeah, the DMCA is a subset of DRM.
OK, yeah, actually, I remember back in the day when I still bought DVDs, I
would I had to use a piece of illegal software to burn it onto my computer so
I could put it on my mobile device or DRM is what makes it so that if you buy
a book or back when they were using DRM on their stuff, if you buy an
electronic book from Amazon, you can only read it on an Amazon created device
or an Amazon licensed device.
If you leave the country and they notice that because your device
pings their servers all the time and you go someplace where they have not
allowed you to read the thing, they will delete it off your phone.
Oh, that was that case that you mentioned before.
Yeah.
Yeah, they will just take stuff off your thing.
So what is I mean, OK.
And it makes it really hard to access your things sometimes.
A lot of DRM is just shitty.
And we haven't even gotten into, especially in future tech, you know,
you talk about consciousness expanding phones and how much you offload onto them.
And then it starts to get even worse when you're, you know, a significant
portion of how you think where you store a lot of your data isn't under your
control. It just it just gets so much worse, so much faster.
You mean, you don't have to remember nearly as much as you used to anymore.
You just have to be able to find it again on the internet.
The Google is like outsourcing of your brain now is a repository of lots of
information. Well, a lot of that, I mean, is done, I guess, even more literally
than that, too. I mean, I don't know how many I have a thousand or so pictures
on my phone, right? And so that that and then that way it's kind of a record.
It's a much more detailed record than what I could remember myself.
So I'm sort of outsourcing that memory, right?
So I can go back and get it later with more reliability.
For a kind of visceral example of what we're talking about, imagine if every
time you crossed, you crossed a border, you got on a plane.
Every time you're pulled over by a police officer, who's like, all right,
let me see all of your phone. I want to see every picture you took.
I want to see every where you've been.
I want to see every text you've sent.
Every sex you've received in the last 48 hours, in the last all of recorded
digital history. And you can see even today, just the way we use phones now,
