And there has to be some threat of violence as well.
Oh yeah.
That's that sort of change.
That's sort of where we came down on in the feedback episode, right?
That, you know, the example, I liked the one with the Trail of Tears example, or
like Japanese internment camps in the forties.
I mean, at some level just saying, I disagree with this, isn't enough.
And I think people are going to have to draw their own lines to when they're
ready to pick up a weapon and go, you know, go violently defend with their beliefs.
I'm not really, I'm not equipped for myself to even anticipate where I draw
that line, certainly where I would say you should draw the line here too, right?
I guess the main thing we're saying is that this line is the place where the
line is being drawn currently at it is okay to punch anyone who identify as a
Nazi is a bad line.
And we're trying to push against that.
We're saying put your line a little bit further down the road.
This is not a good place for it.
This is leading to too much wanton violence.
Yeah, that's, that's where I would come down now.
I mean, obviously the comeback we kind of already talked about, which is this is
just nipping it before it, you know, gets worse, right?
But I, I mean, if you're going to start punching people for slippery slopes, I mean,
that, that's also a kind of scary dystopia, right?
Yeah.
Not without incident goes on to say, I think the idea of
guilt by association is really important here, or maybe it's collective guilt.
I want to be clear that I would never advocate punching someone that just voted
for a policy I don't like.
On the other hand, I do believe in collective guilt in the sense that entire
groups of people, even those who weren't alive or voted against something can still
benefit from horrifically violent action.
IE reparations are a good idea.
This seems relevant because one problem you pointed in violent action is
assigning guilt and also assessing influence.
If someone is a literal Nazi, but essentially powerless, what good does
resisting them do?
In these cases, ignoring really does seem to be the best course of action.
When it comes to politicians or judges, as you referenced in this episode, things
are a bit trickier since they have some power, but the individual share of any
action the government takes is fairly minimal.
Obviously, a dictator is the other extreme and direct action against them would make
sense.
Again, I don't think it's an easy line to draw.
I have an interesting personal situation when it comes to benefiting from a
collective guilt of benefiting from horrific violence.
So he makes the case of reparations, which I don't want to get into because I
don't have a well-formed opinion on that.
That's a whole can of worms.
I don't want to touch it until I've thought more.
But in my specific example, my grandmother was in an area of Poland on my
mother's side that basically had been overpopulated.
Over the centuries, the land there had become more and more densely crowded.
And when my mom, when my grandmother inherited her land, there was just
barely enough land there for them to eke out a living and to feed themselves.
She was freaking out the entire time because there was literally not enough
land to divide among her children.
And we are talking like literally a peasant economy.
Her option was to give all her land to one child and he could live and
survive and the rest would starve or split it up equally between the children,
which is what the social norm was in their society.
And then all of them would slowly starve as they can't make enough food to
keep living forever.
And this was like a major source of war.
She would go to bed every night thinking, what the fuck?
How are my children going to live?
What's going to happen?
And then World War II comes around and a large chunk of land to her left is depopulated.
The Russian government comes in and says, Hey, you people over here, you're
going over to this area of Poland where there's plenty of land and where all
the Jews and Germans and other people that used to be there are dead now.
Their land is yours.
And she's like, Oh, thank God, no one starves.
So I am alive today in part because of the fact that she was gifted land from
the government due to the horrific violence of World War II.
And I don't know what to do about that.
Like I live in America now.
My mom is alive because of this thing happened.
But who do I owe money to?
Like what I see how I benefited.
I'm glad I'm alive, but I was born in 1980.
I should I send a check to some family in Europe that their grandfather was killed?
I don't know.
I don't know what this whole, I don't like the collective guilt thing because it
doesn't seem fair to me personally, I guess.
I also, yeah, I never liked the idea that you're responsible for what your ancestors did.
Like, how could I be blamed?
I wasn't even alive.
Like if I'm benefiting from it, I'm wary of those arguments, right?
So, like, I mean, I have an ancestor who lost a thumb in fighting for the north in
the Civil War and probably damaged his livelihood.
And I mean, so did someone cut him a big check or, you know, his descendants
because now his family wasn't as wealthy as they might have otherwise have been?
Like that sounds like a bullshit thing to say.
I mean, that I guess it's never really been cleared to me how to divvy those things up.
And so I've never, the other thing too, they're just like, you're responsible for
what your great grandfather did.
It's like, no, fuck that.
How can you be responsible if you weren't born?
It could be that there's an argument there.
If there is, be nice and send it my way.
I mean, it feels like collective punishment is kind of one of those things
that leads to genocide, right?
Yeah, when we had Alonso Fyfan earlier, one of his strongest arguments is that
the difference between a civilized society and a barbaric society, one of the
major differences is that a civilized society assigns guilt to who is guilty
and spends resources and a lot of effort into making sure that the guilty are punished
and the innocent are not.
And collective guilt is just a way of punishing the innocent.
It's a way of saying, well, I don't want to find out exactly which Arab was
responsible for blowing up my tower.
So I will punish all the people in this region.
Yeah, that sounds like a decent analogy.
I mean, I think people will just come back and say, well, we're, we are
punishing the guilty, we're just expanding our definition of guilty.
But that's, that sounds like bullshit to me, right?
So what else we got?
Okay.
Ooh, interesting one from Peregrine Tuch, which I still don't know if that's
your parents name, when we were talking about effective altruism, he says,
coming from Germany, a country with a relatively high tax rate, I give about
50% of my gross income to things like tax, public health insurance, public
social securities, public retirement, et cetera.
I personally do give a little, and in terms of EA, probably to the wrong causes.
However, the question I really had is, wouldn't it be better that we who care
would pitch in our money and effort to change the way that society as a whole
works, like the way that the government allocates resources when half of his
resources are going to the government?
I can touch that really quick.
Go for it.
In that it seems a lot easier for you personally to save a life or a bunch
throughout your lifetime, than it would be for you personally to change how the
government allocates its, its charity budget, right?
Or how the world runs.
So I mean, part of it is just what can you do?
You can, it's also not mutually exclusive.
You can do the third option, which is do both.
You can vote for candidates who advocate for more of a, you know, global
civilization slash tech care or whatever.
Um, and you can, you can also donate to, to causes that through at least some,
hopefully diligent looking into you find whether or not, and I'm not sure if this
came across super well in the episode that I think that people who are advocates
of effective altruism have things that they say that we should care about and
that these are the appropriate causes you should care about.
Like for example, the future of humanity.
And I, I tend to buy all those arguments, but that's not to say that that's the
only way to be an effective altruist.
You know, if what you really care about is curing, let's say it's
curing breast cancer, you know, it's, it's a limited scope, but that's your,
that's going to be your hobby horse.
And I'm, that's not a pejorative.
I'm just mean that that's going to be what you are going to focus on.
You can give it to whatever that really shitty foundation with all those pink
ribbons, um, common foundation.
Thank you.
Yes.
Where something like a nickel to your dollar goes to actual research and the
rest goes to awareness and branding and pink water bottles and shit, or, or you
can give to a better charity, which I should have been able to name one
off the top of my head, but I can't.
But the idea is that not, not so much that you care about the right things.
I think that's what some people would argue, but that whatever it is you do
care about, you're actually doing it, you're actually caring about it in a
way that makes you better at, makes you a more effective altruist, right?
I think that is the core and the most important point.
Although I will say that I think breast cancer in general is vastly
overexposed and overfunded and, uh, we would do much better as a society to
start looking at other things now, rather than hammering away on this one
thing that already has tons of things pouring into it and, and doesn't.
Yeah, that's it.
Well, I mean, it's big money.
That's why it's still so popular because so much money is going to branding
and all that stuff.
And everyone loves boobies.
I mean that too.
I think that's maybe why there's, why there's pink ribbons for breast cancer
and there's not a ribbon for colon cancer, but like lung cancer, you know,
people I think care less about because often you, like victims are blamed
because you know, a lot of them smoked or something.
I think that really the takeaway is just be the best altruist you can be while
focusing on the causes you care about.
You know, if you care about the environment, find what specifically you think
you can do to make an impact there, right?
So yeah, I think I know that there's been a lot of debate in EA communities about
whether systemic change is a good use of resources or not.
And the, the side that I tend to come down on is that for every $1 trying
to pull in one direction, saying that this is a good idea, let's pull society
this way, there's going to be a dollar pulling in the opposite direction saying,
no, let's move society in, in towards this instead.
And to me, it feels like a very big zero sum game where a lot of money is being
burned on both sides, getting nothing accomplished and just keeping the status
quo, which is one of the reasons I personally think that systemic change
on the government level is not very efficient.
But I mean, I don't know, on the other hand, if you didn't spend that money,
then would only the opposition spend money and pull things their way instead?
Sometimes it's worth it just to pull away from an undesirable outcome, right?
But the cool thing about that is that has the question of whether or not
donating to just two causes that are advocating or working for systemic
change is successful.
That is an empirical question.
You know, information will come down on that question one way or another,
