how bad that would be. And it will only get worse as we use them for more and more
things. Yeah. Well, I mean, you don't have to email your phone, links to your
Facebook, links to everything that is you.
Yeah, exactly. And you don't have to be a criminal.
It's not want to copy able to see your sex, right?
So or your dirty pictures you're sharing with somebody or even the business
documents that you have sent back and forth through email.
That's true. Most business documents nowadays are sent through email.
All my legal proceedings are going back and forth through email right now.
That's just, I mean, the alternative is mailing it, which I mean, arguably is
even way less secure, right?
Yeah. But if people were, if it was, if someone was opening all of your mail,
copying it, putting it in a secure database somewhere else, resealing and
sending back to you without telling you, you'd be like, that's absolute madness.
And the fact that that's somehow accepted once it goes digital is just ridiculous.
That's a really good analogy to bring it home.
And the same questions could have been brought up.
You know, why do you care if the government's looking at the mail you're sending out?
It's like, because it's my shit. Well, yeah.
So like the, and we have this mental image that, you know, countries and
times where that happened, those are not desirable places to live, right?
So, and yet we live in those places now, if I'm sending an email.
You were saying something about not wanting to concentrate power into a
single entity, that kind of the point of democracy is to keep power diffused.
Yeah. And that's, that brings us even deeper in disinfoil hat territory,
where you end up with that whole late-stage capitalism, ultra powerful
corporation. What's the, what sci-fi author built an amazing world out of that?
Neil Stephenson. An amazing world out of ridiculous, capitalistic,
cyber dystopia. Oh, are you talking about Snow Crash?
Among others, but everything in that universe.
Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, it was kind of awesome.
Snow, the world in Snow Crash was awesome.
The story was horrible, just so bad, but the world is amazing.
Wouldn't it be kind of neat to be able to move to a gated neighborhood that had
different laws from the neighborhood, the next one over so you could choose what
laws you wanted to live under? Yes.
But at what cost? I haven't read the books, but I'm assuming that there's some
monkey paw side effect here to where it's the the ultra far out liberalism.
Fire starts and three firetrucks are there in seconds because they each own
their own satellite that watches for fires.
Right. And they all walk up to the clipboard and bid.
All right. I'll put it out for 10 grand.
I'll put it out for five.
And that's, that's not a terribly efficient way to run a government.
We're well into just talking about fun books now.
Yeah. Anything else you guys want to talk about?
I feel like we we covered a bit of this.
We talked about ways to combat some of this, some of these problems.
I think I've got a question for you to the EFF.
That's great. And the other company, the other place you were talking about was
FSSF. Yeah. The FSSF.
Well, the FSSF built a lot of the free software we use today.
They're big advocates for it.
But the biggest thing is just be aware of this.
Be aware of what information they're collecting, voice your opinions, tell
tell companies you don't want this done and choose the companies
that do with the least.
If you can get Linux up on a computer, so you can at least have one,
you know, safer place to safer place to have stuff.
But these are all just, you know, the more options we keep,
the more likely we'll still be able to keep them into the future,
because we still have these options now and we might not always.
Would you guys like to help me with some listener feedback?
Sure, let's do it.
Chase, does that work with the guest?
You weigh in for fun.
Yeah. OK. Yeah.
You're on your own opinions.
And now, listener feedback with special guest, our Chase Barkley guest or I
feel so honored.
So this is from Gad B.
Bay, maybe Gad B.
B on the Reddit in defense of Aristotle.
It occurred to me that you might have not have checked the claim that
Aristotle didn't check his claim about women having fewer teeth.
So I looked into it some more.
My first finding is that Aristotle accidentally or not might be correct.
The mean number of teeth is slightly lower in women due to a higher
prevalence of hypodandia in women of European descent.
It also came across this essay on Aristotle and it links to an
essay called Rescuing Aristotle, which makes the good point that when
Aristotle made his claim about women having fewer teeth, he said,
it is well known that women have fewer teeth due to observations
that people have made like he was basing his claim on actual
historical observations at the time.
And also the average number of teeth people had back before dentistry
was probably highly variable in a lot of his writing.
It's pointed out that he is fairly up on empiricism, even if he
doesn't personally do it and the author of the essay made a great
point saying asking the reader personally, if the reader is male,
do you have a significant other in your life?
So let's Steven, do you have a significant other in your life that is female?
Yes.
Have you ever counted the teeth in her head?
No.
Do you think she has as many teeth as you do?
I do, but now I'm going to.
So when you said that someone actually checked and that there
could be some truth to that, I had to suppress laughter.
That I mean, that's hilarious.
And if that's true, it's only possible in the modern world to do.
Well, I mean, but it could be that if he did check if this was a quirk
of like Europeans 2000 years ago, if that's true, that's hilarious
because I always use that as my example of him not being a good empiricist.
Yeah, but no, I mean, I will counterteeth when I get home.
I think it's a good example of people being kind of hypocritical
because I have also quoted that and yet of the various people
that I have been intimate with, I have never counted their teeth.
And I simply accept that the professionals in our society,
the dentists and the educated people have counted teeth and know these things
and have transferred this information to me correctly.
And so I'm basically going on the exact same assumption
that Aristotle was going on.
Shit, the professionals in his time knew what they were talking about.
That's amazing.
OK, well, thank you for pointing that out.
And I will look into that and see how that looks today.
We have from Googleplex Byte, also on the subreddit.
Free speech isn't necessarily the optimal means of achieving the benefits
it supports a spouse.
As an ordoliberalist, I feel a system of competitive speech would be superior,
which like was kind of mind blowing me that there is a competitive speech system.
Ordoliberal theory holds that the state must create a proper legal
environment for the economy and maintain a healthy level of competition
through measures that adhere to market principles.
Similarly, it holds that the state should not just create a system
that allows a free exchange of information in the form of free speech,
but creates an environment for competitive speech.
The belief is that an optimal competitive market for information
would be the best means of providing perfect information.
This is relevant to the stance of balancing free speech against hate speech
as another tenant of an optimally competitive market is having no negative
externalities, which is a damn good point.
Hate speech has some negative externalities, right?
So in a competitive market for information, hate speech would be
information with negative externalities.
Thus, it would be the duty of the state to eliminate it or to offset
those externalities through a Pagovian tax.
And Pagovian tax for people who aren't familiar with the term is a tax on
things that have negative externalities to account for that and pay
back the people who are harmed by it.
I mean, that sounds like, especially given the context of today's
conversation, like a very slippery slope, criticizing the executive branch
or the government could have negative externalities and make me
will be less patriotic, less people sign up for the military, etc., etc.
So we're going to tax you every time that you say, I don't like the
current administration, we're going to send you a bill for a thousand dollars.
I mean, I'm obviously straw manning, but that sounds like a not implausible.
That sounds like free speech for the really rich.
Yeah.
The idea of taxing or otherwise disincentivizing speech with bad externalities
seems to have its own bad externalities.
Yeah.
And I think then there would be very costly legal battles going back
and forth constantly as to what creates negative externalities and what doesn't
and how much, how bad the negative externalities are.
Keep in mind that those negative externalities are already punished,
just not financially.
Yeah.
If I go outside and I say, I hate insert race here, somebody's going to call me a
fucking asshole, someone else isn't going to give me a job, someone else is
going to possibly hit me in the face.
I think in the context of the episode.
Right.
So, I mean, they're already violent, but I support the nonviolent disincentives
to being an asshole, right?
I suppose it depends on your society.
There's some societies were saying, I hate race blank will actually get you
praise and positive rewards, but in that society, I don't think, I don't know if
the government would be against you either, if you said that.
I mean, I guess it comes down to forging a decent society and the fact that we
don't necessarily trust a distant, large, powerful government to do it for us.
Yeah, I think that that's sort of the takeaway, at least from my perspective
as well, right?
So yeah, it was a very neat thought.
And I kind of like it because I'm a fan of markets and obviously a fan of
governments doing things to correct for massive market failures, like negative
externalities, but it seems like that would be very ripe for abuse for anyone
who wanted to stifle speech.
That's what I'm wondering is that the externalities of controlling all of
that or punishing it systematically seems like would have enough downsides to
make it not worth it.
It's possible that it could work, but I think that it would be a bigger shift
to get all the way there from where we are now than just to basically do what
we're doing now.
Uh, also on the whole punting Nazis thing, not without incident says, it's
not clear to me when violence is appropriate or necessary avenue for social
change.
Can everything be achieved non-violently?
It doesn't seem to be what we've seen historically with many positive changes
requiring at least the threat of violence, which I think I touched on as well
during that episode about, uh, how I feel like the Black Panther movement made a
big difference for the civil rights.
And it does seem to be the case that there does have to be a threat of violence
to change things, which is really unfortunate and sad.
And I don't want to be on board with violence because of that, but I don't
know, how do you feel about this?
Okay, Stephen.
No, can you paraphrase exactly what the that it seems like just demanding
things non-violently often doesn't work.
