and then we'll know what to do.
And if it does turn out that that's the best way to do it, real,
effective altruists will start donating to that instead.
Yeah, but a lot of people seem to say, within the effective altruist community,
let's not fight against each other on these social issues and instead focus
on things where we know that we won't be fighting against each other with money
and all going together at the same thing.
Like no one is, no one is for keeping malaria around.
So that makes it so at least you aren't burning money fighting each other.
Let me ask a question you guys may well want to add it out.
It's off, it's only tangentially relevant to this question.
I've been looking for a framework, a way to calculate with even a modicum
of reliability to apply future weight values, I want to say Bayesian values,
specifically on things in the future and future returns that are longer term.
Like the example we were fighting about, which is irrelevant, is all right,
we can assassinate the heads of these big, these big oil companies or however,
however happens, we can shut down this huge, big oil company, right?
And we can say, all right, five minutes that save no lives.
We were at negative and sure, 10 years, we might get back to positive,
but we have to rate those 10 year future so much lower than we're rating
these lives now because it's not certain.
Is there a real, is there a simple non textbook requiring answer to that,
to weighting future, I don't know, lives are a difficult one.
Let's not say lives, but to weighting future money to now money.
Like it always comes back to the economic argument.
And I don't know, you probably don't want this in user feedback, but no,
no, no, no, that's a great question.
If anyone out there has an idea, please email us or post something and let us know.
I personally do not.
I think a lot of it depends on how stable your situation is.
If your government looks to be on the verge of collapse, then obviously
you should be spending a lot more right now to get the most use you can out
of your money while it's still worth something.
Whereas if you think the situation will be very stable
and you trust society to to honor the money you have in the bank as actual money,
then you can think on a much larger time scale.
Yeah, I guess that that always my big question with effective altruism is how
big can I reasonably put my time scale?
You know, there's a big difference between saving lives today
and potential lives in the future.
And the way to weight that is really difficult and sounds like the best thing
you can do is the weight apply much, much lower weights to future lives
and fix the ones you 100 percent can.
I think the Bayesian way to do that is just to take however many lives
you anticipate you might save, multiply it by whatever percentage
that might encompasses and then go with the solution.
Yeah, so I think I don't think it's that hard of a question.
Like and that's why I think that many effective altruists care about things
like the future of humanity or, you know, safe AI or whatever it is
that will keep humanity from dying out.
So like say the really dumb example is like that's like giving all of your money
to breast cancer awareness and spending none on food, right?
Like if you knew that we're 10 years off from a big meteor strike,
you used to donate really you just do whatever you can to keep that
meteor from hitting Earth and because even if like maybe if it was
had a 50 percent chance of hitting Earth, you know, even then you should still
do everything you can because the one and two chance that life has wiped out
then all of the causes you care about no longer are are being so I guess it is
really just about getting running some really detailed math to figure out
that real chance of it in the future happening.
If there's a 50 percent chance of it hitting Earth,
you should probably donate 50 percent of your money.
Well, I mean, that's probably like the biggest threat that we can that
that's possibly happening, right?
But I mean, it really depends on how likely it is that the future will get here.
If you think there's a good chance humanity will still be around in 100 years,
200 years, then yeah, invest in things that will make a difference 100 or 200 years out.
If you don't think that humanity will be here in 100,000 years,
then don't bother with things that will make a big difference that far out.
Although I can't imagine anything that would make a big difference that far out.
You know, you and I both making investments to a distant future right now.
We're both son of a cryonics on the on the small percent chance
that that we arrive in a desirable future.
We're both think that's worth like a hundred thousand dollars now.
A hundred years out.
There are a lot of things I can think that could have effects.
A hundred years out. Most medical research.
A hundred thousand. Oh, I'm sorry.
No, like even cryonics, I expect to pay off way before a hundred thousand or else not at all.
Yeah, no, I agree.
But like that's the idea is that you take whatever your expected outcome is,
which is really for me approaching infinity, you know, or not even infinity,
but you could say it approaches a hundred trillion,
whereas the average hundred year lifespan and, you know, can go up to like five thousand.
And so just the idea that you could live a better life and a longer life.
If awoken, what was the word we liked back then?
If you're revived from chronic preservation in a desirable future,
the expected positive outcome is huge.
And so it's worth, you know, whatever twenty seven dollars a month right now for me, right?
And for people who don't expect to make it to the age of 30,
it makes a lot of sense to go ahead and just drink and smoke
and take part in fun but dangerous activities
because you're not going to live long enough
to have to deal with lung cancer and liver failure anyway.
Who's expecting not to make it to 30?
I know a lot of people, not personally,
but I know of people in inner cities who don't figure that they'll make it to 30.
Oh, that sucks.
Yeah, they're like or someone who maybe lives in a war torn area.
It just there's a good chance I won't live that long.
So fuck it.
And I don't know what specifically you're talking about,
but it seems to me like, well, I could spend all my money on boozer cigarettes
or I could spend all my money on a good pair of shoes
and just walk out of wherever the shitty area is, right?
Yeah, well, my my brother was in the military
and one of the jokes in the military is I should quit smoking
because these things will kill you.
Because when you're in an actual active duty zone,
like my brother was in Afghanistan,
that seems like the most far away stupid thing to worry about.
That's a fair point.
But I mean, he's not in there anymore and he had to quit smoking,
which is a pain in the ass and a lot of people don't.
Yeah.
So maybe he should have been a little bit more future minded at that time.
Yeah.
And I mean, there's all kinds of ovens and outs there,
but I feel like we're getting now a little far abroad.
But that is a good point that I mean,
if you're weighing against long term outcomes or your long term prospects are lower.
Certainly, if you're in Afghanistan too,
the suspended suspended animation Incorporated can't fly out
and take you back to Michigan and freeze you, right?
So really nothing you do like is going to have the that outcome
that we're talking about with cronics.
So and for a less extreme example,
I I have always believed I live in a very stable society
and with decent prospects for the future.
So I've spent a lot of my effort into investing in future things.
And recently I lost about $40,000.
And it really I feel like I should have spent more money in the past,
because at least then I would have gotten the use out of it.
I didn't realize I was in as a precarious situation as I was.
And if I was more correctly balanced,
I would have had a bigger discount value for the future.
I would not have valued the future income as much
and I would have spent my money and got use out of it at the time.
I mean, this is a situation where I would have been better off
spending money in the past rather than
saving up for the future because of what happened.
True. But probabilistically, that might not have been the case, right?
This could have been like a one in four outcome
where still you were better off investing
because you had a better chance of it working out.
That's true. And the dice just came up the wrong way.
Yeah. Yeah.
So I don't know if that's really want to generalize.
Yeah. But it does suck.
And it did really clarify in my mind
that there is a good reason to have some discount for the future
because the future isn't 100 percent certain.
And if the future is anything less than absolutely 100 percent certain,
there should be some discount for future results.
Yeah. I mean, Chronix is not my best bet for living forever, right?
What I'm hoping for is that technologies like life extension
technologies will take off before I die
and I could take advantage of those technologies.
So the more baskets your eggs are, the better.
And it is a weird thing to advocate for,
to have a non-zero future discount
because I remember reading somewhere that even a one percent discount rate
means that all lives after further than 200 years out
are worth essentially zero to you, which mathematically,
I suppose is the case.
But I think I personally wouldn't put it at everything
past 200 years out is worth a zero.
So I guess I don't have a perfectly linear discount function either.
I think that's fair.
Any other feedback we want to touch on?
I want to take this opportunity to say that audio editing
and mixing is done by our sound engineer Kyle Moore,
so mad props to him.
And also to let our Patreon subscribers know
that there is another little bonus mini content up on Patreon.
It's just 10 minutes of us talking about our personal lives and crap.
Let's joking around this time, but you know,
still a little extra bonus.
There was one little comment that I liked
from a Ropus777 on the subreddit.
You're linked to a product at neptunic.com.
That's like a shark suit.
And this was in response to the Max Harms episode
where we talked about fiction.
And I griped about how bad people are in zombie movies.
And it's like this, this shark proof suit.
And then you said that would be perfect for zombie apocalypse.
I'm like, you're exactly right.
That is what I would want.
Unfortunately, I have no idea how much they cost.
You have to email the person for cost,
which tells me it's probably a fortune.
So otherwise they would just list it.
But there's an actual photo of a shark chomping down on a dude's arm.
The dude's just like, yep, come at me, bro.
Yeah, good luck.
If good luck for a zombie to get through all that.
So I think that's pretty cool.
Anyway, fun little light thing to end on there for now.
Cool. Thanks for listening.
