So the fact that the money means that now I have no diminishing return basis to not cut
down, kill, monetize everything, where on any other resource we did and the speed of
optionality means that if anyone else is getting more money, they'll beat me out of
war, political war or a medic war or actual war.
So I have to raise to get more of it.
And then the money has its own mechanics as soon as I get interest in financial services,
where it exponents itself and to not debase the value of the currency, we have to extract
more shit from the earth and turn it into pollution and trash.
That is unique to money.
It's unbelievably powerful, right, a universal optionality token that has no intrinsic value
but can give me instantaneous choice for any type of value that I want but is inherently
destructive to real value in the process.
So I just want to say it will be a while before the primary way we mediate choices about physicality
is not money.
We all know this.
It's not going to switch overnight.
We have a hundred trillion dollars exchanging every day being printed in central banks and
ran through a complex global financial system backed by nation state militaries to secure
the rule of law and all those contracts.
That means every one of those dollars is paying for those militaries and the issues that they
cause and the supply chains behind them and everything of the hundred trillion dollars
that trades hands every day.
Not one of those dollars really does not cause some harm across the supply chain because
it's utilizing resources or it depends upon hardware and other things.
So the long-term solution, if humanity is to keep existing, it will not have the thing
we call money or capital.
It will not have an idea that qualitative value can get turned into quantitative value
and that all different quantified metrics can be made fungible, intercommentable into
a single value metric that has intrinsic exponentiation built into it.
If those concepts don't go, I bet everything that I know that humanity goes extinct.
And so money as a system has to go.
Now, in the next little while, that's not going to happen.
So we have to use it better.
But it is like using the ring of Sauron, like it just is.
As a structure, it is the one resource to rule all resources that intrinsically has
power asymmetries and stuff built in.
It is an intrinsically powerful fucked technology.
With that in mind, one has to understand that it is not itself benign and it's just...
You do good things or bad things with it.
You can't do good things without depending upon supply chains that do lots of bad things.
And if you grow those things, you grow the other things, that's implicit to the structure.
Anyone who is stewarding capital, if they don't understand this, will not be a good
steward of capital.
I wanted to start with that.
So let's say one of the places where I recognize this, I worked on a project in my early 20s
that was trying to make a universal life cycle assessment for universal value assessment.
So that a big foundation could say, I put this much donation money here and it saves
this many trees, but this much donation money feeds this many kids, this one protects this
many rhinos, this much sequesters this many tons of CO2.
I want to optimize my input across the scopes of output so that I know how to do that.
So let's make metrics where I can decide how many rhino lives are worth, how many children
lives are worth, how many tons of CO2 or pounds per, parts per million of mercury.
Fucking insane, right?
It just is actually fucking insane.
We understand why we want to do that because we only have one input metric.
So we want one output metric, right?
The one input metric is money.
So we would like to save money in one, but okay, so quantify the value of those children's
lives.
No, don't do that.
Hold it as boolean.
If we fail at saving them, we failed and it was irreplaceable, it was priceless, it was
replaceable, it was an unacceptable failure and we just failed, period.
And you try to quantify it and right now we quantify it.
You all know through insurance and reinsurance and the way it's valued at depository trust
corporation and shit like that, we quantify it based on the amount of taxes that person
will pay and the amount that they'll contribute to GDP and shit like that.
Like it is that concept of resource built into the whole thing.
So right now, this is the thing everybody's excited about with AI.
Oh, the AI will be able to make a global resource optimization system that can, okay.
So the value of the rhino's life is worth this much, but what if the rhino's become
slightly more in danger versus it becomes slightly more of them relative to the other
things around it versus we have to be continuously changing the weighting functions.
It's just a nonsense actual way to do it.
The way to think about it is I can't inter exchange rhinos for mercury for children.
They're different things.
They're not interchangeable.
They're not fungible.
So I have to think about each of them with their own accounting.
How do we tend to rhinos is a thing we must succeed at.
How do we tend to children?
How do we tend to mercury?
So if I think about the materials economy, I can't make copper out of mercury.
We just don't have that alchemy.
Like I can, I have a certain amount of mercury.
If I don't make new mercury out of old mercury, then the new, the old mercury will be toxic.
And so, and if I have to keep getting the new mercury from mining, that's going to be toxic.
So how do I make sure that I have closed loop accounting on mercury, closed loop accounting
on nitrogen, closed loop accounting on copper, because each of those are in reality not fungible
for each other.
So they need their own accounting system where that you don't have a token that gets traded
in a way that isn't based on the non fungible physics of them.
So the future economic system will be much, it'll be much more real, but also more complex.
We don't try to reduce everything to a single thing because reduce it all the currency is
reduced at all the paper clips.
It is what is a single silly ass metric that does not correspond to real value.
And you know, the whole reason that money makes sense is because it does correspond
to real value because what the market will bear and we're rational actors and we want
real shit and the best product or service at the best value, but that's obviously nonsense,
right?
Nobody who's serious can take that seriously because all of the externalities are priced
out.
And so the commons gets destroyed running that thing and behavioral econ has made it
very clear that we don't have rational actors make rational choices and on.
So the invisible hand of the market is a bad God, right?
It is a God that takes complex value and makes simple value optimized out of it.
And when you take a very complex thing and run an entropy pump on it, make it very simple,
you're in the process of growing one thing while debasing what it depends upon towards
a death.
We see an exponential curve on money on tech on lots of things on caloric consumption.
Exponential curves don't continue in nature.
So they do one of three things.
You either get a logistic curve, you get a curve up and then a curve down, or you get
a curve up and then you hit a cliff.
The idea that the UN and everybody wants to tell us about how we'll have a 9.5 billion
person sustainable population that does this thing is just not based on real math and hopefully
Nate and other people got that across.
It's just not based on real math, nor does the economic system even allow for it because
it says to keep up with interest, money has to keep doing this forever, but to not debase
the value of the currency have to be more goods and services.
Oh, we can make them all digital.
No, you can't because the digital goods and services still relate to physical ones or
human time and attention, right?
The software bits value either is moving atoms around in the real world more efficiently
or it's for human attention, but human attention is finite.
So if I start to get a lot more software than human attention can engage, I get diminishing
return.
So there is no money go up forever, there's no thing where that's possible, right?
That's a silly thing.
So the current path we're on is this and so money is, this is why I said it is a powerful
like the one ring of power, fundamentally destructive because it will convert the complex
power of nature that is not on anyone's balance sheet into game theoretic optionality tokens
on someone's balance sheet.
That's what it does.
And it will drive innovation for how to do that thing more powerfully.
So given that right now, if we want people working on projects and we want creativity
and we want resources, it's going to equal money.
I want people who are stewarding money to do better rather than worse things or they
totally want that.
I want to talk to you all about how to do that.
But we can't lose sight of the fact that we are using a fundamentally not just broken
instruments but something that is at the heart of what is breaking the world or we won't take
deeply enough the externalities built into the thing that looks like maybe a good thing
superficially.
He raised her hand early here and maybe do you have something to build on?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Thanks.
I'd love to build on that.
And I think just from that last point, Daniel, if any of us kind of work, I also work with
UBS was private wealth with people who recognize this point.
And yet they have access to this capital.
And so it's always a dilemma to engage or not to engage with people of access to a lot
of this controlling technology that they don't even they don't believe it anymore.
And so do you see and we're all talking about impact investing and climate finance and different
kind of approaches.
And yet the incentives that we're talking about the whole structure is as we see it.
So do you have any ideas to follow up on that so what kind of money activity can actually
help change the systems where we wanted to go in addition to just for less bad things
and trying to address more, more intrinsic value and to change you on a C.
Yeah.
So one thing I would offer for everybody is to just really do your own kind of deep first
principles, thinking on a particular impact investment hypothesis and see if it really
makes sense.
Just the fact that lots of people are talking about how exciting it is at Weff does not mean
it makes sense.
Climate financing is so goofy in the fundamental idea.
Because if I create CO2 out of hydrocarbons, I get net energy.
I can't take CO2 and turn it into hydrocarbons and get net energy.
I have to use energy to do that.
It's a long line of fundamental thermodynamics.
So I can force people to internalize that cost with law, but that's actually then not finance
its law.
And that would be a good thing to do.
I can make a carbon credit as a kind of token that people can do if they want to without
it being law, which basically means it's like a fashion statement of some kind, but it won't
fundamentally in the multipolar traps.
But there isn't like a way to say, oh, there is a real market in the under market dynamics
for a thing that is net when you break it down to the physics takes energy to do and
doesn't give energy because there's a fundamental deep correlation between the capital and free
energy flow.
So there's so much profound non-thinking gibberish in the system that it's just another thing
that props up the rest of the gibberish of the system.
And I'm not saying that we, like with regard to climate, delton chens, carbon coin ideas
or whatever, could we actually get the price of carbon forced to be internalized to cost
through a multinational agreement?
I'm into things like that, but that really is law more than finance.
And so much of the impact investment thesis also is I'm going to define impact in a narrow
way.
This metric gets better, but in the process of that metric getting better does the thing
that I created interact with a lot of other things and doesn't make other things worse.
So if I had to give people one thought, it would be do try to do a good job with any
proposed investment of what its externalities are.
If you're trying to do impact investment, it's going to do some good thing.
What are the externalities of that thing really succeeding?
And when you factor the externalities, is it still a good thing?
The externalities will be physical.
It's going to take a lot of new hardware materials, et cetera, it's going to create some pollution
waste, use some resources to make that thing.
It's going to drive some arms races.
