So Patrick, I put my hand down again because I wasn't sure if that's the question is really
valid because I obviously agree with anything I heard and it's broken down brilliantly.
I was struggling when Daniel was talking about comparing of the rhino lives and the children's
lives and I was struggling because in reality, that's what we do every day.
There's no way around because, okay, now I have a for-profit company for impact investing
and I have a nonprofit charitable foundation.
So basically every euro I spent in one of those two, I cannot spend for something else
because we only have that one input metric, as you said, that's the money.
And the only reason I can do the impact investing and Mr. Müller from the neighborhood cannot
is because he does not have the money that I have.
So I'm having this problem also with the foundation of trying to explain holistic and systemic
changes to people nobody wants to hear, but even if they would want to hear, what does
it mean?
At one point, I have to focus on something and I have to find one project, one organization,
one network, whatever, and I make a decision that, I don't know, the education, the alternative
education program in Mali is the thing I want to do.
And the circular economy lab in Accra is the thing I want to do, which means I cannot do,
I don't know, the human rights thing in Brazil.
So in the end, I always take that decision if I want or not.
And that always leads me to the point that I have to try to measure that impact and to
bring it down and to measure how, what do I get for that euro that I spent?
So maybe I'm here, but I still don't get what else could I do.
I know it's not the right thing to do, but I still didn't really get how what else I
could.
I want to talk about very near the core of the driver of the metacrisis is our relationship
to measurement and standardization and even the philosophy of science.
And I am going to address some golden caps in the process.
We're asking a practical question I want to come back to, but I want to mention what's
wrong with some of the pragmatics frameworks because it, yeah, I wrote a paper early on
that talked about as long as the value of a tree is worth more dead than alive on people's
balance sheet or a whale as we will continue deforestation and whaling.
And it's clear that the whale in the ocean is not on anybody's balance sheet.
And so leaving it doesn't economically benefit me in any way.
If I leave it, it doesn't ensure someone else doesn't kill it.
And if I do kill it, it's depending upon it's $500,000 worth of sellable, well-meat.
That perverse incentive structure, because nature has no balance sheet and sovereign
beings are seen as resources and whatever is, is genocidal, it just can't be called
anything else.
Like we have to be clear what the fuck it is.
But if we wanted to say what is the real value of a tree or a whale, I don't know if you
can still hear me, Patrick.
I lost your video.
And hopefully you can.
I'm sorry.
I'm turning off my video sometimes because my connection is still bad.
Sorry.
Understood.
So if you think about the real value of a tree, the first big question becomes value
to whom, to which beneficiary?
Because as soon as we realize that it's not only the value to whoever gets to put the
lumber on their economic balance sheet, but everybody that it is sequestering CO2 and
producing oxygen for, but also all the animals that get to live in it and all the migratory
animals that are maintaining vast inter-ecosystem interactions that use that as a critical part
of the inter-ecosystem interaction, the value of it, you have to say, to whom first?
And you find that there are so many beneficiaries and so many value types that are all non-fungible.
And when you realize that the tree, if I cut down all the trees in an area, so now I get
way worse floods, right?
Because they're not stabilizing the topsoil.
That also washes all the topsoil away.
I also get way worse droughts.
I also get increased extreme weather events in the area, independent of climate change.
So now this means all the people in the area end up moving from extreme weather events.
Now I get resource conflicts.
Now I get wars.
Now I have to invest more in military-industrial complex.
Do trees prevent wars?
Totally.
Do trees prevent mass poverty and famine?
Totally.
Do trees house the bats that keep the mosquitoes down that prevent the malaria overgrowth?
And do they also stabilize the topsoil that keeps the water clean for the fish that keep
the mosquitoes down?
Totally.
Do the trees stabilize the topsoil in a way that not only keeps the river healthy, but
where the river dumps into the ocean, where you fuck all the trees in an area and the
coastal ecosystem dies as a result, downriver?
What would it cost?
Well, it's fine.
We cut down the trees, but we created a mechanical carbon sequestration, and we're sequestering
as many tons of CO2.
Shut the fuck up.
The tree doesn't just sequester CO2.
It does a million things, right?
So if I said, what would it cost for me to maintain the soil microbiota and the migratory
pathways and the coral with known technologies, the tree would cost a trillion dollars?
And I will destroy a trillion dollars of value to get $100 of lumber because the trillion
dollars of value is not on my balance sheet, and the $100 of lumber is.
When you realize it's not like we externalize a few costs.
It's like the only thing we internalize is the cost to us.
That's it.
And everything else is fucking, I have to be honest, it's all just stealing and raping.
Right?
The default is we externalize all the costs.
We just take the shit and don't account for what it costs nature to make it, or the waste
we put back, or anything, or the wars that get created over.
We just take the shit.
The only thing that we factor in is what it costs us to extract it.
That's it.
So we only internalize the marginal game theoretic utility to us.
So externality is a bad concept.
We should talk about that we internalize just game theory units and otherwise are just doing
raping and pillaging.
That would be honest.
That's technological scale, extinct everything.
You cannot measure all the things a tree does.
You cannot, because we don't even understand what the soil microbiota really does.
We're just starting to get a sense that we're discovering whole new phylums.
We thought the human genome project was going to solve all of the health issues in the world
because we didn't know what an epigenome is.
No, when we were doing it, the genetic modulation through an epigenome was a thing we didn't
know about the transcriptome or the proteome.
So our stupid ass hubris has us think we know more than we do.
We affect shit that is in the unknown set we can't measure.
So when we do measure and say I am paying attention to the thing that I can measure,
I'm affecting a huge amount of shit that I can't measure either because it's fundamentally
not quantifiable.
It's only qualified or because it's in the unknown set and I don't know about it.
So if I over optimize for what I can measure versus what I can't, then I'm going to destroy
most of the world for what's in my little measure, Bloomville.
That is irresponsible.
That idea, that mindset has to go.
Yes, measure some shit, but realize that you're measuring trillionth of a percent of what
you're affecting.
And if you apply management theory, where you can only manage what you can measure,
so we're going to manage against the measurement, you will be dangerous to the world.
Wisdom is the delta between what measurement-based management theory tells you to do and what
the right thing to do is.
That's how I would define wisdom.
And that's the thing.
If you want to optimize for anything on, the return on it's that, because it's the only
thing that and safely steward the amount of technological power we have.
So I don't want data driven anything.
I want data informed, but there's so much sensible stuff that we can sense at some level that
we cannot quantify that has to be factored.
When the Old Testament says in the top 10 things not to do up there with murder and
rape is not have false idols.
The measurement of reality and the modeling of reality is what it's talking about.
The false idol is our model of reality where we optimize for that rather than reality where
rather than the indirect sensory connection to reality, we look at reality through our
model.
Oh, my model is I'm decreasing CO2.
Look, there's no forest here.
There's a stupid type of genetically engineered grass that sequesters a bunch of CO2 and killed
everything that was here.
You shut the fuck up about the model that's being optimized.
If you looked, if you felt that you would know that thing was wrong.
And this is when Krishnamurti talks about we have to have immediate, non mediated relationship
to reality, not mediated through measures or symbols or models like actually sense it.
If you actually sense you'll notice that most of the people in the name of progress are
all existentially angstful and depressed.
And most indigenous people, if they haven't been totally genocided are not.
If someone in their wealthy life gets to have two weeks of vacation a year, they want to
go camping.
They want to basically be a shitty indigenous person.
They want to be in trees without all of the phones and shit around and with close amount
of family, but they destroyed that in the name of a progress that is insane.
So, if this is maybe the thing I want to share here the most is, no, I studied math, I studied
sciences, I like math and sciences, but in math, Gertl's theorem and then Tarski's theorem
and all the unknowability theorems, halting problems, et cetera, show us that if I have
a set of logical truths that are consistent, they will never be complete.
The whole set of measures I could ever have, the whole set of laws I could ever have will
be infinitely far away from the set that matters.
So I want to take it as useful, but also infinitely wrong.
So the thing that is sacred is unknowable, but I have to continue to sense into it and
not live inside the model.
Idol worship is that thing, right?
That's what it is.
When Lao Tzu could write anything, the first thing he wrote is everything else in this
book is not it, right?
The first line, the Tao that is knowable is not the eternal Tao.
Why is that the first thing to write?
Because everything else is don't fucking pay too much attention to the words because you
can't say the thing in words.
Try to get a sense from the words to a feeling that you have had right after someone you
love died about what actually matters before you die.
Try to get a sense of what is meaningful at all of how you felt when your baby was born
and you saw it that you forget on a day to day basis.
But in those moments, like try to feel that and live where every one of your choices is
optimizing for what you felt was important there, but for everybody.
There is no way to make a good enough model.
We can't replace capitalism with better capitalism or better socialism or whatever you can't
make an AI that runs it.
We have to have people that make choices independent of the measures and models, meaning that factor
them, but also factor the limits and make the right choice anyways.
This is not systematizable.
Systems are models.
They are fundamental to everything wrong is human designed systems that have the known
inside and optimized for and all of the unknown outside and externalized.
So who has the fucking like honesty and courage about the fact that they're going to die.
They're not going to make it through this life alive and on their deathbed.
Most of the hours of their life will not be what they wish they had done more of.
And very few of the things they did will be what was really meaningful and that they will
tell young people I wish you would do this and says, fuck, I'm going to be loyal to that
more than anything else.
I'm going to be loyal to that more than I won't sign a fiduciary responsibility that
makes me unloyal to that because I'm not going to have two masters I'm split between.
Now, if I'm going to steward capital, I have to steward it in a way where on my deathbed
I say all of that was the best use of my life energy and the service of the life that continues
after me I could have done.
And there is no way to systematize it.
