an era of such abundance and it'll redistribute all of the wealth. So blah, blah, blah, and we'll
be a space fairing and we'll live forever. And I would tell that story if it was true,
because it's a more fun story. It's just not true.
What is how, as you, as a point of that, how are the Peter Diamandis and the Tony Siba stories
related to one another? Are they the same story or is there a difference?
I don't know the Tony Siba story. The Rethink X story.
You'd have to walk me through it. I've looked at Rethink X, but it's been a while.
The reason why I ask is, to me, they're the same, because ultimately they're
beginning at very small boundary conditions, let's say city level or something like that,
and then hope they scale their way up to the globe by innovation. But it's just hope and it
isn't thought through deeply from a first principles perspective. And it's a very powerful narrative.
When we say Rethink X, it is exactly the thing I'm saying. I would say think is not adequate
and you can't, but Rethink what the word resource means, right? Rethink the word mind, Rethink
thinking in models and Rethink the adequacy of thinking as a epistemic frame that doesn't
also include other types of intelligence. So we're saying the same thing, but I think you're
saying how deep down in the stack of assumptions do we go? It is my assessment that
if you take the cumulative effect of the reality of history being written by the winners,
the cumulative effect of that is the naive progress narrative
because everybody that lost wouldn't have called that win progress
and the technology and ideas that went along with it progress. So
I, I bought this shit. I didn't know I bought that like Western civilization and democracy
and modernity and getting out of the dark ages and the philosophy of science and whatever were
like generally pretty good things. And there's some problems with modernity. So we need some of
the postmodern corrections, but until I really studied it. And then I'm like, wait, my country
the founding fathers that we canonize as almost saints were to the British Empire
terrorists, we call other people terrorists. So a terrorist or a freedom fighter just depends
on which side of the story you're on and whether they win or not. So they were seditious terrorists
and it's very well documented that Thomas Jefferson who wrote the unbelievably beautiful
declaration of independence raped his underage slave continuously.
And it is documented that those same people gave smallpox blankets to the Indians as gifts
where we, when we talk about how dare you question capitalism, don't you know that
it has brought all the people out of poverty and done all these wonderful things, didn't you read
Pinker communism? Don't you know that Stalin killed 50 million people? We killed 110 million Indians
when we came here. We dwarfed Stalin. We dwarfed Mao fuck do the history. We killed 110 million
Indians of all these civilizations that had made it tens of thousands of years and relatively
better sustainability. Their languages are gone, their knowledge of it. So ask how the Western
civilization democracy progress narrative is to the Indians and to all the extinct species and
to all the animals and factory farms. It's not like I like Novocaine. I think Novocaine is cool.
I would not like dentistry without Novocaine. I'm down with the parts of the progress narrative
that are authentic. But also when Weston Price went to the indigenous cultures before they had
introduced hybridized grain, they didn't get cavities. Go back and look at Weston Price's
fucking work. We're not supposed to eat grains as hunter gatherer people and the mineral density
meant that they didn't get cavities. So even the you wouldn't want to go back to a world before
Novocaine, would you? If it was also without the grains that caused the Anthropocene,
we're painting a bullshit story. So basically I think the naive progress narrative is apologism
for Moloch. And I think we all have Stockholm syndrome with Moloch. I think almost everyone
who's successful is less fulfilled, like actually fulfilled, meaning waking up,
base happiness for no reason, sense of meaningfulness can die with peace. Almost everyone who's
successful is less fulfilled than almost every indigenous person that were the savages we had
to civilize and net way more harmful for the world. When Krishnamurti said it is not a good
measure of mental health to be well adjusted to an insane society, go to a fucking factory farm
and realize that our society is as insane as Nazi Germany was. But at way more scale,
we are driving it in the name of progress. I want anyone who gives a shit at all to extract
themselves from the insanity deeply enough to shake it off the momentum of that system. And
oh, but I have to do the bidding of that system. I'll do a slightly better job. No, you don't.
Just fucking stop. You have a choice. Stop. You don't have to do that. Then reorient yourself to
life, not Moloch life. Get rid of, look at all the concepts that are bullshit. Oh, we're going to
optimize based on measurement and natural resources and like progress. We civilize the savages
and start to understand life. How do 70 trillion cells in my body do a trillion metabolic functions
a second and work? That's more complexity than the government system we need to make. Nature
knows how to do it. We don't know how to do it. Spend time in nature and start to understand,
but you can't understand it in words, but you can understand it. I'm not saying a gibberish thing.
I'm saying a thing that can get reduced into technology, but a different way. And then say
there is this beautiful conversation I watched. I believe it was with Edward Teller talking about
the physicists who did modern physics and the journalists asked him who was the smartest.
Johnny von Neumann was the smartest in terms of clock speed. We all knew that no one had a question
about it. No one was even in competition about it. And he went on and on. And the interviewer
then said, does that mean that von Neumann had the deepest insights? And he teared up and he said,
no, that would be Schereinstein. And there's why did someone who had less clock speed have
deeper insights? And he was like, this was the question that boggled von Neumann. And
we came to recognize it had something to do with what happened when he played the violin.
And something to do with what happened when he puffed his pipe and looked at the clouds and went
blank. And this was reducible to real intelligence that solved real problems through a different
process that is not gibberish. It's just a different process. It was not purely semantically
mediated, which is what the Tao Te Ching starts with, which is what all of the wisdom traditions
say. The symbol that mediates ground, there's reality out there. We make up symbols to refer to
it. The symbol is not the thing being referred to. The symbol does not have all the information of
the thing being referred to. You have to have a direct relationship to the ground not mediated
by symbol, meaning not mediated through thought. If you don't know how to think not through word
thought, you will never think deeply. And that will be like thinking, feeling, sensing.
And then you can translate it towards and you'll always know they're inadequate.
And you'll write something that is somewhere between math, prose, and poetry,
right? Because they do different things. Some of it I can do denotatively, some I have to do
connotatively because the limits of denotation. So how do 70 trillion cells work in timed
harmony at a trillion metabolic functions a second? How does an embryo grow itself where
it's growing the placenta and umbilical cord that it's going to let drop off later while
simultaneously growing the lungs and GI tract that are doing nothing now but will replace it later
while growing the endocrine system and the skeletal system and all that stuff without even
having those systems to mediate how it does it. What the fuck, right? Try to understand how nature
does it better and then say this is what I'm a steward of. This is what I'm avowed to. And I have
there are not multiple gods that I'm avowed to. And the one that I am doesn't have a name.
If you name it you fucked it all up already. You start a holy war over it.
But that intelligence that governs everything, that is the basis of we do not have a good answer
to cosmogenesis or aviagenesis. The emergence of life, the emergence of cosmos, all of the
standard models have massive problems. The emergence of consciousness from brain, which is a wrong
presupposition. But reality does it all. My dad just passed a few weeks ago and I was reading
all the old letters that we've written each other. And he wrote me this fucking beautiful
letter when I was like 20-something. And he said, and he was a deep thinker from which I was initiated
into thinking on these things. And he said, the world will see challenges in the age of your
growing up that it has never seen for which there are no precedents for which no previous models
will be adequate and nation states will try to meet them and they will fail and the great
market and industrial forces will try to meet them and fail. The only thing I can tell you is
pay attention to what nature wants and try to redirect the resources there.
And that's what I would say to people who are thinking of resource directing is try to think
about what nature wants. And try to feel into it and don't think that you can in the same way that
like it's a very right thing for someone in the in a poor black neighborhood to say if you don't
live here, if you don't spend time here and you make the laws that govern here, fuck off.
Like you can't make the right laws if you don't fucking live here because you don't get it. You're
wrong. Live here and make the laws. If you don't spend enough time in nature and both nature and
the tar sands and destroyed coral and factory farms that we have turned nature into, if you
don't touch that, you cannot know what nature wants or needs. If you do, then can you let the mud
settle until clarity emerges and then act from there? That's what I would say.
That's beautiful. Thank you.
One last thing before we can let you go. We ask everybody to try and condense
what you want us to take away from the session in a single word.
What word would that be for you?
Remember the deepest insights you've ever had about what matters?
We will. I promise I will try to remember. I promise I will help us remember here in this group.
Thank you. You had mentioned that you would dialogue with people about this afterwards.
I'm really curious to hear what metabolizes. If there are deep projects that want to happen,
if people feel yes, I want to steward that and committed to it, if I can help, you know how to
find me. We will. Thank you for that offer. I will definitely be in touch about what's
thumbs up here afterwards. Thank you, Daniel. It's been amazing.
It's been great. Thanks, Daniel. Thank you.
