We're very happy to have here, so thank you so much for making time for us here, Daniel.
I think most of us have been following your work for a long time and we're really looking
forward to sharing some time and discussing what we've learned and what we could take
away from this now with you, because we've more or less to build on the conversation
that I hope everybody has had a chance to look at.
You've had with Liv Berri around meditations of Malak, we have understood that their downward
spiral negative dynamics emerging from Malak, emerging from what's probably in your words
very close to the reason for all of the issues we're having to deal with, which is our idea
of money-over-money return, of trying to optimize towards financial profits.
We've all understood that, but now we're faced specifically because we're coming to the end
of this series with the question of, okay, what are we going to do with this?
How are we going to carry this forward into our everyday lives, into our realities in
which we have to deal with the pressures of managing money or simply explaining to others
how we think about the world?
This is difficult.
This is really difficult.
And so this is this one avenue that we'd like to explore.
How can we maintain this for ourselves?
How can we deepen this?
How can we not let this slip after we've embarked on this journey together here?
And maybe we can also touch on some ideas of how to put this into action in the world,
don't put ways of putting this into action, which is difficult, because you have to make
some very clear and probably uncomfortable decisions, but I don't want to give your talk
to Daniel, so I'm going to give you some space to unfold some of your ideas around this,
like we exchanged earlier.
And then we open a conversation and have some fun.
Daniel, do you feel something coming up that you would like to pick up on and we take it
from there?
You said that people here had watched some part of that talk that I gave with LiveBorey
and obviously I went through this whole Gita series and heard a lot of things and you mentioned
that many of the people here are familiar with things that I say that I don't care to
repeat previously.
So I guess this is especially the last of the series and hopefully people take something
meaningful away.
I want to share what is most useful.
So I guess I'm curious to hear what is top of mind for people and maybe speak into that.
Okay, let's begin.
Let's open with that.
If you all reflect, and I think Patrick, you might have, no, Patrick, some music.
If you all reflect on what happened during this series and some of our sense-making
conversations in between the sessions with our guests and you map that onto the rest
of your life as you were going through the series, what comes up for you, something you'd
like to share as a foundation for this conversation today?
Is it sealed?
Maybe one thing that is, I think Thomas mentioned it already, but to me as a person who sits
on the crossroad between capital and technology, knowing what we know now and also based on
this series, it would be very beneficial to understand not only what is our next step
as individuals, because I think we'll each take it to our own lives and implement it
in different ways, but what is it that we can do individually or collectively to take
a step in the direction that will better us and everyone?
Maybe that's 30,000 feet, but this is really where I'm struggling to really put some concretization
into it.
You feel like in the conversation so far with everyone who spoke on Gita Series, you have
a different view about what the intersection of capital and technology portends for the
future on the current track?
I feel like we have to build two parallel worlds where the current track somehow needs
to be tweaked and continued, but the new track needs to come about and work in parallel.
I don't think we can switch.
And it's about how we treat capital or what we think about it in terms of being a resource
or whatever, like anything else, and what we can direct people who are technology people
or people who think around the philosophy of technology, maybe, of what should be done
in order to address these challenges that were raised here about the energy and the
minerals and resources, and that's a bit what I feel like.
It's a parallel situation which can take a long time or a short time, but somehow needs
to start happening, or maybe it is happening already and I'm just late in the game.
So the big question that you're asking, I think, is the question of this call, which
is, what can we tangibly do individually and collectively towards all that needs done
as people who are sitting in the place of investment in technology?
What can be done that moves the current system in a better direction, at minimum, not in
a worse direction, and is there stuff that can be done with capital that helps develop
new systems that are more fundamentally adequate?
Hopefully we'll unpack that over the course, but you said a couple things that were just
little tangents I wanted to speak to first.
You mentioned what can we do with capital that is a resource like any other.
This may be obvious to everybody, but if not, it's really worth saying.
I would not say that capital, meaning fiscal capital, the way we think of it, is a resource
like any other.
I think it is a optionality token for all forms of extractable and exchangeable resource
without actually being a resource itself.
I think it is a technology, it's a social technology that is arguably the most powerful
technology humanity has ever created, and that it is fundamentally both constructive
and destructive, but more importantly destructive for this phase.
That's not based on how we use it, it's intrinsic to the nature of the technology itself, no
matter how we use it.
If this is not understood, there's nothing that can be done.
Just indulge me a moment on it.
Just the concept of resource, I had a feature of anthropology that would have been like
a hundred and ten now when I was young, he was very old, and he had the fortune of getting
to be the first Western person to contact many indigenous tribes or one of the first
that were still separate from Western civilization and modern civilization writ large, and he
was doing cultural analysis on seeing how much the current modern society model had
become ubiquitous conditioning, and all of our studies of human nature were inside of
ubiquitous conditioning, so you can't really call it nature, and so he wanted to see the
things that hadn't been conditioned in that way, and if human nature actually expressed
differently.
He was looking at the most violent and least violent cultures, and looking at what they
are that's a function of, and one of the key things was looking at how it was a function
of language.
I actually had a couple teachers that had looked at this deeply.
One of the most profound insights was they said that in some of the island Polynesian
cultures and some of the Amazonian cultures that were still, that were extremely nonviolent,
both in inter and intra tribe, they didn't have the word mine in their language, first
person possessive just wasn't even a word.
And in other ones, they had the word, but it was extremely de-emphasized.
It was like a strange word to refer to a bad idea.
And they had ours, but even ours possession didn't mean the same thing.
It had the concept of stewardship built into the semantic itself.
And mine is actually one of the first words that most kids in our culture learn.
And one of the things that they found was that the cultures that didn't have the word
mine also didn't have the word or the prevalence of the words greed, selfish or jealousy.
Because those were not just innate human emotions that are always there.
They were actually memetic constructs.
If you have a shared ownership situation in a tribe, but it's not ownership because
you don't have massive surplus.
So you don't have radical wealth and equality.
Everybody shares stuff.
Whoever goes fishing, that's for everybody, whoever is picking berries is you just don't
build those same constructs in terms of I want what they have.
It just doesn't occur in the same way.
So there are so many constructs that we have that we take for granted as just human nature
that we have to work with that are actually at the foundation of our problems.
So I mentioned that because the word resource is an inherently violent word.
The way we think of it, the way we've defined it, human resources is how do we see sentient
human beings who are somebody's baby, who are going to be on their deathbed reflecting
upon their purpose in life and if they use their time, how do we see them as a resource
for a company that has a fiduciary responsibility to profit maximize?
They're not fucking human resources.
They're human beings.
And talking about natural resources is a whale a natural resource because it is.
If you're running a whaling boat, a whale is a natural resource.
Is an inesentient animal is an ecosystem that we devastate a natural resource.
Black people used to be natural resources, meaning part of the chattel the same way
we treat cows.
So the word and concept resource has to go.
Like it just fundamentally the idea man's dominion over everything is here for us.
If we can control it and extract it, it's about its utility value rather than intrinsic
value for us at the heart of the ideas that has to go is that.
So I want to throw out the concept of resource to begin with.
And I want to say that words like mine and resource and like they're colonized colonizer
mind concepts.
And so just there's that now let's talk about natural resources.
I've got steel, I've got copper, I've got lumber.
I don't really fucking have those things because to get that copper, I had to clear cut a forest
and then dig a giant hole, kill all the life that was there, have that mining tailings
go into the water and kill all the fresh water.
Like this is why we have to not think of it as a resource.
It's also important to get that like the biosphere is mostly six atoms.
It's mostly hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, phosphorus at six atoms.
It took a billion years of geology and then another billion years of single cell organisms
to take all the mercury and cadmium and like toxic shit and bind it in rocks way down here
and build up a biosphere layer up here.
And that was good because a tree could turn into a frog could turn into a moss could turn
into a mushroom could turn into anything right the same ingredients were recycling.
And so there was no waste.
There was no unrenovable resource extraction every dead thing was made of the same building
blocks until we started mining, right?
We start mining and we took it took billions of years to get the super toxic shit that
was buried down here and locked up in rock.
We pull it up, we separate it out through smelting and whatever.
And then we put the super toxic shit in the biosphere that is mostly biotoxic to all life
whether we're talking about lead or arsenic or mercury or whatever and to get the copper
or the steel we have to make a lot of this stuff.
We have the municipal solid waste all of the trash that goes out from our house and from
the restaurants and everything is so much the world is grounding in municipal solid waste.
There's 2 billion tons per year.
But there's 2 billion tons of municipal solid waste per year.
There's 190 billion tons of mining waste per year upstream from our choices to get the
metals that made this laptop and everything else.
I get to take the portion of the rock I want the portion that I don't want goes into a
giant ass tailings dam that always breaks and goes into the water.
And so to just get like upstream from our concept of natural resource is so much biocidal insanity.
I really would just want to emphasize that.
Okay.
And then the tree is lumber is a natural resource.
No, that's a 3000 year old redwood.
That's a 500 year old whatever like, okay, but let's go ahead and pretend that's a reasonable
concept to call those natural resources for a minute.
Money is still not like those because I cannot instantly exchange those right if I've got
a bunch of lumber or I've got a bunch of metal.
The transport of that is difficult.
Once I have as much as I can use I get a diminishing return on the value of that thing.
It stops being worth having more than I can use and it starts being worth less per unit
because now I just got too much of it.
And so it has a low liquidity value, but as soon and so once I've got more lumber than
I can use, now it just needs protected from termites and stuff.
I want less of it, but if I can sell it on the market quickly and keep getting capital
and that capital doesn't become worth less as I get more.
In fact, I add interest and it becomes worth more as I get more.
Now I want to cut all the trees.
I want to mine all the stuff.
There's no diminishing return.
There's only upside, there's only accelerating return.
Money has no tangible value, right?
It's nobody, you can't eat it, you can't build stuff with it.
It's pure optionality token, but it has maximum liquidity, maximum fungibility for speed of
optionality towards every other real type of value, but not every real type of value
because nothing that somebody wants on their deathbed can you actually buy with money only
towards the types of value that can be extracted, quantified and exchanged.
But what that means is that there's a lot of types of real value we will destroy in
the pursuit of this optionality value.
