If it's successful, does it threaten a current industry or a current political party?
What do they do in response?
Their response, if driven by the thing we did, is part of the effect of the thing that
we did, the factor.
There's going to be possible psychosocial externalities.
Obviously, you make a thing like Facebook, you change the minds of the entire planet.
So understand physical and psychosocial externalities plus how other entities are forced to respond
to a thing you do.
Some of them align the same direction, some align very opposite directions.
And that's how you do externality calculus.
Really try to do a deep job of that.
We've put together a framework for what we call yellow teaming.
A classically blue teaming is how do I make the thing succeed, red teaming is how might
it fail.
We use the red teaming to solve the problem so it might fail for these reasons.
Let's recursively design so how it doesn't fail.
But then the yellow teaming is how might it succeed and actually suck for something else.
So how do we use red teaming?
We have a problem we want to solve, let's make sure it doesn't fail.
And yellow teaming, let's make sure it doesn't cause some other problem to recursively do
better design on the blue teaming of how we solve that problem without causing other problems
and without failing.
So if people want to prototype a framework like that of consideration that becomes part
of due diligence and impact thesis, that would be my top level thing to offer.
Another top level thing I would offer is think about the underlying generative dynamics that
give rise to the many fold problems in the world and things that you can do that address
that.
So we know that for all planetary boundaries, all ecological overshoot issues, a linear materials
economy rather than the closed-loop materials economy attached to a exponential growth
financial system is the driver of that whole thing, right?
Linear materials economy meaning it takes resources from nature and after production
distribution, it turns them into a combination of pollution and trash.
So how do you make a system where all the pollution and trash are captured and become
the new input and the input does not require new virgin resources that happen faster than
nature can replenish.
So closed-loop writ large in the packaging industry and the mining industry and the appliance
industry and the everything closed-loop is fundamental.
We get closed-loop or we die.
If you can invest in closed-loop technologies, that's a category to invest in, but then really
pay attention to the difference between the sales pitch.
This is closed-loop and the reality of it, like really look.
Are you capturing one part of your waste stream?
So for instance, plasma gasification for waste management is not really closed-loop.
It's in the right direction in some ways, but I'm taking very complex forms of waste
and just getting gas out of it that I burn, which means at least it's not just trash.
I got something out of it, but all this stuff that was the trash, I did not create a new
co-product.
It means I don't have to take this from nature again.
So it's still highly entropic and doesn't close the loop.
So really think through, is this actually closed-loop technology or loop closing?
Anything that is now, don't think about them individually because no piece of tech exists
individually, right?
What can I really do with a hammer by itself?
Not much.
I need the saws that made the lumber in the first place.
I need the smelting equipment that makes the nails in the first place.
I need lots of things.
The hammer's pretty fucking useless.
It's part of a tech ecosystem, right?
And what is this computer without the satellite system that we're talking to each other?
Like it doesn't do the same stuff without the entire complex supply chain of computer
systems that does the lithography and makes up this thing.
So one of the major problems is that we focus on parts.
We do a good job of those parts.
Everybody focuses on the whole, so we fuck the whole in the process, right?
So we actually have to focus on new holes.
So your investment thesis should be more complex and say there's some hole, like the
whole of the supply chain of packaging, right?
How we make the packaging, what materials are used, how much hydrocarbon we use, how
much energy, how much water, how much PFAS we put on it, et cetera, to that it winds
up in the oceans, that it, all those things.
I want to actually get the closed loop on that whole thing, because I can de-necessitate
the PFAS and create a new market sector for a new kind of fluorinated surfactant that's
just as bad or worse.
Eh, let's say, let's actually define how to get a self-sustaining system that is right.
It doesn't have to be the everything system, but at least something, right?
And I want to do now a series of investments where none of them on their own fully did that,
but together I actually get loop closure.
So this is another principle of impact investing I'm offering, is invest in ecosystems of
technologies, which can, that collectively do something that meets a minimum threshold
that on their own, none of them maybe did.
And some of those will be not just physical technologies, but social technologies, some
of which will not be for-profit, right?
And this is where you have a blended finance portfolio, where you're non-profit stuff and
you're for-profit stuff and you're lobbying stuff, because those are three types of money,
right?
Government money, market money, and non-profit money.
You'll do much better if you think of those three together.
And so can I use some non-profit money to tend to some part of the comments that none
of the market things will, because nobody will pay for it, and or to de-risk a thing
that changes the investable portfolio or whatever.
Can I use some percentage of the money to do legal stuff, because the laws have to change,
because if I don't make a certain thing, a legal, the insensible, stay fucked, even
with the new technology, and some for-profit stuff, where that entire bundle can be thought
about in a regenerative way, right?
This is a much better way to think about it.
So for instance, let's say I want to transition mining, some category of mining.
And let's say in a particular category of mining, the net profit is relatively low,
because we've had a lot of diminishing return, but the total volume is high, right?
We're talking like trillions in volume, but maybe at a 2% margin.
And the alternate way to get that metal, which is right now, we're not recycling it out of
the waste stream, and we're not mining the landfill for it, because it's still slightly
more profitable to extract it.
But there's also perverse subsidy still fucking going on, right?
We're still doing the perverse subsidy on the dumb thing, okay?
So let's, I got trillions that are flowing from pension funds, you should enter the toxic
bank thing, and not into this other thing.
Baby, a parent for our time.
What's that?
Oh, maybe somebody should mute.
So I want to change the market parity, where the toxic thing is just under profitability,
so all the money wants to divest even for the wrong reasons.
And the other thing becomes just above profitability, so I moved trillions, but maybe I can use
a few million of the right nonprofit lobbying money to change that topology.
So for instance, can I do lobbying that moves the subsidy from the bad thing to the new
good tech?
And can I do a bunch of public awareness that makes it to where the politicians have to
do that because their people want?
So they'll do the public awareness with the nonprofit, I do the research with the nonprofit,
I do some lobbying to change the subsidies.
I also do some activist stuff that makes it to where more of the purchasers say we're
not going to purchase stuff that comes from conflict metals or from polluting metals or
mountain top removal or whatever it is.
As a result, I drive the cost of this thing up, because it didn't have a huge margin,
I drive it up above the margin, now money wants to divest from it naturally.
If I simultaneously took something below market parity, the money will naturally follow the
change gradients, right, it changed the topological gradient.
Now I might be able to spend a few million nonprofit, maybe a few tens of millions of
lobbying money to move a trillion dollars of market capital that I don't actually even
have to talk to the people and they don't have to have the right values, sociopaths
will make that change because it's in self-interest.
This is an example of how to think about the whole ecosystem of types of finance, types
of capital, the whole ecosystem of projects and ecosystem of types of leverage together.
So in the same way that we think of parts, we optimize the parts, we break the whole.
One of the things to do on the other side is think about how to benefit the whole, how
to use capital across a number of types of capital, a number of types of interventions
to build more robust, complex, anti-fragile ecosystems.
This of course requires more understanding, but this is something I would really like
to offer.
So even in just the impact investment, invest in a few technologies that have synergies.
I'll give you examples, I'll give you another example.
Take any time that something happened that caused an environmental externality that actually
ended up hurting another market, but whatever market did that didn't care because they
weren't invested in the other thing.
We didn't bother paying the extra money to do good sewage management because financially
we didn't have the money, we didn't care.
And so on our balance sheet as a state or whatever, dumping the sewage and the developing
world into the river was cheaper than building the $10 million waste facility or whatever.
But now that happened to kill a whole bunch of fisheries downstream that don't even happen
to be in our country, right?
Because the river crossed a country line.
But those fisheries were making $10 million a year and we just lost all those industries.
And now I get to say, if I make a sewer here, do I get the fisheries back here?
And can I amateurize the future value on those fisheries and own the futures on them to be
able to invest in making this thing here because it's going to open up a new industry and I'll
actually be able to do that thing profitably.
I don't have to do this as a pure nonprofit project because I look at ecosystems of interconnectivity.
So you can use financial capital to rebuild ecosystems if you can sing with more complexity
than the current system does.
So I jump to the practical stuff because I know people, and the practical is hard because
if it was easy, everyone would be doing it and the Molok machine is oriented in the wrong
direction.
But there is practical stuff.
Do really deep yellow teaming for any technology that you might invest in.
Look at what it's going to fuck up and either don't invest in it or figure out how to change
the technology to not fuck that stuff up.
That's number one.
To look at domains of investment that are fundamental to everything that needs to happen.
Closing the materials economy is a domain that has to happen.
That includes not just the inorganic fraction, but the organic fraction, right?
Moving the loop on agriculture, waste management and soil regeneration is also a loop we have
to close.
Moving to sustainable sources of energy while factoring that the sustainable energy has
material supply chains that have to be factored, that has to happen, right?
And especially when you think about these things together.
So think about domains that have to happen for the world very deeply and look at those
domains.
Look at multiple technologies together that have synergy values that they don't have on
their own.
And not just only for profit technologies, but for profit things, law things, public opinion
things that collectively would do the right thing, where the portfolio as a whole actually
can make profit.
Even though not all the money in it is for profit.
And already major corporations fund nonprofits and lobbying to do fucking shit on their behalf.
That's not that's a thing.
Just only military contractors and big pharma and big oil do financial warfare like this
and they do it for fuck purposes.
So they will end up doing lobbying on their behalf to buy the sovereignty of a small country
and whatever.
I want that level of financial engineering, global level financial engineering to be done
on behalf of the commons by people who actually understand how to do that.
I want Soros level financial engineering for not the privatization of wealth, but the continuity
of the wealth that is needed to keep having access to do that before the benefit of the
commons.
There are more things, but those are a few directional tangible things about how to think
about capital allocation that still has some profit binding to it that is directionally
right.
I think that's a good moment for Patrick to come back in.
You had your hand raised for a while and you're one of the few people who actually know actually
do this kind of work.
