Yes, sorry. But I'm impressed with that. But I was wondering about, well, first of all,
the paradigm is new, right? So you developed this experiment paradigm with Howie.
So they've, they've done squares tasks in autistic populations. So it's actually the most common
paradigm used for judgment of agency in autistic populations. But I haven't actually seen it
outside of that literature. And the original squares tasks did not have any uncertainty. And
so it was a direct mapping from what the participants did to the outcomes of the squares. And there
was no jitter or any of that. So I think it really adds, and they didn't do any of the prediction
error stuff. So it's, I mean, there's a lot of new stuff in there, but it's not like I didn't come
up with that. No, because I was wondering, like, it seems like a very fertile soil to do to branch
off in, right? So for example, I was wondering if there is, it's a worthwhile to explore the
connection between fidgeting the sensitivity to prediction errors and the self-stimming,
right? So, so, so you, you separate the groups with the autistic qualities, but that's like
trade wise, right? So that's more. Yeah. So we haven't done anything in diagnostic groups,
for diagnostic groups. Well, what I mean is more like, I'm not familiar with autism literature,
but I was wondering if that sensitivity to the changes in prediction error minimization,
if that is also related to agency and in terms of stimming, right? So, so I'm not sure how ethical
it is, but you know, if you could ask, like, what, what makes you feel like you lose agency and then
you separate them with a group that allows them, you allow them to stim and the other don't allow
them to stim. Yeah. Is it something like that done before? What would you expect?
No, I don't think anything like that's been done before. I mean, people with autism, autistic
people tend to stim more in stressful and exciting environments, kind of this two ends of the
arousal spectrum, the same way that we fidget in, in when we're bored and when we're into something.
And I think that has to do with the rate of prediction error minimization in both those
cases, not being what we expect. So either it's easier or harder than we expected prediction
error minimization to be. But I've, I have struggled to come up with ways of experimentally testing
the fidgeting hypothesis because I think it's so individual. How do you like ensure that
participants are experiencing something that they didn't expect to experience so that they're going
to use this kind of broad context, non specific action to try and minimize it. But yeah, I know
I'm fascinated by the idea of following up. What's a small final question because this is really
fascinating. So how central or how, how, how, how big an effect is the relation between the,
how big, how strong is the relation between the sense of agency for autistic people
and the sensitivities to prediction errors? So we don't find one thing that I didn't say in this
is that we don't find a difference in accuracy of the agency judgments depending on autism traits.
So it's not like autistic people aren't experiencing agency and actually
the one of the only domains we didn't find a difference in our review
was judgments of agency for autistic people. So it's not like the final judgment is changing,
but the behavior, the way that they're inferring the agency seems to be different.
So it's, yeah, I don't want people to come away from this thinking that autistic people don't
feel agency or something. It's just that the way that they do, the way that they
act to make inferences about themselves is different. Okay, that's really interesting.
Thank you so much. Hello. Hello. So thank you for that talk. It was really nice. And I have a few
probably in the big questions. So maybe I should just go read the, the, the paper that you posted.
But the, so I guess you kind of answered already. So you said 40 people for the first experiment
that ended up being in the final paper, right? And then 80 for the second one.
And what was the, because I remember that you had it, I guess, categorized by traits,
really high amount of autistic traits and so forth. How did, how did that come about?
Like what was the destination for that? Yeah, so we took the mean and then
one standard deviation above the mean and one standard deviation below the mean and used those
cutoffs for the groups. So there are more people in this middle group than the two others,
but they're defined by how far away they are from the mean on the autism traits.
And those little vertical bars, is that kind of a compensable guess?
Yeah, 95% compensable. Gotcha. Yeah. So if you guys feel less than 0.5, I guess,
but there is overlap, right? So I see that there's, you know,
so if you do, sorry, that didn't mean to interrupt. I was going to say if you do a
correlation or regression on this central time point, you get a linear effect of autism traits
on the prediction error at the time of action. Okay, cool. And then I guess,
did you guys calculate the school power of the test as well? Or is that kind of just not?
No, we didn't. Yeah, you know, I think that it was a little bit too difficult to do given that
it's like there were so many measures in the task and none of them had really been done before.
So we didn't really do a power analysis. But yeah, I think the fact that it replicates across
these two experiments is meaningful. Oh, yeah, it definitely gives you avenues right for the
research. And I guess, was there a measure of effect size that coincides with something else
that they'll use? I think we do have some in the paper, but I don't remember them off the top of
my head. I'm sorry. No worries. And I guess, did you post a link somewhere, I guess, in the chat,
or maybe I can find that to the papers? Yeah, the main ones I talked about, I've got QR codes here,
so leave those up for a second. Oh, perfect. Thank you so much. Yeah, no worries. Thank you.
Hi, I'm Kelsey. Thanks very much for every stimulating presentation. I like the graphics
and the experimental modeling was awesome. Now, you mentioned the notion of pragmatic rewards
earlier, and it came up in the fidgeting designs. What I'm curious about, though, is the whole notion
of rewards and information you mentioned control. How does the dynamic nature of these values,
or something that may be rewarding in an instant, may not be rewarding in another instant.
The dynamic values of rewards, how do you model that? And then just how do you contrast those
dynamic values with more static types of treats? That's my question. Sorry, we're cutting in a
little bit. I heard the dynamic versus static rewards and asking about the pragmatic rewards
that I was talking about. Would you mind repeating the question? Sure. I was talking about those
notion of the notion of rewards that you mentioned. I really mentioned that information can also be
something that has a value and control and agency over process. What I'm seeing is that
the values of rewards are not always static. They're dynamic. Right. And I'm also seeing that
there are other static attributes, like traits, that are also played in models. So I wanted to
help you handle the dynamic transitions of rewards and those values.
Yeah, I definitely don't think that existing research does it very well, or at least not
in the detail that we would want for the predictive processing theory. Rewards end up being mostly
about prediction error minimization. The theory collapses across the value of information and
the value of pragmatic rewards in some ways. And so there's definitely context specific reward.
The magnitude of the reward differs depending on contextual information and the individual.
So I definitely think there's avenues there for more research, but I'm not sure that my
stuff really gets at that. Thank you. And that's why I found it really hard to test.
In my mind, I think it's really hard to test the fidgeting. You can find a lot of correlational
things that support the theory, but I think empirically testing the fidgeting hypothesis
is difficult convincingly for partially that reason.
Right. So in terms of how you structure the experiment is a preset to define
your behavioral prediction error metric. Can you explain that part, which is how do you
structure the experiment in order to have a defined behavioral prediction error metric?
Yeah. So we, in this experiment, we were not, we didn't design the experiment to pull
the manipulation in the experiments. And the first one was about variability and volatility.
So I didn't talk about this, but we had a low variability condition and high variability
and we had low volatility and high volatility and we had a two by two design.
So the primary kinds of things that we set out when we designed that experiment were about
looking at differences in different uncertainty conditions. But of course, because we were
measuring prediction error and we were interested in how participants make a judgment of agency
and act in these environments in order to minimize prediction error. That's the part that I focused
on today. So we didn't design it with, so parts of our design lead to differences in
prediction error like the variability necessarily has an effect on our behavioral
prediction error measure, but it wasn't, we didn't force that in the agency judgments.
Does that make sense? Yes, it does. Yeah, okay. Yeah, no worries.
Yeah. Oh, thank you so much, Casper, for your talk. It was, it was awesome. And my question is
related with prediction error and agency because sometimes we can know we are the outwards of
the sensors of factions, even if they generate a lot of prediction error. So we can have like a
big mismatch and we'll still know we made it. So how can we, we can be sure that participants were
actually taking into consideration prediction error minimization or I don't know, maybe
temporal contingencies. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, so I think the traditional views of agency are around
this comparator model, which deals with that issue even worse than an active inference approach
prediction or to agency. So under the active inference or predictive processing accounts of
agency, you judge agency when you believe that you can reach an outcome through your actions. So
you have like precise policy mappings, which is a bit different to the comparator model, which is
about the difference between the outcome that you expected and the outcome that you actually perceive.
The reason we think that we have, I think we have evidence that participants are using the
prediction error and make this judgment. And I, the reason I think that is because of this,
the participants, the, when participants choose that they are the agent, when they make this
judgment at the end that they are the agent, however they make that in their heads, it's
related to a decrease in the gradient of prediction error over the trial. And this is
whether they're right or wrong. So if they correctly choose the correct square,
then they have the lowest prediction error minimization significantly different here.
But also when they're wrong, so when they say they have agency, but actually chose the wrong
square, which kind of to me implies that it's not about the reality of the agency that they
experienced, but rather their perception or beliefs about the agency that they experienced,
which is what leads them to make this judgment at the end, rather than this kind of objective,
whether they were right or wrong. And this changes the prediction error gradient changes
depending on the judgment that they're making. Okay. Thank you. That's, that's like a perfect
answer I'm looking for. And last can I see, do you think that the same way you asked us
like to search for the square that was being moved by the participant,
do you think that this data could differ if we are just like an observer or actually
being the one that is moving actively the square? Yeah, I think so. Even just from
experiencing the videos, I don't need to show it again, but even from just experiencing the videos,
it takes you much longer to figure out the perceptual from as just a perceptual task,
which square the participants are controlling, even though it's just a visual matching between the
movement of that line and their the squares movements. Whereas when you're acting, you get
this kind of, it's like being a scientist, you can intervene on the causal process that you're
hypothesizing, which gives you much more informative information. And you can actively test the
hypothesis that you have, rather than just experiencing a mess of things and trying to
sort it out in your head. So yeah, I think there's a big difference between
doing that task as perceptual inference and doing it in an active inference kind of way.
Okay, thank you, Kelsey, and it's an amazing experimental paradigm and thank you so much.
Thank you for your question.
So there was a question by Shen in the chat. There were several questions in the chat during
your talk. I'm looking for it. She said, did only the movement of the squares change or
the perturbations introduced on the mouse trajectory as well?
So in the first experiment, there were different blocks and in the different blocks, there were
different uncertainty combinations. So in that way, the perturbations on the mouse and all of
the other squares, the variability affected all of the stimuli equally. We did manipulate that in
that experiment. So yeah, in some cases, the perturbation of the square changed as well.
Thank you, Shannon. Did you have any additional? She also said thank you.
So then I guess if no one else, I did have a question.
You mentioned that they had an earlier action given some prediction error, at least specifically
that they were more sensitive to prediction error and thus acted earlier. And I was wondering if it
also entailed that potentially they made connection or they made causal pathways faster,
which potentially linked different kinds of actions towards different kinds of
consequence? Yeah, definitely possibly. Definitely possibly. That's not a very good answer.
But one of the theories of autism from the predicted processing view is that they
most of them boil down to a higher learning rate. And some of them have claimed that autistic
people have a higher expectation for volatility. So essentially, they're throwing out their model
and replacing it more often, which I think is also consistent with this kind of action
that they're more act more often intervening to try and confirm that their model is still true.
So definitely. Yeah.
Thank you so much, Kelsey. Does anybody else have any more questions for Kelsey?
Oh, Marco has a question.
I think you're muted, Marco.
Sorry. Very small question. Just curious because some other people also mentioned the comments.
So are you like also a graphic designer or like a teacher or like a pedagogic wizard or something?
Thank you. That's very flattering. I do art in my spare time. So I paint as a hobby and I really
enjoy doing the visual side of academia. So I'm not a graphic designer, but I do have a little
bit of training in artistic stuff. In the realm of academia, you definitely be a graphic designer.
Looks like it. Thank you.
So I know there's a lot more questions possibly, but we are at the end of today's conference. If
you have any questions you wanted to ask Kelsey, I suggest either you go talk to her if she's still
available today or send an email. I know that maybe you want to share an email or just...
Awesome. I'm also on Twitter if you prefer Twitter.
I'm also happy to stick around.
