like facial expressions and sentiment,
is that if you wanna be able to do that,
well, you first have to be able to detect those signals.
So facial expression detection
and sentiment detection are kind of mature areas
where we know the accuracy is good.
But what are other ways
we can actually detect these affective signals?
So this is a focus of a lot of my early PhD.
One of the papers I looked at was,
can you predict if two people in a conversation
are actually bonding with each other,
whether they're having chemistry and rapport?
And we do that using one minute slices
of their facial expression and body language data,
you actually get pretty high accuracy.
But what I really wanna talk about
was a huge focus of my early PhD
that I worked in close collaboration
with a number of the people here,
for example, Sarah Taylor, Ehi, Akane, and of course, Raz.
So I've been going around giving this job talk
and saying that this is Raz's dream,
but I don't know, hopefully she's okay with me saying that.
It also would be my dream.
Yeah.
So what we were aiming for here,
what I think would be really cool,
is to be able to take signals gathered
non-obtrusively from a person,
maybe from their smartphone,
maybe from a wrist-worn sensor,
like a Empatica sensor, send that to our server,
do some super cool machine learning on it,
and give people a personalized prediction
of what we think their, people are laughing,
that's a good start,
what we think their mood is gonna be like tomorrow.
And we actually think this could be really cool,
because if you get a forecast
that there's a 92% chance
you're gonna be stressed out tomorrow,
just like if you know there's a very high chance
that it's gonna rain, you can take an umbrella,
maybe you can take some steps to help alleviate this.
So you can go to that extra yoga class,
get some extra sleep,
whatever it is you need to do to improve your stress.
And then the second thing that we thought
would be really important,
especially for populations that suffer from a lot of stress
and are at risk of converting to depression,
would be tracking their long-term history
and potentially tracking whether they might transition
to a depressed state.
Because actually, moods have been modeled
as different stable states of a dynamical system.
So healthy functioning is a stable state.
Even if something bad happens,
it perturbs you a little bit,
you usually bounce back.
But if you're in a very high-stress environment
or you're perturbed continually,
you could actually transition
to a different state to depression.
And then again, you're kind of stuck.
Even if you're perturbed, you bounce back to depression.
Yes.
Has any working time showing the effects
of telling people to progress like this?
We are starting to investigate that.
There are some very complicated UX questions around,
is there, if I tell you that you're going to be stressed,
is this self-fulfilling hypothesis?
Does it actually help you?
How can these interventions be delivered
in a meaningful way?
So that's a really good question.
But the main focus of my contribution
to this work was on this piece.
Like how do we actually even get the prediction
in the first place?
So yeah, and so if we had those predictions also,
even if we don't deliver this,
it would be nice to be able to sense
if someone might be on the wrong trajectory.
So that could be really important.
Okay, so how do we do this?
Well, Kane and Sarah and a little bit me
spent many years collecting very high-dimensional data
from students.
So we collected their location, their physiology data.
We extracted their steps, their temperature.
We made them tell us everything they were doing.
Did they go to class?
Did they drink alcohol?
Did they drink coffee?
When did they do it?
We looked at everything they're doing with their phone.
Well, not everything, but who they're texting,
who they're calling.
So just a massive amount of very rich data.
And we actually published just a ton of papers
on this problem.
Like how do we use this rich data
to predict people's well-being?
We built whole online tools that allow people
to upload their physiological data
and to detect the artifacts in the data,
detect the peaks.
We made whole papers on dealing with noise in the data.
So for example, what do you do
if a whole set of features goes missing at once?
Like someone forgot to wear their sensor
or they don't want to turn on the location tracking?
How do you cope with that missing data
and still make a reasonable prediction?
So we did all this work, but what we found
is that the accuracy in predicting these outcomes,
like for example, in predicting happiness,
was still disappointingly low.
So this is a little too close to the horoscope side
of the spectrum or mood ring side of the spectrum
than the deployable system that could help
detect depression in the real world.
So why is this not accurate enough?
And I swear it's not just that we are terrible
at research, if you look at the literature,
even in detecting happiness on the same day,
the accuracy is pretty low.
And we're trying to of course predict future happiness.
So why is that so low?
Well, the reason that we came up with,
we thought a lot about this,
is that these models are not accounting
for individual differences.
So we're training this giant,
shared machine learning classifier
that's trying to say when everyone will be stressed.
But actually people are very different
in the way they get stressed.
So for some people,
they might be very happy at Friday night,
a home alone coding.
And if you put them in a loud crowded party,
they're gonna be stressed.
And of course for some people, it's the exact opposite.
So these models currently,
we're not able to account for this differences at all.
So what we tried to do was to use multi-task learning
to get this personalization.
So what we're trying to do,
is predicting the mood of each person as a separate task.
And that allows us to customize the model to each person.
But we can't train just 50 independent models
for each person because we don't have enough data.
So what we wanna be able to do is still benefit
from the statistical strength of the data of other people,
but to the degree that they're related to each individual.
So the first approach we took was this neural network approach.
We had some shared feature extraction layers
that we hoped would take this high dimensional data
about every time you sent a text
and compress it into something a little more reasonable
that we could build on top of.
And then individuals or clusters of individuals
had their own layers that mapped
that representation to how it would affect that person.
The second model we looked at,
and one of the few non-deep learning models
in this presentation was a hierarchical Bayesian model
based on a Dirichlet process prior.
So what's happening here is we're drawing the weights
of each person's classifier from the shared DP prior.
And based on the Chinese restaurant formulation
of the DP prior,
that's gonna induce an implicit clustering of people
based on their decision boundary.
So you're basically gonna get placed in the same cluster
with someone who reacts in the same way
in terms of their stress as you do.
And it's a non-parametric soft clustering
so we don't decide the number of clusters in advance.
And people can actually belong slightly
to several different clusters,
giving the model more expressivity.
And then the third model we looked at
was a multi-task, multi-kernel learning model.
So what we're saying here
is that we have all these different types of features,
like physiology features and location features.
And we're gonna learn a kernel
over each of these types of features.
And then for each individual,
we're gonna customize the weights on those kernels.
So how much is your physiology predictive of your mood?
And we regularize those weights globally
and we perform an EM so that you gain information
based on how other people are weighting those weights.
So how well did this work?
