Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. My name is Katrina Stanton.
I'm Inyash Brotsky. And I'm Stephen Zuber. And today's episode is going to tie over into
our next episode. It's a big topic and it's topical policy.
It's election season in the United States of America.
Yes. Are you doing an Elvis? No. That's kind of Elvis. Should I?
Do you sing? I love to sing. But do you sing is a very interesting question.
Like in a band? No. Okay. Actually, the number of Elvis impersonators goes up every year. Wow. Yeah.
At least it was a few years ago. Maybe it's tapering off. Is there a church of Elvis yet?
Not until the kings take over in New Vegas. Okay. So anyway, it's election season. So
this is a great time to bring up the very topical essay. Politics is the mind killer.
And the reason that Lesseron kind of shies away from political discussion
and not from policy discussion, mind you, there are a lot of economists talking about
different policies. And when you're talking about futuristic policy,
potential, then you're getting into policy. It's really hard to avoid that. But we want to try to
avoid touching on the red team versus blue team kind of politics. I will write the prediction
that somebody will write in pissed about this, or at least somebody will be at home quietly pissed
about this. Something where today has been bugged somebody. But why? People go funny in the head
when talking about politics, right? I would assume that's something we say, because it's off someone
every single episode. That's true. So that's a fairly safe prediction for me to make then.
Yeah. I think that we've established ourselves as not too into one of the candidates.
And it's a specific candidate and his last name starts with a T. And it ends with a rump.
That was unplanned and hilarious. Yeah, we can leave candidates out of it.
Yeah, we don't need to talk about candidates. We don't need to talk about candidates because
just like Eliezer Yuckeski's essay politics is the mind killer. Once you get into candidates,
and it things get a little bit difficult to hold up. And I'm not a good enough rationalist
that I'm going to avoid letting halo or horns effect come over me, even though I've made
strides to not be an either major political party. So that I can get a little bit out of that.
There is still the villainization of candidates. There is the Oh, they said that therefore it
must be bad. Actually, even even on local stuff, there's still that the other day I was looking
at Facebook, and my father is very active in politics. And I noticed that somebody was kind
of talking about the pros and cons of a certain amendment that was being proposed. And my dad
had commented, go take a bath. You're on the side of so and so. So simply by being on the side of a
group that they didn't like on a certain policy issue. Now that guy had to go take a shower.
He was unclean. He was unclean. And he agreed. Oh, wow. Yeah, the next comment was,
oh, gotta go wash myself in bleach. Oh, that's terrible. Yeah. I was never able to
debate my parents into political discussions. I didn't want to qualify one thing, though. I think
while the less wrong community strides away from disgusting politics, individual rationalists
don't and probably shouldn't. If you're if you feel up to engaging in something that
we're really hardwired to not engage in rationally. But if you're up for it, it is important to talk
about. But it's not their introductory topic. There are some people who do. And there was for
a long time a strong was the term social norm that politics was not discussed at
less wrong. Did we want to go briefly into why that was? Yeah. Yeah, what happened?
Well, I mean, nothing happened happened. It's people crying. No, no, it was okay. So
obviously people as we were saying go a little funny in the head when it comes to politics.
Because it is conjectured, at least that this was very important when your entire society was
150 people. And everyone knew what side you were on when lines were drawn and decisions had to be
made. And if you were on the good side of the guy who ended up winning and taking power, then he
would often reward you with things like, you know, resources, things that improved your genetic
fitness in general. And if you were on the wrong side, you might be shunned, you might not get
help when you need help, might even potentially be killed if it is a bad enough conflict.
Are we talking about chimpanzees again? This sounds like the Machiavellian evolutionary theory.
We are right now talking entirely just about humans living in tribes of one to two hundred
people. Because that's exactly what that sounds like. There is this big Machiavellian hypothesis.
And they did a lot of work on chimpanzees as people do in an attempt to understand our human
evolutionary heritage. What was the name of that book? Which one? The one with the two chimps competing
for running the local group, I don't really call it club of chimpanzees. That was mentioned method
of rationality. Okay, I don't know. Well, I'll take it up. It'll be on the website. But yeah,
there's a whole good long book on this that somebody I talked to read at one point and it was
very fun. So yes, I think we are modeling our ancestors like modern day chimps in regards to
their exercising of polygal discourse. But I think it's not entirely wrong to say that being on the
wrong side of a political argument in the past could have had some serious repercussions. Much more
than just discussing whether the minimum wage should go up or down $2. That was nowadays. And
for that reason, people have an emotional tie much greater than what they necessarily should have.
The having observed that, Eliezer in this post pointed out that due to this, arguments are often
treated by humans like soldiers that once you know your side, which you know which side of an
argument you're on, you must support all arguments on your side, no matter how bad they are, and
attack all arguments that appeared for your enemy side, no matter how good they are. Otherwise,
it's like you're stabbing your own soldiers in the back by not supporting the arguments that
support your side, even if they're bad arguments. So if you really are involved in politics,
that is literally how it is. So if you undermine your own side, you could lose
on policy issues that you really care about and that are very important to you.
And that is very much an anti-rationality sort of thing, as we are supposed to
in theory, at least one would hope, assess every argument on its own merits rather than
assess it on which side it supposedly helps. Yes. So as those of us in the room right now,
the three of us, we are not directly involved in politics. We don't have to do that. We don't have
to have arguments being soldiers. We don't have to stand by our strong club so that we can push
through things that we really care about and we have the power to do that. But we're seeing a lot
of people who are in a similar situation to us, not high-level politicians who actually have to
think about this strategically, doing the same kind of behavior where you take party line positions
and you can ask somebody what they think about one position and roll out what they think about
a whole bunch of other positions based on that. And I think the reason that, at least between three
of us, none of us have that sort of blanket endorsement for, well, I'm pro-increasing minimum
wage, so therefore I'm pro all these other things that are not tied to it whatsoever. And I'll defend
those as true even if I don't think they are because that will help my women's wage policy
thing go up. The reason we don't do that is because that feels icky and gross because I have an
epistemic attachment to the truth. And that's also why I left the political sphere. Because there
was some of that icky stuff going on where I was like, this isn't completely true. The reasons
behind this that they're actually using to promote it are not the good reasons, but they're the most
convincing reasons apparently and it's not good. It's really kind of a shame. There's a certain
candidate for a certain party that is not either of the two big colors that happens to be a trained,
highly respected medical physician and yet has had to recently take stances such as,
I'm not sure about the whole vaccine thing. We should look into it because her party line is
her party is very much the sort of West Coast wishy-washy kind of liberal that says, well,
vaccines are terrible. How many people can we alienate? All of them. It's horrible that she has
to say that for political reasons because her party, that is the line of her party. No, I agree.
It's gross and weird. That's why politics is gross and weird and why I don't have a huge mind
for it, which might be revealed over the course of this discussion. Yeah, we're not in politics.
At least I'm not and I can generalize to at least possibly somebody that because the idea of,
if you're a politician, the truth is sort of your enemy, right? If it turned, it can be. It often
can be. If it turned out, if it turned out that whatever, I'm trying to think of a good hypothetical
example. I don't know. Regardless of that, I wanted to get to one other thing, but there is
actually one less wrong trained rationalist congressperson or senator in New Hampshire,
I want to say. What was her name? I don't remember. We'll dig it up, but she's out there and I have
no idea how she's coping with this. I would love to talk about that. I guess you get by it by
thinking I'm doing enough good that it makes it worth being all sticky with lies all day.
So like, it's a very small district. It's probably small enough that she can get away
with not having to lie very much. Possibly. Yeah, I mean, that'd be the perk of doing it in a small
area, right? I mean, but there are so many things that are not political, right? So next episode,
what I hope that we talk about is things that are not brought up and are not politically charged
issues. The issue is that any kind of issue, once it gets into the political sphere, it becomes
politically charged. I have a way better and less inflammatory example to most of our audience.
And it sucks that as soon as something becomes policy, we can't talk about it anymore just because
suddenly it has become a policy question. And that means that it is the mind killer and we
can't talk about it. I think that's one of the reasons that there's been a bit of a retreat from
that stance that we cannot talk about politics because there are certain things that we do
want to talk about that are affected by policy. Like I said, I think it's on a good introductory
topic, but once you've been okay with being wrong a few times, then you're kind of warmed up to be
ready to talk about politics, right? Yeah. But it's not like, hey, there's this cool group called
Less Wrong, and we talk about how this politics thing, right? That's not the best sales pitch.
Oh, okay. Well, in his original post, Politics Is the Mind Killer, there's an example was that
in artificial intelligence, there's a standard problem that's demonstrating the difficulty
of a certain type of reasoning. There's a standard problem that says all Quakers are pacifists,
all Republicans are not pacifists. Nixon is a Quaker and a Republican is Nixon a pacifist.
And his question was, why the hell is that a standard problem that people use as an example
of the difficulty of this sort of reasoning? Why have you thrown politics into this question
so that right away people are polarized and that you insult anyone who leans Republican?
And this should not have been in here at all anyway. Take the politics out and focus on something
else. So he wasn't even saying that no one should ever discuss politics. He was more
saying that do not insert politics where it doesn't need to be. It's a distraction. Yes.
And a distraction that is hugely, I guess, hugely distracting. It's not just like it's
uselessly vague or something, but it's the idea that it's so charged that you're basically
guaranteed to make it inaccessible as a good example for a lot of people. It's like a good
example of a policy that has a political stance is global warming. There is half of the or one of
the two major political parties in the US. If you ask somebody, hey, what do you think about
global warming? And depending on what answer they give you, you can make a good prediction
about what political party or their political in general, right? Like any of those political
questions. Yes, absolutely. Well, so like it turns out that this question has a factual,
saddled answer. And if you're a Republican who otherwise is saying you can't go around saying,
yes, but I'm also very concerned about climate change when you get on this, because then the
rest of your Republican friends are going to be like, what are you sitting on our position for?
That's part of our our platform. Like you're you're stabbing us in the back, right? So that
that's part of what makes this so hard. And these these things, you know, whether you think big
government spending on, you know, etc. is a good thing or bad should not relate at all to your
position on climate change. So that that that to me is always what's been so weird. And
like I said, it's a weird icky feeling that's just repellent to me. And you should be able to like
in your example, if you actually have numbers saying like this very much against genetically
modified crops and the left. That's not I mean, it's the same people. It's the same people as
the anti vaccine. No, there's a lot of people I personally know that are very much against GMO,
which have nothing against vaccines. They're like, yeah, vaccines, of course, science,
it's a good thing. I'm going to say more than 60% of the blue crowd is. Yeah, we can look at numbers.
We can look at numbers. The people who identify more as independent or libertarian, probably not
just, you know, liberal in a social sense, but the ones that actually are Democrat, I would say
more than 60%. All right. What's your confidence on that, Enyaj? Because
pretty strong, pretty strong. Okay, well, the good news is there's polls out there and we can
check up on you. So listeners get ready to look at the blog. Or I mean, there's a chance you're
right. Yeah. So I did find one of their weird left, one of the weird beliefs that is more popular
on the left, which is the moon landing hoax. Turns out to be the one major conspiracy theory
that is more popular among liberals. Brian Demi, the three-part episode on the moon landing hoax,
which he's never done a two-part episode or anything. So three-part episode was fun and the
first part he talked about some of the origins and some of the things about it. And yeah, I didn't
know that, I guess I might have suspected only based off of, and I guess his explanation made
sense, but I don't know if I would have predicted that in advance. So that was kind of interesting.
Yeah, but the GMO example, I think is a good one where there's an obvious scientific answer,
although not so much to some people. I've had people that, you know, less wrong lead-ups that
they're not anti-GMO, but they're like, you know, it's not as clear-cut as that or whatever. Like,
so there's a lot of horns effect with bad business practices at the final incentive or something.
But as to whether or not it's actually safe, I think that that seems fairly settled.
We've talked about the halo and horns effect before, but I think it might be a good time to
bring up the definition again just because it's so important as an effect heuristic, right? So
it's how we feel about someone. Horns effect would be, I don't like Donald Trump because I'm offended
it, whatever these things that he said. Therefore, anything that he says, I think he's probably wrong.
Right, that's a good definition of the effect heuristic, but it's not a good way to think,
right? No. If Trump came right out and said two plus two is four, would you disagree with him?
Because Trump said it, you wouldn't want to be with Trump, would you? Yeah, or my dad, like,
go take a shower. Yeah, at least. What about, so, and then of course the halo effect is the
opposite of that if there is a person or candidate who you admire and you like some of the things
that they say, you're more likely to believe whatever they say is true. Which is weird.
Which is weird. And then that actually also rolls into part of that sequence, part of Yukowski's
sequence that follows the politics is the mind killer post about authority and the impact of
authority and that experience and expertise in the absence of a well thought out and convincing
argument do actually count for a lot. And we're often in situations where we don't have the nitty
gritty, the nitty gritty calculations, or even are in a position where we can understand the
calculations and we have to take authority in lieu of that, right? I think the vast majority
situations we're in are that way. And that's why heuristics are there, right? They're
programmed mental shortcuts for a reason, like if they were always unreliable and always
led to bad outcomes, we wouldn't have the opposite. But the effect heuristic is basically going with
your gut and if you get a gut reaction from something and then you go with that, that's
a good shortcut a lot of the time. The standard example is when I mentioned lung cancer, you get
this kind of quick sense of dread and it lasts a couple seconds maybe, right? And then when I say
the word motherly love, you get the opposite effect. And it depends on how you feel about your
mother. Motherly love is an abstract concept, right? You know, a mom licking her puppies,
how about that? Exactly. And then so the effect heuristic is realizing that or I guess
incorporating use of the effect heuristic into your real life is understanding that those gut
reactions don't necessarily correlate to the real world. And that you can easily set up situations
where people use the effect heuristic and end up making bad calls or are being inconsistent
with themselves or something. So that's that. Yeah, I also want to mention with the authority
or experts kind of example, Yikowski also mentioned that yes, it is rational to
to give more probability to the expert, give more probability to something that the expert says
rather than the non experts. The lay person says about something that they're the expert on.
But you should feel you should feel hollow inside. You should feel like something's missing. And what's
