anything to or with. So it may be learned that the fact that we have empathy for all humans
and for a greater amount of animals, I think that that's probably closer to the truth that's
actually out there. As you said, our attitudes towards other humans have been growing in what
I would say is the right direction, but they've been growing more general of putting every human
in the moral sphere, not just like your city, your skin color, your nationality. People who
endorse this position are typically frowned upon now, whereas they wouldn't have been in the past.
So it does raise the question, though, if we were to just skip ahead another century
in progress, would we feel that same way about other animals?
I think it's possible.
And I think it's possible, too. And I certainly don't think I was born with
like an empathy for not human animals as much as I was for human animals. But it is the kind
of thing that you can be reasoned into, even if it's not there for you to feel right away.
But I do suspect that in a century we'll look back and be aghast at certainly at least how we
treated great apes. Whether or not in a century we'll be looking back and be like, I can't believe
we did that to chickens, maybe, probably, but I certainly would be very surprised if we weren't
looking back in horror at how we treated some animals at the very least. So more time, I imagine
that sphere will grow.
Well, I mean, there's already a fair number of people that are horrified by how we treat
animals, which is one of the indications that I think that's going to become more of a thing.
There always have been.
Yeah. But it's been growing.
Yeah. Well, here's hoping.
I mean, at this point, it might be possible to get some laws passed in the near future,
whereas a hundred years ago that would have never happened.
There's already a lot of anti-circus.
Yes.
There are several countries in South America that have banned traveling circuses.
Oh, that's cool. I do know.
And the animals have been taken to sanctuaries, including one in our state of Colorado.
I've been there. It's awesome.
Well, the animal sanctuary.
Tons of happy sleeping bears.
And lions.
Lions, lots of lions.
Lots of lions, other big cats.
And there are some other attraction that too.
And those were from Bolivia, I want to say.
The bears?
The lions, like a lot of lions.
I remember several of the bears were from a circus that shut down, I think, in Russia or one of the
satellite states.
One of them, I think it was one of the big cats the tour guide was telling me, was literally like,
yeah, this was in someone's backyard.
Like, they had it chained up.
Yeah, there was a couple of large animals that were seized from a drug lord of some kind.
I mean, if you have a big enough empire where the animals have an acre to go play on, go for it.
But don't leave them in a cage in the garage.
What we're saying is, if you ever visit Denver, our wild animals sanctuary is super awesome.
Yeah, check it out.
It's kind of far away.
It's not exactly in Denver, but it's worthwhile.
If you're 45 miles northeast of Denver, you should check out this.
If you're willing to drive for an hour or an hour and a half.
It's a little closer to the airport than it is to here, so.
That's true.
All right.
All right.
Can I read you the next paragraph?
Please.
From Hanuman, 1871.
Real quick, the reason at the top that I said we probably won't convince anyone of that is,
I don't think an hour is enough time.
When I was religious, I had some very good arguments presented to me for why I shouldn't be,
but it still took me a number of months of processing and thinking to change my mind about
that.
I just don't think humans can update that quickly.
But now that you're most humans.
Now that you're a good Bayesian, you should be able to update like that.
You are not a good Bayesian.
I'm not that good.
None of us are.
We're working on it.
I need to do more maths.
Actually, something that I wanted to ask you, because you're talking about your shelling fence.
Yes.
And how you have to use a shelling fence to separate humans and the animals,
because you use an intellectual complexity model for valuing animals.
Since you yourself have admitted that it's irrational to do that.
Irrational in the sense that I think all humans should be valued equally,
even though they aren't all equally intellectually complex.
But not animals.
Right.
So there's a little bit of a double standard there.
So you said that that was irrational.
Why then does that not cause you to go back and reconsider the way that you are valuing life
instead of setting up your irrational shelling fence?
Because as a good rationalist.
All right.
Don't let this get out in public.
Don't publish this.
Anywhere worth thousands of people might hear it, but I do.
Are you sure?
Yeah, I do.
Do you want me to take this off?
No, no.
Unless you think maybe we should afterwards.
It's a bad enough confession.
Talk to me.
Okay.
I do actually value humans differently based on how smart they are.
Or by how intellectually complex, not necessarily smart,
because intellectually complex and smart are subtly different.
And so I really do value babies and toddlers less
and really brilliant people more than myself.
But I don't think that that is a thing that people should make any sort of
non-personal decisions around.
It shouldn't affect the legal system.
It shouldn't affect moral rights.
And that is why I consider all sapient creatures,
which at this point in my opinion only consists of humans, as far as we know,
equally for all those purposes.
But in my own individual valuation, I do still value even humans on that gradient.
That is not a blessing to murder.
I think I'm in the same boat.
No, wait.
What about non-human animals that are more intelligent than,
let's say human toddlers?
Of which there is at least some reason to believe that there are several species.
And at least individuals.
I mean, it depends somewhat on who cares about them.
If this toddler has parents, that's important, or people that care about him.
Then he means a lot to those people.
But sometimes pets belong to people and mean a lot to those people as well,
in which case I would also consider those pets more valuable because of the people that value them.
There is also something to be said for the fact that
a toddler would eventually become a human and that the human race would go extinct
if we got rid of all toddlers.
So there's some future knock-on.
So once we get to species that are you,
right, that are humans, that are very closely related,
and that you understand some of the complexity of,
all of a sudden it's not about intellectual complexity only anymore.
In terms of valuing, it's about who else cares about it.
It's about what the future is.
It's about what the fallout is.
In terms of animals, those are also the case though,
because I also value animals more if other humans care about them.
And puppy is of less worth than an adult dog who is well-trained and can understand things.
But on the other hand, a dog is never going to get any smarter than that once they're an adult,
whereas a human will continue to get smarter and become a full adult.
So there's differences in comparing where they're going to get to
within a lifetime.
Okay.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, I think that's why.
Is that consistent?
Because you're giving me a look like you don't think it is.
Well, you made some claims that the only thing that mattered was intellectual complexity
when judging animals and la la la.
And I'm just trying to get you to admit that actually there are a lot of different things.
Well, there are a lot of different things going on in your head that you consider.
Okay.
I don't know if it's controversial to say that chimpanzee is more important than a flatworm
in really every single sense of the word.
A chimpanzee has things it cares about.
It has things that it has fun.
It has parents and children that look after it and it looks after.
To the extent that a flatworm has fun, it's probably less fun than a baby chimpanzee has.
So you can slide those scales to whatever you want and include whatever species in those
scales you want.
And it works out that on earth right now, if you're to slide those dials, you get some overlap
with young humans and the mentally handicapped humans.
And then humans rise above other animals on earth when it comes to
cognitive tasks that we find important.
There's something we said like we're not the best at swimming or we're not the best at
burying nuts and then finding them later or something.
But the things that we care about, writing sonnets, painting paintings, building spaceships,
we're the best at all that.
Once we're not, though.
Yeah, once we're not, then that's kind of the thing.
That's kind of the worry, right?
Once the AIs are better than us at all that, do they matter more?
That is a big topic maybe to stay for another day, but the short answer would be yes.
The one sentence, the non-one word answer is it would sure be nice to build a super
intelligence where the lights were on, right?
Where it's basically a philosophical zombie and it's just
pumping, it's just moving information around, but it's not sentient in a way that like,
God would be sentient compared to us, right?
But if it was, well, then you're suddenly the most important thing on earth, right?
Yeah.
In terms of anyone being, the AI would, in my opinion, be more important than any one human.
Sure.
However, as an entire race, if it suddenly decided it was more important than I think we
really should team up and give it some negative reinforcement to not kill us.
Well, I mean, that's the same situation with the flatworm and the chimpanzee.
Chimpanzees, sadly, are uncommon to the point that if all flatworms were destroyed, it would
have a much larger impact on the world, more important impact on the world than if all chimpanzees
were destroyed in terms of what the fallout would be.
But of course, when you guys come up with examples, it's always one to one.
I think it's because including the externality of the ecosystem at large wasn't something that I
considered until we talked about it and something I'm trying to do more because it's a bad habit
of thought experiments to make it uselessly simple in a way that, you know, is a great
intuition pump but doesn't really lead to anything in the real world.
Good thought experiments aren't like that.
And good thought experiments include externalities like, yeah.
So, you know, like in your situation of, I don't know, whatever it is, or in any situation, you
know, if you run into a burning building, you step on the flatworm to save the chimp, right?
Right. And you might even run past somebody that you, you might run past the average street
civilian to rescue Bill Gates because Bill Gates' probable net impact on the world afterwards is
higher than some random model. And, but that doesn't mean that in the real world, you wouldn't
