sort of speech and not actually proposing any policy and trying to find the truth rather than
trying to say what how things should be. No, yeah, it's it's generally refreshing. And that's
that's the main reason we have a meet space meetup. Or resorting to ad hominem attacks,
like we were doing recently about Mr. Trump. Right. Yes. And his his psychological profile.
Did I make an ad hominem attack? When you were saying that he acts like someone who is
annihilating? Yeah, I'm able to keep a not yeah, and coach a narrative in his head about how the
world works and just makes up whatever. Yes. Okay. I mean, it's not ad hominem. It's true.
Unless you're actually his psychologist or psychiatrist, though, you you're not qualified
to make that sort of distinction. What you've got is what we see in the media, which is by its
nature, always the most fantastic and shocking stuff, because that's what gets the most quick.
And I wasn't necessarily endorsing that position. I was just saying that it wasn't
necessarily ad hominem attack. You know, it's ad hominem would be saying he's stupid. So he's
raw, right? Or he's a crazy person. So he shouldn't be listened to. Yeah, but it's not it's not
ad hominem. If the person is actually crazy, and they're telling you that the CIA is peppering
their underwear with mind controlling, right? But you can't you can't say that he is crazy
because you don't know that. Oh, yeah. No, I wasn't necessarily
standing behind that statement. I was making as an example. Yeah. And if I did say that he
appears to be confibrillating, well, he appears to be and is our two different things. Right.
So a lot of people were saying recently that Hillary Clinton appears to have Parkinson's or
whatever they were saying. We personally think it's crazy.
We? Medical doctors and examiner? I'm sorry. That combination. But we imagine me and the
mouse in my pocket. I thought you meant we in the left is what you were getting at. And I was
getting back at it. That is kind of what I was getting at. Yeah. But like none of us are doctors.
None of us have ever looked at her. Right. So is there anything else that you guys want to
talk about in terms of biases before we shut off? Absolutely. There's a tendency
there's a tendency when talking about politics to I think I've mentioned already that some of my
most rewarding conversations, especially about politics have been with my friend who is on the
opposite side of most political issues than I am. Because we're both capable of, you know,
not shouting, not getting a rate. And we're both capable of listening to whatever's been saying
and saying, hold on. That's actually true. Let me think about that for a second. And not that
can't be true because this. So it's really rewarding. And it's really interesting. And if
if you have the opportunity to do that, go for it. If you can find a person who disagrees
with you politically, and you're both capable of keeping your heads, it's a lot of fun. People
have a tendency to assume that people on the other political, the other side of the political line
believe things for bad reasons. Or if they were only better informed would agree with them.
But that's true for both sides. And it can't be true for both sides. Right. So
wherever it's at, people act in a way that's internally consistent with them being good people.
Like if you're against abortion, you're not a monster who hates women, you're
a great person who wants to save babies, right? So like, acknowledging that isn't
a point for their position, it's just a better understanding of who they actually are. And if
you're, that is not the correct way to model your opponents in a way that makes them as
villainous as you're trying to, as you're imagining, right? If you're imagining them enjoying
being Voldemort, you're probably imagining them wrong. Voldemort's the outlier. So
does that make sense? I feel like that's a really important point. And it's one of the
best points made in the politics of the mind color sequence, that there is a lot to be gained
from understanding that your enemy has an internal narrative that makes them the good guy. And that's
true of whoever your enemy is unless your enemy is literally Voldemort. So even then you can
write some rational fiction where it's true of them again. You find yourself getting over the
next couple of weeks or the next month or two until politics is finally done for this this season.
In the USA. Yeah, in the USA. You're finding yourself getting pissed at your opponent for
being so stupid. You probably don't understand them. That's the point I'm trying to get at.
Right. Saying I can't imagine why my opponent thinks this just means you have the very bad
imagination. There's a failure of imagination. Yeah. But people also actually are stupid.
Especially those, those damn reds and blues, right? Those damn what? Reds and blues. Yeah.
Whichever side I am, the other side's stupid, right? Right. Yeah, that's not the takeaway
message. Oh, I guess I just meant that a lot of people are. I mean, we believe things for that
we haven't really looked into for no good reason. And we kind of just accepted it. And as we were
talking about before with the appeal to authority, a lot of times we just take an authority figure's
word for it. And that might be our parents or someone else. That's what's going on with other
people too. So they don't always have good reasons for believing things. I'm not saying they have
good reasons. They have what are to them good reasons. Yeah, or they haven't really thought
about it. That's possible too. But assuming the person you're talking to has thought about this
whatsoever, their reasons make sense to them. So like the reason that God doesn't want us to,
that that embryos have souls and God doesn't want us to kill them, that's not a good reason. But it
is a reason that is defensible given what they believe, right? Okay. That's so that's that's
where it's at. empathize with your political interlocutors and they'll be much more rewarding
for both of you. Right. That's my takeaway message. Empathy. Empathy is good. End of story.
Shall we move on to this sort of feedback? Let's do. All right. Right after these messages.
I'm starting with a this is from our website. Pierre Thierry says,
I wonder why it was said that we are not happier than our ancestors. We may have a different
baseline anxiety level, free time and access to a huge variety of informations and hobbies
that do make it possible to tap previously unused potential for happiness. Also, we right now might
very well not be at the human maximum for happiness because some of our current advantages might be
offset by some of the problems of our culture, like putting work or social success before
happiness, less care for childhoods and so on. Okay. Yeah. So I guess there's some evidence that
people suffer from more anxiety than they used to. I actually don't really have much to say to
that, but I thought it was interesting to his point that we may be at a higher happiness level in
general as humans than we ever have in history. And I thought that is plausible. Well, I guess
we're at a lower percentage of starvation, which is nice than than we have been for at least quite
a while. Yeah. I know that at least as a related piece of data that suicide rates are way higher
in developed first world countries than they are in like the countries we think people would be
average less happy. There does seem to be some sort of anxiety and pressure with just having
freedoms to do whatever you want all the time if you're reasonably well off. Like you have to go
to work and stuff, but for the most part, you don't have to work 16 hours a day. You know
where lunch dinner is coming from. So like having not not having that on your mind, I guess gives
you time to like what am I really doing with my life? We also have the internet. So we have all
we have an amazing ability to get information and work a lot harder and faster and we have
more productive. Yeah, all the best entertainment that humanity has ever created at our fingertips.
I was saying that that can maybe add to anxiety because it used to be that you could go and just
hang out in the library all day. Yeah. You know, when we were kids. Yeah. Or going back further,
you know, middle ages, you can go to a good old fashioned hanging or a cat burning or go back
further cat burning. That was a big thing. Oh my gosh. Yeah, a good bunch of them throwing a bag.
Not my favorite type of entertainment. But you know, like I guess previous, you know,
the city play once a month, like that was like when people look forward to like that sounds
super boring. But that maybe that's because that's where we're at now. Did we say we're less happy
now than we used to be? No, but we wondered if humans have some weird potential to be happier
now than they used to. And we kind of discounted that idea. Which episode was that saying maybe
that is entirely possible. I think that was it was fairly recent. I think that could have been
the street testimony one. Okay. Oh, I do remember seeing something along the lines of like, maybe
how happy it was to find a body of water when you're traveling no matter something. But I don't
know that sounds like it's more like relief and security and like the happiness from those things
not like the happiness of like, I'm really looking forward to the, you know, the next Marvel movie
right. I will say there was one time where through entirely my own fault, when I was in college,
I went nearly three days without food. And when I finally got access to food again on the third day,
I was so happy I almost started crying. It was, it was crazy how that simple biological need being
fulfilled could make you so happy. Yeah, where you're searching for a certain kind of bug all day
and you can't find it and you can't find it. And finally you do. And you're super hungry so you eat it.
My brother when he was in the military said that there were sometimes he just did not get a lot
of sleep for, you know, week or two on end. He and when those times when he could grab a nap
and sleep like on the hood of a truck for two hours was just some of the most fulfilling thing
ever. He was like, just just being able to rest for two hours. That is so good. That is true happiness.
Yeah. That all that all is true happiness. And I don't begrudge our ancestors that.
So and we don't get that very much nowadays. Because we have all those basic needs fulfilled,
which you would think is a good thing, right? Well, so it makes us not have to worry about
starving. So I think that kind of comes into where, you know, like depression and suicide rates
are higher in developed countries, at least as best as you can pull these things. Well,
maybe it's like a Maslow's hierarchy of needs thing. If you need to focus on some of your basic
needs, maybe it's harder to focus on some other things that might make you depressed and sad.
Well, the stress of self actualization is maybe like a problem our ancestors didn't have.
So would we all be better off if we're more miserable? No, no, no, I, I, it's interesting
that we came across that way. I'm glad Pierre pointed it out because I'm glad to correct the
record. I don't think that we're not happier than our ancestors think that we might be on average,
more depressed, but I don't think that means that we're less happy if that makes sense with what
I'm trying to get at happiness and depression are separate things. Right. So like we have more
things to be stressed out about, we probably many of us are maybe less happy some days than other
things because like our needs are met, we have the freedom to be unhappy. And so that like,
if you're, if you're miserable and hungry, like there's no tiny miserable, you're too busy looking
for food, right? Does that make any sense? Yeah. So yeah, like you said, once you've satisfied the
bottom of the hierarchy, you have the freedom to go on and be stressed out about the things higher
up. And that is double edged sword, but I think it's one that is worth it. Yeah, hands down.
Would you like to read the Westward part? Westward one or one wrote in and said,
Using hardware to replicate the intelligence or emotion of a living being is an interesting
thought experiment, but it's not actually real and may never be. Lots of people around here
treat it like it is. And that's not even the frustrating part. After it's brought up, all
the cool questions are ignored. I want to adjust. I was just the first part. Yeah. So
um, it's sort of taken like a given in the rationalist community that sort of adopts the
premises, premises of transhumanism. And I guess, futurism, like you, you, I guess there's this
sort of assumption that technology is going to keep going and keep getting better. And that these
things not being prohibited by the laws of physics will happen at some point. That's something we
don't die. There's there's no reason human level cognition should be stuck in our fleshy bio brains
that it can't be reproduced in some other on some other substrate. And since there's no reason
in principle that we can see that that can't happen, then it's assumed that someday in the
future it will happen. I think that's as long as human society doesn't collapse first due to
asteroid or Trump presidency or something. Or it's just as easy as you think it is.
Meaning very hard.
Very hard. But I don't know, it could be it could be a lot more difficult to to do general AI,
right? It could be a lot, lot more difficult and and take thousands of years.
Like who knows how long it'll happen. People don't people might not have the will to do it.
See, like just because something's physically possible, it doesn't mean that people are going
to do it because they've got plenty of other stuff that they can do instead.
Yeah, but I assume anyway that in the long run, meaning potentially billions of years,
if it's physically possible, it's going to get done at some point.
We would be very lucky to make it billions of years.
I'm optimistic in that regard.
Me too. At least I'm optimistic enough to to make preparations for it, not unexplored otherwise.
So yes, in general, most of the people in this particular community do talk about it as if it
is a thing worth talking about because it might happen someday.
Even Robin Hansen who, you know, say, and I guess this this didn't come out or this comment came
before the Hansen episode comes out. So if that's an anachronistic story,
Westward, or not anachronistic, but if that's temporarily, that doesn't line up temporarily,
that's on us. Robin Hansen points out in his book, Age of M, that, you know, look, I think that
human brain emulation is way easier of a problem than general AI. So let's just, I'm going to
assume it happens first and then take my book from there. And I think that's a fair assumption
to make. You know, you can get a really good picture and basically just reverse engineer
what we already have rather than build something new from the ground up. So that's another piece
of the puzzle. So that's the first part. Second part is that after it's brought up,
the cool questions are ignored. If you're going to the trouble of speculating on the emulation of
E's feelings times five, at least roll with it. It's a little boring to me since it's
unrealistic, but don't shout away once it's out there. Will such a simulation be more valuable
than E prime? Is it okay to kill critters if we keep the simulations of them? First of all,
I love the fact that I'm now E prime. I'm totally going to change my red attack to E prime.
Right on. You're E prime? I am the E prime. Yes. All other E's are derivations of me.
I think given the line of reasoning that we were taking, E times five is more valuable than E prime.
Yes. This goes back to something that I said. I think it was the first animal's episode that
depending on how you, how you consider value, some people may be more valuable than others,
but for reasons of, for all reasons of legality and morality, all humans should be considered
equal because then you start getting into all sorts of bad things happening that you don't
necessarily want to happen. As, as, as Stephen was saying earlier with me offline, that if you
don't assume that, if you take my position that intellectual complexity is what is important,
then things like babies, toddlers, the intellectually disabled are less valuable than normal people,
and super geniuses are more valuable than normal people. And that is not a place I want to go.
And that is not a place that I think the laws should go either. And so for that reason,
I draw a line at treating all, all beings that we consider sapient as equally valuable.
I will, I wanted to say really quick too, as far as to why we don't tend to go down these rabbit
holes, like once they're brought up, I think, because they're typically tangential. So, you
know, there's, there's some push to want to, to dig into these obscure and possibly absurd
thought experiments. We might do it, but I think the reason we didn't push on that too much was
just because it seems to be kind of digging us down the wrong path from where we were trying to
focus on. But your point's taken. The question, the other question was, is it okay to kill critters
if we keep simulations of them? And I say no. I agree. Because something that physically exists
is by the nature of it physically existing different than the thing that's a simulation.
Right. I would say it depends on whether you've gotten consent. And if it is a critter that cannot
give consent, then obviously no. The Prestige had this major spoiler. It's like a 10-year-old movie.
I think that's past the line. Okay. First of all, it is a fantastic movie. Nolan is an amazing
filmmaker, and this is one of his best. So, skip the next minute. I saw it recently. It's fun.
Yeah. Skip the next minute if you haven't seen it yet. But in the Prestige, Hugh Jackman's character
gives consent to have his copy killed, and he only has to give the consent to himself because,
that's who's making the copy. And so you have a very weird time morally condemning him for
killing his copy. But his whole shtick is he makes a copy of himself, and then he kills one of the
copies, and that's how he pulls off his magic trick. And every single time, the copy does not
