missing is all of the backup information. Because if then both the expert and the lay person can
provide all of that detailed information and you can understand it, then that erases the additional
probability of truth that you give to the expert person, right? Exactly. I think part of that
feeling of hollowness too is thinking, man, I believe this thing, but I can never really tell
someone why. Like, you know, Neil deGrasse Tyson tells me that the universe is 14.3 billion years old.
But if someone asks me and that's the only reason I can give them, I'm going to feel stupid. Appeal
to authority, right? Yeah. And but I don't know if you I don't know if you should feel stupid for
not knowing exactly how the universe is dated. No, but if the only reason I can give is well,
I heard Neil deGrasse Tyson say it on Cosmos, that does feel hollow, right? I mean, even if I
trust him on things astrophysics, I mean, it's better than if I said, well, my coworker told me
why do you trust her? I mean, she's she's my coworker. What do you mean? Great fashion sense.
Yeah, exactly. So like, that's that's why the appeal to authority isn't an intrinsically wrong
move. You know, you're short on time. If we all that I click all the time, we all be experts in
everything, but we don't. So I'll take Hawking's word for it when it comes to black holes. So
the appeal to authority fallacy is only a fallacy. If that's the only reason if the part of what makes
it less fallacious, I'm trying to be concise and not be confusing. Part of what makes Neil deGrasse
Tyson saying the universe is 14.3 or 6 billion years old, credible is that the scientific community
backs him up. If he disagreed, if he was the lone person, everyone else thought it was 100,000
years old, I would have to have some additional reasons to trust him, rather than trust the
scientific consensus. So scientific consensus isn't the same kind of appeal to authority as
well my coworker said so. And honestly, unless you were an astrophysicist, you probably couldn't
understand any of those arguments, you just have to go with the consensus. Understand is a tough
word there, right? Like, I mean, you can get a good example from a layperson accessible book.
But can you run the math and have you looked through the telescopes? No. But I mean, you can
look at pictures of, you know, red shifted and blue shifted stars and whatever, but photoshop.
Well, I mean, that kind of that's that's how Stanley Kubrick stage, right? This is sort of
like the defense that you get into if you attack someone's position on like GMOs, right?
If you're a leftist and someone says, oh, yeah, GMOs are fine. They're like, look,
that's just what they're paying people to publish. Like, you don't understand that there is actually
this thing going on. And if you tell someone on the right, look, climate change is actually a thing
they might say, no, no, that's just the Chinese trying to ruin our industry, right?
Not not adding a citation to that one. It was Trump. Oh, it was on his Twitter.
So, so you did a citation. Well, man, people are quoting Twitter an awful lot these days.
It was another time. Was that was another time someone quoted Twitter?
Just with with Donald Trump. It's just he tweeted this, he tweeted this.
Oh, my God, he's made for Twitter. He is the best. Like, if he wasn't, if this, if he was a
if he wasn't actually running for president, he's just pretending to like he'd be hilarious.
They'd be like great political theater. But it's kind of, are we getting too political?
Yes. Taking a stance. Yes. It's a little horrifying that he's actually going to be
actually might be present. Yeah. If he was just pretending, this whole thing would be hilarious.
Right. Like if it was a movie with him starring and pretending, like this would be a funny movie.
Yeah. And like all the horrible things that he says. But when you when you put the
when you take the movie out and put reality in, it suddenly becomes a lot less funny.
Well, I think I think it's interesting that there's a whole segment of the population,
which has never been really represented in politics before that is finally getting some
representation, which is what I think we're seeing right now. Which segment is that?
Do we really want to get into this right now? No. No. Okay. Well, I will say.
I'll link to Scott Alexander's post on the foundations of America with boarders versus
Puritans. I mean, there is one thing that I find refreshing about Trump. You guys ready to hate me
now? I love the fact that love is a hard word for it. You don't despise the fact. I like the fact
that he's beyond worrying about being politically correct. You know, I can't offend my my investors.
I can't offend my lobbyist groups. I can't he's not. He can't offend his base either.
Remember when he had such a hard time distancing himself from the KKK guys?
Because he knew that they had some influence with his base? Oh, yeah, that brings a bell.
That's a fun one. I guess what I'm getting at is how many how many how many people do you
suppose are members of the KKK? I was reading. You already read that spoiler. I guessed correctly
the first time. Oh, cool. Apparently, most people do. So how about you, Steven?
Somewhere in the range of 10,000 in the country? Half that.
So it's about 5,000. So it's interesting that we're talking about 5,000 people in the entire
country. So it's they're obviously not like a huge voting base, right? So it's kind of fun.
It's kind of fun that we're talking about the KKK and how important they are as one part of
you the other. And like, you can't be like, well, when either of us will have you, I mean,
I guess you can try, but whatever. But obviously, he felt that denouncing them directly would have
enough of a negative effect with some of his supporters that it mattered. No, I think he just
doesn't want to do anything directly because he's going to mess it up. He directly says Mexicans
are rapists. This might be too inflammatory, but I will say that I think that what happened was
he was asked about it. Why are we talking about this? Because he's so, why does the media always
help him? Because it's so damn like, oh, it's too interesting. It's too much fun. He literally had
no idea what was happening. I don't know what you're talking about. And then not wanting to back
down from that, that's where that's where his new stage was. He just there's like nothing going on
in his head, but confabulation, right? Like if you've ever seen somebody with like a memory problem,
right? And they get there or like, you poke someone in the brain and their arm moves and like,
hey, why'd you move your arm? Oh, I thought I was waving a bus down. That's actually what happens,
right? Yeah, I kind of picture this. We're armchair psychiatrists right now. We are getting
way off topic. Oh my, I'm going to have to delete all of that. Okay. No, that's fair. So yeah,
that's fair. Let's get back to the more abstract. I talked about kind of the evolutionary origins
of why politics is a tough problem or a tough topic for people to think about rationally, right?
Can I touch on quickly? Then we gave examples of why we're bad at thinking about politics rationally.
Yes, we did. Can I touch on a further furthering of this same concept? The
we feel like we have to pick a side? Yeah, sure. Okay. So this is a from a follow up post by Eliezer
on Lesseron called policy should not appear one sided, I think, where he says that Robin Hansen
once proposed that we should have stores where banned products could be sold. That way you can
still ban products that are dangerous. And they won't appear in any normal stores anywhere. But
you have these special stores where people can go to get banned product if they think the FDA or
whoever got it wrong. It's still possible to obtain these things just with some giant disclaimers on
them. And he said that yes, but you know, eventually some poor honest mother of five is going to go
into the store and buy Dr. Snake oil sulfuric acid drink for arthritis and die. And because of
that, because we tend to pick one side or the other, and we have to support all the arguments on
our side and attack all the arguments on the other side, it quickly begins to look like policies
are one sided that I think I hear very often is someone saying, I can't even imagine why that
person believes X. And because once you get into the sort of mind frame, it can get to be that way
where every single argument for is so obviously correct. And every single argument for their side
is so obviously stupid and wrong. How could anyone possibly believe that? Which is what happens when
you only tout the benefits of your side and only deny any benefits of the other side. And that is
one of the reasons why politics is so anathema to rationality. So the reason that Yikowski brought
that up, that somebody's going to go and die, and it's going to be horrible and sad, is not to say
that the policy itself of having banned object stores, ban product stores is bad, but that
there's definitely another side to it. Yes, he said specifically, saying that quote,
people representing the two sides saying that people who buy dangerous products deserve to get
hurt is not actually tough minded. It's a way of refusing to live in an unfair universe. Real tough
mindedness is saying, yes, sulfuric acid is a horrible, painful death. And no, that mother of five
didn't deserve it. But we're going to keep the shops open anyway, because we did this prior cost
benefit calculation. And we're sticking by it. And that's why people don't like economists.
He then goes on to say, can you imagine a politician saying that? Neither can I.
I do want to say that if you listened to the proposal for a store that sold banned things
and didn't flinch when Yikowski pointed out, yeah, someone's going to die, though, and it's going to
suck, then congratulations, you're ready to talk about politics. Because it's hard what's your
test to it to then agree that this thing that's good also will kill a mother of five and leave
them orphaned and sad, right? But if you're capable of doing that without flinching, I think
that's that's kind of lovely to be able to be at. Well, people people are commonly able to do
that when talking about war. I think about the Iraq war, it was very popular amongst amongst
the population in general. It was a is very popular war. I knew too many hippies. All my friends
were like, that's the bullshit. Anyway, hey, well, I mean, a lot of people got there. Eventually,
but you only got one senator voting against it. Yeah, it was very, very popular in the public.
And that was reflected in the voting. The Senate and House, I guess, just the Senate,
I don't remember exactly how it happened. Yeah, people are people are into that. They're like,
okay, it's going to be this cost in soldiers lives in other people's lives from other countries who
are foreigners. And but it's going to be it's going to have this benefit. So people are really
into this cost benefit analysis. I don't think people were doing cost benefit on the war.
If I, of course they were, if I can quote Richard Morgan, I think wars are generally mainly
hormonal. And my personal opinion on the matter was, we were still as a nation, not us specifically,
very traumatized and pissed off about the 9 11 attacks. And the war in Afghanistan was over
too quick. And we felt that we had not punched enough Arabs yet. And so we needed to go to
another country where there's Arabs and punch more of them. And Iraq was the next target. Speaking
of, I think it was very partisan political. No, I don't think it was it was a partisan thing.
Everyone in the country was on the side. It was just still this festering rage. And it needed to
get out through more bloodshed and destruction. Well, politics and war, I know coincidence.
I guess my point was that you have a lot of people who are not flinching at really terrible
decisions that involve killing people. And that involve destroying resources that involve, you
know, there's all of these. I don't think that that's the prerequisite for being able to discuss
things rationally. Fair enough. I might be wrong. I just, I, I thought it was a point in the example
because it is tough to say yes, I think it's a good thing. And yes, this mother five will die,
but it's still worth it. Like I think that is a level of thinking that I think even came out in
the comments and overcome bias wasn't super common. It came to be that if you pointed out a fact,
like some innocent person's going to die, that came out as speaking against the proposal, right?
Remember when we talked about straw men and steel men? And I guess we haven't really used that in a
long time. We should probably bring that a little bit more into our podcast. But this is another
situation where you want to argue against the strongest argument on the other side. And you
actually want to, um, you want to understand the other side and why somebody would come to that
conclusion. And maybe not just hormones once. Well, okay. Sorry. I think once you can understand
the other side of something very personal to you, like the in my personal case, it's the abortion
topic. Once you can understand why someone on the other side thinks the way they think and
realize that it is a legitimate, if in your opinion, flawed opinion, then you can actually
start discussing some of these things. And I'm not there on a lot of topics, but I am there on some.
So that's something, I guess. I think that's one of the, I guess I want to transition this later.
So I'll save it. But that is something that this is actually a good example, the abortion one. So
like if I were to point out, you're killing a human. People are like, you can't call it human.
That's not true. It's just cells. I'm like, it's a living human. It's totally human. It had two
human parents. It's got self-reproducing cells. There's nothing else to call it. You can attach
other terms to it that are useful in terms of, you know, measuring where it's at and stuff.
But to say, to say it's not a human being is factually wrong. But people, and I kind of
did this when I was a teenager, when I was talking about abortion with people, and I
thought it was weird, they were unwilling to admit that human fetuses are humans.
It's the personhood. Yeah. And the personhood is where it is.
They're probably using human with person.
And they were. But people, and this is another quote from the politics of the
mind killer sequence, is that very few people will understand that you aren't defending the
enemy, you're just defending the truth. So I happen to be pro-abortion, but I'm not,
I don't like pro-choice, pro-life. Those sound like their misnomers. So I say pro and anti-abortion.
You should say pro-abortion rights. You aren't necessarily for people getting abortions.
Fair enough. Okay. Then I'm anti-abortion. Unless you are for people getting abortions.
I think they're great. In which case we should go away from pregnant ladies.
Everyone should have free. I want to get either of them. I just so I can keep having abortions,
or start having them, and then keep having them. That was needlessly aside. So I guess that's an
important thing is that when you're tied up in a political discussion, like I said, the truth
becomes your enemy. The truth that GMOs have been looked at a lot, and have looked at and have been
concluded to be fine, opposes some people's political beliefs. The fact that the world is
undergoing climate change, that every month has been the hottest month on record for ages,
I guess for record. Not the hottest month, but the hottest month, like last August was the hottest
August, right? It wasn't necessarily hotter than the month right before that. The fact that that's
happening is true on average. And so people are coming around. It is also important to note that
for some people defending these things is very much sort of a life or death thing. There have been
in the not too distant past, arguments made for why certain groups of people should be killed.
And once your life is on the line, you tend to give less of a fuck about
sticking with old hard facts. And when someone comes around and starts making
rational, recent arguments for why these people are not as good as other people and society might
be better off without them, oftentimes you're not going to argue back in a reasonable way,
even though maybe, I don't know, it's hard to say maybe you should. That's a value judgment. I'm
not willing to make. Maybe it would be more effective for convincing them personally,
but on the other hand, can they even be convinced? What I'm trying to get it as,
once it becomes that personal, it's not surprising that people revan rationality and say,
fuck you, I will fight you on this and I will break out every tool I have in my kit for it.
Yes. We talked about instrumental rationality, right? Very early on in the podcast.
And that's what it is, if your goal is survival.
I just want to point out that if you are bringing up a topic that you want to talk to someone else
rationally about, and that is a very personal thing to someone, it's not necessarily fair to
say to them, why are you being so emotional and irrational? I'm just trying to discover that
truth. Oh, yeah. No, I totally agree. I mean, I'm sure there's a topic out there like that for
me. I'm not sure right off the top of my head what it is, but, you know, and as far as, you know,
in a pressure situation, yeah, if someone had to bend to my head, I'll tell, I'll talk nonstop
about what the earth is, right? But I could even rehearse the cash-aid arguments that I've heard.
But that doesn't, I don't think that translates to most political discourse in most of the developed
world, right? Now, you're right. Not to disempass, you know, there were people going around asking
these questions and you better have the right answer ready. But that's not really where we're at
in 2016. I think that's one of the things I like about our lesser on meetups. And for anyone
who doesn't have a physical space where they meet other rationalists, we, I personally recommend
it. Maybe we should do an episode on how to start one. Sure. Sounds like a great idea. Yeah. But
since, you know, you're going to generally be meeting only other rationalists, you can often
say things that you wouldn't be able to say in public. They under the assumption that everyone
here knows that right now we're only talking in a purely hypothetical what if this were the case
