want to die. In the moment, he's like, oh, fuck, I'm drowning. This is terrible. In the moment,
but they go through with it. It goes through with it to that point. Yeah. So he gave consent. So
it's, well, he should technically be able to withdraw consent. I think you can always withdraw
consent at the last moment, which is what makes the movie morally ambiguous and such a good movie.
But in the case of a Star Trek transporter, since you've given consent to be destroyed
and being somewhere else, then there's no moral obligation to keep both of you alive.
Isn't that, are you aware that that's how the transporter works? No. Oh yeah, the transporters
in Star Trek work by destroying the copy where you are, taking all that information. It's a
destructive scan, beating it over somewhere else, and then recreating you anew. That's messed up.
There's a few episodes where it fails, and so there's two copies of you. Nice. Yeah. Which
kind of makes you think- Which, why don't they do that all the time, right? This is one of the
problems with Star Trek. Oh my god, why do not they keep a copy of someone's buffer somewhere
at all times? So, okay, in deep space time, apparently it takes up so much memory that
we can't afford to do it. But Jesus Christ, if I'm a rich person, I'm going to keep a buffer
of me somewhere because it's immortality. Yeah. You break an arm, being yourself back to the
positioning word before. That sounds super handy to have around, right? Yes. It's one of those
annoying things about Star Trek where they do not follow through on the implications of their
technologies. Everyone is functionally immortal in that series, and yet people die all the time.
It would also make sense for Hugh Jackman's character and the prestige to rather than
drop into a suicide pit to just land on a mattress and shave your beard and leave the
state like that's whatever coffee has to do, right? There would have been a lot of freaking
coffees. Then you guys can all get together a year later and grab a coffee time below someone's mind.
Right. Sound your own Jackman City. Oh my god, you guys are a cool gang. Dude. Yeah. A gang.
We're the Jackmits. Right. All right, next one. Yes. So, Dave wrote this. Katrina mentioned
that she thinks rights are not a thing. I've read two interesting books taking more or less this
stance. Robert Anton Wilson, Natural Law, and L.A. Rowland's The Myth of Natural Law. Like many
other political and ethical concepts, the idea of rights gets abused by sloppy thinkers, making it
easy to argue against a weak version. But many philosophers consider rights to be obligations
viewed from a different perspective. My right is your obligation. My obligation is your right.
Does Katrina also think that obligations are not a thing?
So, I think that Dave is referring to me kind of going back on in the first animals episode.
I kept talking about how animals have intrinsic rights or intrinsic value actually. And then I
went back on that and I said they don't have intrinsic value. What they have is value to
value to other life forms and value to me, value to other people, value to themselves,
very importantly. And that's where that value comes from. And that's where, and the concept of
rights is something that comes out of what we value as a human society. Right. And same with
obligations. So, while I certainly do think that they are a thing, I don't think that they are a
thing that exists outside of us. Thank you. That's exactly the same. I mean, that's my
same position. That's what I thought you meant. Thank you. That there are, I mean,
some people talk as if rights exist outside of humans as some kind of mythological thing.
Endowed by God. Right. Right. No. And the only rights that exist are the rights we take.
And by take, take or give or conceive of, right? Rights are a legal fiction. And again,
fiction is not the best word. They're a legal construct. They are a thing that other humans
agree on. And nothing has intrinsic value in the sense that, you know, we were talking earlier
about all humans are equally valuable, except for in the way that the law treats them as all equally
valuable. Right. Yeah. Oh, I wanted to mention that we have laws that take away people's rights
as they lose their value. For example, when we imprison people and don't let them go where
they want to go or do what they want to do. Yeah. If you try to direct your consciousness
in the freedom of your own home with the use of a, with the use of an illicit substance,
you've lost your, your rights to person according to the state, right?
There's some aspects of your personal. Yeah, I guess that, that's just to me,
one of the most absurd examples of like how, what you can do to lose a person. Like if you kill
somebody, all right, we, maybe it's worth taking you out of the society for a while. But the drug
thing is the, I think the obvious joke as far as like how fucked priorities are. Yeah, the drug
war sucks. And if you disagree with me, you're wrong. Yeah, you alluded to the, the other source
of rights that a lot of people get it from. And that's like, if they're religious. So to, to the
secular mindset, there isn't at least not that I've encountered, maybe there's a good book out
there. So if someone knows of it, send it our way. I'm curious that like a, an external source for
rights as like a thing outside of human human construction, you know, if you're religious,
God made the inverse, God gives you these rights. And that's, that's what, that's one,
that's one avenue to get to it, right? But God doesn't enforce any rights. So
there are no God given rights in that, in the, in the fact that he doesn't enforce it.
Well, you're the Jehovah's Witness. I think you might know better than me. I was going to say,
so I'm speaking purely as a, as a materialist here, because obviously the religious people
say our rights are given by God, but since God does not enforce the rights and it falls on man
to enforce those rights, no rights are given by man. Rights are always given by the people who
are willing to enforce their rights. You seem really focused on enforcing. How else are you
going to, I mean, it doesn't have necessarily be violence. There can be things like social shunning
or just making you feel bad by calling you an icky loser. Those, those are always to put pressure
on someone, but there is no source of rights aside from telling people, this is something you have
to do and then enforcing that if they don't. Well, can't, can't you just get together and say,
hey, let's have these rights and don't, yeah, but then don't enforce it. And people just
either do it or don't do it, but they still feel like they have the rights.
If it's not enforced, it's not really a right. It's just I'm not, I'm not a legal scholar.
So I apologize, but yeah, interesting topic. I'd like to learn more. I just, I don't know,
something feels weird about the whole need of enforcement part of it. Just kind of like with
the value, like, well, I mean, if you know, if that beautiful little, little green metallic
bee that I saw the other day that I was just so in love with sharing the earth with this animal.
What has value to you? Yes, but it has value and it has value to itself, right?
I suppose. But does it have rights? Only the rights that other people are willing to
grant it and fight for. And if I gave it, if I gave it a right to, to like, I don't know,
the right to be around me. Sure. Okay. It's very limited, very limited in scope. Yeah.
Whatever. I guess I'm not sure what it means for it to have rights, like it has the right to access
food. Like, sure, the right to the pursuit of, of life and food and happiness. I mean, happiness.
If you were to actually try to encode a right to pursuit of food,
toward a bee, that would mean that anyone that you could influence that tried to
obstruct the bee from getting their food, you would impose some sort of penalty on them.
Well, or maybe I just, just lash out at them for not respecting the bee's rights.
Yeah, that's a penalty. If they like you, then they will feel sad that you have lashed out at them.
If they could give two shits about you, then, you know, they're just annoyed at having to hear
you yell, but unfortunately, that's the case with most people. And those kids at the bus stop
who kept throwing rocks on those worms. Oh, bad memories. What's that? I'm crying. I didn't even
give them a hard time. I told them not to do it. Maybe they saw her crying and they felt really
bad. No, no, no, I think that that was a reward for them. Oh, they are the bad kind of humans.
Yeah, children. What are you going to do? Yeah, children are the bad kind of human. They really
are. Kids are the worst. There was one actually quick thought experiment I wanted to put to you,
to Ina specifically, but you're welcome to take it. You mentioned that part of your
reason, or maybe your entire reason for drawing a shelling fence at, at Homosapiens for what gets
included in the, in the moral sphere kind of a priori is because if you don't draw the line,
now you get to weird places where like, it's okay to kill mentally handicapped people and it's
okay to, I guess, maybe not necessarily okay, but not as bad as killing someone who's more
but I mean, I think that's, I guess this is kind of a pointless thought experiment, but it,
even being implicitly tied to the idea that I'm going to treat them equally, if you're
in a burning building with two unconscious people, one of them is Isaac Newton and one of them is,
I don't know, somebody who was on the opposite spectrum, end of the spectrum is Isaac Newton.
Okay. Who are you going to, who are you going to drag out? Are you going to flip the coin? Are you
going to? Me personally? I'm going to drag out Isaac Newton. Yeah. I have my own values. No, Isaac
Newton's already dead. That's true. That was the trick. Damn it. I shouldn't have given a smart
person that would be giving. My first thought was fine, but I was like, no, wait, he's dead too,
so I just went from my, from my next go to a guy, which also I didn't bother to check is dead. So,
um, yeah, you know, living to living Bill Gates versus, uh, Donald Trump.
I might, I might make sure that Donald Trump is completely unconscious before I go to rescue Bill
Gates. If I was, no, no, that's, that's, that's evil. If I was in a room with a song, I've been
lauding Hitler and Toby and I had a gun with two bullets that shoot Toby twice. Who's Toby?
It was on the office. I never saw this show. I saw a couple of episodes. He was the HR guy that,
uh, um, Steve Carell's character hated. Okay. And so he hated him enough that he was in the
room with, with Hitler and has not been lauding him until we twice. So, yeah. And, and the thing is
when you are making those sorts of decisions, everyone will have some sort of criteria that
they judge by if they can only pick one, maybe it's whoever's younger, maybe it's whoever's healthier,
maybe it's just whoever's prettier. Uh, or if they know the people, maybe it's the person they know.
Sure. But illegally, um, they shouldn't be treated directly.
That's a very same thing that completely, that I think is a satisfactory, uh,
reputation of the, of the, of the thought experiment. So good enough for me. All right.
That particular one. Right. Oh yeah. There's many more. I'm sure someone will trip me up.
Can I read you a question? Uh, yes. Someone, someone will push you into somewhere where you're
pugnant with a thought experiment. It's just going to happen. All right. So Hanuman 1871 was,
wrote us a lovely message and also posted on Reddit to our animals, um, episodes.
Inyash framed the debate as one in which most likely no one would convince anyone else of their
position. If that is so, then from the perspective of people who strived to overcome bias,
Inyash has already lost. Unless there is something very, there's some very compelling
reason to do otherwise. We should always be correcting for an obvious bias like speciesism.
Now, um, Edgar's email, which started the entire conversation stated in part, it amuses me that
you all had a discussion about whether animals want to live based on imaginings of what the
insides of their minds might be like. It doesn't matter what answers you give. You're just making
it all up. It's true. Edgar did say that while it's true that we do not have a clear understanding
of what it is like to be a nonhuman animal. It's equally true that you don't know what it's like
to be any human being other than yourself. You're making it all up in a sense. Every time you try
to act with consideration towards another person. And that's a good thing. If knowing for a fact
what it's like to be someone else is the determining criterion for deciding whether or not to behave
ethically, there will be no ethics whatsoever, because no one ever gets to be anyone besides
themselves. This argument should be turned towards Eneush. Why do you have any ethical
commitment to any human being other than yourself? Is it simply the instrumental value of that person
towards your own happiness? And if humans have some value for you that is non-instrumental,
then why not extend this towards all animals? Okay. So first of all, I agree with him completely.
And that is actually one of the reasons I take the positions that I do take, even though I guess
he will find that, or they, sorry, even though I guess they will find this possibly counter-intuitive.
Not to get into solipsism here, because whenever something gets into solipsism,
I check out of the conversation because I consider solipsism bullshit and I will not discuss it.
Could you do a quick definition of solipsism for the listeners? Solipsism is the idea that we
cannot know anything aside from our own thoughts, for certain, that the entire universe could be
an illusion, that it could be the fact that no one else exists except for you,
and that no one can truly know anything. All right. Well, I guess that's all we need to know about
that. Yes. And so, yes, it is completely true that I do not know that any of you fuckers exist.
Yeah. Y'all might be some zombies or some robot sent here to trick me, and I could be the only
actual person on the planet. Well, if I'm a robot, a tricky robot, I'm still a tricky robot. I'm
still something. Right. Just wanted to say that. Yeah. So that is entirely the case. And when I
extend moral consideration to other things, I do so assuming that if someone can communicate like
me and convince me that they're somewhat like me, that's good enough for jazz. And that is why I
would extend similar rights to a computer that could talk to me and convince me it's a person
or an alien that I would meet. And that's one of the reasons I don't extend the same level of rights
to animals, because they have not been able to communicate with me and convince me that they
deserve that same sort of consideration. And when I know that Katrina is shaking her head right now
and giving me the evil eye. And when when he asks what reason do I have to extend rights to other
people, aside from their own worth to me, it's it strikes me very much as the question that people
ask. Well, if you don't believe in God in the afterlife, why don't you just go around murdering
everybody? And the answer is that, you know, I care about a lot of people. And I also care about
myself. And there's this thing where if I were to go to try to to not extend moral consideration
to other people, I would suffer greatly for that. That's that's basically what all morality is,
right, is creating incentives for other people to be more pro social, whether it's by giving praise
to them for being considerate and nice, or whether it's by scoring them for being mean and rude,
or, you know, even punishing them for doing things that are very antisocial. That's that I'm a big
fan of the zirism, which is a moral theory that was proposed by Alonso Fife, and was actually
where I met Luke Mulhauser online, like I'm not in real life. Originally, we were both somewhat
active commenters on there before we both discovered less wrong. Who's Luke Mulhauser?
He is a he ran commonsense atheism before he shut that down. He works for Mary now as their
director of something or another. All right, thank you for explaining. Sure. Luke Mulhauser is also
a guy who works at Mary, and possibly does work at Seafar, I'm not sure. I think he does. Okay,
but I'm sure it's going to be a big one. No correct guess. But yeah, what I'm saying is there are many
reasons that exist for me to be nice to other people, and to grant them rights and to expect
them to grant me similar rights in return. And that's how society works. And I don't know what
else to say about it other than that. How about how about this explanation?
Inyash, what if you were just born with empathy that extended to other humans,
but didn't extend to nonhumans? I want to back up that point by saying that's
pretty much what I was going to say, that it's no coincidence that many of our ethical values line
up with evolutionary incentives. So there's the punishment for other people if you were to go
around killing people. But there's also you would probably feel bad if you're an average person,
and that makes a lot of sense. And as far as not extending rights to animals,
I did want to just mention really quick that humanity did extend rights to great apes in Spain
a few years ago. The goal was that they had a right to live lives free of torture.
And would you extend some rights to the animals that we tend to domesticate and
keep in our houses? There are laws against animal cruelty in the US for things like dogs and cats
and the common domestic animals. That are specifically applied to domestic animals and not
evenly and not enforced well. And all those are because the animals can't enforce them themselves
and have to rely on the humans that care for them to enforce them for them, which is unfortunate,
but it's the way it is. I just wonder if some people can't feel empathy for animals and some
people can. I think that's possible. I know I certainly feel less empathy for animals than I
do for humans. But I don't know if that's learned or if that's innate, because apparently back in
the day, a lot of people didn't have empathy for people that didn't look like them. If you were
not of my tribe, you weren't really a person and I could steal from you or kill you with impunity.
Or enslave you. Or enslave you. Slaves were commonly considered property that you could do
