It's not literally an exchange for soup.
It's almost that, right?
Yeah, almost kind of.
Yeah, yeah, you don't have to have to.
But people are going to start looking at you.
Yeah, they are.
You, yeah, it's the social norm is that you'll be open to participating
in conversations or what have you with strangers.
And you were talking about doing odd jobs.
I would say there's not actually a lot of that because for anything that has to
Sorry, what?
Carrying or cleaning, you can volunteer actually with the organization.
If you wanted to, yeah, there's a census bureau and a number of other.
But really, for anything that has to get done, yeah, they need people
who are already committed and reliable.
And so they aren't really going to have space for people who just show up.
Exactly.
So like, for instance, I volunteered at my camp, like, I mean, I say volunteered,
but it was a requirement of being in the camp.
I helped build a geodesic dome.
And then inside of that dome, I had a few shifts where I made cocktails
and handed them out to people for free, which is fun.
I enjoy doing that.
I often do that at parties because I'm fairly good at it and I enjoy it.
Kind of wish I was handing out something other than alcohol.
Like the tea would have been probably preferable to me because I'd prefer
to hydrate people than dehydrate them in the middle of the desert.
But that was not really something that someone could have just come up
and volunteered to do.
Yeah.
And also, a brief aside, not like a lesson or anything, but just a funny
thing that happened, because it's alcohol, I had to check IDs.
Yeah.
Most people don't carry an ID with them at Burning Man.
No.
So some of them are naked and have no place to put their ID.
Oh, well, what you do, you have to bring your own cup to Burning Man.
Usually most everyone brought their own cup.
So you get one to shed or resist.
You don't have to.
You should.
You should.
You get one of those shadow resistant, heavy plastic ones, and then you
photocopy your ID and just tape it with clear tape to the front.
And I accepted that when people had that.
And if they had gray hair, I accepted that.
But I was really surprised by the number of women who offered to
flash me in exchange for free alcohol.
You know how many tits I see out here.
Yeah, and then I said no, and then they flashed me anyways and demanded
the free alcohol and I continued to say no.
But yeah, I would have given it to them if I hadn't been confident that
there were cops around again.
Were I designing this, I would have left it in California.
Though, of course, at the time that they moved from California to Nevada,
there wasn't actually much difference in the laws.
Yeah.
And now it's so strongly associated with the playa that you really couldn't
move it anywhere else.
Yeah, it'd be really hard at this point.
Does anyone know when it started?
Yes, I don't have it memorized, but someone certainly knows when it started.
I mean, either of you two.
Okay, it was the late 90s and it started on a beach in San Francisco.
Uh, don't know the exact date.
The late 90s.
Yeah, and you know, just a few hundred people in tents, they would, you know,
make like a eight foot, nine foot man out of wood and set him on fire.
First held in 1986.
86.
Yeah.
Oh, wow.
That was even earlier.
Yes.
Yeah, it's been going on for a while longer than I've been going on.
Yeah.
So, for all you know, you were conceived at Burning Man.
I was not.
That would have been a several year pregnancy.
Um, uh, so we, when we were talking about the 10 principles of Burning Man
earlier, did you say you skipped one?
We did.
Yes.
Which I want to go back to now, which is radical self-reliance, which is the
idea that you are not dependent on anyone else there.
And it's like more leaning in that direction.
If not completely, right?
I'm sorry.
Say again.
Leaning in that direction, not like completely, right?
Yeah.
It's something that's encouraged, but in reality, not enforced in any way.
That was the one that I afterwards, I was like, I'm surprised this is a principle
because everyone relied on everyone else a lot.
The intention.
Have you heard the phrase sparkle pony?
Do they still say that?
Yes.
Well, you didn't say it, but they, they were talking about it there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, um, for any listener who's not familiar with this, a sparkle pony is
someone who shows up to Burning Man with no intention of taking care of themselves,
but instead just wants other people to give them all the things that they need,
like shelter, food, water, drugs, all of that stuff.
And the idea, the reason I think I'm not certain about this from a historical
perspective, but I strongly suspect that the reason that radical self-reliance is
one of the principles is to discourage that sort of behavior because you can't
have everyone behave that way.
If everyone expects everyone else to take care of them, nobody's going to get
taken care of and all of a sudden there's 70,000 corpses in the desert.
In fact, you don't actually have to take care of yourself.
People will take care of you, especially if you are as the stereotypical sparkle
pony is a scantily clad young woman.
But that being said, it seemed like most people brought enough stuff to be more
or less self-reliant and everyone kind of like shared informed a net.
I agree.
No one has exactly all this stuff to be completely self-reliant, but when
everyone does it more or less than it works together as a group.
Yeah, I think it I think that having it as a norm, but not as something
that is strictly enforced is a good middle ground.
And I think that they do a good job of doing that.
But you could also arrange that someone who comes with you could be more
responsible for you.
And that kind of counts as like bringing what you need.
You brought your person sort of.
And a lot of people do do that.
But personally, I disagree with that as a I think that's a bad way of doing it.
And I think I know that a lot of other people agree with me on that
because it sort of breaks the decommodification principle.
And the sort of camp that I think you're describing where someone just pays extra
money and doesn't have to work and doesn't have to take care of what they're
bringing, but instead someone else that they're basically hiring to do it for
them, does it for them.
Those are called turnkey camps.
And those are popular and becoming more popular.
Actually, I'm not sure how it is nowadays, but certainly when I went, a thing
that a lot of people were concerned about was that those were becoming more popular
and it was becoming in vogue for, you know, VCs and wealthy startup guys.
Yeah, that does sound like commodification.
Right.
I was thinking more of like your friend.
I feel more like it's camps are radically self-reliant because you don't
need everyone to bring a gas stove.
But, you know, have someone bring a gas stove, have someone bring the butane,
have someone bring some food.
I made the mistake of thinking, hey, I don't want to be like filling up tons
of space and with coolers and ice and all this various food.
I'm just going to get the most calorie dense foods I can.
Which is what?
So I got a large jar of peanut butter and several pounds of dried apricots
and a lot of oatmeal and by the second day, I was really sick of peanut butter
and apricots and oatmeal.
I can see that.
I was like, I was like, look, just in such a small place, all the calories
I need for a week and I was like, oh God, I can't stomach more of the shit.
But it was nice because, you know, I gave some of that to other people and
they're like, hey, here's some eggs, here's some fruit, here's some things
that you won't feel like just, you're choking it down.
I wonder if anyone brought Soylent.
Yes, I did see Soylent around.
Yeah, you were talking about rationalist aspects of it.
I don't know to what degree you meant that as the community that calls
themselves rationalists and to what degree you meant that as like the set
of skills and ideals that they aspire towards.
But certainly when I went, there was at least one, probably more than one,
explicitly rationalist camp.
Oh, was there?
Yes.
Neat.
And I hung out with them a bit, but I was not a camper with them because
while I was invited to be one, I had already been invited to be a member
of a different camp.
And so I was, I went with the first one that invited me.
I will totally look up this camp and say hi to them next year.
I was the camp I was with, I was invited to it by a rationalist.
So there are at least two of us there, which was neat.
But it was certainly not a rationalist camp.
Yeah.
I was invited to the camp that I was in by a guy who I would say embodies
a lot of the rationalist virtues, even though he doesn't consider himself
a member of that community.
And it was of the people that I got along with very well at the camp.
It was him and Allison and myself.
Okay.
And that was about it.
And that was about it.
This is a total tangent, though, but even though he doesn't consider
himself a rationalist, is he like aware of rationalist topics and in the existence of it?
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, if nothing else, he's talked with me and Allison a lot.
And yeah, he's definitely aware of them.
He's like, I'm pretty sure he's read at least part of the sequences, unless wrong.
He just doesn't participate in that specific self-identified community.
I mean, you've heard the argument that anyone who has opinions about anything
rationalist-adjacent is rationalist, even if their opinion is they hate it.
I have heard that argument.
I have not.
I'm trying to, I hope I bookmarked that because I want to link it in the notes.
But I don't know if I did.
