But if I depended on that DSLR for my living,
I would have gone to much greater lengths to protect it
because it did end up getting slightly damaged.
What is the DLSR?
DSLR is a digital single lens refractor camera.
If you picture a large, fancy still photo camera as opposed to a video camera,
you are probably picturing DSLR unless it actually takes film,
in which case you're picturing an SLR, but they look the same.
OK, I will say that the alkaline is not like it's not like the blood from the aliens.
You don't feel like you're melting at all.
It's just that after a few days, you'll notice your skin is starting to crack
if you haven't been, you know, doing vinegar washes or something.
Yeah. Is that what you did?
Yeah, yeah.
Some vinegar washing every night will help with that immensely.
The most important thing to put it on is your feet.
Yeah, especially if you walk around barefoot or in sandals at all.
Earlier, you mentioned not being a huge fan of the outdoors.
Yeah. And I would say the aspect that we've been discussing now
is definitely the most arduous part of it, and there is no escape from it.
Let me say that I am also not a fan of the outdoors.
I am very much an inside kind of person and I don't have a tan.
The sun burns me.
I actually have a little bit of a tan now because of Burning Man.
But in general, I do not do outdoors either.
I don't go on hikes even though we're right next to the mountains here in Denver.
And I know I should, whatever.
But it's not that bad.
It's certainly uncomfortable.
It's uncomfortable to the point that when someone hands you a cold water bottle,
yeah, you feel thankful.
You're like, I get to hold something that is cold and this is so nice.
And oh, my God, there's water inside it.
So it is it is definitely uncomfortable, but it is not horrible.
I agree. Yeah.
I was never like in pain or anything.
I was just like, this is, you know,
at one point I tripped and cut my leg and then getting alkali dust inside
of a cot is fairly painful.
But I but that was not one of the things that made me upset.
I think I'm also not hugely into outdoors, unlike almost everyone else in my family.
And so I had a similar perspective.
I also don't really go hiking very much despite living near the mountains.
But I think that Burning Man is just difficult and uncomfortable enough
to make you really appreciate the moments of ease and comfort that you get and not
so difficult that it actually makes you miserable or puts you in serious danger.
It is like just the perfect level of uncomfortable to make you not take things
for granted and appreciate stuff.
I agree. Like someone said, you know,
you could go to an art museum and have a hotel vacation and, you know,
on a beach or something, but then you take the hotel for granted.
It's air conditioned. It's just always there.
Whereas out here that you take, you really notice the small things
and you appreciate them.
You know, taking things for granted is something that I appreciate in itself.
Taking a break for it for one week out of your lifetime might be nice, though.
So are you familiar with the 10 principles of Burning Man?
OK. So do you want to go over them like really quick?
Sure. So radical inclusion, which is the idea that anyone can participate
in anything that's going on, gifting the idea of giving things
to other people, which ties directly into the next principle,
which is decommodification.
You are not allowed to sell anything at Burning Man and you are strongly discouraged
from, for instance, meeting up with the other
with the many VCs who attend and trying to pitch your startup to them.
Yeah. But that doesn't mean that doesn't happen because it definitely does.
Can I interrupt you real quickly? Sure.
The thing I was talking about earlier with the culture,
I just remind that the commodification thing reminded me
and which is another thing that I think all people should experience
at least once in their life is I have very much the sort of achievement
based view of life and I don't know where exactly that comes from.
And I think maybe it's even good for human society in general.
But I know the last psychiatrist often said things along the lines of
you want to be noticed and special and have everyone love you,
but you're just like seven billion other people on earth.
Go out and do something special.
Give them a reason to actually care about you.
Right. And that's very much like how I view life in general.
I'm like, yes, I would like to go out and be valuable to society.
I'd like to do accounting or put out a podcast or do something, you know,
that actually makes people want to be around me.
And the really like bizarre thing about Burning Man is that everyone
simply liked me and accepted me because I was a person like that was it.
I was there and they're like, you're a human welcome home,
which is actually something they say, which weird me out at first.
But I got used to it pretty quickly.
Like I was accepted simply because I was a person.
I didn't have to do anything or prove anything.
And no one really has anything on the desert.
Everyone is living in faux poverty and you're giving away anything
that you have anyway, because none of it has much value
and it's not going to last very long.
And the whole thing is like there's only people left.
And there was this one point where someone was dancing with me
and afterwards said, thank you just because I was dancing with her.
And I was like, that is that is insane.
You don't know who I am.
I've never done anything for you.
What's going on here?
So it was really a unique and weird experience
to be liked simply because I exist.
And it's probably the first time I've ever felt that
because even even for my parents, I would get stuff like, you know,
go out, do something with your life.
Why should anyone care?
And having I thought that was normal.
But I mean, they still love me, of course, but they just don't like you.
You're right.
But I still got to be useful.
Yeah. And it was it was that really blew my mind.
And I just once I really grasped that it made the entire week
amazing and magical for me.
And I was like, you said the radical participation.
I was involved in the opening ceremonies just because one of the
the the the main lead dancer carrying the big silk thing around was like,
follow me and the thing was dragging on the ground.
So I picked it up and went with her and I was part of the ceremonies all of a sudden.
It was that's wonderful.
Yeah. So that that definitely ties in with the next few principles,
which are skipping over one of them, radical self expression,
which is the idea that you should go out there and do something
that shows everybody else who you are.
And communal effort, which ties in very much with what you were just saying
about participating in the opening ceremony because there was an opportunity for you to.
Civic responsibility, which is basically just don't be a dick.
Leaving no trace, which is don't be a dick to the place you're in,
in addition to not being a dick to the other people.
And participation, which ties back in with what you were saying earlier
about how you might want to be more of an observer than a participant.
That's discouraged.
Yeah, that's my impression.
And I think that's probably a good thing because there were a fair number,
especially in the group that in the camp that I was in,
there were a fair number of people who had no desire to participate,
but just wanted to watch.
And several of the people in my camp had no desire to do anything
other than see the famous DJs who had come to DJ at the sound camps
and were basically treating this as a music festival that they had to camp out for.
And that's discouraged.
And I think it's a good thing that that's discouraged.
And also, I think that even though it's discouraged,
there's still quite a lot of people who are doing it.
And at least when I went, the Delta was in the direction of more people
coming and not participating.
And personally, I didn't create any art for the purpose of displaying it there.
I participated in the art.
I danced.
I dressed up, but I didn't come with an art car or build an exhibit or anything.
And I kind of wish I had.
I don't think you have to necessarily.
I didn't either.
There's almost nothing you have to do here.
It's just what's encouraged.
Yeah, I actually didn't even come with a costume because I didn't realize that.
But I just I just dress away.
I normally do what people think it's a costume.
Right. No, but I went to the costume cult camp and they gave me a free costume.
And that really made my week.
Costume cult is one of my favorite camps.
They do they're doing the Lord's work.
Also, shout out to BJ Kramer and Mars.
You guys are awesome.
They're from costume camp.
Nice. And they have done voices on the Methods of Rationality podcast.
Oh, good.
Yeah, Hannah Abbott and Barry Onehand.
I feel like I could participate in like utilitarian things that, I don't know,
just odd jobs that need doing, but.
I, you know, I serve tea at the tea house and I think just being present
and talking to people is also somewhat participatory.
I don't want to do that.
Yeah, and it's a big part of it.
Well, a lot of the time, since everything is given out for free,
there's generally lines because correct me.
If I'm wrong here, but one of the impressions I got very early on is
that you aren't just taking things that people are giving away for the most
part, you are paying for them in quotes through appreciation and socialization
with the person that gave them to you.
Like, yeah, let's chat for a little bit.
Like when I went to get my free soup, there was a line of six people in front
of me and I was waiting for about a half hour because every person got to the
front, they would chat with the guy.
They're like, hey, thanks.
This is how my day went.
What's up with you?
And, you know, afterwards I heard here's your soup.
And then the next person went on and like you could not live in the
real world like this.
I could not wait half hour to get my coffee at Starbucks, even if it was free
because I got to talk for five minutes with the server.
But it was fun this time.
And so you get to talk with a lot of people.
Like I said, that's part of the luckiness aspect.
And since you're in line all the time, not all the time, but you're in line
somewhat, you start conversations with the people near you and you pass out
some snacks you brought or some water or give them a beer or something.
And you make a lot of connections in line too.
So that seems cool.
But the idea of like, I socialize with you in exchange for soup.
