Like this is the reason I don't have gay sex anymore because I'm terrified of catching HIV.
I was raped a few years ago and that was a pretty horrifying experience. And among other things,
it left me with literal internal scars that are prone to tearing and bleeding and make it much
more likely that if I were to have receptive anal sex, I would catch a disease if the person
that I'm having sex with has a disease. And I'm really scared of that. And I can't,
or rather I have not yet been able to be confident enough that a person that I want to have sex with
and who wants to have sex with me and has a penis is not going to give me a disease.
And so I'm choosing not to engage in that activity. And I am fine with other people
choosing to engage in that activity. But I'm not fine with the large amount of gay culture that
is like against condom use and things like that. And I think that, sure, if people with
people who are, I mean, like Charles Darwin married and had children with his first cousin,
and up until quite recently, and even in many places in the present, first cousin marriage was
totally normal. It wasn't even considered unusual. And if people are direct siblings with one
another, yes, it increases the odds of them having children with birth defects or whatever,
almost as much as a woman who's 35 having children. So are we going to ban that?
If we're talking about health in terms of like literal physical health,
it's actually quite dangerous to have gay sex as a man. Lesbians are even safer than straight
people. So kudos to them. Have as much sex as you can to bring up our averages.
And so I think that talking about harm and health and things like that is almost a red herring,
because when it comes to things, I am very confident that there are people who are listening to me
right now and are horrified at what I'm saying. Because how dare I compare people who are unfortunate
enough to catch a disease to people who are deliberately choosing to engage in this activity
that the listener considers unethical. And my point is that by having that reaction,
like observe that reaction in yourself and realize that the harm going on is not the
thing you care about. I think that would be a good argument for people who want to ban things.
Right. And so I think that the fact that I don't want to ban gay sex means that I must reject
this argument and means that I can't apply this argument to other things like ancestral sex.
And I don't think I want to ban it either. But I do give it the side eye.
You're gay sex, you mean?
No, the incest.
Not even the incest, the having sex with people you grew up with in a family situation.
If you grew up with them next door to you, that's probably, yeah. And the experiments have kind
of shown that even living on a commune, if you're raised in separate families, it works out much
differently than I worked out in the kabuts.
Yeah, I was wondering what's your opinion on folks who are not genetically related to each
other, but were raised together on a kabuts?
Yeah, that is, to me, that that's not good.
That's quick to you out the same way.
Yeah, and I honestly don't care if they're genetically related.
Like Woody Allen marrying his daughter, even though it was legal because she wasn't genetically
related to him and of age when they married is still gross because he raised her.
Wasn't she like 16 when he adopted her?
Oh, he never adopted her.
Not legally, the person that he was dating at the time adopted her.
And she was older, but not as old as that.
But she was still an older child when she was adopted.
I thought she was still prepubescent when they first was adopted, right?
I think, I don't know exactly.
But anyway, yeah.
And she insists to this day that she was never really, she never saw him as a family figure,
but he was a family figure to her siblings that she lived in the same house with.
I don't know.
It's weird, but I guess they're not hurting anyone and so they can do whatever they want.
I just think it's kind of weird and gross, but they are free to do weird and gross things.
And that is part of being an adult.
There is also an actress that you can see in TV shows, I don't know her name,
whose parents were adopted brother and sister.
And I think that's, I mean, that is also one of the reasons I would not be against gay sex,
even though it may be dangerous.
It's like, it's your body.
You have, as long as there's no victims, you can do what you want with it.
Yeah. So I'm not, I'm not like making a strong argument for banning or anything,
but I definitely have a prior probability.
Let's say that there's something not good going on when that happens.
It could be at least a sign that maybe look into this.
Well, I mean, I'm not going to look into it.
They're probably not going to look into it either.
Maybe a sign that think twice before being friends with this person.
What is it? What is it that if you found that out about someone,
how would that change your interaction with them?
Oh, I maybe change my opinion about them in some nebulous way, I guess.
Yeah.
All right. We've been doing feedback for about an hour.
We could probably stop that.
Okay. All right.
It's so fun.
It is. It's a lot of fun.
And you guys are amazing.
Also, mad, mad thanks to our sound engineer, Kyle Moore,
who makes the sound amazing and who does a lot of the juggling
when weird things happen in the-
