that cause people to sacrifice their identities to the group and, and for
people to think of like the, like I don't matter, individual people don't matter
as long as our group continues into the future.
I think in some ways that's a good thing though.
In some ways it's good and in some ways it's bad.
And I mean, like a crucial thing to remember about the group continuing
into the future is that the group is necessarily made up of individuals.
So if the group's continuing into the future, then so are individuals.
But if the individuals are sacrificing every individual value or most of their
individuality for this thing that's not even a person, it's just a structure.
It is, you know, it, it doesn't have its own feelings.
It is, it is a structure.
But without the group, the individuals would die too.
I think it's sort of a balancing act.
And also that question of whether or not a structure like that can have feelings
and preferences is worthy of a whole nother episode.
Um, but also, also you reminded me of something that I wanted to mention earlier
and forgot to, uh, which is, um, talking about history and things going into the past.
When I was talking about alternatives to Burning Man, they can give you some
of the same experience, a large part of what I enjoy about going to, uh, ancient
places like Bagan or Angkor, uh, Angkor Wat or Angkor Tom is that, that is not
replicated at Burning Man is that all of this stuff is very old and has quite a
bit of history behind it.
And everything at Burning Man is transient and new.
Um, even if it's something that someone has been bringing from since the very
first burn, which I'm not sure if there are any physical objects that actually
have survived that long, even if they did, that's 31 years, which is not very
long in the grand scheme of things.
And on the subject of participating in rituals, if you ever want to, uh, participate
in longstanding rituals like that and you don't have ones available to you in
your community, uh, and you are plausibly Jewish looking, go to
New York City and eventually a Hasidic Jew will ask you if you are Jewish.
And if you say yes, they will invite you to participate in rituals with them and
you can go and it's awesome in the sense of literally awe-inspiring.
You know, I went to a Catholic church for the first time this year.
Okay.
Uh, I had to.
It was paid too.
Oh, okay.
And also like it was part of my regular job.
I couldn't just be like, no, I don't want to do this thing.
Yeah.
So I had to take a client to his church, which was the Catholic church.
And it was the ritual was very like formalized and stylized.
And there was like bells being rung at certain times and everyone knew what to
say.
There was probably some places where you could read like a book where you could
read what to say, but most of the people just knew what to say.
And the fact that it was like the social atmosphere that everyone thought of this
important and normal and not hokey really just legitimized it so much.
And I got to say the Catholic church knows what it's doing with ritual.
It is an expert at that.
Wow.
I agree.
I was not brought up Catholic, but Alison was, um, and she's not Catholic anymore,
but we will occasionally go to like midnight mass for, uh, on Christmas Eve.
And yeah, the Catholics have spent literally thousands of years.
Refining and perfecting their rituals and they know what they're doing.
I agree.
This is very effective.
Like even on me, I was just, you know, had to be there for, for, yeah.
You mentioned how it didn't seem hokey.
Yeah.
And I think that that is a virtue that in modern society is largely neglected.
And the idea that like, I think things have moved a bit more in this, in, in a
good direction here over the past few years, but certainly several years ago,
it seemed like everything was ironic and you couldn't risk being sincere about
anything or else you might get made fun of.
And I think that we lost a lot in that regard.
Um, we lost the opportunities for sincere emotions that can be really powerful
and important.
And so seeing places like Catholic mass or the, um, Shabbat dinner, uh, where, I
mean, especially at the, at, uh, Shabbat's, um, people might laugh, but also everyone
is very sincere, uh, about taking it seriously and not making fun of what's
going on, um, was a unique experience for me that, that it's pretty rare for, for
things like that, uh, to be completely without a trace of irony for me.
And yeah, I'd like more of that.
Yeah.
Uh, well in, I'm jumping ahead a little bit on the feedback, but in line with
that, the great Nick, when your question was, do we have any ritual things that we
can go to, uh, the great Nick says, um, with a couple of things Inyosh was
saying about church and ritual and singing that I was wondering if the panel was
aware of Sunday assembly.
Have either of you guys ever heard of some Sunday assembly?
I've heard of it.
Is it the, the, um, humanist assembly?
It sounds like it.
Yeah.
He says it's, or the great Nick, Nick is probably a guys name, right?
Anyway, they say it's a movement trying to replicate all the great stuff about
church, community, talking about big things, coffee and cake, but without
touching on anything supernatural.
It's sometimes described as an atheist church, but to use a definition from the
podcast, I think it's more of a post-theist church type thing.
There's no bashing of religion in the same way.
There's no bashing of vampires.
We're just past that as a society, right?
Anyway, you have that element of singing pop songs together, which is fun and
silly.
You can hear talks from academics.
Seems like something the panel might see the benefit of.
Uh, I am familiar with it.
I've been several times.
Oh, you have?
Yes.
Um, and there's another thing, which is not technically Sunday assembly, but is
trying to do the same thing.
And the name escapes me at the moment, but my dad goes to it every week.
Are you thinking about secular hub?
Yes.
Okay.
I've heard about that.
Sorry, what?
Coffee and community every Sunday morning.
Maybe it's definitely secular hub.
I'm not sure if it's coffee.
That's what they do.
It's on Sunday mornings.
It's coffee and community.
Um, I've been to that once.
Yeah.
My dad goes every week and I've been several times.
I love that song there.
Oh, yeah.
Tall guy, bald, goatee.
Yeah.
Yep.
That's him.
Um, he, uh, he likes it, uh, obviously, since he goes every week and he
volunteers and does things for them.
Um, I have been to that several times.
I've been to these, uh, Sunday assemblies several times in New York.
Um, neither of them comes anywhere close to what a church does.
Um, the great Nick said that they do the silly thing of singing pop songs.
Church is not silly.
It's not supposed to be anyway.
Exactly.
And if you're doing it right, it's not, it's serious.
It's solemn sometimes.
And yeah, you can laugh like Purim is a holiday that is intrinsically comedic.
Um, but I've not been to those things, specifically the ones that happen
every week and had anything like the sort of emotional experience that I've
had going to Catholic mass or Jewish Shabbos or, uh, Buddhist temple.
Um, and anything like the actual solemn, moving experience that I've
had in a religious context.
But I will say that growing up in a Protestant religion, it, it does most
Protestant churches, they are serious, but they do not have that sense of like
moving and sacred quality that the Catholic church has.
Uh, and I think the Protestant culture is one that prefers it that way.
Yeah.
It sounded more familiar to me too.
Cause Jehovah's Witnesses are also Protestant sect.
So I was like, Oh yeah, that sounds like it could be neat.
Yeah.
I, uh, I agree.
And I think you're definitely right about that, that Protestantism, I mean,
it's right there in the name.
It's specifically a revolt against Catholicism.
And so they're deliberately doing things differently.
So I guess it depends on what you want out of your Sunday experience.
Certainly.
Yeah.
But on, on the subject of specifically ritual, I think it's pretty
undeniable that Catholics have a better grip on that than Protestants.
Yeah.
Um, are either of you familiar with Quakers?
I mean, I know of Quakers.
I considered becoming one when I was de-converting from Christianity.
When I was like, wanted to step my toe a little bit out of, yeah, but.
Have you been to a friends meeting?
And I really wanted to do it, but I researched it a lot, never did.
So you know the, the format of it?
I know that there's two different formats generally, but I think the one you're
talking about is one that has like the, the sitting in silence.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, so, um, the ones I'm.
Quaker groups here in Denver, probably for a friends meeting house on, on Google.
And you'll probably find something.
Um, yeah, the, the specific, uh, the one I'm familiar with, I didn't actually
know there was two different ways of doing it.
I think this one is maybe the more common.
I'm not sure.
The one I'm familiar with, my grandparents on my, uh, father's side are, um,
we're Quaker and also atheists.
Um, and the specific format that the Quaker friends meeting follows is, uh,
there is no priest or anything like that.
No one is any higher or closer to God than anyone else.
So you, everyone sits in a circle in silence.
And then if the Holy spirit moves you to say something, you stand up and you
say it, whatever it is, and then you sit down.
And if anybody else is moved to say anything, they do that and you just do
that for two hours every Sunday.
Huh.
And it's very weird and very boring and very different from any other church
thing that I've ever done and definitely worth doing.
If, if that's the sort of thing that you're interested in, definitely we're
doing at least once.
Should I get back to the feedback?
