something like Pensac, I would be really curious to see how they would compare them.
Maybe this is an example of another thing that you tried that because you like trying
things and and do you think that like?
Well, let me just ask you, like, where does this come from?
Do you just have like an instinctive urge to do new things?
Yeah, I do.
So your values, maybe, or how do you view this?
Yeah, so I do have a very strong desire to have new experiences.
And I consciously decided that my life motto would be I'll try anything twice
because the first time you might just mess up or have a bad example of it.
But if you try it twice and you don't like it either time, then it's fine to decide
you don't want to do it anymore.
So, yeah, I'm naturally very open to new experiences.
That's one of the big five personality traits.
And I score pretty high on it.
And also I've made a conscious decision.
To cultivate that in myself and deliberately expose myself to a variety of experiences.
For example, around age 13, when I was entering puberty, I became pretty confident that I was gay.
But I made the conscious decision that at some point in my life, I would experiment
sexually with a woman.
And then later, when I was in my early 20s, I did.
And to my surprise, it turns out I like ladies, too.
And now I'm married to one.
I didn't see that coming.
Was it really that surprise?
Just like the empirical evidence was what it took to let you know.
Yes.
Yeah.
And in fact, there was a very strange and surprising change in my internal
experience that I had previously not noticed that like one woman was more
attractive than another one or like just the thought of them as a sexual being didn't
naturally occur to me until after I had experimented with one.
That is so weird.
Like I would previously look at a woman and not have any sexual thoughts the same way
that I look at a giraffe and I don't have any sexual thoughts.
Or I look at a car and I don't have any sexual thoughts.
But then after I'd had sex with one, it seems kind of dehumanizing.
After I'd had sex with a woman, which wasn't even PIV, it was just or whatever it was.
Sorry, what?
No, no, go ahead.
After that, my automatic, instinctive response to looking at a woman changed.
And now I instinctively evaluate them as a potential sex partner the same way that
I do whenever I look at a man.
What age were you?
22.
Do you think the same thing might happen?
Do you think the same thing might happen if you did have sex with a giraffe?
Maybe.
I can't tell.
Okay.
Because I have heard of people when they were taking testosterone specifically, that
they found themselves much more susceptible to sexual imprinting after trying like masturbating
to a thing once or twice on testosterone.
They suddenly had a fetish for that thing, whereas that wouldn't have happened before.
I've never taken...
Well, I've also heard that and I agree.
That's definitely a real thing.
I was not taking and have never taken any sort of testosterone supplementation.
And I would assume that based on my rather limited knowledge of human biology, that the most
like increase of testosterone in my system was happening when I was going through puberty.
And this was like a decade after that.
Yeah.
But this is like surprise, but also you are the kind of person who would do that experiment.
So I don't know.
Well, another little bit of information.
I had already previously had sex with a woman like penetrative PIV sex professionally in a porn
scene, and that is not a good environment to experiment in.
That is nothing like real sex.
It is not.
It's very much the director telling you exactly what to do.
And hilariously enough, the premise of that scene, the storyline was that there was me and
another man and a woman, and we in the story both wanted to have sex with the woman, but she
would only have sex with us if we had sex with each other first.
But in reality, me and the other man were both gay at the time.
And so we were totally rock hard for having sex with each other.
But then when it came to having sex with her, it was more difficult.
So that I counted that that that is an excellent example of why I'll try anything
twice, because that was the first time I tried it.
And I was just like, you know what, I don't think this is a very representative sample.
I'm going to try again in an environment where there's nobody telling us what to do.
It's just the two of us and we can, you know, figure things out.
How the hell did you stumble into porn without, like, trying to get a job in porn?
I did try to get a job in porn.
Oh, you did? Oh, OK.
Because he wanted to try new things.
All right, it sounded like you just somehow found yourself on a porn set.
Oh, no, no, I applied and got the job.
OK, cool.
Would you like to hear the specific story of how that happened?
I'm interested.
Are you interested?
Sure. Hit us.
All right.
So what would have been sophomore year of college?
My mom did not fill out her taxes on time.
She filed for an extension.
You can't file for an extension on the FAFSA and you have to do your taxes
before you can do the FAFSA.
So all of my scholarships evaporated.
So I had to take a year off.
So I was like, OK, I'm going to try to get a job while I'm taking a year off of college.
So this was in 2008, which was the height of the Great Recession.
And it was hard to get a job.
So I applied to everything I could find, didn't get anything.
I was talking with my dad and I was saying, I can't get a job.
I can't find anything that's anyone that's willing to hire me.
He says, hey, have you looked on Craigslist yet?
And I went, no, I haven't.
And at the time, they no longer do.
But at the time, Craigslist had an adult jobs section.
So I was going on Craigslist.
I looked and I saw adult jobs.
I'm like, that sounds good for a laugh.
I'll click on that.
So I clicked on it.
And the very first job that popped up was we are looking for
white men ages 18 to 25 who are willing to have gay sex on camera for money.
And I thought that sounds like a perfect description of me.
So I applied and I got the job.
Neat. Yeah, it was pretty good.
Yeah. Were you were you living in California?
No, Denver. Denver. Yeah.
I didn't know they shot porn in Denver.
Well, technically, the shooting didn't happen in Denver.
Shooting happened a bit north of here.
But it was in Colorado.
Yeah. I was under the impression like almost all porn was either Nevada or
California, no, Berlin, obviously.
No, there's a lot of indie porn that happens all over the place.
It's local laws vary what you're allowed to shoot in different places.
But within America, it's not.
I don't know of a lot of places that are super restrictive.
Fun trivia fact in Australia, it is illegal to shoot what they consider
hardcore pornography in any of the states, which means you have to shoot them
in the capital territory, which is Australia's equivalent of Washington, DC.
It's technically not a state.
And so in Australia, if you're a porn actor, you will get you will be able
to do solo shoots where it's just you masturbating wherever you are.
But if they want to do a shoot with penetrative sex, they have to fly you
to the capital territory, which basically consists of the capital hotels to support
the congressmen and people who go there and a lot of porn studios.
And that is so bizarre, because like in America, you cannot pay for sex
unless you're filming it.
And in Australia, you can only pay for sex if you're not filming it.
Right. Weird.
Yeah, it's pretty odd.
None of these laws make sense to me.
I got to say, though, this story updates my credence, I guess, a little bit,
not that much in the direction that if I were to experiment with, I'm going to say
people who read to me as a woman that it would be surprising to me.
I mean, slightly more in that direction, although I mean, I just I'm generally
not the kind of person who is surprised by liking something.
But give it a shot someday with a willing subject.
Yeah, I definitely think that folks who think they might want to experiment ought to.
I think it's a valuable experience that if you do it with someone else who is also
fully informed and aware and into that, which is what I did, then there's a
not a large chance that it will be really bad, and there's at least, you know,
a moderate chance that it'll be really great.
And probably the largest chance is that it'll just be kind of a comedy of errors.
But that's fine, too.
Yeah, I mean, I'm kind of the opposite of you.
Like I'm very low on the openness to experience.
And I remember you saying that you were unwilling to take acid because you didn't
want to increase your openness.
No, I mean, I did take acid.
But but and actually it was mushrooms specifically in that study was on.
But yeah, that was one of the things that I was a little worried about.
I did take mushrooms also.
But did it increase your openness or were you safe?
I don't think that it did.
But I don't want it to. Right.
I don't. Yeah.
Stephen said that he is as much as he said he did enjoy it,
but he didn't feel like there was any major change in his life after either.
Yeah, I don't want major change to my personality.
This varies by the person.
I did not. I don't like mushrooms.
First time I did mushrooms, the guy that I did them with just sort of left as soon
as they started kicking in. Oh, that's shitty.
And then I got lost on my college campus because it's hard to find your way around
when you're on mushrooms.
And I ended up in a basement of a dorm that I was not a resident of watching.
Like all the lights were turned off and people were playing Pink Floyd's The Wall
on a giant screen television, and it was terrifying.
Oh, no.
So that's my primer for mushrooms.
I've tried them since then.
One additional time.
I'll try anything twice.
And I basically just had flashbacks to the previous experience the whole time.
So to follow Terran's guide.
What's that? Being a familiar place with people who love you.
Yeah, that would have been better.
Oh, before you left, you were going to tell us some other things
that you disliked about your experience at Burning Man.
Yeah. Right.
So, yeah, the reason I brought up the the 10 principles of Burning Man is that
I found that I think I went in expecting the event
to conform to those principles more than it did, in particular
with the radical inclusion one, and that earlier you were talking about
