Okay.
That does sound very interesting though.
I will someday see if I can find a Quaker person.
I have at this point been to a, I still haven't been to a Catholic mass, but I've
been to a, uh, satanic mass and that was interesting.
Yeah.
I went to one of those in Berkeley.
Okay.
Well, which, uh, which sect of Satanism?
Uh, Lavaian.
Okay.
This, this was, yeah, similar.
Uh, are there other sects?
Yeah.
There are, there are actually a number.
Oh, like there's an actual theistic kind of Satanism.
Yeah.
When those guys are badass and I want to interview them someday for a podcast
because I'm a supporter and I just, I love everything they do.
But yeah, uh, the, the mass I went to was the, what does OTO stand for?
Order of the Temple of Orientalis.
Thank you.
There we go.
Yeah.
And that was interesting.
I was like, this is, this is not a thing I would do often, but I'm glad that I
managed to participate one time.
Yeah.
Uh, so Googleplex bite says, um, in relation to what ritual is breathing my
walking gate, the way I open a door, et cetera, are all actions I do repeatedly in
the same way, but I wouldn't call them rituals nor would any significant
number of people.
I'm not even sure repetition is needed for ritual.
It's still a ritual.
If it's the first time you're doing it and if you end up not doing it again,
my best shot at defining ritual is a system designed to reduce decision space.
So Christmas day is a ritual because instead of deciding when to give gifts or
bringing family together or celebrate Jesus, you just set the same date each year.
So you don't have to think about it.
Morning rituals are rituals because rather than deciding what you do each morning
and what order to do them in, you set through, you go through them in a
pre-specified list repetition becomes a common, but not categorical element
because repetition is good at reducing decision space.
And I actually really kind of like that definition because I think there is a
lot of value to reducing decision space.
So like a restaurant menu is a ritual by this standard.
I don't know if a restaurant menu is a ritual.
I mean, it reduces the, I mean, I would say it's not.
I'm using this to demonstrate a flaw in the definition.
Okay.
Gotcha.
That it, that is an example of a thing that reduces decision space.
What are you going to eat for dinner?
Well, there's an infinite number of possibilities or you can pick from this
list of 20.
Yeah.
I guess it would be more actions that shit.
Fine.
You and your stupid being right about things, but I like it because it did.
I mean, my workout ritual did constrain my, my list of options.
It was just, I will do this and morning rituals are the same kind of thing
cause you have the same things you have to do every morning, but just having a
ritual way that you do them in reduces the decision fatigue and the having
to think about things and keep a list that you check off.
If you're like, well, I just brushed my teeth.
Now I go on to combing my hair or whatever.
That's I, I've recently been reading this V a lot and he makes an argument
that decisions are bad and gives a number of good reasons for it.
And I am, I am being very much one over that not decisions are bad options are
bad, having a large decision space that you can choose from is generally
bad. You can like maybe one time narrow down the thing that you want.
And then after that, having to be faced with decisions over and over is a bad
thing. And I think that rituals serve a very useful function in that they
reduce that sort of thing that wears on your life and your mental, mental
processing every day and lets you do the things you actually want to do with
your mental energy.
I agree that that's a valuable thing.
And I do agree that that's a thing that rituals do.
I do think that the repeated aspect is a very important one.
And this person was saying that even if somebody, even if it's the first time
you do a ritual, it's still a ritual.
I agree with that.
But then they said that even if nobody else or does it ever, and if you
don't do it ever again, then it's still not, then it's still a ritual.
And I'm less confident about that.
I would say that that makes it sound like a failed attempt at starting a ritual
that if you're not maintaining a connection between different points in
time, if you're not repeating actions, then I'm not sure it is a ritual.
And obviously all of this is, you know, hair splitting and arguing over semantics.
But in as much as ritual is pointing at a real cluster, I think that the repeated
aspect is an important part of that cluster.
And I think that, so to take the restaurant menu example, going to a
restaurant is not a ritual, but going to the same restaurant at the same time
every week with the same group of people might be a ritual.
And so for instance, my dad was telling me about how he would, his family would
go to Arkansas for the summer, every summer they would take the same route,
they would stop in the same diner, they would order the same food, they would
stop at a corner store and buy Fig Newton so that when they went into the town
of Newton, they could all eat a Fig Newton together.
And those are rituals.
That's the, hey now.
An adorable boy.
Yeah.
I feel like it's when the repetition or sameness takes on some kind of special
significance or meaning is that when it's a ritual, because we all have repetitive
habits and not all habits are rituals.
To me, the defining element of a ritual is the way that it evokes a certain
significance or meaning.
I almost want to say that there must be some kind of form over function element
to make it a ritual.
I think that's a good way of, yeah, that's a good description.
I do, I do really empathize with his choice of Christmas as ritual, which I
think was probably an accident on his part, but Joe's witnesses obviously have
no holidays, aside from, you know, the one, the, the Passover, but I was once
complaining about this to my, my mom.
I was like, when I was a kid, of course, I was like, you know, I never get
presents and she's like, but everyone else always has just the one day when they
get presents.
And so there's no, I know also birthday, but there's no like caring or thought
that's put into it.
It's just like, well, here's your present day.
So now you get a present.
And I was like, oh, that's, that's a good point.
She's like, yeah, you could get a present any day.
Like every day could be a special day when you get a present and then you know
that there's actual love gone into this present because you got it.
Not because I had to give you a present on present day, but because I love you.
It's like, oh, that's neat.
And out of my entire childhood, I got a present one time.
And so there is a lot because when every single day could potentially be present
day, you can't give a present every single day, right?
So you're like, okay, not this day, I guess.
And eventually just fades from your mind and having a single or one or two days
of the year that you get presents is incredibly handy because you have that
shelling point when you get the presence.
And going into the temporal aspects of it again, that lets you look forward to it.
Whereas if you, and it lets you plan ahead.
So like, if you know that you should give people presents on that day, you can spend
time beforehand finding people presents, putting thought into it, putting love
into it and figuring out something good to give.
Whereas if it's just, hey, I saw this thing on a whim, I'm going to get it for you.
Then one, maybe less thought goes into that, or maybe more.
But two, the other person definitely doesn't get to look forward to it.
Yeah.
Oh, I just want to tell a little story.
I had a piano teacher who was a jojo's witness and one day she just gave me a
present and then she was like, I'm a jojo's witness and we don't do
birthdays and Christmas, but we just give presents when we want to.
So here's your present.
I was like, wow, that's really nice.
So you enjoyed getting the present.
It's nice.
Good.
And it certainly seems to be memorable.
Like how long ago did that happen?
I still remember the one present I got.
I got to admit it was a monopoly game.
And your parents told you that they didn't like you unless you achieved things.
I mean, also to be fair to my parents, they gave me life and shelter and food and
all that.
So I don't want to sound ungrateful.
You didn't seem to turn out that bad.
They probably would have had the government punish them if they didn't do those things.
Jesus, man, way to bring everything down.
My parents were decent parents, damn it.
Sorry, I don't mean to insult your parents.
Popemobile 2 agrees with you on the definition thing, saying, I think a good
definition of ritual is a situation where the way in which the activity is
performed has importance beyond its usefulness.
And that's what separates going to the movie in general from going to see the
room by Tommy Wiseau.
Yeah, that's a great example of a ritualized event.
Oh, I enjoy that movie so much.
You know, I didn't.
I'm glad that I saw it the one time, but I can't say I enjoyed it.
Did you see it in proper surroundings?
No, I didn't.
I have not seen it in its ritual manner.
I have not seen Rocky Horn its ritual manner.
Both times I just kind of watched it on TV.
Like on your own or were you at least with other people to laugh with?
So the room I saw with two other people, so we were laughing together,
Rocky Horror Picture Show, I stumbled across on accident.
Oh, goodness.
I saw, I did not realize it was right at the beginning of the movie.
I managed to stumble into it like two minutes into the movie on Bravo Channel
back before they had like commercials and shit.
I was like, this is interesting.
I'm just going to keep watching until the next commercial.
And I saw the entire movie and I was like, oh my God,
that was fucking tragic.
What the hell?
Like, goodness.
I had feels for this movie.
Wow, all right.
But no, I've never seen it in the cool like throwing rice at the screen
and shit kind of way.
So a virgin.
I am, yeah.
Someday I'll have to go.
