Yeah, it's worth it.
I've heard from other people that it's not that great.
Okay.
So the actual movie itself is quite bad.
The experience they were talking about like, yeah.
Which one?
The Rocky Horror or the...
Yeah, Rocky Horror.
Rocky Horror?
Well, I think that the quality of Rocky Horror experience varies a lot from crowd to crowd.
I've been more than once and I've been to ones where the crowd
didn't add much and I've been to ones where the crowd added quite a bit.
May also be kind of like Burning Man where if you come in with expectations,
it never quite lives up to them.
That's possible.
But also I think that like if you go to Burning Man in 2015 versus 2018,
they won't be hugely different.
Whereas if you go to Rocky Horror in like a town where it's just a thing that happens every now
and then, that's not a big deal.
But if you go to Rocky Horror where there's a dedicated community that like they dress up,
they like there are ones where like they will act out every entire show live in front of the
screen as it happens.
And that's pretty incredible.
So I'd like to see that.
There's a wide range.
That was also one of the things, I mean, I know there's some people that have watched
The Room over dozens of times and written like things about it.
But The Room didn't give me any feels, whereas Rocky Horror did.
With The Room, I was just like, oh man, Tommy was so went through a really bad breakup and
wanted to movieize it.
It's the impression I got.
I don't know if that's what really happened.
No one knows.
That's what's so fascinating about that.
He's this mystery character.
Like I'm really looking forward to The Disaster Artist.
You know about that?
His next movie?
No, no.
It's the movie about the making of The Room starring James Franco as Tommy Wiseau.
Oh, I thought that already came out.
Has it not yet?
I don't think it has.
Oh, I usually don't hear about things until they've come out.
So I have heard about this and I thought it was already out because of that.
I don't think it's out yet.
Okay.
If it is, I'll be surprised and looking to buy a ticket.
Let's see.
Oh yeah.
And then the final bit of feedback on Ritual,
Jurist McCurbel, I hope that's how you pronounce it,
says,
So there's that.
Interesting.
Yeah.
We moving on now to the this was in our sacred cows episode.
Googleplexbyte says regarding the power dynamic in relationships,
ancestral relationships have a very unbalanced power dynamic because of the barriers to exit.
It leaves the other person with a massive amount of leverage to destroy your life.
You can't just escape them.
They're part of your family.
You'd be forced to abandon everything.
Which I thought was a good point and something important to bring up as well.
Did you guys have any comments on the incest thing?
My impression is that there is a real,
one of the elements that goes into creating like incest taboo is the Westermark effect.
And if people,
I think that they identified it as the thing that happens when a child sees
another child being fed by their own mother.
But I feel that there's probably a lot of other things that could maybe just part of
growing up with the child as your sibling creates that as well.
Not just that, that particular act.
But so it came from the study of kids growing up in a kaboots, I think.
And these kids were not actually siblings,
but they had organized the child rearing such that they would go through like child rearing
as if they were siblings.
Yeah, as if they were siblings.
And none of them wanted to marry each other when they grew up.
Yeah, so that's like the Westermark effect.
And I think that probably when people who grew up together as siblings,
like they probably should get this effect done on them.
Is in terms of grossness sort of feeling?
Yeah, and then if it doesn't,
it's a symptom of something that prevented them from getting that.
That's like a sign of something wrong.
Or if they did get it, but they still have sex despite having that,
that's also a sign of something wrong.
So I think there's some some legitimate reasons.
And also like if there's this thing wrong and you're doing this,
it's probably exacerbating whatever it is that's wrong.
I think that
there's more than one thing that's called incest.
So like there is an adult having sex with a prepubescent child.
And that is definitely bad.
There's also two adults who are cousins or siblings
having consensual sex with each other.
And that is much less bad.
Like out of all the things that Cersei and Jamie Lannister have done,
boning each other is not on my top 10 list of things I would have prevented.
And you know, hashtag life goals or wife goals.
But like, I mean, seriously, I think that I've read a number of like anonymous confession things
where there's stuff like me and my sister got married and things like that.
And honestly, it's really difficult for me to find anything morally or ethically wrong there.
And I think that certainly having sex with someone who doesn't consent or
because they're too young to consent or because they explicitly don't consent
or because they're in a power dynamic with you where they can't safely refuse consent.
All of those things are definitely bad and you shouldn't do them.
But having sex with somebody who does consent and is in a position where they can safely choose
whether or not to consent and they're mentally mature and together enough to actually make their
own decisions. It's really hard for me to say that that is wrong.
I think I think I have the same sort of intuitive thing. And I think that may be kind of common
among the the rationalist people, a lot of them. And the so I'm going to go ahead and just read
this Jenkins who is with us on our ritual podcast. I was not with us for the sacred cows podcast,
but he commented in the subreddit, I'll go ahead and identify myself as the person who
was getting upset when this topic was brought up at a recent meetup. So I'm going to go ahead and
let him have his say right here. But Jenkins says, my main reason for being mad about people
disagreeing with me on it was that it was like the fifth time I'd seen the incest is just fine
and not at all problematic and the people that are grossed out by it, blah, blah, blah,
in a rationalist context. But this was the first time I saw it in real life rather than some online
nebulous figures. Since this is a group I've come to identify with, it was really frustrating to
see an argument that I think is very wrong and would have actual negative repercussions if settled
on by the majority of society to be thrown around so casually in a we figured this out before the
rest of the world sort of way. It still makes me upset, but I think it's justified. I'm also
bothered by how often this topic tends to come up in rationalist type settings. I strongly suspect
that the reason for this is what I alluded to above, where smart people are attempting to look
smarter by being contrarian on a topic that is typically only only the socially conservative
who are often very wrong on sex things would come out strongly against. By being pro gay rights,
we're trying to protect a small subset of the population that isn't allowed to be sexual
by the previous set of rules. Who exactly are we trying to protect by removing the taboos against
incest? Are the potential good relationships that could come out of this worth the amount of
socially restructuring, i.e. throwing out the nuclear family or something, that would be required
to ensure that those types of relationships remain safe and on balance good? I think the answer to
this is clearly no. Can we please stop bringing this up as another sexual taboo that eventually
will be removed please? And obviously the answer to that is no because we're talking about it again
right now. So first of all, I think they're actually wrong about some stuff. The idea that you
would have to remove the nuclear family if a brother and sister get married and have children or
adopt children or whatever, that sounds pretty nuclear to me. And I think his contention is that
for those sorts of incestual relationships to remain safe and on balance good if they were
commonly accepted, that the nuclear family would have to have some massive restructuring
in order for there not to be all these intrinsic power imbalances and inability for someone to
exit that relationship without also exiting the entire family and their emotional and financial
support structure. How many adults are still dependent on their extended family for their
emotional and financial support structure? You know, it depends on how you define adult. You could
get in a sexual relationship in your teens and some people are still living with their parents
when they're going to grad school at like 25, 26. Certainly. But I'm saying that that seems like
pointing at the possibility of edge cases in order to deny the entire category.
I'm on your side, but I'm also thinking that he would say that the real edge cases are the
ones we talk about with the brother and sister who fell in love in adulthood, whereas the majority
cases are abusive things in families. Right. Just like how if you talk to people in the 1920s
about gay relationships, the vast majority will be pedophiles that they'll bring up,
and the idea of two adult men loving each other is absurd and nobody's ever heard of that,
because you can't do it openly. And a thing that I always instinctively do when hearing an argument
is I try to come up with a specific example and work through it in my mind, or I try to
see if I can come up with a one-to-one relationship between this argument and a
different argument. And that's like why I came up with the restaurant menu example of a ritual
and why I'm immediately comparing this to being openly gay. And that the argument that this person
just gave against accepting and allowing public, ancestral relationships, maps perfectly onto the
argument against accepting and allowing public gay relationships. That, oh, if you came out as
gay, your family would abandon you. If you allow two men to get married, that's fundamentally
restructuring the nuclear family, which has existed for how many decades, and all of the
same arguments apply in exactly the same ways. And so if you want me to accept your arguments,
you either need me to also accept that we should look down upon gay relationships,
which I don't. So I don't accept these arguments.
I am still torn on this because I don't have data as to what the prevalence is of the really
abusive type of relationships versus the ones that are not. On the one hand, obviously any
sort of relationship between consenting adults, I'd be like, who is it harming? And if it's not
harming anyone, do as you will. I know I heard that somewhere else, but again.
That's the pagan thing. Oh, is that what it is? Yeah.
Okay. If it harm, do as you will. Right. Okay. But yeah, the thing is, if there's no victims,
I don't care. Do your thing. But like his argument that if this was implemented society-wide,
there would be issues, especially with society being somewhat dysfunctional. I don't know,
maybe. I just, I don't want to take a hard stance one way or the other because I don't,
like you said, there's so many, if there are relationships like this, they're in the closet,
so we don't have any data as to how many there really are.
Yeah. And it's not like this relationships that we currently consider acceptable don't
ever end up abusive. Right. And you know, it's not like because we're accepting of gay rights,
that doesn't mean we're accepting of a man having sex with a child, right? Just because
they're of the same gender. So we could be accepting of incest between brothers and sisters
that are adults and yet still not be accepting of children having sex. Yeah.
But I think that like empirically, if gay relationships had been shown to be inherently
like unhealthy, that would be important to know. Right. And that would affect my approval of them.
I personally have come to believe that gender doesn't affect whether relationships are
inherently healthy or not. But I think adults should be allowed to do things even that aren't
healthy. I think drinking alcohol is unhealthy. I think that they should be allowed to, but I
don't approve of them. Like I'm not sure that I should feel bad about disapproving of things.
Although I would, like there are things that I kind of disapprove of, which I know I shouldn't
disapprove of. Right. And I want to change that. I can't think of anything right now. Maybe like
fashion or whatever. Those polka dots look ugly. You should wear them. Sorry. But
it's like empirical data changes whether I, like what I think about these things. If it could be
shown that incestual relationships, relationships between people who grew up in the same family,
let's say, to me, it doesn't have to do with the genes at all. Right. If it could be shown that
they're not intrinsically unhealthy, then I would try to approve of them. Right. But currently,
I think that there's pretty good evidence that they are. So a third of gay men have HIV.
An interjection here. Thomas wanted to check his numbers to be really sure about this.
Turns out the one third number is only for certain areas. Overall, according to the source
he found, the number is only one out of every six. That's pretty unhealthy.
And I don't think that's intrinsic. I think that's circumstantial.
What's the difference in function?
Yeah, I don't think the intrinsicality really matters all that much.
