all, there is a thing called tourist police, which is a entire branch of the
police force specifically designed to protect tourists because they really
want you to go there and spend your fancy American dollars.
And so basically, as an American, less so if you're a person of color, but if
you're white and even if you're not white, but you're identifiably not tie
or whatever the other dominant ethnicity of wherever you are, people will
treat you better than the locals.
The locals will treat you better than they will treat other locals because they
want to be nice to you because there's a chance they'll spend money on them because
they want to be nice to you because they know that you could rain hellfire down
upon them if they behaved badly towards you.
Now I'm getting a lot of privilege guilt.
Well, don't feel guilty about it.
If you want to feel, if you want to assuage your guilt, buy things.
Okay.
I mean, money is the unit of caring.
If you want to show that you care about the locals, give them money.
Don't just hand them money.
That's not good.
Give them a fair, what you consider a fair amount of money in exchange for the
goods or services that they provide to you, which is totally fair and everyone
encourages it.
But I think that this does sound like it would be a valuable experience, but you
would also be missing out on that dynamic of Burning Man, where almost everyone
there, unless they're one of the powerful organizers, is kind of the same.
Like they come there with the same amount of power.
That was a very unique part of it, the equalization.
That's certainly true.
And I'm not saying this will, that any of these alternatives, which kind of
got sidetracked, didn't talk about, but I'm not saying that any of these
alternatives will perfectly replicate the experience.
I'm saying that for some of the things that you might want to get out of Burning
Man, there are other ways to do it, which are perhaps more effective and perhaps
cheaper.
I do want to say that, I mean, Burning Man certainly isn't cheap, but it's not
third world cheap, but it's not that expensive.
I think my ticket plus camp plus all my supplies together came to a thousand
dollars or less.
Right.
Which for the same price, I could fly to Cambodia, go to Angkor Wat every day,
and Angkor Wat.
Goodness.
Is it the capital of Cambodia?
It is.
No.
Phnom Penh is the capital of Cambodia.
Angkor Wat translates as ancient temple.
It is the largest religious building in the world.
Oh.
It's this phenomenal temple that is within this ancient city called Angkor
Thome, which translates as ancient city.
And it's, I would say it's one of the modern wonders of the world, except it's
also how much of an experience that is because I was down in the ruins, the
Aztec ruins, like one of the really large ones.
And it was, I mean, it was impressive.
And when I went, you were still allowed to climb up the pyramids.
You're not allowed to anymore, but I actually got to climb up the pyramid and
be at the top and like serve be ruler of all I survey, you know, it was kind of
neat, but I mean, as an experience, it, it did not compare at all to, to even a
few hours at Burning Man, or maybe I am, I don't want to overplay Burning Man,
but the, the culture of it really made a big difference to me and, and all the
art installations everywhere around and the harsh environment, like everything
together made it special in a way that seeing the, the Aztec ruins wasn't.
So I've never actually been to South America or even Central America
outside of Panama.
So I haven't, while I'm interested in Mesoamerican cultures, like Aztecs and
Mayans, I haven't experienced that firsthand.
But speaking specifically about the ancient Khmer culture in Cambodia, yes, I
would say that it does compare and that the, the rules about what you're allowed
to do in Cambodia are much laxer than the impression I've gotten from Mexico,
which is where I'm guessing that you saw Aztecs things.
Um, and so specifically in Corwatt, I said that one because it's the most famous
one, it's the one people are most likely to know the name of, but the other
temples, uh, in the other, not even temples, but like just city, uh, and,
and other things in Cambodia or in Myanmar slash Burma, whichever you feel
like calling it, um, are less supervised than that.
You are able to just go wherever you want.
You can climb on the buildings.
You can go inside of them.
None of it is off limits.
Um, and you can explore everything.
And, uh, so a large aspect of Burning Man is the fact that it's in this playa.
It's in the desert.
You can see as far as light can travel.
Um, and that is a similar, but distinct experience from being in Cambodia,
which is a rainforest.
It's a jungle.
You can't see more than a few feet in front of you until all of a
sudden there's this enormous stone temple rising out of the jungle.
That's like a hundred feet tall and you can climb up to the top of it.
And there's in specifically in Angkor want, there will be hundreds of other
people there, but if you go a few hundred meters away to a different temple
that you have to find in the jungle, there's no one there.
And to me, that is a thing.
I enjoy a great deal.
Um, at Burning Man, there's always lots of other people around, uh,
which has its own benefits and lets you participate and commune with and,
and talk to and dance with and all that other, other sort of thing.
And the other people were like half of my experience.
Yeah.
Yeah, definitely.
And so I would say that aspect of it is not something you could get with by
doing this, but the, uh, wandering through a difficult environment
until you find amazing art that you can definitely do by going to Cambodia.
Yeah.
Oh, do you have other alternatives?
Uh, yeah.
So the three places that I would recommend the most to try to get the,
um, uh, to recreate some of the experiences of Burning Man are Angkor
Tom in Cambodia, Bagon in Myanmar slash Burma, which is a, uh, what used to be a
capital of the Burmese kingdom.
And it was a tradition for more than a thousand years that the king would
build at least one temple there.
And it was sort of a matter of pride that you would build more or better
temples than the previous king.
And now Bagon is this tiny village that barely anyone lives in.
And the number of temples far out numbers, the number of humans there.
And so that is an incredible experience there.
You can, uh, it's a desert, except it also has trees.
I don't know a lot about ecology, but I'm surprised that it manages to combine
the amount of sand with the number of trees.
But, um, but you rent a bicycle, uh, whereas in Burning Man, you bring your own
bicycle and then you bike around from amazing art thing to amazing art thing.
And maybe you meet up with other fellow travelers and hang out with them, or maybe
you don't encounter anyone all day long.
Uh, but in either case, you get to see fabulous, incredible art in both places.
Um, and the other place that I've been that I would recommend, if you want to
get the, uh, incredible art and people in feels a little strange to use the word
exotic, but exotic clothing and mannerisms, um, is North Africa.
Uh, I would say that if you want to go experience what it's like to be in an
incredible desert, go to like, go to an oasis in North Africa, go to Marrakesh in,
in Morocco, if you want to see, um, people with stands, uh, excitedly trying to get
you to participate in a conversation with them.
Um, definitely doesn't have the decommodification spirit of Burning Man.
Cause the conversation they want is always, do you want to buy this thing?
Right?
Well, eventually, first they want to give you free tea and then they want to talk
about your family and their family.
And then they want to talk about the stuff that they have and then maybe they
want to sell you something, maybe means yes, but they'll phrase it as maybe.
Yeah.
Um, and so you were talking about how all of this stuff at Burning Man combined cost
only a thousand dollars for a week.
Yeah.
And including plane tickets.
That's several times what I would pay to go to Cambodia for a month.
So I still, I mean, if I had a thousand dollars, I still
think I would pick Burning Man in large part because I now know a number of the
people that are going there and I get that and it was, it was really neat chatting
with absolutely everyone about everything.
I got to meet someone who is pitching NASA, trying to convince them which one
of the three sites that they're down to on Mars, the next rover is going to land
at and, and he was like, I really want to go to this one because it's kind of like
the Yellowstone of Mars.
And like he got into the whole thing and I was like, oh my God, and you're
actually working with NASA.
And he's like, yeah, this is, and right, you know, that was, that was amazing.
And just, it was a random hippie dude that was in our camp.
I thought that he was like cheat or something.
You know, I, I, I definitely agree.
And I think that's a very strong point in favor of Burning Man is that the
people that you meet there are not the same people that you would meet in any
of the locations I described.
The stuff I was talking about is more in terms of if you want to have the
being in a slightly physically arduous situation and looking at amazing art.
Okay.
Um, I would say another big aspect of Burning Man is that it is more dense in
terms of the number of experiences that you will be able to have per unit
distance or per unit time.
Yeah.
Um, and so for me, I have structured my life such that if I want to live in
Cambodia for three months and spend every day at ancient temples, I can do that.
And like my first game, Professor Pognatius was play tested in one of those
temples just because that was where I wanted to hang out all day.
Cool.
And so if you have only a week, right?
If you have one or two weeks of vacation time a year and you want to get as much
experience as you can during that time, then yeah, maybe trying to spend a month
in Cambodia isn't going to work as well for you.
Yeah.
Have you been to many music festivals or art festivals?
Um, I've been to a few.
I wouldn't say many.
I'm not one, like I know people who go to as many of those as they can.
And I'm not one of those folks, but I've been to a few.
Do you find the same kind of value from those at all?
Or same as Burning Man or same as something like similar to?
Um, so I would say a large portion of what I found unique about Burning Man compared
to those sort of things is the 24 seven aspect of it, that you go to sleep with
stuff going on and you wake up with stuff going on.
And you will never see in one trip all of what there is to see in Burning Man.
Even if you just stay up as late as you can and do nothing but try to experience things.
Yeah, certainly.
And I would say that like when I've been to other festivals, they were things that I
would go to in the morning, leave in the evening, and then maybe I'll go back to
them to the next day.
But in the meantime, I go home, I go to sleep in my bed, I wake up the next morning
and then I go back to the festival.
I haven't been to another camping festival like that.
But I would be really curious if there are any listeners who have been to
