Except I do think that there is a larger mix of newer people.
There were definitely, I'm at a fair bit of virgins myself, and it seems
like the people that have been going for 20 years are coming less often nowadays.
That was also true when I went.
And so I, it might be at the same ratio, stable, or it might have continued
along that trajectory.
I don't know.
I know that one rule change they implemented the year after I attended
was, which I'm not sure if it's still in effect or not, is that sound
camps were not allowed to advertise the DJs that would be playing at them.
Cause the year I went, Darn, the DJ's name escapes me, but it was, it was a
DJ who I had heard of and listened to their music before.
Like they were a big name and they were playing there.
And so that brought people who just wanted to listen to that DJ and didn't
want to do anything else.
Um, and so I think that making that rules change is a good idea.
And I'm curious how much that affected things.
Hey, I, I don't know.
There, there wasn't any, I don't know, because I didn't go very much.
I would the party people.
So I really can't say the one time I did go to the tower, I suspected
there was probably some big name DJ up there, but I don't know that there
was the whole, um, a running gag thing that Skrillex is playing out by
the trash fence because apparently last year Skrillex played out by
the trash fence, unannounced.
People also said that the year I went, so maybe it's just a long time thing
happened at any point.
Damn it.
I was sucked in by an urban myth again.
Uh, the, the trash fence for anyone who doesn't know is there is a fence out
in the deep play far away from everything else that is meant as a wind
break to catch trash that has blown away from people's camps so that at the
end of the event, people can go there and gather up all the trash.
And I do recommend going out there.
It's pretty impressive.
I mean, there were, there were obviously the people at night that just went for
the partying, uh, and I met a few people who were like, yeah, we sleep all day.
And then we go out at nine party, but that's what they want to make of
burning man.
That's one of the experiences available.
So that's your thing.
Go for it.
Um, have you been to, or would you consider going to a regional burn?
I have not been to one.
I would consider going to it.
Uh, I spoke with Vivian who had been to Apigia, which is the local Colorado one.
Uh, just a few months before she went to burning man.
And she said that it is distinctly different that there is a, and I mean,
it's smaller, obviously, but she said that the culture just isn't the same.
There's not as much of the sharing, uh, openness vibe that burning man has.
And I don't know if that is just a thing for Apigia or what exactly the
deal with there is, but I have not been to any myself.
Uh, I have also not been to any myself, but I know a fair number of people who
have, and I have mostly heard that, uh, the ones that they have been to.
And I thought Apigia was one of them, but I'm not certain now, uh, had a stronger
vibe, more like the, the earlier burns.
Um, and in particular, I forget the name of it, but the one that I appears to be
the most highly regarded is the one in South Africa.
Hmm.
I heard a number of people talking about that.
Yeah.
Um, there you get a very similar physical environment.
Like the Transvaal is similar to the Playa and then they're both big,
flat deserts, um, Transvaal much, much bigger than the Playa.
Uh, and I've heard that the ethos there is amazing, but I've never been.
It is interesting that, uh, the, it's possible that the
environment kind of shapes the attitude, right?
Um, I will say that my parents, uh, where they are from, I don't want to say where
it is because it would make me too easily identifiable.
Um, but, um, where my parents grew up, uh, they, they were pretty poor, quite poor.
And they did have a fair amount of this, like sharing, uh, ethos in their community.
It was not like a total gift economy, like, like Burning Man.
But yeah, and also it was, it was highly connected with the Christian church as well.
But yeah, that, I mean, that, that kind of thing does exist, released it did when
they were children.
And, uh, I think it is associated with certain kinds of, uh, hardships that would
full give rise to those kinds of cultures.
Yeah.
It could be that the Colorado one is just not very much of a harsh environment.
It's, yeah, if it happens and not the winter, then it's not a very harsh to
be in the mountains.
Yeah.
Um, that's an interesting talking about your parents growing up poor and, uh, that's
an interesting aspect of Burning Man is that there aren't really poor people there.
You, you, you need like a thousand dollars disposable income and the ability to
take a specific week off.
There are some, I met a few hippies.
I'm one, what there was a person in my camp in her mid, mid to late twenties that
has lived in a van her entire life and drove that van there.
So apparently there's like, um, certain tickets that are reserved for people who
have very low incomes.
Um, but you're right.
Overwhelmingly, it is a place of people with a lot of money to go and be
full poor for a while.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
We will live in poverty, but it won't be poverty, poverty, because we know we're
going back to safety in a week.
Have you heard the song common people?
It's a very good song.
I recommend listening to it later.
Uh, in particular, I recommend William Shatner's cover of it, which is legitimately
excellent, I've heard it.
I've heard the William Shatner cover of this song.
Is it legitimately excellent?
It is so Shatner.
I mean, it does what Shatner does best, which is conveying powerful emotion of like,
perhaps over the top, but for the subject matter.
But there's a line that stuck with me, uh, in, uh, I forget exactly how it goes, but
it's something along the lines of you'll never be like common people, even as you
stay in your, um, you know, shitty apartment while roaches climb the walls.
If you called your dad, he could stop it all.
And in Burning Man, no matter how harsh the environment may be, no matter how
deprived of whatever modern comforts you are used to, it's going to be over in a week.
Um, we are Jesus, we're at two hours, but is, uh, is there anything else that you
wanted that you're asked?
Um, no, no, I think that was it.
Did you have anything else you wanted to say?
I would like to conclude by reiterating the two lessons that I learned from it,
which are one, pick your camp very carefully.
Make sure that your philosophy and what you would like to get out of Burning Man
aligns very well with the camp that you're going with.
If you want to go there to attend a rave, don't go with hippies who are going to
hand out tea.
If you want to go there to commune with other hippies, don't go with the group
that just wants to go to raves.
Uh, and second, don't have specific events that you want to attend in mind.
Instead, just wander.
I would go a bit further and say, don't go with any real expectations.
Just go there and see how things turn out and let things go as they go.
Cause it's not going to be bad.
Um, yeah, but no, I, I, I had a great time and I, I wrote a number of things about it
when I got back, which are up on my blog, which I guess I'll link to as well.
Uh, do either of you want to quickly promote anything before we go?
No, no, uh, Thomas, I'm pretty sure you have something.
Uh, buy my board games.
I have one of Thomas's board games right next to me on the shelf right there
called Cultists of Cthulhu, and it is quite fun.
So I recommend his games as well.
Yeah, sixpence games.
You can find us on amazon.com or sixpencegames.com or your friendly local gaming store.
Before we go, our regular weekly segment where we thank a Patreon supporter.
This week, we would like to thank Adam for being a supporter and helping make this
possible and letting all you guys hear this awesome stuff.
Uh, admittedly, we would still do the podcast even without support, but don't
let that get out there.
Adam, thanks to you.
Thank you.
You are wonderful and many cheers.
Um, so we got a number of feedbacks on the rituals episode.
Are we okay talking about that?
Yeah, I'm, I'm curious to hear what people said.
And also I listened to it a while ago and I don't remember what all is in that episode.
Okay.
Uh, hopefully this will help to remind things a little bit.
Uh, since Steven is not here, I am having my guests help with the listener feedback this
time.
Leibniz, Leibniz integral cax says, I have the same or very similar objections as
you guys to rituals, but listening to people try to express them makes them sound
really stupid, especially towards the beginning.
It sounds like robots trying to integrate into human society.
I agree with the objections, but I know not to voice them to normal people now.
So I guess mission accomplished.
We, we, we helped you not do things the wrong way.
So you will be slightly less wrong now, right?
Hey, well, you kind of already know not to tell the normal people these things,
right?
It's true.
That's why we leave it in our little secret podcast that only we have access to.
No, but I, you know, it is kind of in sealer since no one else listens to it.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, Jenkins, who is actually the Jenkins that we had on for the ritual, uh, says in
the subreddit, we really should have tabooed the word ritual like four minutes into the
conversation and gone from there.
To be fair, I didn't see defining ritual as a critical point of the conversation.
I really should have tried harder once I realized that's what Stephen was looking
for, but my main goal was to point out that there are things we already do that could
be considered rituals.
And even if you don't consider those, you could conceive of something that we would
be fine with participating in that almost everyone would call a ritual and that's okay.
Um, and taking it back to what we were talking about just now, like a lot of Burning Man
felt like ritual sort of things too.
Uh, one of the things the, you mentioned that the burning of the temple is very
significant to you.
Uh, for me, it was almost a bit of a letdown because after the burning of the
man and me and my camp went to the temple, uh, we walked there and then we had our own
little like ritual of talking about how the week was and gratitude and like building
like a campfire, not a real campfire, but we, we had our own little group ritual.
And that was my sort of like, this is the end of the, of the week for me.
And this is the ending ritual.
And so the, the temple burning on top of that the next day was like almost
gilding the lily at that point because I, yeah, exactly.
Cause that was, I mean, it was interesting and it meant a lot for a lot of people.
I could tell, but my, my, um, I almost want to say clan now, but my camp wasn't
there with me for the burning of the temple.
So it wasn't, I didn't have the group feel anymore, whereas we all went to the
burning of the man together and made an event of it and then had a closing
