I don't know, it's very much sort of a bonding experience.
And you're told in all the primers on Burning Man,
do not offer drugs to anyone you don't already implicitly trust, right?
Because there's lots of undercover cops there.
And but at the at the last day when they were burning the man,
several people in my camp who I'd only known for seven days were like,
hey, I got some of this MD&A, you want to try it?
And I was like, oh, thank you.
Yeah, that's nice that you trust me that much.
But no, and that was that was nice.
So I mean, I guess maybe go with like a group.
It's weird because you are supposed to make a lot of connections with strangers,
right? That was the other half of what I did there.
And it was such a huge part of the culture.
It was nice.
But if I was into drugs, I would have been sad.
You're right that I couldn't also share drugs with strangers.
Yeah. And you sort of tangentially brought up what I would say is the most
important lesson that I've learned that I would do differently.
Should I go to Burning Man again, which there's a good chance I will,
which is that I would take much more care in selecting what camp I go with.
I basically went with the first camp that invited me.
And it was a bad choice.
It was a bad fit.
That camp was almost all
Australian early 20s, something drunken rave types.
And we were like Australians and we ruin everything.
And we were camped next to several of the largest sound camps,
which is what they call places that put on concerts the entire time,
like literally 100 percent of the time.
And so boots and cats and cats and cats and cats just constantly
the entire time I was there.
I actually spent more nights at Vivian's camp than at my camp
because there was a sound camp nearby.
And it was a bit of a problem.
Yeah. And so I think if I had been with a camp that was more chill
and like you talked about working at a tea shop or not shop, but giving tea away,
that sounds lovely.
And I think I would have enjoyed that a lot more.
So if I had been paired with a camp that was more my speed,
I bet I would have enjoyed it a great deal more.
Why did they even have the other camps around the sound camps?
I don't know exactly how the placement was done.
I don't know anything about that really.
The guys in our camp said that usually they are not near sound camps
because they are a tea house, a place to chill and not have,
you know, over stimulation and something happened
where this year sound camp was put across the street from them.
You have a small amount of control of it
if you are the organizer of your camp,
but largely it's up to the whims of the organizers of Burning Man.
And they only have a finite amount of space
and all of the sound camps are enormous.
So somebody has to be next to them.
Yeah. How big is it anyway?
So that was the thing that surprised me.
The the official estimate is around 70,000 for this year, I believe.
But that's just a number and you don't really get a feel for it, right?
So I don't know. I came in, I think, around one a.m. on Sunday
and parked the car and set up a tent and just crashed out.
And the next day I got on my bike, I rode out to the man.
I kind of was around a little bit, but I didn't go that far.
And so I was like, OK, this is a decently large place, whatever.
The day after that, I rode out to the man
and then from the man I went to center camp, which is
the whole thing is kind of a raid in a large sundial around the man in the middle.
And the man is, I think, a half mile from any any actual camp.
I think it's a mile across.
So yeah, a half mile from where anyone can set up camp is where the man is.
But I went to the man and then cut over to center camp.
And when I turned away from the man and looked like just the entire place
was set out before me and it was it was massive.
I was shocked at how big this is.
Just it's very large as far as I could see.
Yeah, I was like, this is a huge amount of people.
How long to bike across it, do you think?
I don't know if you were to start at one end
and go all the way to the other in a straight line, maybe.
And you don't encounter difficult terrain.
Yeah, yeah, maybe 15 or 20 minutes.
It's not too bad.
But you're not just driving a straight line from one end to the other.
You're going all over to all the cool places.
Yeah, I should probably add another vocabulary
because I might use the word play a few times.
But they call the grounds that the burning man is on, the playa.
So that's that's a thing.
And if you go out of where people are not camped,
like around the man and even further out, they call that deep playa.
And that's where a lot of the best art installations are.
And for anyone interested in the specific vocabulary term,
a playa is an empty lakebed.
Well, this playa is an empty lakebed.
Doesn't playa mean beach in Spanish?
Yes. And in English, it means empty lakebed.
Does it? Yes.
Fuck, I didn't know. Yeah. OK, neat.
I've learned another thing.
So when I first heard about burning man, like 15 years ago,
I had been told that the cops go easy on the drugs at Burning Man.
But I guess that's no longer the case.
I heard that it was the case originally.
And then they had a change in sheriff about a decade ago.
And he was much less copacetic with the drug use.
And also, as the event has grown,
there's necessarily been more people who cause trouble.
And while it might be difficult to bust someone for being a jerk,
it's easy to bust someone for possession of an illegal drug.
And so people will use that as an excuse to bust people.
Well, I am curious to know if there's any
rationalist angle to burning man or your experience.
I have two things about it that I would think might be of interest to rationalists.
The first is what I was going to say earlier is it has a
to me what was a very interesting culture that I'm really glad I experienced.
But it is it is a culture of like basically trying out everything
and being very open and just involving yourself whenever you want.
And everyone around you is really supportive.
And the thing is, this place is out in a
it is it is a desert that is like most deserts
are have scrub and cactuses and some life in them, right?
But this is like the desert you think of when you see Lawrence of Arabia desert.
It is just a dried out lake bed with fine dust everywhere and nothing is alive.
So it is hot and uncomfortable and dry.
And you quickly get the understanding
of why there is such a hospitality culture among
among cultures that are in the desert, because yeah, you you could die quite easily.
And people are always around to help you and give you water or shade or something
if they see you're in trouble or give you some food if you're dying of hunger.
And that so there's a sense of safety.
And since there are some people that are like fucked up and everyone wants to have a good time,
there is this feeling that if something bad happens to me right here, I am not alone.
Like out here in the suburbs of Denver, if something bad happens to me,
I guess I can call 911 and pay my life savings to be taken to a hospital.
And then I miss work and everything's awful.
But out there, it's like people are going to rush to my aid.
Everything's going to be OK.
I saw people.
Well, I saw one guy specifically leaping from one giant granite block
to the other at this awesome art installation.
Yeah. And I was like, they were just far enough away
that when you're standing on top of me like I could make that jump.
But I'm not sure I want to try because shit.
I mean, you'll still have to be driven to the hospital.
Yes. Even out there.
But just just the feeling of everyone being there to help you is nice.
And I saw someone in the middle of a dust storm.
There was a lady who was like having a bad skin reaction.
Her hands were really chapped and someone like these cool raver light up gloves.
Just handed her gloves over and said, here, yeah, you need these.
And the old lady was like, well, not old, I guess, middle aged lady.
It was like, I can't take these from you.
And she's like, no, you need them more than me.
Take them. And people just give everyone each other stuff and are really supportive.
And it's it's a great culture.
And so that in my mind, it fosters what I call it's the luckiest place on earth
because everyone is just willing to help everyone else.
And you talk to everyone, you open up pretty quickly.
And so there's all these opportunities to make connections and find out neat things
and just experience life in a whole new way.
If there were more cool coincidences in that one week there
than I have had in, you know, any year, basically, of my life elsewhere
because everyone's just open for cooperating all the time.
It's like a high trust society.
I would definitely agree that there's a lot of helping people out.
And in particular, I remember an incident where Allison started overheating
and several other people noticed this.
And like one of them went off to soak a rag in cold water
and then bring it back.
And another one went off to get a water bottle because I'd already given her all of my water.
And yeah, I agree.
There's definitely a significant and effective culture
of helping out other people when they get in trouble, which I really like and really appreciate.
I do want to sort of quibble about a minor thing that you said.
You were talking about T.E.
Lawrence and the deserts of Arabia that he was in.
I will dispute that it is actually similar to that
because the deserts of Arabia are sand dunes and the Playa is flat and has no sand.
Yes.
It is rather it is an alkali flat, which means that it is completely level
with no like there are mountains on the outside of it.
But within the Playa itself, there is no change in elevation at all.
And also everything is alkali, which is the opposite of acidic
and has the same effect as acid, basically,
which means that everything gets slowly corroded,
which is why that middle-aged lady had trouble with her hands
chapping is because there is alkali powder everywhere
and it will corrode everything, including your body.
So you're just getting corrosive dust all over you the whole time.
And it lungs.
And don't bring any electronics with you that you value.
Right.
I've heard that the number one thing about bringing stuff to Burning Man
is don't bring anything that you would be very upset if it was destroyed.
Yeah, except yourself.
I brought my depends how you feel about yourself, I guess.
One great benefit to being alive is that we can heal from things
better than plastic can. Yeah.
I brought my DSLR and spent a long time putting
electrical tape over any space that could possibly get dust in it.
And that was pretty effective.
