Yeah, but it is, it is.
So in addition to, I mean, I think rationalists would like it partly because it is
just a unique experience.
And I know, like Jenkins was talking earlier in one of our earlier podcasts
about how he likes just doing and trying out unique experiences.
And this is definitely one of them.
You don't run into this sort of thing in the outside world very much.
And I would, I would recommend everyone tried at least once just to give it a try
because it is neat.
But the other thing, because you were wondering what other things
rationalists might get out of it.
Yeah.
This, this I can't say I came up with this on my own, although maybe I would have
thought something similar to it by the end of the week.
I went to see Corey Doctor while I was there and he said that Burning Man is
like a dry run of a post-scarcity society.
And, and I think he kind of has a point.
And it's, I mean, it's obviously not remotely sustainable.
But as I was there, I was like, this is kind of fun.
We all just hang out and get to know each other as humans and like try to
impress each other and entertain each other with art and what other things
we got in the transhumanist utopia.
You don't need to be productive or achieve things except on an interpersonal level.
Yeah.
And it was, it was very, I really enjoyed that.
And I got to thinking, because before I probably even talked with you about this.
In fact, yes, I don't know now saying like humanity has to have some
control over our destiny and I wouldn't want the AI to avert the asteroids
because then the AI makes all the important decisions in the galaxy, right?
Humans don't even matter anymore.
And after I went to this, I was like, I could totally just have non sapient
robots doing all the labor and providing us with all the materials
and food and stuff that we need and just enjoying this, enjoying other people
and trying to like put up flashy new art things or whatever.
And man, it wasn't bad at all.
I'm sure it's not how an actual post-scarcity society would go.
But as a, as a taste is like a dry run, it was really neat
and kind of eyeopening.
And I have, this is one of the reasons I wanted you to be on here,
because I now have much less the feeling that we must be in control
and we must be the ones doing things because man, that was an enjoyable week.
And I'm sure there will still be people who want to be doing things and doing
science and pushing frontiers of knowledge.
But that really was not a bad way to live.
And I, I have much more sympathy for your cause of I like other humans
and just hanging out with them.
Yeah, I don't even like humans that much.
But still, like, friendship is magic.
And that, that's a good basis for meaning the life.
So.
So I would highly recommend anyone who wants to get a taste.
Like I felt more optimistic for humanity afterwards too.
I was like, this is what we could potentially aspire to once we have solved
all the other problems and the human, the, the future of humanity looks
not too bad taking this as, as a sneak peek.
If I can briefly plug a nice role playing game that I think does a good
job of also evoking that post scarcity feeling.
I want to plug free market, which is a role playing game set in the
transhumanist post scarcity future where your goal is to be as entertaining
to the other people in the post scarcity future as you can, because that
gives you access to even more resources.
But there's no way to like die or run out of resources.
It's really fun.
And I recommend it to any listener who wants to get that, get a
sensation of what that possible future might be like.
Cool.
So I want to ask you, Thomas, my impression is that you're a traveler
and you've gone to a lot of places and tried a lot of new experiences.
Yes, this is true.
Yes, my life motto is I'll try anything twice, which is why I said earlier
that I will probably go back to Burning Man at some point.
Okay.
Huh.
And Eneash, are you, I kind of didn't see you as like a, a trying
lots of different things.
No, no, I've not been outside of Denver very often because I dislike the
outside world.
Denver is my home space.
And every now and then like, I think about how it might be nice to live
somewhere else.
And then I'm like, but I would have to leave Denver.
So I won't do that.
That's it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I mean, do you feel like you maybe have moved more in the direction
of, of being more like Thomas?
I would gladly do this one week out of every year.
I plan to go back at least once more and hopefully more than that, but I'm
certainly not to the point where I can like just cause like Thomas, I know
none of our listeners know this, but like literally just travels the world.
I, I do.
And does things and it's like, well, I'm going to live in Thailand for a
year and I want to see what France is like for a year.
And I'm like, how can you live like that?
I need to know where my paycheck is coming from and where I will sleep.
And oh my God, it's, it seems incredibly stressful.
Well, I've never, well, okay.
That's not true of, I have gotten paychecks before, but I, I own my own
business and the fact that I can do everything I need to do in order to
make a living over the internet is a big help in that.
And I've, I've deliberately structured my life so that I can do this.
And it's a lot of effort and requires a lot of sacrifice.
And if I had decided to do what a bunch of my friends did and stay in the
San Francisco Bay Area and get a job as a programmer, I would probably
have a lot more money, but a lot fewer memories.
And so I've deliberately made that trade off.
It's not for everyone, but for folks who do want that, it's easier and cheaper
than you think.
And so I, if I may, I would like to use this as a, an opportunity to
segue into, uh, alternatives to Burning Man, other things that you
could do that would provide similar experiences, uh, that perhaps are
cheaper or perhaps just similar in amount of time and money that they take.
Yeah.
Um, and I would say the most, uh, the general principle from which we
derive all the options is go to the third world.
Uh, the third world has a lot fewer of the, uh, niceties and infrastructure
than you are used to.
Um, it's more difficult, it's dirty, and it's more exciting.
You get to see things and do things and that you wouldn't normally
and you have to rely on yourself.
Isn't the third world also a rather low trust kind of society though?
I mean, I guess that's a broad way to speak about half the planet, but, uh,
that depends on who you are and what your background is.
For example, I'm a white American, which means that if I go to the third
world and a government official mistreats me, I can complain to the
American embassy and that government is not going to like having worsened
relations with the American embassy, which means that most government
officials will at most want a bribe from me.
And honestly, the fact that government officials take bribes in the third
world is so convenient, like really just being able to hand someone $20
and they leave you alone is amazing.
That's one of my least favorite things about American police is that they are
like they'll vehemently and stridently enforce unjust laws and they'll do,
uh, civil asset for for sure to take your things, but they won't just
take a fucking hundo in order to leave you alone.
Whereas if you go to Egypt and you give someone a hundred dollars,
they'll be a personal servant for a week, even if they're a cop.
But do you not feel any sort of a cringy poverty tourism kind of vibe about
doing that? Well, the specific scenario is just describing was bribing
an official to leave you alone, which no, I don't feel any poverty tourism
aspect of that going to the third world instead of Burning Man.
No, because, um, so if I was paying someone to get rid
of resources that they had or paying them to act in a degrading manner
or something like that, then I might.
But honestly, what I'm doing, what anyone is doing, if they go to the third
world and spend money is that they are giving money to poor third worlders.
And I, it's kind of difficult to make me feel bad about that.
I think that, um, money goes a lot further in the third world.
That's how I've done so much of the traveling that I've done for as little
money as I earn is that earn money in the first world, spend it in the third world.
You're giving money to people who are poor and are going to be able to
make that money go a lot further.
Like, so you as, as an American, as someone who's identifiably foreign
just by looking at you when you show up in Burma or Cambodia or Morocco,
you're clearly not a local.
You will get things much, much cheaper than you will in America, but also
much more expensively than any local would.
And if you're jerk about that and you try to haggle things down to the price
that a local would, I mean, well, first of all, don't feel guilty about haggling.
That's part of the culture in a lot of parts of the world that Americans are
not used to.
Um, but if you're spending more money than a local would, you're injecting a
large amount of cash into the economy, you're extracting what is to them a
relatively small amount of value by like staying in their hostel or hotel or
Riyadh or whatever it is you're staying in, um, or buying a meal,
buying some sort of souvenir, buying clothing, whatever it is that you're
buying, you're probably paying more than a local would.
You're paying less than you would to buy it in your home country.
You're giving a lot of money to the people who are there, who are then going
to spend it on other things in their local economy.
And really, as long as you're not paying anyone to do anything unethical, you're
just putting a lot of money into the economy.
Aren't you?
Okay.
So one of the things I really worry about the third world is, uh, being, you
know, basically the crime being victimized, like you are a foreigner.
You don't really have any support structure there.
I would be scared.
You do have a support structure.
You have quite a few.
So, so I'll take the example of Thailand, which is a wonderful place for people
who are concerned about, uh, traveling and who maybe who are inexperienced.
Thailand is a great place to start because Thailand is according to the
technical definition of third world country, which is to say that they were
not allied with America or the Soviet Union during the Cold War.
The America allied with America means your first world allied with the
Soviet Union means your second world.
So unimportant that you were not allied with either means you are in the third world.
Thailand is, first of all, quite safe.
Second of all, if someone within the government mistreats you, then you
complain to the embassy and they will cause a shit fit on your behalf.
And they have all of the resources of America and nobody else can match that.
And so they don't and, and, and related to that.
And more importantly, they don't want to mistreat you because they want
you to come there and spend money and they want you to have a good time.
They want you to come back and do what I'm doing, which is encouraging
my friends to do the same thing because it's great and they benefit from it.
You benefit from it and everyone wins.
And also in Thailand, specifically, and also in some other countries, but not
