in a fire ritual, you know?
And then once it's all over, everything is taken back down again and all that
labor just disappears and it seems, it seems so wasteful.
I'm like, if you're going to put all this effort into something, there should
be something remaining afterwards.
Infrastructure, you know, but I was like, what is the justification for all these
resources being spent here on, I guess, what could be called hedonism and some
of it, and some of it being literally destroyed for the fun of destroying it.
And when, when this could be used for something more permanent and good.
So this is one of the reasons why I sort of think like, so the reason I brought
up the 10 Burning Man principles before is that, uh, there was at least one
noticeable instance for me for each of these where the principle was blatantly
violated and the idea that, oh, Burning Man is a decommodified thing that
costs a thousand dollars for one week of participation.
And that's on the low end.
Um, it is like absolute bare minimum.
If you don't expend any of your own resources and you just mooch off of other
people, it's $400 for the ticket.
Right.
And then it's probably another $400 for your camp.
If you're staying in a camp, which almost everyone does.
My camp is only $150.
Okay.
That's pretty cheap.
Yeah.
Um, I mean, you have to work 18 hours throughout the week to, to contribute
but, and bring, you know, food and everything.
Right.
So, but, but even so, your total ended up being around a thousand.
My total ended up being around a thousand.
Um, and then, uh, I also object to people referring to it as a city because it is
not sustainable.
It is only possible because people are willing to expend far more resources
per individual there than any other city.
Like the one I would compare it to that is a real city is Las Vegas because they
are both, uh, absurd glowing spectacles in the middle of the desert that are man
shaking his fist at the heavens and daring Zeus to strike him down for his hubris.
And Las Vegas makes it work 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for however many
decades Las Vegas has existed now and Burning Man makes it work for one week a
year.
And I find that there's this sort of idea among many burners that like, oh, look,
this is an example of what we could make a post capitalist post scarcity society
look like.
And I'm like, right.
In the sense that this sort of environment is only possible either in a situation
that is post scarcity or where people are willing to expend far more than their
average weekly expenditure of resources.
But you can't make that sort of society exist outside of that.
You couldn't do that 52 weeks a year because unless you are independently
wealthy and willing to expend a large amount of your resources or if robots do
all the labor and gather all the resources.
Well, yeah, I used, I used the present tense to literally, you can't do that now.
Maybe in the future we'll be able to, but right now you can't.
And so I think that holding Burning Man up as this sort of garden of Eden where
no one needs any money, man, is a lie.
Yeah.
And I think it's a harmful lie that deludes people into thinking that this
sort of thing is a more ethical or more efficient.
Isn't quite the right word, but I also think it's far less efficient because
a lot of the electricity is run on gas generators and camps.
Oh, absolutely.
Which is far less efficient than having a large central generator or, you know,
you certainly aren't going to have little nuclear generators in your camp.
Right.
So, yeah, the pollution per megawatt is, I'm sure, much higher in Burning Man
than most glasses in the world.
Burning Man generates, I'm absolutely certain, an enormous amount of waste
compared to any other city of the same amount, well, village of the same size.
And I think you described it as hedonistic a moment ago, and I agree with that.
It is very much a festival of hedonism.
But it can be hedonism in the good way too, like the hedonism of seeing art
and interacting with other humans as real people.
Oh, I agree.
I don't think hedonism is a bad thing.
I just think that we should not delude ourselves into thinking that it is
something other than what it really is.
It is a fun vacation that people do for fun.
Yes.
It is not a getting back to the true spiritual nature of the world
and living more in harmony with the Gaia Earth Mother.
Yeah.
It is spending $1,000 to party for a week.
And if you hurt yourself, you're not going to get an infected limb and die of that.
You're going to be helicoptered to a hospital.
Yeah, probably.
Yeah, definitely.
Well, I saw the ambulance take the man away.
Yeah, I mean, unless you hide it from other people.
Right, yeah.
But yes, yeah, you're not actually forced to be self-reliant the way that you are,
if for instance, you camp in the woods.
So, yeah, I think that if people who go to Burning Man,
especially people who identify as burners and go to other smaller burn events,
need to be more honest and forthright and upfront about what Burning Man
actually is and what you can actually expect from it and how you should go into it,
then at least then they were when they were talking to me before I went.
But of course, that was several years ago, so I don't know how much it's changed.
I haven't been living in the Bay Area, which is the cultural center of Burning Man activity
when Burning Man isn't actively going on.
I also had the advantage of not knowing anything or having any expectations.
Like I met at least one person who very much bought into what you're saying.
He was one of the guys that was telling me, man, the money's all a lie.
Nobody really has to work for anything.
Look at how Burning Man works and I'm doing the stoner voice,
but dude, he literally had the stoner voice.
It was crazy, but for the most part, the people I interacted with all knew
that this was not a sustainable thing, that this was a and this is why.
I'm going to go ahead and defend Burning Man, that it is a unique experience
and the fact that it is so temporal or temporary, it's part of the ethos of Burning Man.
It's sort of like the whole, whatever the, is it a Buddhist thing or a Zen thing
that all things pass away and don't hold on to anything?
That's definitely a Buddhist thing.
I don't know very much about Zen.
Okay, but it was that sort of thing.
Like everything is temporary, enjoy it and let it go.
And that is why we're burning this at the end and that the entire culture
of that really helped me to embrace that for a week.
I'm not, I wouldn't build my life on that, obviously, but because I am who I am.
But having it for one week was, I think, really worth the trip.
And I would recommend it to everyone and seeing all that art was amazing.
And in the end, having, getting to get a little sneak peek at what a post-scarcity
future might be like is also worth it.
And I'm willing to, to pay $1,000 for a week for that.
Yeah.
And I think since you didn't have false conceptions, like misleading preconceptions
about what you would be experiencing, I think you went into that with a healthier
attitude than I did.
And I actually have some questions for you about how it's changed since I did it.
Oh, let me also toss in one thing.
And for anyone who does feel guilty, dude, remember Scott Alexander's 10% thing.
As long as you're giving your 10%, you can spend the rest of your money on anything
and you fulfilled your moral obligation.
Okay.
But sorry, go ahead.
So I'd like to briefly describe the culture and what people perceived as how the culture
was likely to change back when I did it, which was four or five years ago.
And I'd like to hear how it has changed and what the cultural perception was from you now.
So back then, there was very much a concern that the original ethos and the people who
had been coming to Burning Man for 20 or 30 years, that the culture was changing out from
under them and that it was turning from people come and build art that is largely made out
of fire into, and they participate in the 10 principles and do a lot of communal art
and everyone participates and everyone generates art, even if that's just dancing, that's an
art form.
And the fear was that it was turning into people pay a bunch of money in order to have
servants take care of all of their camp's needs.
They show up and never expend any effort.
They just watch the art.
A lot of the art turns from fire into neon and a lot of, and there are like big name DJs
who put on sets and people, the same sort of person who would spend $1,000 to fly to
Europe to go to a rave instead, or in addition, spends $1,000 to go to Burning Man to go to a rave.
So how much do you think that it has turned into that?
And how much do you think the direction has changed?
So as a caveat, it's 70,000 people there, and I saw only like a tiny slice of it.
So I don't know if I'm representative.
However, what I saw was a larger mix of people.
There were definitely the Old Guard.
Our camp elder has gone 18 times, I think, and he skipped a few years.
So it's been at least like 23 years ago was his first time, I think.
And he was very much of the original ethos still.
And he promoted that to the rest of our camp.
And I saw that being lived for the most part with the people that I did meet.
However, since I was there mostly for the art, I didn't really go to the big
rave or stuff.
I did one night go out to one of the huge soundcams, like massive towers in the
sky. It was like a fucking tower of Babylon that was blasting boots and pants
and had fire dancers in front of it.
It was it was kind of cool, actually.
But even the people that I met that were doing that seemed pretty cool
for the most part.
So there was there was a similar sort of fear, though.
There were I heard a few times people saying, man, did you hear about that
camp where you just pay $20,000 and they do everything for you and you get an
air conditioned, you know, jacuzzi inside your RV and everything.
Like, man, that is against the ethos.
And then there were also some people that complained that apparently this
year for the first time you could rent bicycles with money because you've
always been able to buy coffee and ice, right?
Yes.
You can buy coffee at center camp.
That's the only commodity you can buy and then you can buy ice in a few
locations, which I consider really just a necessity of life kind of thing.
But those are the only things you can spend money for in Burning Man up
until this month or this year where now they also had one place where you
could rent bicycles for $100.
Yeah.
And they were purchased a bicycle for less than that.
I did, too.
Yeah.
But I had to carry it on my car.
So I don't know.
Maybe it's worth the extra money to not have to bring it in.
But so there was, there was some complaining about that, too.
There was like people like, that is against the decommodification.
And it's kind of neat to, to have the fact that people are against it.
Still talking about like, I don't think this was right because that helps
keep the culture a little purer, right?
I don't know.
So it seemed to me like basically I would guess it sounds very similar to
what you were doing where people are worried about it changing, but it
doesn't seem like it has changed.
