how you basically just sort of wandered aimlessly, found something cool,
did it for a while, and then went off to something else.
Cool. Yeah.
That's a much better way of doing it than what I did, which is I spent
a long time poring over the list of events and figuring out which ones
I wanted to go to, and of the things that I decided I wanted to go to.
I only managed to successfully find one of them, which was a
make your own armored bikini event.
And yeah, that was my reaction.
I'm like, that's super cool.
I bet I would look good in an armored bikini.
Let's let's do this.
So I went to it and I was not allowed to participate
because I don't have boobies.
Oh, it was this middle aged man who wanted to look at a lot of 20
something topless women.
I wasn't one of those.
And so I wasn't allowed to participate.
It's not even hard to find topless women.
Yeah, you walk around in the playa and they're just there.
Yeah, I mean, dude, that sucks.
Yeah, it did.
And that was I think that and part of the charm of burning man for me
was that you just go and no matter where you go, there's something neat.
And you're like, I will do this for a while.
And every now and then it'll be an amazing thing.
And other times you're like, well, that was neat.
And you go back to camp and someone else is like, I was at this intersection
where this amazing pianist came out and gave everyone headphones.
And like, so it muffled everything else, but you could hear his awesome solo,
but only the people with the headphones could hear it.
And I was like, that sounds fantastic.
I wish I'd been there.
But part of burning man is that you don't get to see everything.
You know, yeah, and you hear about cool stuff.
Yeah, but I also heard a lot of events happen on playa time in air quotes,
which means we're aiming to start it for.
You'll be lucky if it's started by six kind of thing.
Yeah.
And so I would say the two lessons that I would
encourage anyone who's considering going to burning man to to learn
are number one, pick your camp very carefully.
Make sure that your philosophy and your camps
philosophically mesh well and that you like the people in your camp.
And second, don't try to go to any one specific event.
Unless it's like an enormous one, like the burning of the man
or the burning of the temple, those are reliable and you can go to.
And it will be what it is.
Dude, even the opening ceremony started three hours late.
Yeah, like, I don't even remember if I went to the opening ceremony when I was there.
I went at first and I wandered off because it was so long.
And then by the time I wandered back, they were starting.
Yeah.
That worked out well.
Yeah. So I think that in general, something that is very powerful and
not necessarily neglected, but not focused on as much as maybe it could be
is the peak end effect, which is the idea that for an experience,
what you remember and what impacts you the most is not what the
like what your average emotional quality and it was, but rather what the most
significant emotional feeling you had and what the last one you had were.
And so for me, the most significant one was going to all the effort
to find and go to that armored bikini thing and then being turned away.
And the last one was the organizer of my camp being extremely negative
towards another member of the camp who had been more less a fair and just sort
of go around and not want to stick around the camp and hand out alcohol all the time.
And so while there were a lot of other really wonderful things that happened
at Burning Man, those are the two that stuck with me the most and formed
the majority of my opinion of it, which is what made me have the negative
effect towards it that I do.
OK. But there was a lot of other things that were really incredible,
like the veil that Allison wore at our wedding.
We found just blowing through the air on the playa and it like just sort of
connected with like the wind sort of blew it into her face and she kept it.
And that was the veil she wore at our wedding.
That's awesome.
Yeah. And there was a, you know, those fortune telling robots,
where you like feed them, normally you give them a dollar and they well,
they had one at a card.
Yeah, exactly. They had one at Burning Man that was a quest giver.
You didn't have to feed it a dollar because decommodification,
but you press the button and it gives you a quest.
And the quest that it gave me was give Allison a massage.
It literally said the name Allison. Oh, awesome.
I was like, well, more easily accomplished than perhaps expected.
Luckiest place on earth.
Swear to God.
Yeah. So it was a really, there really is an incredible amount of wonderful things there.
And I don't want to make it seem all negative.
I just also think that a lot of people make it seem all positive.
And that's not what it's like because that's not what anything is like.
And knowing what the negatives are that you should expect and that things like,
oh, no, I've, it's things are too expensive.
Well, no, you know what?
All the expenses are up front.
That's not the negative you have to worry about.
The negatives are things like, can you sleep because it is very loud?
Nobody told me about that ahead of time.
So I did bring earplugs, but if I hadn't, that would have been obnoxious.
Yeah. Even with earplugs, if you're next to a sound camp, it doesn't matter.
You can feel it through your air mattress.
That's true.
Did you have any other questions for us regarding the Burning Man?
What about the Burning of the Man?
How is that?
Oh, that is really neat.
It's, I mean, again, Burning Man is what you make of it, but it is a giant,
like fire ritual with fireworks and all around it beforehand.
There's a lot of fire dancers.
There's literally over a hundred fire dancers, I think, around the ring,
just doing awesome fire tricks, and then they light it up and fireworks start going.
And this, you are at least a hundred yards away from the man.
There is a large perimeter for safety reasons.
And yet when it is really going, it is still kind of painful.
I like put my hands up to shield the rest of my body.
It's like, oh God, too hot.
It's already burning hot.
And then there's a fire, right?
Well, it happens at night.
Okay. Yeah.
And it's, yeah, it happens at night, but it is just, I did not know
that wood fire can get that hot.
I was like, I would have believed it of jet fuel, maybe, or the sun, but I, like,
I felt like I was going to get a sunburn.
And I was like, all right, there's no UV coming out of this, but it's crazy hot.
Yeah.
I found the, I found the burning of the temple, which happens the day
after the burning of the man, even more affecting personally, because I spent
a moderate amount of time in the temple and there was a lot of.
Uh, I think probably don't tell people on air what's at the temple, because I
had no idea what to expect along all this art and partying and stuff.
And then I walked into the temple and it hit me like a ton.
I would say that it's a, um, I'll respect your wish, but I will say one thing,
which is that, um, even as someone who didn't personally participate in the
stuff that is in the temple, except as sort of like an observers or going
there to meditate, um, it was a powerful moment of catharsis.
And I think that for people who do actively participate in it, it would be
even more so.
And so I think my time at the temple was the most powerful of my week there.
And, and then the burning of it afterwards is quite something.
Um, also this year, I don't know if you observed this directly or not.
In fact, I was, I was sitting right there when I, he wasn't like right next to
us, but I saw him running all the way in.
I thought he was streaking at first.
Yeah.
You, okay.
So for anyone who doesn't know the event we're referring to, uh, a man
committed suicide by running into the burning man, um, so that gives you an
idea of how emotionally powerful an event it can be.
Um, though going back once more to, uh, the themes of disappointment and
things being different than you expected, I expected quite a bit more
fire at burning man than I actually encountered the amount of, of things
illuminated by neon, I mean, not only rarely by literally neon, but like by
electric lights, uh, was easily a hundred times the amount of things that were
illuminated by fire.
That's true.
But was it not fucking gorgeous?
It was, uh, I there, so there's no public lighting in burning man and it is a
huge area and a lot of people get by on bikes and even the people, and there's
some art cars that drive around too.
So it is everyone's civic responsibility to keep themselves lit at night.
Yes.
And since it's burning man in some art place, a lot of people do it with cool
like neon lights and stuff.
And oh my God, it is so pretty.
It is, it makes Vegas look like shit.
I don't know if I'd go that far.
Well, I already think Vegas is kind of shitty, but man, just the
authenticity and the individual expression on display as well.
Fair enough.
This is another example of the sort of thing that you can get in, uh, specifically
Southeast Asia.
Oh, yeah, they're, yeah, they're very much into incorporating, uh, beautifully
colored electric lights into religious ceremonies and religious, um, uh, like
you'll, you'll see ancient temples with a giant Buddha statue covered in gold
leaf and then also covered in fire in fairy lights because it makes it look
awesome.
Yeah.
And if you are not, I think here in America, we have sort of a tendency to
consider lights like that to be tacky.
Yeah.
Um, but gorgeous.
Yeah.
I agree.
I think they look spectacular.
And as someone who's a big fan of visual spectacle, I like that a lot.
I liked the, that aspect of burning man a lot.
And also I like Las Vegas a lot.
Okay.
So I'm going to go ahead and address this because I'm pretty sure someone is
going to bring it up.
And I asked a number of people at Burning Man themselves this opinion, but, uh,
while I was going there, I kept being struck that this is like literally a
city in the desert.
It's not a ton of infrastructure.
It's more of a tent city, but there is a lot of effort being put into like human
labor and ingenuity and, and just resources being burned, putting this stuff
up, right?
Certainly.
Yeah.
And, um, and then some of the things that you put up are literally destroyed in,
