Hey, this is Eniosh with just a couple notes before we begin.
First, Steven is not in this episode.
Due to overlapping travel plans, he ended up in Japan while we were recording this episode.
However, he will be back next time.
Secondly, after recording this, I realized that it's going to air one day after Stanislav Petrov's day.
Stanislav Petrov was one of a few people in history who were under orders to launch nuclear missiles
and defied those orders in order to not destroy the world.
September 26th is the day we take to commemorate this achievement,
and hopefully everyone had a chance yesterday to stop for a few moments and not destroy the world themselves.
Okay, back to the episode.
Hello, and welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy.
I am Eniosh Brotsky, and today I have with me Shelly.
Hello.
And Thomas, Audi.
And hey guys, guess what I just got back from?
What?
Burning Man. The grocery store?
Okay, so actually it's been a few weeks, but I was recently at Burning Man and I thought it was really neat
and I wanted to talk about it a bit because I thought maybe other people might be interested in hearing about it as well.
And that is one of the reasons also that Thomas is here because you went to Burning Man a few years ago?
Yeah.
And how long ago was it that you went?
It was either 2012 or 2013.
I can't remember exactly.
Okay.
The one that was caravansary themed, if any listener can remember what year that was.
Okay, that is a word I just learned yesterday too.
And it is so weird that like you brought it up today.
That is the only context I've ever heard that word.
Like caravan I've heard before, but caravansary, that's the only time.
Yeah.
So what is that?
That is...
I think it's the adjective form of caravan.
I think it's like a place where caravans go to like get their horses watered and fed and like...
Like a truck stop for caravans almost, back in the day.
That is not what I would describe Burning Man as being like.
But if you are seeking to acquire more water, that is not a good place to try to do that.
Right.
Yeah, well, I mean, it's a dry place, but if you are running low on water, people will give you water.
Which is nice.
Yes.
So, yes, the reason that you specifically are here is because you said you did not like Burning Man at all.
I wouldn't say I didn't like it at all.
I'm saying I would say that it didn't live up to my expectations.
And in particular, it did not live up to the expectations that like all of the burners and the Burning Man organization, BlackRock, whatever,
go out of their way to tell you that it will be.
Oh crap, I now have severe doubts about this podcast, even though we just started it.
Because I went in with like no expectations at all.
I had no idea what to expect, and so I was fucking blown away.
So that seems like a really good way of doing it.
Okay.
I would say that I learned two major lessons, and that's about going to Burning Man, and that's basically a rephrasing of one of them.
Okay.
So I guess our number one piece of advice is turn off this podcast and don't listen to any more of it, and just go to Burning Man and re-listen to us a year from now.
Well, I don't know if I'd go that far.
I would say that this is advice, these are things that I've learned that I would give as advice if someone is going to go to Burning Man.
Okay.
But also, I...
You wouldn't recommend it?
I am down to offer alternative suggestions if you want the same sort of things that you can get out of Burning Man.
Okay.
Well, I have always kind of wanted to go, but at the same time, I don't like the outdoors, and I don't like things.
It's rather broad.
Also stuff.
Don't like stuff either.
Both pretty awful.
Yeah.
So I am curious to hear the pros and the cons of what it's like and whether I should consider going or not.
Okay.
Out of curiosity, what is one of the things that attracts you to Burning Man?
I guess the art specifically, and just new and original things to see.
Maybe not so much to participate in.
I'm not that much of a participator, even though Burning Man is really all about that, right?
It is.
I mean, you don't have to if you don't want to, but you get a lot more out of it if you do.
Just jump in and participate.
Yeah.
I would agree with that.
And I would also say that the art is a great reason to want to go.
The art really is spectacular and incredible.
And both in terms of quality and quantity, that there's an enormous amount of it.
Lots of the pieces are physically enormous.
And almost all of it is really quite good.
I mean, the one thing I heard about Burning Man was that there's a lot of drugs there.
And so...
I'm not telling you when it's again.
No, no, no.
That's just what I had heard.
And so I was like, well, there's probably going to be a lot of drugged out hippies there.
And that was my only real expectation.
But I have a number of people who I respect that have gone and have afterwards said,
guys, this is really amazing.
You should go.
And so with that like loaded in my brain, I was thinking, OK,
eventually one of these days I'll go right get around to going.
And then a ticket kind of fell in my lap.
And so I was like, well, this is perfect.
I am currently unemployed and got nothing else going on.
I should go now.
And so I went.
And yeah, the thing that really surprised me was the art is amazing.
And there's so much of it.
And I did not.
I don't think I saw even half of it, really.
And I spent at least half my time just biking around from one thing to another,
trying to look at all of it.
And part of the problem is that it changes, right?
The art looks different during the day than it does at night,
because, you know, a lot of it is self-lit with neon or fire or something.
And during the day that without that there makes a difference.
And just the environment gives a different air during the day.
Yeah, you brought up a lot of things that I would like to comment on.
So I'll go through them a bit and try to remember them.
Yeah, I would say that Burning Man is one of the best art museums I've ever been to.
And by at least an order of magnitude, the most expensive art museum I've ever been to.
And I'm not sure I would say that it's an order of magnitude better than the other art museums.
I so I've only been to a few art museums.
I think the the biggest one is the one we have here in Denver.
But if other art museums are anything like them,
they're nice air conditioned buildings that display art pieces, right?
That depends enormously on which art museum you go to.
OK, I find that the Netherlands has several of my favorite art museums.
And one of them, the name of which is escaping me right now,
is in the middle of a national park that you have to bicycle to
in order to get to the museum.
Half the exhibits are outside.
They have a bunch of vangos in there, which are amazing in person.
So much more impressive than any photo you've seen of them.
And that whole park is a deliberately
like much like most of the Netherlands deliberately constructed used to be underwater.
And it is designed to show off all of the landscapes that occur in the Netherlands
in one like several square mile park.
Oh, neat.
So like that's the sort of thing that I'm comparing Burning Man to in my mind.
Now, but you have to fly out to the Netherlands to go to that.
So is it really in order of magnitude less expensive than Burning Man?
If you're not, if that's the only reason you're going to go to the Netherlands,
no, then it's probably about the same cost or maybe half as much as going to Burning Man.
OK. And I guess there would be some other
attractions for me besides the art, if I decide to go.
Like I like the whole counterculture vibe and I enjoy some dirty hippies.
The the culture.
Well, actually, before I go on, you will you had some more things you wanted to address.
I do. Yeah.
So you were talking about a lot of people doing drugs at Burning Man.
Burning Man is in Nevada, where all the fun drugs are illegal,
which means that by far, by far, the most common drug there is alcohol.
And alcohol is fun and I like it and I indulge in it every now and then.
I am drinking a screwdriver right now during recording of this podcast.
But also Burning Man is in the desert and it is very hot and very dry.
And alcohol is not a good choice of drug for that environment.
But because there are a lot of cops at Burning Man,
if you openly do other drugs, you will get arrested.
Or at least there's a decent chance you will.
And so one of the principles of Burning Man is a gifting.
It's supposed to be a large portion of what goes on is people giving free things to other people.
And I was led to expect that that would be similar to the gifting marijuana culture
that I was familiar with from going to college in Oregon,
where there's a whole lot of people standing in a circle, passing a pipe around
and inviting but not pressuring anyone who happens by to join.
But instead, I found that all of the illegal drugs were done in secret
and not open to outsiders.
And instead, there was a lot of people drinking openly and offering alcohol openly.
And I found that much less pleasant and chill.
And I encountered easily 50 times as many drunk, early 20-something
frat boy rave type people as I did aging stoner hippies.
And I say that as a man who is in a fraternity.
OK, so I was going straight this year, so I did not take any drugs.
And therefore, I mean, part of that reason is because, as we said earlier,
when we did our drugs episode, I didn't want my first use of an illicit substance
to be someplace where I was not comfortable and familiar with the people.
And I had never done any of those drugs before.
So I was like, I'm not going to do them for the first time at Burning Man.
But I also kind of get the feeling that a lot of Burning Man is what you make of it.
And since I wasn't there for the drugs at all, that didn't bother me.
If someone was going for the drugs, they'd probably want to bring
their own or go with a group of people that they trust.
I agree. And I did bring my own.
But a part of what I was frustrated and disappointed by was that I deliberately
brought enough that I could share with strangers.
But then it was quite difficult to because whenever I was thinking like, OK,
I'll I found a shady spot.
I'm going to set up camp here for a few hours and give away free drugs to people.
And I would start unloading my backpack and get ready to bring out a bong.
And then a cop would walk by.
I would hide everything, wait a few minutes, think, OK, maybe now I can.
And then a cop would walk by and I go, all right, screw this.
And I would get back on my bike and go somewhere else. OK.
So I wanted to be able to share that experience with other people.
And as someone who's already has done quite a lot of drugs
and is very comfortable with them, I wasn't looking to have a first time
experience or looking to mooch off of other people.
I was looking to give things away and then I couldn't.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
I when I when I went the I worked at a tea house,
which was kind of a come and relax here if something's, you know,
if you're stressed or something's going wrong.
So I saw a number of pretty wasted people, which was interesting.
So there were plenty of drugs and I went with my camp.
