ritual afterwards.
Well, uh, I want to go back to what, uh, Jenkins was trying to say, he was
saying that there are already things that we do in everyday life that could be
considered rituals.
Do you, do you, what do you think about that?
Yeah, I don't know.
I, there's a comment that I'm going to read soon that I agree with a lot, but I
do have like, um, it's weird now that I'm unemployed because I've been employed
my entire life since I was 19 and I developed a lot of rituals around that.
And, uh, when I decided to finally start taking care of my body and paying
attention to the physical aspects of being alive, uh, every Monday, Wednesday,
Friday, when I came home, first thing I did when I came home was work out for an
hour and then I would go on to eat dinner or do whatever I want to do.
And that became like a ritual of its own for me.
And, uh, it was, it was sort of the taking away of the option to do other things.
Like I will come home and I will do this and that's all there is to it.
And now that I'm unemployed, I still keep with that Monday, Wednesday, Fridays
and the evenings I'll work out for an hour.
And I think the reason that works is because I had so many years of doing it
as a ritual that it became ingrained.
Whereas if I had been unemployed from the beginning and just decided to work
out for an hour on those days, it never would have stuck.
It was the coming home, taking off the work clothes and jumping straight into
that that became sort of a, a thing that constrained what I do.
And so I think there are some rituals like that.
Do you, do you have any rituals you are thinking of that you do?
Uh, I, I'm really feeling the, the, the need to define ritual at this point,
which I don't think ever really happened.
How would you like to define ritual?
I don't fucking know.
I, my instinctive thought about what makes something a ritual is that has a
structure that you keep to that doesn't have a direct utilitarian value, but
instead is sort of done in order to give it a consistent structure.
And I think that's something that is traditionally has been a crucial aspect
of rituals is that they're repeated.
Um, and that, so for example, the fact that you do this every Monday,
Wednesday, Friday makes it a ritual.
Whereas if you just one week, you were like, this week on Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, I'm going to work out for an hour.
Then it would not really be a ritual.
And so something that I think, um, the, that makes it really interesting
to do rituals for the first time.
Um, and I think the fact that like we've each been to Burning Man once,
um, perhaps makes the ritual aspects of it less powerful.
And I was thinking about things that were definitely rituals that I've done.
The one that sticks in my mind the most is my wedding.
Um, and that was very powerful for me and was very customized for the two of
us that we were in the park.
We were barefoot, which is not a standard part of the traditional marriage ceremony.
We had vows that we wrote ourselves.
We were our mutual friend.
Um, Raymond is what you might know him by from the internet, uh, officiated.
And all of that was stuff that was very customized to us.
And that caused it to be significant and powerful in that way.
But also to a degree removed a source of power that, that, that the marriage
ceremony that ritual has had for other people, which is doing it in exactly the
same way that their parents did and their parents did and their parents did.
And the fact that ours was so different.
I think is, um, as well as being a strength is also a weakness.
And I think that something that, especially for contrarians and
meta-contrarians, like many rationalists are, we sort of break with tradition as
a point of pride that we want to be different.
We want to be unique.
We want to not continue doing things the same way as they've been done before
just because they've been done that way before.
And I think that in many ways that's a good and wonderful and powerful thing and
a source of strength.
And I approve of it.
But it's not only that.
And I think it's worth keeping in mind that a large source of the power of
ritual is that you know that your community has done this same thing hundreds
of times before going back far longer than you've existed.
And that your weight of time really adds something to it.
Yeah.
You're, you're bringing a meme into the future.
And that is something that I have not really experienced and I sort of can't
experience because even when I'm, you know, like invited by someone to
participate in their holiday, which has happened a lot of times, I'm always sort
of coming at it from an anthropological perspective that I'm not someone who is
raised in this culture.
I'm someone who's observing this culture.
And I suspect that that's a very common point of view among people listening to
this and I would be really curious for later feedback if there are people who
aren't coming from that point of view, someone who was raised Orthodox Jewish
or strongly Catholic and still does that.
And I'm curious to hear what that's like for them.
I know I personally also always felt as an outsider within my own culture.
And part of that was, you know, because I was an immigrant and I didn't know
anyone here, my parents didn't have any roots here, you know, and we joined
a fairly young religion and all that helped, but also just the fact that I
was really nerdy and that wasn't a big thing yet at the time.
And I don't know if it is even nowadays in elementary schools, but I, I felt the
more the weight of tradition when I saw one of my friends who has kids, which
is pretty rare, passing on the tradition of watching Star Wars and passing
on this whole Luke, I am your father.
And like that's like a shared mythos that the nerds have, right?
And at this point, I guess it's infiltrated the wider culture as well.
But that I actually felt some connection to, like these are my people.
These are our mythological stories.
Yeah.
I'm kind of the same as you in that, uh, if I can't like fully buy into the
tradition, then, then I don't value that sense of, you know, of that history
because it's not something I believe in or approve of.
I will say, I do think it was a mistake to deritualize marriage and put it
in the hands of government because the, I want to do an entire episode on
marriage at one point, but I, most people don't realize that you give up a
portion of your legal personhood when you enter marriage.
And I think for something that dramatic as giving up some of your personhood,
there should be a large ritual that is like, you're sacrificing a chunk of you.
This is important.
And going down to the courthouse and signing a paper doesn't have the
emotional weight that a ritual should have when you're doing, giving away
something like that.
Yeah.
And on that particular subject, um, Allison and I did the ritual and didn't
go down to the courthouse and sign the piece of paper.
Oh, so you did it the better way.
In my opinion.
Yeah.
Are you happy?
Yes.
Awesome.
I would have done that, uh, if there were not like legal reasons for me to, you
know, to not do, yeah, to, to actually do a marriage license, but part of me
really did want to do just the wedding and not the legal.
Yeah.
That would have been the real marriage.
Yeah, exactly.
Did you have some sort of ritual, a wedding or something?
Yeah, I had a, uh, traditional Christian Protestant wedding.
I feel weird because I would not want to spend the thousands of dollars
that one of those weddings always entails.
And, but I think a large part of that is because I have such a objection to
the Christian Protestant sort of, uh, aesthetic.
And I, I recognize that for a ritual like that, sacrificing a lot of personal
value is an important part of it.
So.
Well, also you don't need to spend that much.
Like, you don't need to.
I mean, Alison and I spent about $500 on our wedding.
Yeah.
All, all everything included.
Yeah.
You know, including her dress, for example.
So, I mean, I had a, I went to a friend's marriage, I was in his backyard
and I think he spent less than $200, just some food for people and some drinks.
Yeah.
We got those.
We actually used drinks.
We already had my aunts and her grandma made food, uh, and there was not a
whole lot of money that we needed to spend.
Yeah.
Um,
I also want to bring up, and I wish I had watched this before the podcast
because I don't remember a lot of it, but it's a scene from Star Trek.
And it's when, which one?
Uh, next generation, the best one.
No.
And, um, data is talking to Dr.
Nune and Sung soon.
And I think, I think Dr.
Soon is dying at this point or something like that.
Anyway.
And, uh, data is like, I totally forgot, like what exactly you asked him.
I think it's something like, why did you create me?
Cause, um, that is the creator of data.
Um, and yeah.
It's a good thing we put that out there because all of us were like nodding along.
Yes.
You go keep going, but not everyone has seen it.
And Dr.
Soon, uh, turns the question back on data, which is kind of a long conversation.
Have when he's dying, I don't, I don't remember.
Um, and he's like data, why do humans like old things and data responds that they
liked feeling the connection of themselves back to history and their ancestors in a
sense of their lives being, uh, more than their own short lives because they're in
a sense part of history and their ancestors.
And then Dr.
Soon says, yes, that's right.
That's what the humans think.
And also that's why I created you because, and why people have children, I guess,
because they also want to do it into the future, not just in the past.
Same thing.
And I was listening to that and I was like, you know, that's a real thing and it's
powerful and I hate it because, um, like having connections to people is cool,
but your life is still just your life and you can't claim their lives as your own,
even if they wanted you to, like even if you're their kid, they wanted your life
to be like a part of theirs and theirs to be part of yours and you both want it.
But no, it's just not true.
Your life is your life.
And I, I don't really like this idea of like extending yourself through other
people and making them part of you and you're part of them.
And it's, yeah.
I, I kind of think that even though it's sort of true that you can't have anyone
else's life, I think that it is a useful fiction and that it is maybe good and
psychologically healthy for humans to have that sort of feeling that they are
part of their community and a larger thing, a larger organism that will keep
going and that their children are an extension of that.
I just.
But I also feel that maybe has like benefits, but also some real negatives
