quote at the end is Jay. Okay, let's usually like screams the quote. Yeah. Carl Sagan. Yeah.
Or he screams rather than the person who's quote to God damn it. So he tried to scream
Eliezer Kasky. I was like, Oh, Eliezer, you're the kind of Kaskinowski. And so like, apparently,
uh, somebody like poked Eliezer was like, Hey, I think they're making fun of you on this like
podcast, this like skeptics guide thing. And he like popped onto the forum and was like,
what's going on here? And there. Oh, no, that's just my brother who can't pronounce names and is
an idiot like, Hey, do you want to be on our podcast? Sure. And then he was on an episode of
the podcast. Oh, excellent. And that is how I found there. Which podcast was it? Skeptics guide to
the universe. You cast you was on one of those. I missed that one. Huh? No, that's fun. Quite a
while ago. But uh, and I don't even know if he was on if he was like, no, I think he was on an
episode in the interview to him about AI stuff. Cool. That's cool. I might be misremembering.
That's another group of people that you can tell at the very least Jay and Bob keep up with the
Rationalist community. Yeah. But yeah, they're great. Maggie, I got Jay to do the voice of the
groundskeeper. Yeah, that was awesome. I was so stoked. I preached as Zilla pointed out the example
that I thought would have been informative to Julia when she was writing her book. Julia
has to know about it. Exactly. Yeah. She has to know about it and chose to do the opposite. So
I think that's yeah. I mean, I think she's she's calling out specific people. Right. Like I was
I was sort of joking, but sort of not like she will she will call out in the book people who
she's had a Twitter disagreement with. And it's like, okay, what's the point of doing that except
to create, uh, you know, a beef, which is then going to serve as as marketing, basically. Yeah,
I guess that's the point at least once or twice. She had said, you know, Dave, not his real name
or something. So maybe what she's trying to do with that, because again, I'm going to assume,
I'm going to take the doof fiction approach and just assume that everything she's doing
is on purpose because she's a genius. And I'm assuming that she's doing those specifically
to say these are personal examples I use in my real life. These aren't abstract techniques that one
can apply only from your armchair. Like these are things I try to do all the time. Yeah. Yeah. I
think you're right. Could be. I mean, it makes it more vivid when you have a real world example.
And there's sort of a tone I feel, which this is not a criticism, just an observation where she's
like, look, I've been, I've been trying to explain these ideas for like 15 years and you
fucking people just don't listen to me. And I have, I have a lot of thoughts on this and you're
going to hear about it now. Um, it's not entirely aggro. I imagine it feels really good to have a
book published kind of worldwide and you have the opportunity to like call specific people out
and they don't have an equal size, like a microphone to call back at you.
It's very hedonistic, but it probably does feel quite good.
I mean, the people that she calls out, I'm assuming are already people are in the public
eye because others know about them. So they have a microphone to speak back with.
One's like an example with her cousin when they were kids, but like,
you're allowed to throw your family under the bus.
That one was less about like an uncharitable thing towards the cousin, more of an uncharitable
thing towards herself. It was the, um, she wasn't halo effect exactly. This was early in the book,
Matt. It was talking about like, Oh, my cousin was playing me, you know, her favorite album or
whatever. And she was two years older than me. So in my mind, incredibly sophisticated. And so
I was just agreeing. I'm like, Oh my God, yeah, I love them too. They're great. And then the cousin
plays one and like, that's my actually my favorite song of theirs. And she's like, Yeah, me too. I
think it's my favorite. Ha, I tricked you. It's actually my least favorite song of theirs. Oh,
that's me. And then she's like, I could feel in my mind, my mind, my position on the song
actually shifting. Like, I wasn't lying when I said it was my favorite. It was just like,
I was, I felt that way because I was inclined to try and impress her or something.
It was like, that's where I mean, like, it's a very, like, you know, very personal example
sort of thing. And we do this all the time, you know, with often with things more consequential
than like, do you like this song? Right? Right. And I had the exact same experiences with the
music and movies and stuff when I was a kid. So you know, that's a lot of what you like is
being part of a culture and fitting in with your culture. Yeah, I think it takes a level of,
I don't know, I adulthood isn't the right word, but neither is maturity. Maybe you have to run
out of so many fucks before you're willing to burn any on like, challenging somebody. But,
you know, if they like something that you don't or vice versa, it also may be that like, once
you're old enough in your thirties or later, your tastes are somewhat fixed. Because at that point,
if you have not found your community and already started reproducing evolutionarily, you're already
fucked. So your taste don't matter anymore. It's, you know, it's only when you're young and you need
to fit in in order to survive that your tastes change to like what you're mostly surrounded with.
I don't know, that sounds like evil psych and West right now would bonk me. I mean,
it's too bad he's not here. I'm just thinking it's more like,
you just get like a level of confidence where you don't need to move your every
preference with the whims of people around you, right? Yes. Someone just linked the
My Immortal as Alchemical Algory, which is fantastic. They're talking in the chat about
criticism of work and how, when you can assume that the author is a genius and when you can't.
And I love, yeah, Scott's take there. All right, what is My Immortal? Oh,
oh, My Immortal is a fantastic Twilight fanfic, which is basically, it's like the amazing
Man 2 of Twilight fanfics in that it makes fun of them, but also is kind of fun to read or at least,
I don't know, maybe I'm flattering myself by saying Amazing Man 2 was kind of fun to read.
But My Immortal is really fun to read and it's a great parody of fanfics and it is
like consciously trying to be as bad as possible, while still being readable and enjoyable.
And, and Scott goes and analyzes it as if he, as if this was like a great work of literature.
He was told by his college professors is a great work. So proving that you can find
genius in anything if you are bamboozled in a fire culture. I love it. That's perfect. Yeah.
How I propose this is like the Monroe's Law, except for SKCD, or excuse me, for SSC because
of the sub community that we're all in. So yeah, first of all, yeah, she can give
herself a little more credit. Also, if anybody else wants to get on voice, it's
Oh, Evan Langley says maybe not on purpose. No one knows. I submit that there is no way that
thing could have been written with by someone who was not totally who knew what they were doing
and was doing it that way on purpose. It's like Chuck Tingle. The first time you read a Chuck
Tingle thing, you're like, is this guy crazy? And the more you read it, the more you're like,
Oh no, this is definitely someone who probably is a very successful author. Yeah, I would imagine
a very successful author in whatever genre of literature they choose to write in and does this
for fun, because you can tell after a while that these things are intentional and they're just
having fun. They're trolling you. It's mis, what? What? Maybe the story, the My Immortal is full
of these things. Oh, okay. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's, it's a strange story. It is fucking strange.
Yeah. Does anybody else want to get on voice? And as long as we're plugging books, anyone who's
not reading Worth the Candle absolutely should be Matt calling you out, especially. I'm telling you
I know you're busy. Yeah, I know only three chapters a week. Isn't that math?
It's, it's, it's not even close to enough.
Poor Steven. I finished reading this week's reading on, we record on Tuesdays. Yeah,
Wednesday that like before the end of the workday. I thought you texted me, like at midnight saying,
you know, just finished plowing through it, or was it just through chapter 19?
It's through at least a couple of chapters. Yeah, by midnight that night, I stayed up reading and
I'm like, even as I, as I read, I'm like, I'm going to regret this. I'm going to regret this.
I should stretch this out, but I ran through it. So no, that sounds done.
Yeah. I've just crunched through all of it. It's really good shit.
I'm going to get off the voice so that other people can have a chance and we're also talking
of each other. I do just want to leave you with one question though, hosts. Okay.
And that is, if there was ever a Muppet recasting of the Beijing Constituency podcast,
which Muppet would you want to play each of you? Hmm. I, are the Muppets the Sesame Street
characters? No. I mean, there are Muppets on Sesame Street as well, but there's also the ones
from the Muppet show, which would include it like Fonzie the Bear and Miss Piggy. I think
Gonzo. Wait, Kermit and Miss Piggy weren't Muppets or weren't a Sesame Street. Kermit was the only
one of the Muppets that was on Sesame Street. I see. I grew up apparently on the wrong side of
television. I didn't watch any of these things. Are those two angry guys who yell from like the
balcony? Yeah, those are on. Yeah. I want them to play me. Can be Steven. Cool. Someone has to be
Beaker. Statler and Waldorf are the guys on the balcony. That's it. Yeah. Is that a hard choice?
I feel like Miss Piggy maybe or like animal.
Oh man. Do you play drums? I actually have played drums in the past and I've been thinking about
getting back into it. I would want to be played by the Muppet version of Angel from the episode of
Angel where they turned into Muppets. That's so cool. All right. Thank you very much. Thanks, Nick.
Appreciate it. Have a good rest of the podcast, everyone. Thank you very much.
Wizard said that they'd be Count Dracula. That reminds me or The Count, right? There's a
YouTube video where I think every time he's counting... A necessary censorship? Yeah,
he censors him and it sounds really filthy when he's censoring. I think he's just saying numbers.
No, he's saying the word count. Oh, okay. Yeah. I like to count or counting is my thing.
So if you look up on Wikipedia the list of Muppets, Oscar the Crouch isn't on there. Count
what's his name? The Count isn't on there. This is not Muppets. Oh, hey. Evelyn says I look
surprisingly like the Angel Muppet. Thank you. I am very flattered. Ernie and Bert.
Yeah. Speaking of Wikipedia pages that The Count is on, if you go to the Wikipedia page on fictional
vampires, there's this big breakdown chart of all the vampires, including their powers, weaknesses,
and all this and that. Count Chocula. No, I was thinking Count Chocula, not The Count. The Count
is also on there. The Count Chocula is on there. His powers include turning milk,
like chocolatey sweet or something. His weaknesses include turning soggy and milk.
Surely everyone must be thinking the existence of a fictional vampire's Wikipedia page
strongly implies the existence of a non-fictional vampire's Wikipedia page, which sounds much
more interesting. Masquerade suppresses that one. Someone up above said Muppets include
Labyrinth Muppets and Jordan Peterson. Oh, from the lobster thing? No, it's just
Jordan Peterson. He looks like him up. It sounds like Kermit. I think he's actually embraced that
as part of his brand. I look hard from Helsing is the best vampire. Oh, from Helsing Abridged.
Okay, cool. I never saw all of Helsing, but probably because I didn't have the Abridged
version. And like most animes, it was like 12 episodes. No. There's an OVA that is a lot better
that might be what you're thinking of. Okay. And it's a lot, I think closer to the longest.
Jojo's Bizarre Adventure also has good vampires and a lot of filler episodes.
What does? Jojo's Bizarre Adventure. Good vampires and lots of filler episodes.
I have never seen that, but I've had so many people talk about it. I couldn't get into it, but
like, I like that it exists. But yeah, it's... I will say the Helsing soundtrack is amazing. Oh my
God, it's so good. So much good music. I remember you used one of their songs somewhere in
Methods of Rationality, I think. Probably did. Yeah. It stuck out because I hadn't seen the show
in years and years, but all the music is very memorable. Yeah. All right. Did anybody else
want to jump on, chat, ask us anything, that kind of stuff? Talk to us. Oh, for anyone who's not
on the live chat, they just posted a really good meme. Love it. Keep the memes coming.
Yeah. Johnny, you had something you were saying?
No. I just hopped on because I am apparently the only person on this wide and wonderful
internet with a microphone who wants to join in right now. Well, we also, I think, have default
mute just because we couldn't have 10 people try and unmute at the same time. So you have to raise
your hand if you want to say stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Just like say, add something at us in the chat,
or you don't even have to add us. We're paying attention to it. You can do the wave emoji that
he actually doesn't use enough to have it and they're frequently used. Yeah, that's true. Oh,
man. So someone gave us the, sent a link to the stage option in Discord, which would have been
absolutely fucking perfect for this, where for the most part, people just, you know, are watching,
but they can raise their hand and the moderator, like Stephen, for example, could pull them up on
stage and then they would be talking to everyone. Like it was the coolest fucking feature, but you
could only enable it if you turn your community, your Discord channel into a community channel.
And that included, like, giving Discord the, I mean, I know they already look through our
shit anyway, but explicitly giving Discord permission to scan everything that's posted and
censor not safe for work things, unless they're in the not safe for work channel. And I was just
like, you know what, fuck right off. I'm not sure I want to deal with that. Like maybe next time
we could just enable it for one day and then disable it afterwards. But what was the perk of
doing that? There's a stage setting, which is kind of does what we want to do here, but better.
I see. Yeah, you know, we're managing. Yeah. Anything we'd like to know about our audience?
Oh, turning it around on you, Megan, you asked the questions.
I asked the questions here. No, I don't know. I'll just put it on the back burner for a minute.
I think you like the turntables. I never watched The Office because I saw a few episodes,
but even I'm familiar with that and it's one of my favorites.
Like I would like to know what the average age of listeners is, but that's more of a survey
question than. Yeah, I'm thinking of survey quit. Like what careers do people have or
aspirationally want? Like, hey, me too. Where in the world are people located? Survey questions.
So we got 20, 25, 32, 39, 52.
Scooter, your voice sounds surprisingly deep for a six year old. Oh, Zila is apparently immortal.
Oh, good. I got to point out that like, I love half of what you guys say on the
non-spoilery worth the channel, worth the candle chat are like things that,
so we record on Tuesdays, the day after the episode comes out. And since you guys don't talk
about the episodes that we covered until the following Friday, I don't get to steal any
of the ideas, but you guys say half the things that I say most episodes and I love it. It's very
gratifying. And you guys had some back and forth earlier this week that thought was great about
shoot, but I'd said I'd read it. I'd pay $100 to read a fiction of it that if you guys
wanted to work on it together. That's right. I think there's some worth the candle fanfics out
there. I should look them up after we're done recording here because I mean, they got to be
awesome, right? I enjoy the transhuman future that we're existing right now where like a lot of
media consists of fanfics of fanfics. Yeah. How does that make it a transhuman future?
I don't know. This is very meta. We've surpassed fiction.
This is true. What I know about transhumanism is it's when things are more than other things.
Scooter knows of at least one worth the candle fanfics. If it's good, please link it. And I
will check it out. Alexander Wales just came out with chapters 29 and 30 last night
for the early patrons. And I wanted to read it, but then I was like, you know, that Drake meme
where he's like, nah, to reading chapters 229, 230. And yeah, that's right. The chapter is 19
through 21 again. I got the email about that because I support Scott or Alexander Wales on
Patreon. And I'm like, well, I saw that it goes to at least chapter 230. That's as far as I can see.
And you've got to wait a long fucking time to get there. I'm sorry.
Whenever we stop recording, I'm immediately going to go home and read those chapters,
which how long are we going to keep going just like until we get exhausted?
Yeah, well, probably pick a hard end time or we have no hard end time. But I figure usually
we record for about two to two and a half hours. So somewhere around then. Yeah, just hanging out.
Yeah. Oh, more coffee. Yes. We should have another. No, not right now. Oh, okay. In the future.
Yeah. I wish Alexander Wales would make one character out.
Read HPMOR. Oh, that'd be great. And then HPMOR stuff can start showing up.
Oh my God, we have to record until the sun explodes. A high priestess has decreed it.
