your body feels awesome. It's about as close to orgasm as I could imagine we can get without
literally putting wires in our brains. And even in the midst of that, when I could ground myself
and remember that I was a person with a name and a history, I was glad my whole life wasn't like that.
Because not everything that I get value and enjoyment out of was found in that state.
Now, I think if you steal me on wireheading to say yes, but wireheading includes all of the other
things, or even maybe just rewires you to not care about those things, that's a different thing.
But me as I am doesn't want to live in perpetual bliss, although that would make a fun occasional
weekend, right? Have you tried any of the drugs MDMA that has gotten you into that quasi-wirehead
state? Me? Why We Cur? No, because until... I think we just lost him. Oh dear. We can't hear you.
Yep, we have just lost Why We Cur's audio. Dread. Oh, well. Can you still hear us? Why
We Cur? Maybe you could just type. I mean, you're still in the voice channel, but it says he is on
Did I cut out? Hey, we can hear you now. Okay, where did I cut out? Very near the beginning.
Right as you were starting to answer. All right, just give me a second. I'm just gonna
exit that building here. Oh, someone posted that pleasure is your brain's way of tricking you into
reproducing. Was that it? Reproducing your genes? A little bit. Yeah, I like that. Pleasure is a
DNA thing on you to help it extend further into the future. Nice. Yes, go ahead. Yeah, so I was
just gonna say I have not tried anything like that because I'm actually scared of getting addicted
to it, but that's not... I just want to make clear that that's not an argument against wireheading
per se, because if I knew that I could live like that for the rest of my life, then I would probably
try it, but since I can't, it seems a bit pointless to me. You certainly can live like that for the
rest of your life if you don't mind your life being less than 80 years. I think that's what
they're saying though, yeah. Right, yeah, but I think that would be a negative compared to
a normal life. You know what I mean? Yeah, and I would never advocate drug use without anyone doing
tons of background homework and research. I'll just say very briefly that I don't think in my
understanding and experience that you can get addicted to psychedelics like you get addicted
to opioids or something, for example. Some people can though. Some people can. There's definitely
probably a risk. It's pretty rare. You know, certainly you could wish you could do them more
often or something, but I mean, one of the fun things about MDMA that prevents that is that
apparently the human brain, for whatever reasons, seems to only have a couple dozen, maybe three
dozen rolls in them or three times where they can get really brushed off of it in a lifetime,
and then your brain just stops working for people who've done it a bunch. So that said,
if you're desperately chasing that dragon and take a ton, I'm sure it could probably still kill
you, even if you're not getting whatever the experience from it, but you're not an expert.
So do tons of homework before doing any drugs. It's an interesting comment that I mean, I mean,
just, oh, sorry. Well, I was just gonna say, it's interesting that you said you're not, you think
it would still be net negative. I think that means almost that you might not be quite a
wireheader because I would assume someone who is like super wireheaded. If I could work up enough
money so that I could just be blissed out on MDMA for 10 years straight and then die,
that probably would be net positive for the wireheader because 10 years of bliss is probably
better than the next 60 years of just working and struggling through life and getting older,
like everyone else in the world. I mean, that depends on your life, right? You know,
certainly have a better life than the description you gave there, or at least I think so. I mean,
I would be super into having a longer length discussion on it at some point.
I'm not saying to shut it down now, but this sounds like there's a lot more to explore here,
and I need to articulate my thoughts on wireheading and stuff before I can engage with it too much
longer, but that's just me. I did want to, just because I feel like with the discussion of discomfort
and suffering and all that, I feel like we might not be operating on quite the same
understanding of what we're talking about with wireheading because when I'm talking about wireheading,
what I'm trying to say is that you are in a state where you are feeling a sufficient amount of pleasure
that no conceivable state that you could be in would be better than the one you are in in your
preference order. So it's like nothing that could possibly happen would make you happier than you
are right now. So when I talk about you have no suffering or you have no discomfort, what I literally
mean is you cannot want anything more than you currently have. So whether you conceptualize that
as a limit on your desires or a maximum point on your pleasure scale or two different things that
are happening at the same time, that is what I am trying to talk about when I talk about wireheading.
It sounds so boring. What I'm hearing is that since Wes is our resident wireheader, we should just
get him on for an episode about wireheading and why we care. I think perhaps so. And when you were
talking about being maximally blissed out and couldn't possibly want anything different,
this little voice in my head was like, yeah, but our brains are adaptive machines. So sooner
later, that's why I don't think hell would work. Yeah. Well, yeah, you assume you turn that part
off for the good wireheading, you know, you part of the wire burns out the part of your brain that
adapts to things, I guess. So does the hell. That was part Simpson's comeback is like easing into a
hot bath like you just get used to it. But I imagine that if you're a clever, clever Satan,
you turn off the part that gets used to it. Maybe we should look at current research with actual
brains of living beings and kind of take it from there with our wireheading discussion.
Maybe in the realm of possibility would be kind of interesting place to start.
We're going full transhuman future. You can make whatever brain you want.
Well, I don't know. I mean, even beyond the point of like, it is bad form to say the efficacy of
my argument has nothing to do with the nature of reality. But I do think this is an argument that
takes place in a perfect philosophical sphere that's sitting on a perfect philosophical plane.
Couldn't have said it better myself.
It's not really concerned by such constraints. It's you're feeling really good and you can't
feel any better that how that's happening is not part of the question.
Okay, but for me, that's unusual for rationalists to have that kind of discussion.
We're not saying you can't. We're not immune from intellectual or intellectual masturbation.
This is very true. Also, petitions to rename it from wireheading to intellectual masturbation.
They're different things. You can intellectually get off on whatever random thing you want to
talk. I meant it mainly in the sense of just engaging in pointless thought experiments just
for the fun of burning an afternoon talking about it. I mean, I don't hate to bring this up.
I really like to bring this up. In the book club channel, they were just reading
Steven Watts' Blind Sight. Quick question. Could anyone post real quick,
are you gotten to the point where you can talk about the full book or are people still working
through the last chapters? Peter Watts. Yes, I think I said Peter Watts. I meant two anyways.
Is it okay to talk about the full book now or are people still in the reading the final
chapter's version of this book club? Since no one's typing, I'll answer that quick question.
What was your favorite example of a time when you changed your opinion on something?
The first one that came to mind, this was early in my days of waking up as a sentient person. I
mentioned in the Worth the Candle non-spoiler channel, but I didn't really come online as a
person till I was 20 something. So maybe earlier than that, I was listening to a libertarian podcast
and the guy was fun. It was laid back and he had made some comment about how the wage gap between
men and women getting paid was like horseshit and obviously on its face because he's like,
you're telling me that Walmart, the super selfish corporation, wouldn't take the opportunity to
save 25% of their income by just hiring exclusively women. And so I was like, wait a minute, this
guy's not on, like this guy's denying the wage gap exists. Fuck this, I got out of there.
And so he basically stopped, I don't know if I unsubscribed or if he stopped posting stuff
shortly thereafter, but it wasn't until like years later when I was learning more about it,
about the nuances of the wage gap that I realized that I dismissed it only because I had in my
head that, oh no, this is a real thing, women get paid 77 cents on the dollar. And it was as
simple as that. It turns out that there's more nuance there. And that's where this guy was coming
from. And just to me, I came into it from a very politically charged point of view and dismissed
him as being just some blind shill for the wrong opinion, where in fact, I think I was closer
to that. Now that said, that's not saying that there's no wage gap, it's just saying that you
couldn't fire your staff that was mostly men and hire all women and pay them 77 cents for the
dollar that you're paying men. If that was doable, somebody would have done it by now,
and they would have saved a lot of money, right? When you get paid on average for other reasons
that some are correctable and some are convoluted, but it wasn't that straightforward. So that's
just because it's convoluted doesn't mean it's not correctable. Growth mindset. Exactly.
There are industries that are largely manned by women that, words are terrible.
Like the whole healthcare industry, cleaners, education.
Manned by women is a funny sentence. In tech and other industries where you can calculate work
and how long this will take per person of working on it, one unit is man hours. And that's what we
use at my company. And my team is now 20% women. And we've talked about it. And because I never
heard the term until I started like my first week. And I was like, you guys have like four women
engineers here, you guys call it man hours. And he's like, you know, we've asked, they don't care.
I'm like, they might say that though, because you're their boss. Anyway, so I asked, and it's one
person, she doesn't mind it. But I don't know why you would stick to that when person hours works the
same human hours. Yeah. Well, I'm doesn't man like mankind. And that have a generic, you know,
this species. It does. But but humankind isn't all that much harder to say. And it almost sounds
more formal. I really think they're going to pay you stupid. You really think they're going to pay
all this, the additional wages for you saying an extra syllable every time you say person hours.
Only if you're a guy.
I think I clicked something. I can get us back to where we were. But no, the reason I brought
up blindsight is because everyone is saying it's more or less okay to mention it. At the end of
the book, I'm I think this comes up even before the end of the book. But basically, maybe like
plug your ears for the next 30 seconds, if you don't want to hear this, basically, all of humanity
that's back on earth is putting itself into a wirehead state and just checking out of existing
anymore. And that is like, I mean, the whole book is about consciousness. So this is like,
are those humans still conscious? And it's an interesting question that the book asks. And I
think it was like, for the people that have read to the end and are pro wireheading, do you consider
blindsight to have a good ending? Because basically, the entire human species is wireheading itself.
The other the other happy ending story like that is Three Worlds Collide.
I was just gonna say that. Yeah. Although it's a really hard time paying attention to the
conversation. It's like, who, who, who, who, who?
Enyosh broke broke one of the conventions of of fair intellectual masturbation,
which is you drop the C word, you're not supposed to do that. Oh, consciousness.
Yeah, because that always gets us dragged off on to another giant whole conversation.
And it strikes me, this is going to be really weird to listen to if you don't also
have the chat to read. Yeah, we're responding to the chat a lot. Oh, yeah, who would see the
question. Enyosh, we've got a quick question for you. Then I want to jump to this next one.
Okay. Oh, Enyosh, how much of shift to libertarianism do you attribute to David,
the king of economics, who is also my co host on the mind killer podcast?
Is that his title? Maybe. The economics. Officially, this is the man of spears, yes.
David, the economic model is his current name on the discord.
Not that much. Maybe 5%. I would say that. Okay, a good 40% is just generally aging and
interacting with the capitalist system a lot, and realizing that there's a lot of forces that
that push people in a way that make would make a strict communism untenable, but also that
our current government is really, in my opinion, getting in the way of things. So part of it is
just, you know, having more experience with capitalism as it is. Another good 40 to 45%
is reading Scott Alexander, because gosh, he's a convincing writer, even when he's wrong. I don't
know if he's wrong about this, but he's been. He has the anti libertarian FAQ. He does. Which is
funny because he is like, he's basically libertarian. Yes. And so yeah, reading his
writings has really pushed me quite a bit there. So I'd say a small majority of it is due to
Scott Alexander. And then, you know, the other 5% would be David. What's fun about Scott Alexander
is he's like the Superman of steel manning. Yeah. He can write a very compelling argument for something
that he would never endorse. Then this other one was from Phoenix that I saw when it came up,
and then I'm glad you bumped it again to get it back on the radar.
What's the area in life that you're going the most slash work is the most important right now?
So I wish I'd thought of an answer before I brought that up.
I have one if you want one. Yeah, I've got a I've got a crappy half answer. So go right ahead.
I feel like Phoenix might have mine, but for the rest of y'all, I'm actually working a lot on
trying to feel my emotions and be able to name them. There's this like
this common thing that like you get from certain types of childhood and certain types of just
neuro types where a lot of my life I was really completely dissociated from my emotions. And I
think a lot of that had to do with sort of, you know, like the thing of roles and families.
Basically, my parents like thought that they could win any argument by or like they could.
They had the power because children don't have power to win any argument by saying
because I'm the parent near the kid. And that's why. And if I showed any emotion
that would further prove their point that like, you know, emotions are bad and childish. So I had
to sort of suck all my emotions deep within me to the point where I couldn't even like I got so
good at this that I couldn't even see or feel my own emotions. Oh, damn. And I'm still working
my way through that trying to be like, I guess I am a person with feelings. Meditation has helped
with that a lot where the noting practice of sitting, waiting for something to come up. And
then first of all, categorizing it as a thought or a feeling and then pleasant or unpleasant.
And then you can take it another level and say what specifically it's like, okay,
thinking, planning, pleasant, feeling, anxious, unpleasant. And it sounds really
stupid, but sitting there doing that for a long time is a really good way of
like getting a deeper, you know, getting more sentient, I guess, like becoming more aware of
your own like deep sub level processes. I think that's a really badass like level up to recognizing
yourself and then not really recognizing say, Oh, that sucks. But then to go on and like say,
okay, well, I found it that now it's actually trying to do something about it. I think that's
awesome. I mean, I don't have anything quite so profound. So horrible to try to talk about it
though, because words, I think, I think I picked up what you're putting down. But I mean, yeah,
mine are less inter, like in introspective, I think, like, pardon me, I want to grow enough
professionally. And I'm at a really good spot in my career with my current job to,
to actually get good at what I'm doing. So I'm trying to maximize the opportunity there. And
well, at the same time, I think just like, yeah, get good is a good way to put it wizard.
The I like in a not so, I don't know, math math, mathy or heavily articulate way just trying to
maximize like the positive impact I have on the people around me and in the world in general.
Like, I could just do that by giving to charities or whatever. And I do some of that. But like,
it's, it's more channeling Mr. Rogers. I think, yeah, I want there to be more Mr. Rogers vibe
in the world. And so I try to be a little, I'm working to try and actually put effort into that.
What about you, Manny Osh? Oh, man, I'm a mess. There's a lot of things I'm trying to work on.
I'm a mess too. Yeah, it's okay. Okay, it'll be messes. I would like to get back into writing,
which is something I haven't done in quite a while. And it's proving challenging.
I would like to become more optimistic about the future of, well, I mean, me specifically,
but humanity in general, just I found that I used to be much more full of energy and like,
ah, saving the world is going to be great and awesome. And now oftentimes I feel myself being
sort of nihilistic and fatalistic about things. And I don't like that. But it's also
hard to combat. And it feels a lot like when I was depressed earlier in life in my teens and
early 20s, but I don't think it's quite the same thing. So I don't know, that's the thing I would
