How the stars work. Damn it. So man, one of the best fanfics I ever read was someone wrote a
crossover of this is like when I was in middle school and I did not have my own computer that
had access to the internet. So I was in middle school, like with my friends on the library
computers reading fanfiction.net. Somebody wrote a crossover of it was Pokemon and Digimon. And
they like the characters teamed up use their powers to invade the real world. And they were
fighting some politician. I actually it was so good. I think I still have it. I printed it out
on like a ton of printer paper back before they like knew that they needed to charge people
for printer paper. And I have it somewhere. I need to find it again. It was so good. It was
basically a ratfic now that I think about it. But starring the characters of Digimon and Pokemon.
Oh, that's awesome. And it also had a musical chapter. I think my very first fanfic that I
knew was fanfic was Shinji and Warhammer 40k. And we're it's just it's crazy, but it was great.
And I'm not going to talk too much about it because most people haven't read it. So it'd be
boring about people's dreams. Shinji from Evangelion. Yeah. Yeah. And he gets really into 40k. And
his miniatures start talking to him kind of the same way that Harry has the various living houses
talking to him or the various houses of Hogwarts talking to him. And it fills him with like
confidence and ability. So it's just a totally different story when Shinji is you know, got a
lot of agency. Anyways, we have we got a number of things. All right. So first, Johnny has a
suggestion, drink coffee continuously. The first one of you that needs to pee will signal the
recording has come to its natural conclusion. Oh, that's just not how we roll. We usually take at
least one pee break between like during the episode. We do. And we have a question from
Man in White, which is wow, we're really good question. What is the moment in your life that
you felt most meaningful? I'm assuming that the moment is the most meaningful. Marriage, graduation,
funerals, psychedelics, etc. Jason, Steven, do whatever you want to start. Dibs on last. I need
to think about this one. Oh, God, I mean, meaningful would be like every time a friend of mine died.
But that's not like, I don't know if you're trying to get meaningful as in like uplifting.
No, I mean, when someone's died is can probably a really intense one. Yeah, I'm sort of defined by
the death of my two best friends. First year of college, I went to college because it's like,
I didn't know what the hell I was doing with my life. I just followed my friend there.
And then I was stuck there for five years because I again, didn't know what the hell I was doing.
But like, yeah. And was that was that the friend that died? Yeah, Christina. How far into college
were you when that happened? First year. It was such a train wreck because I followed her there
because I didn't know what the hell I was doing. Then she died. And then I had decided to major in
environmental science because I was like, well, if I don't know what the hell I'm doing with my life,
I might as well save the world. But then like, I was super depressed from my friends death.
And the classes were all super depressing. It was like, basically every class was the
professors talking about, yeah, okay, you're studying this major, but actually the science
shows that were all kind of fucked already. So there might be these theoretical ways that we
could unfuck the earth, but it doesn't look good. And I was just like, I need to change majors,
I need to change majors. Yeah. And so you decided to go into AI instead?
No. Well, actually, that was when I was really obsessed with AI. I had not
found the rationalist community yet, but just like independently, I thought AI was really cool.
And for some reason, I was obsessed with the Tel Aviv Institute that was trying to make an AI
that would pass the tearing test, which was considered a hard problem at the time.
That was the car accident? Yeah. Oh, what about you?
Well, I guess mine is kind of easy. Sorry for the downy. No, no, I had to think about it for a while
while you were talking. And I mean, I was paying attention to, but I guess this is the one time.
Yeah, yeah, that too. But and yeah, everyone is saying they're sorry. And yeah, very much so.
I think it's not a single event. It was a period of time. But I think the thing in my life that I
both find most meaningful and that was most meaningful to me was the creation of the Harry
Potter audiobook podcasting, because it took many, many, well, not many, many years, but it took
several years, which was the longest single project I've ever undergone. And I don't know,
it really changed my life. I became much more confident doing this. I did a thing that people
loved, which was like kind of a first for me. I felt myself to be generally unlovable before
that moment in my life, which I know it's a whole thing. I'm over it. I'm kind of over it.
But yeah, and like, it's it's I've gotten a lot of mail from people who are saying things like
thank you, you know, this changed my life or this really helped me through a tough period or something
like that. And so I feel like it's probably the most meaningful thing I have done with my life
as well, which on the one hand is a really good feeling. But on the other hand, it's also like
now nothing I do with the rest of my life, they're going to be as meaningful. Yeah.
Oh, man. So but yeah, it was that that was definitely it, because I think that's the
thing I did that had the most impact both on my life and the world in general. And, you know,
I know it's a small thing. It's nothing compared to like Eliezer who actually fucking wrote the
thing and is trying to save the universe through AI. But it's it's the little thing I could contribute.
So I feel good about it. I got to mention that I
John Luca finished the replacing guilt audio book or audio series. And so if you're still
comparing yourself to world changing titans, you should read this sequence if you haven't yet.
And now you can listen to it, you can read it with your ears. And it's actually not that long,
but when you're listening to it anyway. So yeah, I mean, we did a whole podcast episode
or whole basic conspiracy episode about how good it was. And all that did was sell me on getting
around to reading it. And then luckily, yeah, Jean Lucas, the guy who did the audio series for
it. And I don't think I knew about it until emailed and the show. And I'm the only one who
checks the email for that. So I was like, Oh, no, you're good. But I was like, Oh, perfect,
I can now now I have no excuse to keep putting this off. So I think I've read one or two posts,
I really got to get through and read the whole thing. I mean, it's just it's all good stuff,
right? Yeah, but I mean, on most part, like, it's not merely giving your, you know, giving you an
excuse to like not feel bad about changing the world. But it's like actually a way to articulate.
I guess I don't have like self worth. Yeah, how to have feel like you have a meaningful life,
find something you care about, etc. Without comparing yourself to stuff like that,
because there's no need to it found, I don't know, I found it helpful. I don't, I don't
anticipate I'll do anything world changing, but I try to do little things that I can
and reminds me of the Dave Mustang story. Which one's that? Oh, are you familiar
of Dave Mustang from mega death? No. Okay, so mega death is a huge band in heavy metal. It was
one of the founders. It is one of the greats people like the guy's huge multimillionaire,
foundational and very influential for all the people came up behind after him.
He considers himself a failure and is pretty unhappy with his life because he was originally
in Metallica. And they had a schism earlier on, and he was left and formed his own band. It was
like, fuck you, I'll show you guys. And of course, he never got as big as Metallica because Metallica
is fucking Metallica, right? And, and like he's, he's amazingly successful by any metric, except
the metric of I want to show those guys I'm better than them. And yeah,
you can always make yourself miserable by comparison to somebody because like everybody's,
I don't know, there's always gonna be somebody better than you at something. But then you're
always going to be better at something than some other person. So that's, that's bad metric.
Oh, thanks, Evelyn. So Stephen, did you have a meaningful moment in your life or?
No, my life is utterly meaningless.
Which thing that, or what thing we're talking about is the replacing guilt podcast.
And John Luca is the name of the guy who did it. I forget his last name.
Yeah. And Nate Sorres is the author of those sequences.
Right. Yeah, I mean, I, I'm trying to think, I mean, there's, there's obviously been some big
events. I think I tried to, and I've, I think I've mentioned both of these on the show at some point.
So I can push past them, or I'll compress them down. Like the, I guess I'm trying to think of
like small things that were just like insightful for me. And, you know, one of them was I had this
coworker that I didn't like or get along with, kind of like the exact opposite of a role model.
And he was like our team lead at my last job. And one of his cats died. And like he had known
that I had a cat that died like the year before. And we spent a lot of time talking about it.
I got with him on his smoke breaks and stuff. And yeah. And it was, it was just like,
at the end of the day, I was like, you know what, I don't have to like,
relate to as a person or want to hang out with you. But like at the end of the day,
we can find common ground on really anything. Like, you know,
this is just not a guy like loves his cat, right? And I think that that was kind of a,
it wasn't necessarily like the moment, but it was a an articulate moment for like,
oh, you know what, I probably relate to everybody that way, not necessarily on like our love of
cats or something. But I share something like that with everybody, right? Not, you know, nobody's
just like this person that is impossible for me to like or get along with, right? Or at least
understand or empathize with. Yeah. Yeah. Like, and I, you know, even if it's somebody that I
just agree with on just about everything, we can find something that makes it, you know, we can,
it sounds like the hippiest bullshit ever, but you know, something that brings us together
that we can share. Yeah. Velcro mentioned proposing to your wife. That's fun. That's awesome.
Yeah. You and your, you and your, I guess, wife now, that's still weird to say that, but
it's fun. I feel so grown up saying wife. You're like one of the cutest and happiest couples I know,
and it's always adorable seeing you guys interact. So I figured it was probably
get somewhere in there. But on the other hand, it's hard to like wrap up 10 years of life and
to a single meaningful moment. So yeah, I mean, it's, we have, like, I think I, I mean,
I don't have much else to compare it to, but I want to say near perfect communication where we
can be like plain and honest and we never, as far as I know, hurt each other's feelings. And
there's never been a risk of that. It's honestly like the kind of relationship that like, you know,
the Greek eudaimonia, you know, like flourishing, whatever, it's like a eudaimond relationship.
Like if I could pick a relationship for people that I care about, I'd want them to have one like
this. She's the best and that's definitely a big meaningful part of my life. I don't quite know
how to compress that down into a moment. Right. But yeah. We have two other questions above, I think.
Phoenix said one slightly above that one. Well, I think you passed it.
All right. Well, let's tackle Phoenix's because of that one is easy. And while we're doing that,
you can scroll up and look for the one that we missed. Phoenix asked, what was the thing
that we were doing early in the podcast that took up a lot of time that we cut out? I don't have
that question directly in front of me, but that was the gist of it. I think the things that we
used to do for like preparing or whatever that we don't do now, I think the biggest one is in the
editing I used to because I came from the audiobook podcast. And in that sound quality is pretty
important. If I flub a line, I redo it. If I don't quite like how I pronounced something or
inflected something, I'll redo it. And also importantly, I took out every um and a and lots
of the breathing in sounds, that kind of thing. And so when we started doing the bass and conspiracy,
I brought that, that editing philosophy in with me. And I spent hours, and I know Stephen
you did too, just going through cutting out ums and us and sometimes breathing sounds. And
it's for a conversation podcast like this, it's not that big a deal. And it doesn't really matter.
And we cut that out. And instead just timestamp, like really big flubs that afterwards we can go
out and cut those out instead. But for the most part, all the little things stay in now.
Bathroom breaks is, you know, like the easiest thing to put in there. But yeah, I mean, editing
used to be like a six hour process. And I'd go through, listen to it. And since the episodes
are about two hours, it'd be at least three minutes per minute of listening as you're going
through and doing everything. And then I'm, I sort of, I can't remember, you know, if it was a
process or if I kind of just came to you, to you guys, and I was like, look, this takes way too
fucking long. And it doesn't, we don't get that much return on it. Yeah. And like,
and you mentioned there was like some professional podcast where they leave it in of
rationally, rationally speaking, and very bad wizards. Like, I figure if it's good enough for
them, it's good enough for me. And I was listening to Sam Harris had on a good episode, just a couple
episodes ago with Peter Singer and two other people starting that they were starting the journal
of controversial ideas. And Peter Singer uses at least as many verbal fillers as I do. Granted,
he sounds like a, you know, an aristocratic Australian. So you get, he's got that going
form to make him sound extra smart. But I was listening to him and I was gratified. I was like,
Oh, we have the same amount of like pauses and ums, like probably within a deviation of each other.
I'm like, I can't, since I can't reach the key. Oh, smart. Just in there. Anyway, so that was,
that was gratifying. But yeah, I, the, the editing time now is 30 minutes when you include like the
things that audacity just does for you when you say do this. Yeah. And it really makes it a lot
less of a hassle. I guess there was also like, we used to do a lot more scripting. We did. Well,
I don't know, when I first joined, I was trying to. Oh yeah, we had notes and stuff. Yeah, we actually
had notes that we looked at. We got to stop doing that. I still do notes of the sequences. Yeah.
That pull things out that I want to hit on. But yeah, aside from that, usually now it's like,
I made some, what was the last one where I had notes? It was a pretty recent one.
Was it the heat? Yes, I think that was it. Yeah, I pulled, I pulled things out of the,
yeah, the hate is the new sex post. I guess it makes sense when we're sort of, when our episode
topic is an article or an essay that, yeah, we could like pull quotes, make a script, but it
seems like we sort of just ad lib. We have, well, we have another question and why we cur joined
us. Why we cur? I have given you the guest role. You can unmute yourself whenever you would like
and then ask questions or whatever. But before that, Johnny asked a question for us. We all
love Ratfic. Which property ought to be a Ratfic? But as far as you know, is not yet one. And I
have a really easy answer that is almost cheating. So I'm gonna, I'm gonna wait. Do any of you have
one? Is it the Martian? No. I think that one already is Ratfic. Yeah. I mean, like, I think
I was talking to Brian about this with, when we turned this into from Jeff's impressionality to
Metropolitan Man. Because, you know, I don't know exactly how to quite gatekeep on what counts.
But really, I think anything that's like fun and entertainment that you're also
actually learning actual stuff from, I mean, that's probably too broad because you can learn
actual stuff that's fun from a historical fiction, you know, that's largely not fiction or something.
But like Mythbusters basically counts. That's true. You know, like, I'm not gonna...
It's not a fic though. Right. But I mean, they... They got the rat part.
Well, and they'll take things from fiction and then test them. You know, I know it's not,
it's kind of, you know, apples and whatever, trampolines. It's not even close. But, you know,
like, as it turns out, you know, if you're six feet underwater, you can, you'll basically be fine
if someone's shooting a nine millimeter gun at you. Like, they test that because they saw it in
John Wick, right? Or some other action movie, every action movie, I guess, right? But like...
In John Wick, was he, because I didn't see the one where he gets shot out underwater,
was he fine when he was underwater? Okay, yeah, six feet. It stops the bullet.
That's normally how they get the, you know, when they do forensics on a bullet to see
what gun it came from. They oftentimes shoot it into a tank of water so that it, you know,
has all the markings and isn't all crushed up by hitting a wall or something.
That's smart. I kind of feel like it doesn't matter what property. Like,
a good writer and Ken has made, like, good rat-fic out of my little pony. Frozen, Harry Potter,
you know. Yeah, but so what property should be rat-fic that you would like to see given the
rat-fic treatment? Well, David Yosef and I are like, we keep trying to coordinate on working on a
Dragon Ball Z rat-fic. So it should be that one. So I definitely feel like that would be great.
I think I have a lot of, well, we both have a lot of ideas for it. We just can't seem to
coordinate getting together and putting the ideas together into a coherent story.
I'm going to make a prediction of what Stevens is. I'm going to whisper it to you and then you
