because after sort of three minutes and one second, the flavor starts to get quite bitter.
To the point of just like, if you leave a cup of tea brewing for five minutes and you come back to
it, it's just worth throwing it away because the taste is not very enjoyable. It's very bitter.
Huh. Okay. I've just in the last couple of years started making my tea properly.
Ordinarily, I'd leave it in the whole time to maximize the amount of caffeine I could get out of
it. And now it doesn't work that way. I figured like, if I get 90% of the caffeine out in the first
three minutes, I might get the other 10% if I leave it in for the rest of the time I'm drinking it.
But so you're just maximizing for caffeine content? Then I realized that like, I'm talking
the difference between like 62 and 65 milligrams of caffeine, and it's not really worth the
subtraction and taste I'm getting. Oh my God. Matt, leave the tea bag in cold water and sips
it all afternoon, microwaving it occasionally. I do the same thing during work week, Matt.
Don't sweat it. I'll make it, then I'll bring it upstairs, get distracted. And then by the time
I remember, I've got tea, it's already cold, and I forgot to take the bag out. So.
Wizard says milk and tea is treason. I remember reading somewhere, someone commented, look,
if you want sugar and milk, just drink sugar and milk and don't ruin good tea in the process.
It really depends on the tea. Yes. Yeah, I buy the flavor. Milk and green tea. What the hell?
I do like a chai or like peach apricot, something, something that's not too sweet.
Usually black tea, something with flavor. I was taking my plain tea with, I've had like
proper British style tea once, I think, on a plane. Matt's talking about the whiskey tea.
I know Autumn had some of that, that was actually like imported from the UK. There was,
it was black tea flavored with whiskey or bourbon. It was really good.
Oh, so it's like their version of like a, shoot, what do you call those, a four loco,
the caffeinated alcoholic beverage? No, I think it was just like, it was tea that was flavored
like whiskey. It didn't have any alcohol. Oh, see, I thought it said whiskey flavored tea.
Oh, no, black tea flavored like whiskey. Oh, look at this. Black tea flavored whiskey.
Yeah, some good stuff. Also pocha. Also, I'm the one on control of all the reacts and trying to
hit all the things. It's really enjoyable just watching Stephen frantically emoji everything.
Thank you for that, Stephen. I could not do that. I would be too distracted. I would say a good 20%
of all my work communication is in emojis and gifts. I think I am much less good at multitasking
than almost everybody else. I've noticed this especially now that I'm like, I think everybody's
bad at it like scientifically. I must be extra bad at it though, because I noticed sometimes in a
well, because I play World of Warcraft now and as a guild leader, I sometimes have to
pay attention to multiple things. And like my other officers and even some players, they're
like chatting here and running around there and killing things. And also an officer chat discussing,
you know, like who is doing what and who we got to kick out. And I'm like, I can barely focus on
one chat at a time. How is it that you're running around murdering things at the same time? I would
be useless. Yeah, I don't have it in me. Chatting and murdering at the same time. You know, it's
like they're psychopaths. Oh, oh, COVID times are so close to being over. Yeah, I got my
cool. Finally. Yeah, I got mine on Wednesday. I had to drive. Actually, it was decent. It was only
like an hour there and back or an hour each way. But I actually drove on Wednesday the day after
the scout mindset came out. Wasn't that the whole the whole drive? And Matt wanted to talk about
that. So I'm kind of curious what his thoughts are. Matt, are you willing to unmute so we can
talk about scout mindset for a little bit? Sure. I don't necessarily have a well-developed thesis
here. I was surprised at how many little tidbits of it, though, I didn't just already know. Don't
ask me to say what I'm talking about because I don't remember now. I was actually, what was the
what mindset? What are we? Oh, the scout mindset. You know, Julie Galef? Yeah. Julie Galef came out
with a new book that just came out last week, right? Tuesday. Tuesday. Yeah. Yeah. All right.
Didn't hear about this. Yes. Called the scout mindset. Cool. I'll have to pick up a copy.
My favorite part. I think my favorite part is when she uses people who have wronged her as
examples of irrationality. In a self-aware way, though. Yeah. For the most part.
I'm only, I don't know, over 50% through, but like my, I actually saw,
might have been an email from like her sub stack or something. Something hit my inbox
where it was like, Julie Galef brings rationality to the mainstream or something with this book.
And I'm like, that's kind of generous because this book, I can't imagine being read by anybody who's
not already in the sphere, which is a drag because it's, it's well written and fun. But like,
I think she crosses over a bit to the like, at least like the skeptic crowd too. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, she isn't making it that much broader. There's a lot of overlap already. She was at the,
the James Randi conferences I went to like 10 years ago, but
Oh, quick question for the group. Well, go ahead. I was going to say, like, I don't,
I don't feel like the book is hitting like, I, I don't know how you could do it,
but I don't feel like it's written for people who aren't us. Do you? So who has brought
rationality to the masses? If anyone has any sort of things, maybe Harry Potter, the mess of rationality.
That would be my guess too. Yeah. But, but I mean, Julie got Harry Potter fan fiction,
not that many of the masses read it, right? Julie Galef did a good job with that though,
too. I mean, so like rationality, rationally speaking, is more just like one of those fun
interviews shows with, you know, random people, right? If you want Neil DeGrasse Tyson on to
talk about, you know, I'm trying to think of just like some of the earlier episodes, you know,
Zachary Wienersmith was on a couple of times of SMBC comics. Zachary Wienersmith probably.
Yeah. Go ahead. There's, there's, there's people like, you know, Sam Harris, who have clearly
read the sequences, but never referred to what they're talking about as rationality and never
referred to Galski or so forth. Oh, we just met this whole, you're a rationalist. He's,
you can tell he's read a lot of it and he even seems to stay like somewhat current.
He even made a joke about like one of the, I don't know, the last two months there's one on
Bayesian induction or Bayesian reasoning and he's like, is this where I finally start getting hate
mail? I think, I can't, or if he's mentioned less wrong or if the person on the Reddit thread
mentioned less wrong, but he's definitely in the loop on it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if the
amazing Randy or Carl Sagan were rationalists in like the sense of this community though,
but like definitely. Well, Sagan died before the community effort was found. Yeah. I think
there are great gateway drugs for it though. Yeah. Like, like I said, Randy is, you know,
host, or he hosted the same kind of conferences that Julia Gala went to who, you know, is another
stepping stone and all this stuff. So, and of course, you know, Sagan founded half the
skeptic organizations in the country. So, Zilla makes an interesting point that wait,
but why also definitely sounds like a rationalist, but conspicuously avoids ever mentioning that.
I think this is, I think that's common. Yeah, that is common. It's funny, like the thing you
can't name. Is it because of the, I don't know, you got, yes. Well, this is something that we
talk about in the guild in context of the Guild of Servants renaming pending is the idea that,
that we don't necessarily want the branding to be tied to the quote unquote rationality community,
even though that's obviously where we're all coming from and where we're all based in.
And so, I think, I think people like wait, but why, for example, they just want their own brand
and they don't want, they don't want to point your pointing away from their brand. They want
you to come to their website and stay on their website, right? Yeah, that works. That didn't
even occur to me for some reason. I'm not very smart about branding. Well, my biggest went right
to there's like something negative about the rationality brand. Like I know that I saw before
I even like joined the rationality community in the Atheist skeptic community, like people in
forums saying like, oh man, that you casky guys, like just nuts. There's creepy AI people and
the transhumanists. Yeah, they're just right. Then the AI will never be an issue we have to
worry about. Don't plug it. Yeah, exactly. Shoot it with a shotgun.
Right. So you took that back. So you're 20% in, Matt? Yeah, 20% in. And then I was like, man,
there's so many people I know who I should buy this for. And then I was immediately like, oh,
no, they would take that as a horrible insult. Yeah, well, also, I find generally buying books
for people doesn't do any good because you're buying them a chore, basically. And nobody wants
to get a chore as a present. I've had like some books given to me. Like recently, I had a little
Will McCarthy who, you know, is a friend, an author. He came by, he dropped off his latest
book and I was like, cool, thank you. And like, I appreciate what he's doing. And I definitely
plan to read it at some time because I like him and I like his books. But just like,
with all the other stuff I got going and the book club I'm in and now doing the worth the
candle podcast, I'm like, it could be a while before I get to this, man. I'm really sorry.
I'm probably not going to be able to help you out with the timely review.
With what you said about a chore as a present, you can reverse that and actually use it. So
for the right person, you could say my present to you this Christmas or whatever is I will read
any book you give me. Oh, that's kind of cool. Yeah. I've just been at like asking,
please don't give me a present. Yeah. If it's someone that you know well enough, you could say
like, as my present, I will come to your house and read this to you as you're falling asleep until
you fall asleep and then leave quietly. I don't know. That might be a little too creepy. I will
You could just play the audio book. No. Julie Galef has a nice relaxing voice.
Yeah, but that's not the same. That's not like the you want your presence to be personal, right?
I suppose. Yeah. We've been looking for rewards for patrons.
We'll come to their house and read to them as they fall asleep.
Okay. My patron reward is I want Enius to read Harry Potter and the Meta of Rationality to me
as I sleep. Oh, good. That's already done. Nice. Koi says everyone sounds drunk and drowsy at one
x speed. I believe we got that same comment last time. Oh, that's funny. Yeah, that's because
I'm drunk and drowsy fast, which, but I know, I don't know. I listened to a lot of things sped
up too. So yeah, for someone used to listening that two x are faster, it's got to be really
disorienting. My current like speaking rate is the is the result of yours of conscious effort.
I grew up speaking very fast. And so, you know, it's interesting. Am I the only person who listens
to podcasts at one x? Because I feel like that's how they're meant to be consumed.
Depends on the like, I feel like a fictional stuff I listen to at normal speed or things with
really great narrators. But if I'm just trying to get information in my brain, then I speed things up.
I think half my reason for listening to podcasts is to find how something to listen to.
High priest Azela says someone's going to use read me a book for nefarious purposes,
like making someone here read mine comp for my mortal. Honestly, I would be fine reading either
of those because obviously, mine camp has historical significance. So it's not racist. And my mortal
also has historical significance. So it's just awesome. But yeah, no, I always listen to them.
Generally, my default podcast listening speed is 1.25, which sometimes podcasts have music in them.
And I know they have music in them. I won't do that. Or I'll slow it down for the music part
because I think the tempo of music is a drastically integral part of it. So that'll fuck it up.
But in general, 1.25 with audiobooks, like fiction, if I am reading it for a book club
and I don't like it, I can tell how much I don't like a book by how much I'm speeding it up.
Once it's like at 1.7 speed, I'm like, I should probably just not read the rest of it because
it's not any good. But I do remember Gideon the Ninth, I slowed that down to one X speed,
and I kind of wanted to slow down even less because God, her voice is beautiful.
Yeah, the voice acting in that. Or just the accent, honestly.
The accent. And you're right. And the voice acting too.
Yeah. The character voices.
I listened to a podcast episode where a friend was sort of showing off some guitar techniques.
So he was saying like vibrato and things like that. And I, at the end of it, I just
technically like, oh my God, you're such an incredible guitar player. You're playing all
these songs so quickly. And then I realized it because I was listening to a 1.5x speed.
He is a good guitar player, but also it was that 50% faster than a normal human character you play.
I recently saw someone, I believe it was on a Chinese talent show, sing the aria from the
fifth element. There's this one scene where an opera singer sings something that came from
the 14th century, I think, Italian opera. And then they add a new, you know, kind of,
I don't know, sort of techno-ish thing after it. And it was done, you know, using audio editing
software because the whole point was, this is something a human cannot sing physically, right?
It is only an alien voice could do this. And it's really fucking beautiful.
But then like, I saw this Chinese lady very recently, I think just last year,
sing it live. And it wasn't like 100% perfect, but it was so fucking close.
I was like, oh my god, the Chinese have genetically engineered perfect singing peoples.
That's fun. Then you think of like an old George Carlin joke where like, it would have been funny
if like, you know, Bach or Beethoven had composed a piece of music that was physically impossible
to play and like, tucked it at the bottom of a trunk so it would be discovered decades after
they died. And then they find it and it's impossible to play. Chinese engineered cat girl singers.
Nice. Oh man. Oh, wizard just said the same thing. Yeah, that scene was supposed to be
impossible to sing. Speaking of the chat, can I'm going to just say Matt, just to avoid bystander
effect. Can you tag a why we cur remember they wanted they mentioned in the another chat like,
oh, I'd like to be a part of this, but I don't see them in the thing. Oh, I can do it. Sure.
Oh yeah, I don't have access to the keyboard, by the way. Otherwise, I do it myself.
You know, I said he would do it. So live. I like the fact that apparently she calls out. It's
going back to Scott mindset. Sorry. Apparently she calls out people that she doesn't like using
them as examples. Didn't. Oh, who was it? Was it Milton that wrote the the tour of hell book?
And he put everyone he didn't like in various circles of hell. Oh, no. Dante. Dante. Thank you.
That's right. Dante. Dante's in front of us. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Milton for a paradise loss.
That's a different one. Such a bizarre book. There was another like interesting, like,
what I would have considered somebody would have pointed out for Julia in the book that like,
she uses a lot of politically charged example drop my mic uses a lot of politically charged
examples, which is fine. But it's like, literally, like, Oh, yeah, if you're a Republican or you're
a feminist and like sets them up as opposite things, and I'm like, you don't have to push the
out group that hard, like if you're trying to hit a broad audience, you could have made this, it was,
it might have just been a point about, like an unfair standard of assessing evidence, like,
Oh, yeah, if it's something that you agree with, you say, Oh, good, this is evidence for me.
But if it's something you disagree with, you say, Oh, that's not, that's not
compelling evidence whatsoever. That's a poorly written study or whatever.
So the question you're supposed to ask is like, well, if I disagreed, if I felt the other way
around it, what I find this evidence compelling, because it's not fair for me to count as evidence
for my thing, if I already agree with it, if I wouldn't do the same, if I didn't agree with it.
And I think she uses feminists and Republicans, I'm like, you don't have to, you could have picked
anything, right? Green blues. I mean, you know, it's her thing. She's smart. She knows what she's
doing. I'm just kind of curious. So she must be aiming for a particular audience and thinking it's
okay if I isolate the people who don't agree with this, if it'll make me get these people,
do we agree with it more on board? Maybe she thought that like, you know, yeah,
I'm not going to reach some segments anyway, so might as well just throw dirt at them.
I think she did say something in that, that those souls are already lost.
Or maybe like, hey, somebody's talking shit about you in this book. This book here.
Yeah, buy it and find out. Or, you know, just tag, tag Scout mindset and rant about it because
any publicity is good publicity. Yeah, it could be. I mean, I think that she did say to if you
happen to feel the other way about this, you're welcome to reverse the example, but it's like,
why would you even just make that example? Oh, that intense. Do you know how I actually found
the rationalist community originally? How's that? I was a fan of the skeptics guide to the
universe podcast. Oh, yeah. And at one point, they that podcast always like does has a quote
relating to skepticism at the end. And I can never remember is it Jay or the one who does the
