like to work on. I would like to actually get up. This is not the quarter life crisis. You're at
the midlife crisis now. I am actually at the midlife crisis. Yeah, I'm going to die. That sucks.
For what it's worth, I helped balance some of that with the right combination of
meds. Again, I take a lot of inspiration from Jace's example, because it's not just having
identified a hard to see problem. Hard to articulate problem. Hard to articulate,
but even hard to notice. That's the kind of thing many people don't
introspect to that level. But you didn't merely stop at identifying it. You said,
how can I actually work on and fix this? And so just in general, if there's anything that you
want to try and work on, you can always try and chase down an actual solution, right?
And you've got a cohort of people who are around to try and help.
Yeah, I like surrounding myself with smart people.
As a life strategy, it's worked out really well.
I'm also not sure how much of it is just due to the fact that I seem to get a lot of
enjoyment in life by being around people, and I haven't been able to do that for over a year.
That's like the state of the world right now. It was so nice being with Alex and David yesterday.
We drove up and just hung out with them for three hours, and it was fucking amazing.
I'm looking forward to getting back to that too. So maybe it's that.
I'm on this podcast. My therapist pointed it out, but I noticed that every time you talk about
this podcast, you do your whole face lights up. Yeah, it's like the thing of hanging out with
friends that aren't just the same people that you see every day. Also, not that I live with
Phoenix. I love Phoenix, and we have a great relationship, but then there's also something
cool about having novel people. Yeah, totally. Everyone's chasing the strange. I would like to
also be less of chasing the strange. This is a very unromantic way to put it.
I would like to be less of someone who's always trying to please everyone because I kind of
like that about myself, but also not being able to say no sometimes is bad, and then sometimes
I've got to bring up something to someone, but I don't want it, so I put it off for weeks, and
that just makes things worse. That's another thing I've been working on for a long time is
not being such a horrible goddamn people, please. It's a whole lifetime of unlearning.
Then every now and then you just snap because you've been pleasing for so long, and then I was
like, oh my god, you asshole. I'm like, no, damn it. It builds up resentment, but that's part of
the whole noticing emotions thing is that I wouldn't notice the resentment building up, and then
I would suddenly just lash out at my loved ones, and it's like, wow, I don't want to be an asshole
like that anymore, but then there's this whole process of having to untangle it all the way
down to your childhood. Yeah, it's interesting. I talked about trying to be all rosy and
optimistic in the world, and I don't struggle at least as much as I did, even not all. I mean,
I don't have an opportunity really to please people, since no one goes outside to talk to
people anymore, but I used to be definitely a doormat, and I don't know what switched in me,
so I try to put positivity and light into the world, and at the same time, I have no trouble
being just a hot, put my foot down asshole if something actually matters or is really annoying.
I really value that about you. Well, I appreciate it. I don't quite know,
someone is asking me for advice on how to do that with an interpersonal issue,
and I didn't really know, like I told them, I don't know if I can articulate how I get to
exactly where I am, and even if I could, I don't know if it's advice I would want to give,
because I think part of it is that I give, I sort of don't care enough about enough things,
so like if something, you know. No, I totally relate to that. I think
Fedex was asking me about stoicism the other day, and I was just like, or I've had this come up
before too, where someone's like, how do you get good at stoicism? And I was like, well,
I really don't want to give anyone the advice that worked for me, but have one of your best friends
die. Like, it's not good. Yeah. So, yeah, I don't know if you're, if you had something like that
that like made the switch, or if it's just more that you can't articulate what happened though,
or you don't remember. I mean, it's more just, I think that like, I don't quite know exactly
what exactly the switch was. I can't think of roughly when it happened. I would have been 22
or 23, or younger, 21, sometimes somewhere in there. But like the, I don't know, it's hard to
articulate, but I like I said, if it was a pill, I could give to somebody to just say here, now
you have the same attitude towards these things that I do. I don't know if I'd give people that
pill, because I think part of it includes like, just not giving a shit about, but that's actually
not great, right? There's something you should give a shit about. And there's a lot of things that
you shouldn't. Yeah. But like, I think if you have no, no fucks to give whatsoever, then you're
in kind of a bad spot, because it means you just can't care about stuff. But I'm not exactly there,
but I wonder if I'm on that precipice. So it's good to get calibration on. I think like, yeah,
it's like a really delicate balancing act. A lot of these things, like you definitely don't want
to be too much of a doormat. You definitely don't want to be too much of a bully or narcissist or
whatever the opposite of a doormat is. We had another question. Do we want to hit that one?
Yeah. Suppose that reincarnation exists. For your next life, you get to choose the country,
but not the parents veil of ignorant style. What is your pick? Oh, man, that's a hard question.
I am not educated enough about the world to have a good answer to this question.
A first world nation. Yeah. USA. USA. Well, no, it's not really a hard question for me. I would
choose the USA. Really? Yeah. I feel like I'm hating the US. Hating the US, hipster. Don't
get me wrong. I feel like there's lots of stuff to complain about. Definitely. And not merely
complain, but to have right gripes about. Noria was a good answer. Yeah, Switzerland, a lot of those
like zero with world country. Or yeah, you know, if we're going to say first world is the US.
Possibly Singapore. Singapore would be interesting because they do have a very like
Singapore is so weird. I really want to visit. Yeah. Like I want to
I kind of want to say Japan just because it's such an interesting culture, despite the xenophobia
and the sexism, it's still like the high rates of depression. Yeah, you know, there's there's
bad things, but man, they have this. But it's fucking. Yeah, their history is fucking awesome.
Their culture is so rich. Their music is really good. Yeah. Why are we thinking USA though?
Well, because it still has the highest standard of living by far. It's
Is that true? Yeah, I think so. Does anyone in the chat know whether the US
at least has the highest standard of living on average? And what standard of living like basically?
Yeah, I guess that's what I meant. Yeah, it doesn't necessarily include things like
your health care or how stressed you are in life. But yeah, I was measuring it more in terms of
the combination. Is it Norway? That makes sense. In combination of things like GDP and
political freedom and things, I think overall and and the ability to affect the world.
Also, just right now, I mean, being that it is the the current ruling empire of the world gives
it a lot of advantages. Zealand count as a first world nation. Uh, maybe. Huh. Zealand. What is
Zealand? Isn't that the like, there's like two people in their population.
Okay, it's an offshore platform in the North Sea. Yeah, it's the like artificial. I would not want
to be a baby on an offshore platform. Maybe not. Yeah, you don't get to pick your parents. Yeah,
yeah. In this thought experiment, I feel like I really love to, I mean, this is just sort of
related to my curiosity thing and the whole like, I wish that I could experiment with fire
heading just to see what it's like. I wish I could see what other people's brains are like.
Like, wouldn't it be cool to jump into other people's heads? Yes. And see whether like their
just process of thinking is basically the same as yours or totally alien and different.
It would be really cool to jump into other people's bodies. Me and Charlie already have a
pact once a transhuman future comes. It's happening. Oh, okay. Bobby's switching in.
Same with me, Rachel. Nice. Although I think that she's, uh, like, I think she, she agreed much
without thinking about it because she doesn't think it's likely to happen. Uh, I don't, I don't
like that. I think she will, but I think she kind of agreed. She's like, yeah, sure. You know,
whatever. But I'm like, okay, you'd realize, you know, I'm being serious, right? Okay.
This living in a black face is about to count as blackface.
Wizard is trying to get us canceled. Nice try.
But yeah, like, I feel like, and I wish I could just sort of do the experiment a bunch of times
and just see what my life would be like if I were born in, uh, Bolivia versus, uh,
I keep, for some reason, I keep thinking of South America because it's been on my mind lately.
I'm like, Bolivia, Venezuela. Part of my answer is the fact that I was born in Poland and my parents
immigrated here when I was pretty young and I can compare like how my, uh, my relatives, no, not at
all. We moved out when I was six months old and then we moved out of Germany when I was like
three, possibly four. I didn't even know you were, I thought you just went right from Poland to
US. No, they were in a refugee camp in Germany for a while. Although saying that word, you think
of like tents and shit. No, this was like a, like an upscale refugee camp. It was an apartment block
that wasn't being used for anything else and so the government put people in there. Uh, it was,
you know, there was a whole program of taking in refugees from the Soviet block countries to weaken
them. Uh, and it seems to have worked. But yeah, I compare my life and how it's gone versus like
some of my cousins that are at the same age that stayed in Poland. And I'm like, this was just
pretty much on every metric, a better life. Well, that's maybe good to know for you. Yeah,
sucks for the other people. That's, that's what I was going to say about like
shitting on the US. It's not going to be wrong. There's lots to shit on, but I don't like the
hipster of like, Oh, the US is the worst. I feel like that just can't be true because we've got
people trying to get into the US and you don't try and kick your way into a shitty, you know,
nightclub. You just, you leave. So the US, the less shitty country. Yeah. So yeah, don't get
wrong. Yeah. Yeah. Johnny, not saying the best. It's much harder for people in Guatemala to kick
their way into Norway. Valid. Um, yeah. I mean, it's part of its walking distance, right? Or,
you know, commute, you know, non-C commute distance. That's a good point. People also
try to get into the 1% and they also suck. Wait, you're saying that the 1% also sucks
for clarification, right? No, they're saying that people who try to become the 1%. I'm kidding.
I think that's unfair to both the people who try and to the 1%. Some of them don't suck.
I have, um, my dad has two sisters and they both married rich guys and they are so goddamn different.
And I hope they never listen to this, but well, the cool ones can listen to it. But, uh, there's
like, there's the one couple that just like travels the world and has lots of awesome experiences and
meets lots of people and like they use their money, I think, like to make themselves and others
happy. Whereas the other family is the like sitcom level, like crazy billionaires who, uh,
are like really stressed out because they have to throw a great garden party with Martha Stewart
and like, they're like on a weird diet where they only are to choke hearts for children.
It's wild. Man, I unmuted you if you want to join in. They're poor children who went to Ivy League
schools and, you know, have great jobs and I think you have to give life guest role as well.
Oh, whoops. Stand by. Oh, hello. Oh, hey, how are you doing? Save us from train of thought.
I'm going to plunge into deep thoughts. Oh, no, that could be fun too.
So I have a question about the Discord server, actually. What do you think the main aspirations
to get people to enjoy themselves, to get solid good vibes with each other,
or to perfect the craft of rationality? So what's the point of the Discord server you're asking?
Yeah, yeah, as my inspiration, what would you picture like the good
I think that a group progression getting people to get work, getting people together
that are aware of rationality, interested in it and therefore that would make them better at it,
would make them happier. And it's fun to do. I would just say all of the above,
which is a lazy answer, but I think the right one. I kind of like how the Bayesian conspiracy
split off from the Bayesian University and one is kind of the community channel and one is more
of the like instrumental channel. I think that there's a place for both. Yeah, I would say like
the opposite. I would say none of the above. I just like the Discord server to be here for people
to chill and chat if they want to. I don't have any goal for it personally. Maybe you guys do or...
We have no control over it also. I guess we have some amount of control over it, but if we're not
like the dictators of the Discord. I never wanted to moderate anything. That's way too much responsibility.
One of the things I like about it is that there's very few rules and it's more of a
society policing itself kind of thing. And I know if it ever grew really quickly,
that couldn't be the case anymore. We'd be stuck in an eternal September kind of situation.
But since it's only been growing by a few people every week at most, it's been just fine and I'm
happy with that. Being happy is a pretty nice goal.
I love what Jan Christian said. Come for the intellectual stuff. Stay for the community.
Absolutely. And you know what? Humans learn through interaction really well. That makes some solid
lessons. So right there with you, Bro. Community matters. Super does. I think some of the best
choices I've made in my life have been ones that have been intentionally selecting communities.
When I was in Jersey, choosing to drive an hour to and from the Philly less wrong groups was
super worthwhile investment. And actually, I have any wish to thank for encouraging me to do it.
I was really scared to come to my first live in person rationalist meetup because I was like,
oh, no, I'm going to be the dumbest person in the room. And I was. But being the dumbest person
in the room is awesome. I was like, oh, it's going to be embarrassing if people are going to not like
me. But then I realized that this is a great community because you can be the dumbest person
in the room and people can still, if you're there to learn from other people, I felt so welcomed.
It was awesome. Yeah, Johnny's hitting the nail on the head. And I'm glad to have you
served the role of dumbest person in the room, Jayce. I don't know about that. But yeah, I just
saw, I put cake emoji to it. Evelyn said, question, if you could create a world planet
universe that's perfect for you personally, what would it be like? And I can't answer that other
than to say that you're asking us to like, quick, define utopia. And I don't know. I don't have a
good quick answer. Quick answers that came to mind, which I don't know if I endorse,
but I'm just going to play with it is this one. The world's pretty cool. I feel like if there
were more areas where you wouldn't just die from being outside naked in 20 minutes, like it'd be
just a better planet overall. Maybe like almost all of the planet, just if I were to drop you
somewhere at random, you would die in just a few minutes, especially considering most of it is
ocean. But I can swim pretty good. My ideal world would definitely have optional pvp.
You could turn it off and be immune to violence from other people. I did turn it on and go on
Grand Theft Auto mode. No, no, no, no, no. Like the world we're in right now has non optional pvp.
It's just like gladiator universe we're in. No, I did really love playing. I played Ragnarok
online for six, seven years. I was addicted to it. It's just like your basic MMORPG.
That was awesome. Yeah, I wish that the, you know, like, well, what is the genre that
worth the candle is? Oh, let's pick. Yeah, if the world was more, Jesus, it's definitely not
lit. Thank you. Yeah, if the world were more of a lit, God damn it, more of a lit RPG, that would
be cool. Like, because I really, the thing I really enjoy is learning stuff and leveling up
and having like that, being able to pull down a stat counter and like pick a class path and like
equip the right gear and, you know, just get like, the reason video games are so rewarding,
as opposed to real life is just that you have that feedback. I've recently become like really
enamored of recent decades. I think this started with my like being nostalgic for the 90s and I
know that's because I was just a teenager at that time and everyone loves their teenage years
once they get older, but like once they get older, but when you get to be my age, exactly,
you're like back in my day, I can rent or feed myself. My life has just been getting better
and better. Like I occasionally would think like, it has been definitely fantasized about,
okay, this is, I think it's really fun to fantasize about what if you, your current
self could jump back into like your middle school self and do it over. I would do it.
I would not because I would be a different person. Bitcoin.
It would be worth reliving the last 20 years to be able to, but that's basically just saying,
I wish I was rich. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I part of it, but I'd be willing to relive the last 20
