can... Okay, we both know what it is. I was going to say Wheel of Time and you knew that, right?
I was going to say Dr. Strange. Oh, I was, yeah, thinking Marvel. Oh, that would have been fun to
do a rational thick of. I was thinking Wheel of Time because the characters are largely stupid.
Wheel of Time would have been... It would have been on my list, but since I haven't read very
much of it, I didn't know whether it would need the rat-fic treatment, but they are largely stupid,
you say? Yeah, like, they don't optimize easy things that they could spam the hell out of.
It's not until like the last book where, you know, they can do Dr. Strange-style portals,
and it's not until the last book where someone opens one in a volcano and then opens the other
end over the enemy army. Right. And it's like, why did it take someone 5,000 years to think of that?
Yeah, yeah. I really like Scooters. Ooh, I have to tar the last
ill-better suggestion. That's a good one. That would be good. Apparently, Dragon Ball 1R exists.
Yeah, I figured. Wizard says it's already really good, doesn't need a rat-fic,
and it's true that it's really good, but it's not a rat-fic, so it could be even better, maybe.
I think the trick would be... It could be rational, at least. The trick would be writing it lovingly
because, like, I know a lot of people are turned off by methods of rationality. The first few
chapters and, like, a bit of it is, like, making fun of the Harry Potter universe. That was actually
why I liked it because I was never that much of a fan of the Harry Potter books. I thought they were...
I don't know. I grew up reading, like, Ursula Gwyn and, like, Narnia. So I was like, okay,
this is just a rip-off of, like, the magical universes that I grew up. I don't know, hipster,
push-up classes thing. But, uh... It was fairly un-originally tropey. I liked why we curse saying
that Dr. Strange is already pretty close because the magic field system feels so suited to rat-fic.
Like, they're also clever, you know, plays and moves in the movie. I'm looking forward to seeing
the next one. All I know is that I think it's supposed to be a horror movie, but I know it's
called The Multiverse of Madness. But I don't even know what year it's coming out.
Wait, it's going to be a hard one.
I heard that, like, two years ago.
Oh, that sounds awesome.
And I don't want to get my hopes up because maybe I'm...
Maybe I'm, you know, was misinformed or something, but that'd be fucking awesome.
Anyway, but, like, the... Since Enoch hasn't seen it in one day, I'll make him watch it.
I won't describe the ending, but the ending involves a thinking outside the box move
that was like, oh, yeah, I can't just overpower the enemy.
I've got to think of something creative. And this was a really, like, you know,
clever way of solving that problem. So, yeah.
What I really want is for Alexander Wales to, like, clone himself and write the Batman rat-fic
that he said he was going to do.
I love Batman.
I would love to see a Batman rat-fic.
I mean, he's already such a perfect character for it.
I know. Batman Universe just, like, has the best characters and Gotham is so good.
I love when someone pointed out, and I mean, you got to squint a little bit,
but someone pointed out that basically all the Batman villains are...
What if this one aspect of Batman was taken to a horrible evil extent?
Yeah, that's great.
Like, the Penguin is taking his richness and, you know, making it evil and way out there,
and Two-Faces having his split personality between Bruce Wayne and Batman and making it evil.
What about the Joker?
The Joker's taking his obsession and making it, yeah, kind of crazy.
The Riddler takes his detectiveness and makes it crazy and bad.
Detectiveness.
See, this is where when people shut on Marvel for, like,
oh, so the bad guy's going to be, like, a version of the good guy, but bad?
And, like, pretend like that's, you know, a fault?
Like, no, that's what makes a compelling bad guy for a protagonist.
Yeah, it's the Dark Foyle.
You want them to be, exactly, the character's dark mirror of, like,
this could be what I've done if I'd made other decisions.
Like that.
Johnny says, ah, yes, Calendar Man taking tendency to be punctual to the point of madness.
Okay, there were a lot of bad villains in that.
I love the bad villains.
In the Silver Age.
Oh, I remember Calendar Man from one of the Arkham games.
He's in a prison cell, and on real-world holidays, he'll make a reference to them.
Okay.
When you, like, walk past a cell, which you don't have to do,
you basically got to make a special visit on Christmas
to hear him complain about something about Christmas.
Oh, that's cool.
Little Easter egg.
Yeah.
All right, I'm tapping out.
All righty.
Yes, why are we curving?
Would you like to jump in here?
I'm assuming he can hear us.
I think Gotham is actually based on New Jersey.
Really?
I always thought it was Chicago.
I don't know.
I've heard, I know that a lot of people say it's New York,
but I think that's Metropolis.
Oh, okay.
My weaker has nothing.
Okay, never mind then.
I just assumed you wanted to say something.
If you do come up with anything, you know, let us know.
The internet says Chicago.
Okay.
Okay, cool.
Makes sense.
Because Chicago was always like super corrupt politics,
at least in my imagination of it.
That's what I hear is the, you know.
Yeah, the like stereotypical gangsters with Tommy guns
and doors.
Layton says Manhattan, but it can't be Manhattan
because Manhattan was where Superman is.
Yeah, the Metropolis.
I don't know.
They're fictional cities.
They probably take inspiration from a variety of actual cities.
But yeah.
I like Man in White.
Man in White has a question.
Oh, he does.
We missed that.
What is your favorite example of a time
when you changed your opinion on something?
Religion, free will, some trivia
where everyone is confusingly incorrect.
Man, I think I've talked about this on the podcast already.
Let me see if I can remember a new one.
I really should keep a record of when I change my mind
about things.
It's hard because it's usually not a,
like a hard break where I had one opinion
and then I change it on a dime.
It's usually something that takes the course of weeks
or months, sometimes years.
My leaving religion was like that.
That took a long time.
My, when I was like young and in high school,
I was very much sort of a radical communist type.
The burn it all down because capitalism is evil and unfair
and we can't labor under the shit anymore.
And now that I am much older, I'm like,
wow, that burning it all down idea would be bad.
And capitalism is definitely unfair,
but any other method tried so far hasn't worked very well either.
And capitalism has us where we are right now.
So I'm okay with it.
I don't know.
I've definitely gone from radical Marxism
to being more libertarian,
and which is still a position that is unpopular,
I guess, with people who like government.
But in a very different way.
I remember when I...
Are we cur?
Yeah, go ahead.
Oh, yeah.
Can you guys hear me?
Yes, we can.
How are you doing?
Yeah, cool.
Hi, guys.
Hey there.
I believe this is the first time we've heard your voice.
Yeah, I've done a podcast here before.
I don't know if you got, you weren't there,
but a few of the people in the discord were there, I think.
Welcome.
You are in one of those European nations, right?
Yeah, Sweden.
I have a thick accent, right?
No, your English is amazing.
I was just about to say, like, I thought he was from Europe,
but we've had other Colin in our previous episode,
people who were also from, I think, the Nordic countries.
And I was like, oh my God, did you translocate from America or something?
Jesus.
I mean, I can totally tell when somebody's from here.
So it's like, it's always surprising when people from the U.S.
say stuff like that.
Maybe it's discord.
If you hadn't told me, I would have maybe kind of been like,
there's maybe an accent, but maybe not.
I really appreciate that.
That's, I've worked out, I've worked a lot on it.
So thanks.
Cool.
Excellent.
Yeah, but anyway, my question, my question was basically,
and yeah, feel free to ask for clarification here,
but like lots of discussions I've had here with lots of people in this discord
usually boil down to some sort of thing of, oh, but I need this for my identity.
I remember you in the U.S.
A big part of why you didn't like wire heading was like,
you had this identity that you wanted to preserve, right?
Or do you think I'm mischaracterizing that?
I mean, it depends on what you mean by an identity I want to preserve
because I think wire heading basically erases you as a person,
but in the sense that I wish to have an identity as a person, that is true.
Yes.
Right.
So that was basically what I wanted to clarify.
I would like the input of all of you to be honest,
because from my perspective on the consciousness, right,
and the rest is just superfluous stuff that can be there,
but I don't care if it's there unless it brings more positivity.
You know what I mean?
But it's clear to me that most people don't agree with me.
And I would, I'm just wondering like, what is even identity at that point?
Like I don't even understand what it means.
Two things.
Stephen, can you capture wizard's question and paste it below the current one?
Yes.
Okay, cool.
Jay, you said you had strong opinions.
