Today's episode started with some hardware trouble on Steven and Jace's microphones.
However, it was fixed after a few minutes, so if you hang on a little bit, it gets much better.
Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Uniash Brodsky and today we are just having a live
episode with all of y'all. I look like I'm wearing those wigs, the revolutionary hair.
But brown black instead of white. Yeah, okay, fair enough. I'm trying to go for the uh, I don't
even know what to do with my hair. It hasn't been cut in so long. I would like to have it long though,
maybe get it styled in some way, but I don't know. Okay, can you just like walk in and ask
someone in a great clip to do your hair or do you like got to pay more money for decent hair?
What is it? Cosmetology students? I guess specifically hair cutting, I don't know if there's a fancy
name for that, but they will generally like give you really cool haircuts at discounted
prices to get pieces for their portfolio. Okay. But then you're also trusting yourself to someone
who's a student. Oh, so there's the trade-off. That's all right, students need to learn things too.
I fixed it. Okay, cool. So yeah, I shouldn't have turned that thing off earlier.
Well, noise suppression sounds a good idea, but apparently it suppresses all microphones
other than the first one on the list. Cool. Thank you for letting us know that Jason
Steven got super quiet right there. Yeah, I got to lean closer to the mic. Yes. No, it was,
I think we had noise suppression on it. It made both of us quiet. Yeah, yeah. It muted your mics,
I guess, and you were just coming through on mine. Steven needs to lean in.
Well, I can jack up Steven's volume. Steven's mic is practically on his nose.
We used to do big work meetings at my last job where there'd be like 100 people in the room,
and in order for you to be here, you'd pass around a microphone with the general rule of thumb is
you wanted to get close enough to lick like an ice cream cone. Yeah. And we'd just shout
like more ice cream if we couldn't hear a person. Oh, cool. So I'm always close enough to lick the
microphone. Yes. It's not a bad rule of thumb to have. It also helps the microphones, the closer
you are, the more bass they pick up. So if you want to have sounding like you have a deep,
sexy voice, you get in real close. I'm assuming that's what they did for Amazing Man. Just,
just deep throat that microphone. Aw, thanks, great, Nick. What's on them? I think on the mic,
or I mean, not the mic, the, oh yeah, yeah, the mug says true buckaroo on it. Okay, so,
yes, we are here mainly just to chat with you guys because last time we had one of these live
episodes, it was a lot of fun. We don't necessarily have a topic lined up, but we do have a Charlie
in reserve in case not a lot of people want to talk to us. Johnny's offering to talk about the
Amazing Man recording. Sure. Does anyone have questions about the Amazing Man recording? Okay.
I want to know the Amazing Man too. I need to read the Amazing Man one first. You do not. They are,
I mean, no, no, you don't. It was trying to do something totally different. The only thing
you find out is they're both really good though. It's fun. Yeah. Of course. I didn't hear about
the Amazing Man. I'm still really quiet. Oh, because you were on the red mic? Oh, I was cranking
myself up. Is it even better now? How's that? Okay, excellent. Thank you. Cool. Yeah, I know.
I was kind of peeved about the whole sad puppies thing when they first did their
Try to Take Over the Hugo Awards, and I just jotted off Amazing Man one in the course of
a couple hours because that is how I felt about them, that they were these people that were like,
I'm completely powerless and that nobody likes me. And then they did it again the next year,
but this time they nominated Chuck Tingles' work Space Raptor Butt Invasion. And I read it,
and I was like, this is actually really good. I mean, it's ridiculous gay erotica, but it has this
whole like, you know, gay discovering yourself story to it. And so I read some more of his works,
and every single one of works are basically identical. Some ridiculous thing is really
hot and some dude finds out that he's gay and falls in love with it and they have amazing sacks and
it's 8,000 words or less. And this is a dinosaur one for that one was the dinosaur one that they
yeah, that they dominated. And so just to have fun with it, I did the same thing with Amazing Man
2 but did it in the style of Chuck Tingle and I ended up having way too much fun writing it.
And I don't think there's just things too much fun. That sounds great. Yeah. And then Johnny
and Gray and Hobo Demon had way too much fun recording it. Love it. Yeah.
Yeah, no, Amazing Man was made up, but I also made him up for, you know, the first one that was not
an erotica. No one needs to read any of them really. But they were a lot of fun. Anyways,
if anyone did have a question about the recording, it sounds like Johnny is willing to answer them.
Did either of you guys have questions about the recordings? Having not heard it yet, no.
Oh yeah, of course not. Yeah. Well, now I'm curious if it's gay erotica, was there
pleasure noises that someone had to do under the microphone? Yeah, you know what? Let's
unmute Johnny. All right. Find him over there. Give him the, Johnny, can you speak? As of now,
yes. Hi. Fantastic. It's me, Johnny. You may know me from such works as the uncultured swine podcast,
getting the plug in early so as to not distract from later moments. But yes,
I very much enjoyed recording this wonderful work that you made. And to answer that question,
yes, I did have to do that. Also, Doug did. My work was fine. His work, frankly, incredible.
I don't know how he made such good dinosaur sex sounds, but they were, they were really something
to behold. I do take some credit for shamelessly stealing all of Jurassic Park dinosaur sounds
with which to augment his sounds. But that, you know, that came in in the editing process. The
voice was all him. The editing was quite amazing, too. Thank you. On the drive home. That sounds
hilarious. Gray is also to be blamed for the editing. He did most of the stuff of making our
words not be interrupted by all the ums as mine are currently being because this is live. However,
I was the one to inject dinosaur sounds and things and also rerecord all my lines
because I tell you what, in writing, those lines may be easy to get out. In speaking,
they are not easy to get out as I mentioned in the recording. Well, there's nothing easy to get
out when it comes to a tingler. You're just giggling to yourself the whole time. Or like,
well, actually, I remember that was when we were just email buddies. I still lived in New Jersey
and it actually sent me like the like beta readers like, should I, should I do this? Is this okay?
It's like, you got to do it. Yep. For for an additional example, I remember you telling us
that story when you were. That was perfect. No, no comments. I remember you telling us exactly
that story when we were recording the eye of our gun thing, which is why we actually
went and told us we should do this when we were recording eye of our gun.
Jayce is responsible for many bad decisions. Yes, and this is not any of them.
The greatness Nick asks, what was your favorite part or line doing the recording?
So my favorite part, like the thing that was like funniest, I mean, I hate to say it's something
that I said, but it's probably the thing that I included as an after the credits stinger. It
didn't happen after the credits, but just at one point, Doug was struggling with the line. He says,
like, I'm, I'm having, I'm kind of having a hard time saying this. And I said, yeah, these lines
are really hard to get out with a straight face. It would be easier if I had a gay one. But you
know, I have, and that was probably the most amusing thing we all cracked up when I said that.
However, best line, best line that you wrote was definitely the first time and you use it two
times that you say stuffing all the dinosaur Italy could take down its throat. The first time
you say that it's in a non sexual connotation, but it's a ridiculously sexual line and great just
died when he tried to say that seriously. Because his thing was for like the way he was doing this
was he was doing it very flat affect. You know, like he was a, I believe the way he described
it was he was trying to do the narration as if he was a 1940s noir detective. And he really
struggled to say that one and died for approximately 30 seconds. But then he was fine.
Cool. Yeah, that's that's a thing you don't ever really think about while writing is how hard
would these lines be to say out loud? Because I don't know, it was never really a consideration
for anyone who's not a screenwriter. And nowadays, almost everything goes in audio. So maybe people
will start thinking about that more. But I kind of like the fact that they don't, because you can do
a lot of things in text, if you don't have to worry how it's going to sound. I was just
Oh, go ahead. No, no, no, I was just gonna agree and say that,
you know, if we were proper voice actors, I imagine we would not have a hard time. It was
just a hard thing to do, because these were lines where you're saying very like, sexual or overblown
things, which are hard to do if you were not actually in that situation, or indeed an actor,
which was actors. Yeah, I, man, I, there was an official Chuck Tingle podcast for a while.
And I tried listening to a couple episodes and I just didn't like it because the people they
got to read it did it in one take and we're laughing all the way through. And that's great
and all, I guess, if you're doing it with friends, I really appreciated that you guys like just did
it, you know, straight as much as you could, you know, yes, as straight as that work can possibly
be made. Right. Yeah, I have not listened to my dad wrote a porno, but I've had it recommended
to me a few times now, I should. The Chuck Tingle podcast, by the way, is, I believe it's pounded
in the butt my, by my own podcast, because that is the naming convention. Yes. What are you going
to say, Stephen? Oh, an anecdote about like hard to read phrases. So I was watching a shark tank
this morning, and some guys brought on some like whatever truffle spy. And it's like expensive.
And then Damon, one of the sharks was like, putting it in his pocket, because it was expensive and he
was being funny. And Rachel, it's like, Oh, he tried like when he pocketed it. And that's a hard,
he pocketed it is hard to say. And Stephen, shoot, Stephen Fry did the audio book for the Harry
Potter books. And I think he said something derisive about the quality of the books or something to
JK Rowling. And then at another time said that it was really hard to say Harry pocketed it.
And I think he said that like, I think that line was first in the third book, and she made
sure to include it in every subsequent book. Nice. That's my kind of petty. Yeah. Yeah.
But yes, that that was awesome. And did you have anything you wanted to ask us as long as you're
on here? Oh, gosh, I wouldn't have any clever questions. I didn't prepare any. So I will leave
that to more adequately prepared question askers. If anyone has any questions they would like to
ask you can type them in the chat or you can, you know, say, Hey, I'd like to talk with you guys
and, you know, let us know we will unmute you. I will. I will remute myself until such time as
the world needs me again. Sounds good. Excellent. Great, Nick. Yeah, recordings about anything
you can ask any of us whatever. It's kind of an AMA sort of situation now.
Yeah, it doesn't have to be questions either. You can just like get on and say how much you
hate my contribution to the show. Sure. Or I don't know, like plug something.
Great Nick wants to know why the heck we haven't had more Marvel plugs yet.
Falcon and Winter Soldier is going great. Episode five of six came out on Friday,
and it was fantastic. It's going in a really fun direction. Great Nick didn't actually say that,
but someone said that earlier. So yeah. Or maybe it was great Nick, I don't know.
Wes says, I have family stuff today, so I can't listen in. All right, Wes, no problem. Have a
good family thing. Take care. We missed you on the mind killer. I missed listening to you anyway,
but they made sure to just whatever, try and do as many bad lawyer things as possible while you
weren't trying to do it correctly. I really want to know what Wes has to say about that,
and I guess I'll find out next week. I guess we all will. Stay tuned. Okay, cool. Yeah,
let's get great Nick on here then. All right, four people out. No, no, down. One more.
Great Nick. Yeah. So Johnny is saying the one thing you cannot do is say that you are giving
legal advice, which we did, but we literally said this is legal advice. But like, if we're not
lawyers, then it doesn't count, right? Especially if you can tell it's a joke. I'm pretty sure.
I can't imagine that there's a log against giving bad medical advice. So I mean, if there's,
I can't imagine that there'd be another law about giving people bad legal advice.
It was a bit your honor, according to Matt. I feel like that's a get out of jail free card,
right? It's worked for higher profile people. Yeah. I mean, they're trying to do it right now
for what's her name. Can you hear me? Yes. Hi, Nick. How you doing? Oh my God, very good. All
the better for speaking with all of you. There was that court case a while ago about the, I think
the Trump voting fraud. And somebody said no reasonable person would take what I said about
the Trump voter fraud as legitimate. I wonder if that's like a legitimate complaint as well.
And Alex Jones was pretending like his, his internet celebrity was a persona. So when,
you know, he was advocating that his gigantic fan base, you know, harass the parents of the
kids who were killed in those school shootings. Oh, that wasn't me. That was the character I
play on the radio show. Yeah. Yeah. The lady is extra interesting because she isn't even pretending
that it was a character. She's just saying like I'm stupid. Yeah. No reasonable person could
possibly think I'm serious. But yeah, I'm actually kind of curious about that. We'll have to ask
Wes, I guess next week, since he's gone now, if you say, you know, I'm giving legal advice,
but you're not a lawyer, is that actionable legal? I don't think it's illegal. I feel like
it couldn't possibly be a bit. Anytime you tell someone you should sue that guy, you're giving
them legal advice, right? Or is there a more rigorous definition of legal advice? Yeah, who knows?
Nick, you have an English accent. Are you over on the other side of the world?
I am. In the UK, God saved the Queen, etc.
How's, what time is it over there right now?
It's 20 past seven in the evening. Okay, that's not too bad.
I was very pleased when I saw what time this live show is going to be because I could actually
call in. Perfect. Do you, do you have feelings about the passing of Prince, was it Philip?
Yeah, is that like a thing that, is that a thing that like, in general, UK people are distraught
about? Or is it more like, over here, there's some celebrities that many people just don't care about?
So, when I heard about it, I'd like literally sat down for my lunch on my lunch break in the
staff room, and I said, Oh my God, Prince Philip is dead. And then about two minutes later, like,
I didn't care. I kind of already didn't care. It was more like a case of like, Oh, this is like
a big thing that like, people are going to be hearing about. And the TV coverage was
absolutely wall to wall. We have BBC one and BBC two with both channels, everybody can get.
And they were both showing exactly the same footage of like, the live news from,
you know, the hospital or the royal family or whatever. And it actually turned out to be the
most complained about program in British history, the coverage of, because it was like, most of the,
most of the complaints were just, it was too much, there was too much coverage,
you couldn't get away from it. Some of the complaints were saying that the BBC news readers
weren't somber enough. And then some of the complaints were people saying it was too easy to
complain. Oh, okay. This is a great story. Yeah, there's the kind of a parallel thing over here
when a former president dies. It's like wall to wall coverage, they'll do like a funeral
procession across some dozens or hundreds of miles of highway. And you know, there's always
like aerial shots. I remember when Reagan died, it was just on TV for days. By the time they die,
like, they've been out of the spotlight for so many years. Yeah, like, wait, who? That was a
president? I think, I think Reagan was an exception though, because he's almost like a saint for the
Republicans. And he was like a otherwise a celebrity, I guess. So yeah. Oh, yeah. But I mean,
I remember hearing when, I mean, I think every president that's died in my lifetime, every former
president, rather, I think I've heard about it when it happened. There was a, John Oliver was on
Seth Meyers show sometime this week, if you Google it on YouTube, and Seth asks John, who's
dual citizen between US and UK. Like, how did you feel about it? And his answer was too funny to
summarize. Plus it without a British accent, it would just sound like I couldn't do it justice.
Blimey, gov. I'll give it a go.
I want to hear what you actually said.
How far on tea? So I say that again. I'm trying to think of other like stereotypes of British
people to ask questions about. It's like, how do you feel about tea? How do you take your tea?
Correctly. So you have to boil a kettle, none of this microwave bullshit,
boil a kettle, pour it as soon as it's boiling onto a tea bag, leave it for about three minutes,
take the tea bag out, because the tea bag and the milk can never meet. They can never.
And then you put in however much milk you like, and then sugar to taste. That's a classic cup of
tea. Go ahead. Why three minutes? Because I know some people who just leave the tea bag in
until they're done with the tea. Yeah, I think those people didn't really like grow up with tea,
