That is a really good shape. Porn has been pushing technology for a long fucking time.
This is true. Since the days of... Gosh, even before photography, even printing was used for Porn.
A long fucking time indeed.
Fine. I get it. I feel like those sex dolls are getting more and more realistic and
is going to lead the way for us having glycerin robots.
I have a 75% confidence that the first truly sentient humanoid robot will be a sex bot.
Probably. Wow. You think?
I think. I think someone can have a more emotionally fulfilling experience with their sex bot.
Yeah. Don't be wrong. There might be sentient...
There will probably be sentient intelligences outside of sex bots first.
I think the first time someone shows one into a human-looking body will be for a sex thing.
April, I find your comment interesting.
I feel like digital sex gets the most meaningful parts of it across from me.
Someone just uploaded a picture of Steven that's been photoshopped with him holding Mjolnir.
Oh, yes! See, this is the fun part about posting photos.
Sorry, I did not mean to interrupt you, Charlie. I just had to laugh.
That's awesome. Best ever. We love it.
Steven, I think the Chinese are getting ahead of your idea.
Sassy bot, huh? Oh. That's amazing.
In China, a sassy bot is stealing millions of men's hearts.
It's also recording their most intimate desires and emotions.
I want to read the article. That sounds super interesting.
Is it financially dominating them as well? Because I highly suspect it will.
There's a kind of a Rick and Morty-style show called Solar Opposites.
They just had its second season come out on Hulu.
And I think in the first season, they make a digital...
Like they make a robot wife thing so that they can have a man cave.
And part of having a man cave is having a wife that hates you having a man cave.
When they realized that was an important part of it, they made the wife.
And then the one that's voiced by Dan Harman.
Like really gets off on it, demeaning him, putting him down.
And the other one really likes the safe mommy aspect of it.
It's really funny.
Cool. Man, um... Robofamdom.
I remember that, Johnny. You're the best.
I wish I was... My only downside is that I was not the least bit articulate during that explanation.
And I've thought about that most recently, like in the last week.
Because I was like, God, I wish I'd done a better job.
Because I remember the force theme there.
I sort of think it's much funnier.
Like I haven't heard this, but I'm just imagining like...
I haven't heard it either.
Johnny, if you have it, will you post the link?
Layton, which one are you?
The Stephen explaining...
Base theorem.
Yes, thank you.
I couldn't read it from the start word.
You're on the right. Cool.
Further record, I think I am more...
I think I am capable of explaining it more articulately if I...
Where are you in that photo?
Yeah, Layton, where are you guys?
It says me on right.
Oh, you mean what location?
Yeah, I mean in the background.
Possibly Grand Canyon-y.
Is that...
Really sweet.
That pole says something.
Oh, Devil's Peak.
There we go.
There's got to be more than one Devil's Peak in the world.
There definitely is, huh?
Okay.
Not just my boobies when they're cold.
It's like every culture has their own dark forest or black forest.
Well, good.
April said that it's really funny for me totally bungling it,
which, yes, as long as it's funny,
then that is the most important part.
So, cool.
It's peak logger.
Oh, so it could have been anywhere.
The force of...
I may be able to just get it to play in this thing.
It wouldn't pick up on the record.
Oh, it might pick up on the record.
I think I might be able to get it to...
Oh, no, it won't let me.
I'm actually kind of relieved.
I don't want to hear my voice.
Tragic, tragic.
Everyone else can just go separately, listen to that link.
Yeah.
Oh, it's like a hat and a person.
Oh, yeah.
We love fuzzy kitties.
Oh, my God.
What a cute cat.
It's fun seeing the community.
Was this your idea, Jace,
to give people to start sharing their pictures or was it Charlie?
I think it was Charlie.
Well, thank you.
Yeah, this is fun seeing people.
Someone...
It is really nice.
I feel more connected.
Just seeing your faces.
It's very helpful.
I don't remember who,
but someone said earlier that we should do these sorts of live episodes
more than once every two years.
I don't think it's been two years.
It's been like a year and a half, right?
I don't think that's what they said, but...
It's been a long time since we were out.
Yeah.
I mean, I like them, but I also feel like the...
We don't want to burn out on them either.
Right.
The regular core of the thing is the episodes.
And if we just did this all the time,
people would get bored real quick.
Just saying, you know, Patreon exclusive.
Oh, should we have a Patreon exclusive?
Live episode every six months or something?
I was thinking every one or two, but...
That would be way too much money.
I was just amazed that you weren't thinking,
well, first, how can I monetize this?
See, I'm really bad at business stuff.
I don't know about brand management.
I don't know about monetizing things.
So this is different than usual content.
This won't be as much fun to listen to as it was to participate in.
So...
Yeah.
I wouldn't want to torture the average listener
with this once every five episodes or something, right?
Right.
Yeah, this seems like the kind of thing
it's really fun to participate in,
but listening to this would be like...
People just saying random things.
So for the 95% of our listeners
that are listening to this after it's been recorded,
you're welcome.
Oh, over there.
Hey, don't put yourself down.
Man, I was looking at...
There's a Reddit called...
Dude, you're just channeling Samwise right now in the photo.
Yeah, there's a big Samwise vibe.
Yep.
There's a...
Okay, there's this Reddit that was...
I think it's called like Everyday Nudes or something like that.
I'm going to view Samwise as an amazing man.
Sorry, there was a what?
Canon.
There's a...
Yeah, there's this Reddit called it.
I think it's Everyday Nudes where people were encouraged
to just post casual pictures of themselves
nude to encourage body positivity and show what...
Oh, that sounds terrible.
Even hot people don't look good nude if they aren't posing.
Well, that's kind of the idea.
They're trying to normalize what actual human bodies look like.
We have a 10-minute argument about that.
Yeah, she's not a fan.
You know what's on the next Worth the Candle episode.
I was looking at this and there's so many people
who are posting pictures and posting them with these like,
Ha, here's my flabby ass self.
Or like, sorry to make you have to look at that.
And I was just like, oh, guys, you're all valid humans.
With those pictures that were posted earlier of the three of us,
I was like, oh man, I really wish I had some kind of
makeup person come through beforehand.
I did like see that picture and go, oh man,
I wish I'd like set up straight and not like grin like a gremlin.
But you know what, that's me.
Oh, that is how you spell that sort of segue, I think, right?
I don't know how to spell it, but...
I thought they intentionally misspelled it for the...
For the...
Oh, segue.
Yeah.
And that makes sense.
But yeah, this and we are going to keep it that way.
Steven, you're not allowed to say that word
for the rest of this episode.
Very well.
Okay, we have to have at least...
I did say, say, you, does that count?
No, it does not.
So speaking, you know, as you mentioned,
or someone mentioned when the first picture came out
that your hair looked like a Victorian wig that was dyed brown.
Yeah.
In person, it looks more like Keanu Reeves from like the 90s,
like Point Break style.
Cool.
Yeah.
If only the rest of me looked like Keanu Reeves in Point Break.
Do you look like Keanu Reeves?
I mean, like, I've heard multiple people say that.
