years and, you know, even try and dodge some of the mistakes I made or something and then be a,
you know, have, have $90 million right now. See, I've kind of become enamored. Like I said,
of recent decades, like I've been watching movies set in the 80s or made in the 80s and movies made
in the 70s a little bit. We watched Dirty Harry recently, which was not a very good movie, but
gosh, the 70s weren't interesting time. Yes. And I like now I just kind of want to jump back and
live in various decades of my choosing for a while just because that would be cool. Yeah.
It would be really neat to experience those cultures firsthand. Kind of the same thing
of being able to like relive your life in different countries. One thing our earth is missing, magic.
Yes. If there was just some magic magic though, look, we, we have cell phones.
We have telepathy. That's cool. We have telepathy. But, you know, if you could work hard to train
it for telekinesis or yes, I mean, science is magic that works. And if there was, if there was
magic, it would become a science, right? But, and maybe I think that there's something to be said
that it only feels like, you know, magic is fun and attractive because it's this mysterious,
unknown thing and that if we could bring it into our world and bring it part of the mundane,
it would just be like, oh yeah, you know, sure, you can go to school for five years and learn
how to move things to your mind, or you can just go to the gym and wait to move them with your body.
Yeah. Fridge is magic though.
Coins. These are the kind of riffs that I think that make, I always put a smile on my face reading
through the, you did the blackout. The, the chat. Let's see. Wait, Lucas, no, Lucas, sorry.
Man in white is still in the channel. I'm sorry. Were there, were there, you had other things?
Well, but if we ask the same question about Vittopia, I still have a soft spot for the
Jack Fresco, a vision of Project Venus. I know it's a topic, but if I have to pick a topic,
I'll throw it into that one. Okay. Project Venus. Yeah. Can you tell us about that? I don't know
that. Oh, it's quite an individual. I think he would like to hear him talk. Is it a, a, a
book series? Yeah. Yeah. He released a book, but thanks for surrounding. Oh, I'm definitely going
to have to go back through this chat after the episode has a bunch of, first of all, good memes.
I need to scrape and then like,
Fresco was one of the main reasons that pushed me to change my mind of, well,
topic of review. Thanks to, but
yeah, I definitely got to read this now. I got to say, Zoriander, when, so Jace mentioned the,
or no, Enoch mentioned, who mentioned, Jace mentioned the University of Bays.
Zoriander started that, and this is what I pictured the University of Bays looking like
in my head. Yeah. So, you know,
Man in white, I'm just kind of curious. I've always sort of wondered this, but never,
you know, have a chance to ask you, is the, your avatar a picture of you?
No, it's JD from Skrups. Oh, okay. It was very small on my phone. I was going to say,
you are a good looking man, but I guess JD is good looking man.
I just wanted to put forth in the utopia discussion,
omelas, not because I think it would be especially pleasant compared to all the other ones,
but because as a moral philosopher who did moral philosophy for a little while,
that's the one I have to pick as punishment for my sins.
Wait, are you the kid though? Or are you the one who walks away?
That's the trouble. There's just a random chance that I'm one or the other.
I don't know. It's a very small chance that I'm the kid though.
I like Scott Alexander's argument that it is literally better than the actual world we have
in every way, but I just, I can't read that story and feel good about it. Yeah.
It's like two paragraphs where we see the kid actually discussed, but just the cognitive
dissonance that all the people have is very upsetting. Yeah. It is. It's so ominous feeling.
Uh, Scott Alexander had a, I don't, I wonder if anybody, you know, you smart people who are
fast at computers, maybe you could remember what this was called and post a link, but he
did a con world project that like he, it was his take on what a utopia could look like.
Does anyone remember what that was called or happened to be able to grab a link and throw
it in there? I don't remember the name of it. I think he detailed some parts of it in his post
about the archipelago. I remember there used to be a link to it on like the, the top bar of the
old Slayster Codex page. I don't know if it's still around. Wizzler. This was one that he,
that he like described that I don't know if he debunked it or was interested in doing that.
We, uh, just want to point out have been going for over two hours now. Do we want to
start wrapping it up? Yeah. I mean, whatever. I'm, I'm coming to keep going. Uh, but if you're tired.
No, I could help. Nice. Uh, no, no, no, it's good. We can keep going for a while longer still. I
just wanted to, you know, give everyone a chance to chime in because there has been two hours.
Yeah. Has anybody not gotten on the voice who wants to get on the voice?
Oh, things I learned by spending five thousand years in an alternate universe.
Yeah. That's the one. Thanks, April. Thank you. I've got a, uh, economics question for
everybody. I've seen like a 4,000% increase of the value of the Dogecoin I bought for fun
like three months ago. Should I hold on to it and see if it keeps going up or should I sell it?
All right. We got one sell. So the thing is, if it ever hits like 10 bucks, I will make a fortune.
Shit. Well, you guys are all saying to, uh, I don't know. I kind of feel like you should keep it.
Except for Johnny who says all coins increase in value forever.
The thing is, I don't need a portion. It's really just like, do I want to, like,
the money now isn't life-changing and the money invested, it was basically nothing.
So, you know, I could, I could get a return on my investment
or I can just, you know, hold on to what I've got here, right? So.
First Coisa sell a few lines later, Coisa's hodl. Cois trolling. I don't know. You could,
you could do what I did with Bitcoin is when it got to a peak that I thought this is ridiculous.
It's not going to get any higher. I sold half of it. So I didn't feel bad when I kept going up after
that. I mean, I felt a little bit bad, but not as bad as I would have sold it on tweet.
Yeah. Right. Just like over the last three days, it went up like, uh, from seven cents to 33 cents.
Ridiculous. It's literally a joke currency. Like I, I would, I would sell, but that's just me.
I didn't keep it. See, I would buy, would buy Bitcoin, but I don't expect Bitcoin to ever like
three X in the next couple of years. Right. Whereas if this, if, if Doge were to three X,
it would just be worth a dollar. Right. So like the, the money that I would get from investing
would be a, would be a smaller return, even if Bitcoin continues to grow. I'm not, I'm clearly
not. Of the money. If people believe it, it goes that way. Yeah. It's true. I feel like if you're,
if you're not worried about that money and you don't need it for anything,
I'd say just hang on to it. Like I've been continually impressed by how well the coins,
the fake coins, the imaginary coins, that's, that's all money.
Thank you to all the people who said don't sell, especially Phoenix for telling me what I wanted
to hear. Well, Phoenix, uh, I don't know, Phoenix, do you want to jump on voice and talk about your
Bitcoin? I love that, um, or just if you don't want a voice, you could do it.
Hi. How's my audio quality right now?
My strategy is just like throw some money at the thing and then ignore it. So it stops stressing me
out. See, I did the opposite. I put a widget on the home screen of my phone. Oh my gosh.
Don't do that. So like, I, so I recently, I ignored it for a year and then I checked recently
and I was like, huh, my thousand dollars in Bitcoin is now $10,000 in Bitcoin.
Maybe I should pay attention to this like every two months. And so I set a reminder to pay attention
to it every two months. Alright, I'll take off the reminder off my phone to remind me what month is
it now, April? It's the price of the various things I have money in. I will Google at random
when I think of it. And sometimes that's like, you know, every week. Uh, but sometimes I'll
just go for two, three months before remembering. Oh yeah, let's see what Bitcoin's up to.
I would at least say, uh, if you do cash out, just take the cash and immediately put it in
like a Vanguard or something. Well, I would think I'd take it and, you know, take a fun,
like expensive weekend trip or something. Doesn't look stupid. I put my responsible money in Vanguard.
This is, this is money I got investing in Dogecoin. I don't know if I think I might, I might be
ruining the, the vibe if I already did something responsible with it. That said, if I, if it ever
turns to 10 bucks and I've got seven DK off of it or something, then yeah, I will invest it wisely.
Yeah. I was just, after seeing this and looking at the charts for a bit a few days ago, I was
just thinking of putting $5 in like 30 different coins, just in case any of them do something
ridiculous. Yeah, whether or not. See, this is exactly the kind of thing that we should all be
doing because we've all learned that we should have done this with Bitcoin, right? Now granted,
the market's different now on the number of coins, et cetera, but this is the kind of thing. And that's
why I did it. I got 50 bucks worth in January, just for fun. Cause I was like, fuck it. I hear
about this one or might as well. And this is exactly the kind of small thing where I got like,
I don't know, 60 something or 6,000 something coins for it. And I'm like, yeah, this way,
if they ever become a buck, hey man, I made, you know, a quick fortune or a quick, not fortune,
but a nice turnaround of my 50 bucks from years ago, right? I think April has a good point that
I don't think easy come easy goes good investment advice. Like if you ever get a windfall, yeah,
a great thing to do is plow that thing back into some sort of investment or keep it where it is,
everything that's going to keep going, but, you know, just winning something and then blowing it
is, you know, a way to stay where you are forever. I feel bad for the people who, you know, made $25
million in the game to stop thing, not for the rich people, fuck them, the low level mooks like me,
who made $25 million. I didn't make $25 million. I lost $500. And I feel bad for the ones that
made a fortune and then held. And now they're down to like, you know, something much more
reasonable, but still, you know, life adjusting. The problem with GameStop is it was based on
the actual value of a real thing. Whereas Dogecoin, fake shit, both girls advice is good.
Is that the barbell strategy? I think that was from the guy who wrote Black Swan. Oh,
Talib? I think that was an assumed Talib thing. Anyway, thanks, Phoenix.
Well, it's good to hear your voice. Oh, yeah. Oh, no. Another picture of us. How dare you?
Sneak attack. Yep. Actually, that's the same picture. Nope. It's a slightly different one.
That look on my face is slightly less goofy. I haven't been wearing that shirt for at least an
hour. When did you take this one? I wish I'd been like sitting up straight for that picture,
but that's okay. No legs. Little known fact about me. Nice. There you go. Oh, we're putting a
picture of Charlie up too. So we can see the person's been taking the pictures and chiming in now
and then. You should also see that red thread where it was like somebody took a picture of their two
wrist tattoos and they're like, Oh my God, how'd you take that picture? And then there's a picture
of him taking the picture by holding the phone or this like chin and chin and chin and shoulder.
And then like, hold on, how'd you take that picture? And it goes like four more levels.
Have you ever seen the Ford Panda? I'm sure it's like everywhere, but compilations of really
awesome photo shoots. And then like the picture of how it was done, where like, it'll be this like
amazing picture of some, I don't know, cosplayer with like their hair blowing back and like
water spraying. And then like, then they take like 10 steps back and there's a picture of
like a rig that they have set up where there's a fan and like somebody like frantically sprinkling
water on them. Thank you, Johnny. Links to the thing. Oh, it's actually in some very strange
contorted position that like looked really great. Yeah. Oh, my God. This is a different one, but
it's a similar sort of thing where they're just taking pictures further out and out. This is very
in line with my sense of humor. And now I can't find, oh, there it is. There's Charlie. Yay.
It's only fair. Yeah. We look great. Also, I keep noticing that your jewelry is really cool.
Oh, thank you. This is a gift. And this is the first piece of jewelry I've bought for myself in
like over a decade. Hell yeah. If other people want to post pictures of themselves and put them in
the chat, that would be really cute. That'd be fun. Let's see each other's smiling happy faces.
I'd like to have faces to attach to some of these names and avatars that I've been seeing a lot of.
I look less like Thor than I wish I did. You don't have to find clothes. You could just sort of
get like a head and shoulders shot. Or you could just flex and send us a pex up. Yeah. We're down
with that. What are you looking for? I was looking for mine, but I'm lazy and can't find it. You
can't find yourself. Oh, because I'm probably not. You're not online. It's being existential.
Alexa, stop. You're not on this podcast, lady. Alexa, stop. See, this is the sort of thing that
if we were recording, we wouldn't put a time stamp and cut it out. That happens a lot too. Yeah.
It's like we get a random Alexa interruption like almost once a podcast. I thought it was going to
start again because we used as soon as I said it. I was like, I do not invoke the devil. No, thanks
for your picture. Yeah. Awesome. Sharper. No smile, but white in the pictures. I can see why you
use the avatar. He was saying something. You asked for a smile, but this is all I can do. Okay.
Is that you right now? I think this picture was taken about two months ago.
Johnny. Johnny. You look way different than I was picturing. I know I've seen pictures of Johnny
before somewhere. Oh, yeah, the Gilda servants who was in a video chat once. I was like, that's
Johnny. Johnny also kind of wanted to apologize to you that one time we were playing among us,
and I was like, oh my God, you're so annoying. I just learned how to play. But that was kind of
mean of me. I'm sorry. I was just trying to learn how to play and have a good time. But as soon as
you stopped doing your thing, I was like, I now understand exactly why Johnny was doing that
because we are losing horribly without his guidance.
I discovered the among us discord because it's a little more, they launched a new level. Oh,
thank God. Johnny says, rest assured, I literally had absolutely no memory of that event. And
yeah, I've apologized to my sister for things that we did once when I was like seven. I was racing
down the hallway against you and you were going to pass me. So I held out my hand to push you
back. And she's like, what the fuck are you talking about, man? I don't remember any of this.
So yes, I'm glad to hear that. Her name is always crazy on point. Oh, cool. Yeah. We just did the
amazing. It was it was going to be fade from red to bubblegum pink, but it turned out just really
vibrant pink. It's really awesome. Hey, I'm like a shirt. I'm not sure if there's more words on
there, but I like a shirt that just says life. Oh, that's the first time I've seen April. I feel
like I've seen April before, but I don't remember. But it might have actually been the last time,
like a million years ago that we did a live episode. We tried to have a video or okay,
maybe it was just the fact that your face used to be here. That's yeah, I could be it. Yes,
you now exist. I don't. Yeah, in my head, it's always been the the picture, the cartoon picture
that someone drew after the whole mindscape, Minecraft debacle. But I know that was fairly
recent. I don't know why I can't remember the picture was before. Yeah, well, oh, that's a fun
one. Yeah, I'm not sure if it was intentionally. Evelyn, your halo is showing in that picture.
Did you mean to expose yourself? It looks pretty cool. Oh, April says she had a profile picture
change on a daily basis for a bit. That's probably why when they change frequently, I just
drops out of my head. God damn, I've been trying to dress sharper. Yeah, I've been trying. One of
the things I learned during the Guild of Servants is that fashion is something I should focus on
and is easier than I thought. So I've been trying to dress better, but you've been looking good.
I appreciate it, but not that good. Very few people are as good looking as Koi, that is known.
Or at least those of us who have seen pictures of Koi. Because ear mod is crazy about a sharp
dressed man. Yeah, we should get together and have a Guild, not a Guild, a discord karaoke night.
That would be so fun. That would be great. But we'd have to fly everybody out here and that would
be expensive. I'm sure there's digital karaoke. Digital karaoke is bullshit. I've never actually
done karaoke. It's like having digital sex. It doesn't count. No comment. I feel like there's
a lot more related to digital karaoke. You get what I'm saying. It's a closer to the real experience
than digital sex would be, right? You're still singing. I don't know. Maybe. Digital sex has
gotten pretty good if you have the VR hookup thing. I was thinking...
Porn leading the way for technology every day. Ever since...
There was a David V David Harry Loki once, April says.
