If you're the only Hawk amongst a group of Doves, that's obviously a great situation
for you.
But if you're the only Dove around groups of Hawks that are just kind of fighting each
other all the time and distracted by that, that might be a good situation for you as
well.
Ah, because the other Hawks are never eating.
All busy fighting.
That's right.
Well, I'll say you could probably eat the dead ones if you're really hungry.
So.
Yeah.
So you can see how both of those strategies are good strategies in certain circumstances.
But interestingly, this is actually a bit different than the prisoner's dilemma because
the evolutionarily stable strategy is to have both Hawks and Doves at certain concentrations
in the community.
So that's what's known as a mixed strategy, which we have a mixed evolutionarily stable
mixed strategy, which we haven't talked about yet.
We haven't talked about mixed Nash equilibrium.
Right.
Which is that the best strategy isn't to, in an iterated game, isn't to always do one
thing to always defect or whatever.
It is to play one part with a certain probability and play the other with another probability.
Now if you're an animal, you are either a hawk or a Dove.
You can't show up and say, I'm going to play Dove this time, or I'm going to play hawk
this time, but this works on a population level.
Right?
Okay.
And the definition of an evolutionarily stable strategy is one that will persist in that
way and be resistant to invasions from other organisms with a different strategy.
Right?
If your neighbors come over and they're like, okay, yeah, but we do it this way.
They're going to be the ones that die out, not you versus if it's non evolutionarily
stable strategy, you guys are going to be eventually replaced by your neighbors.
And you were mentioning before the podcast that this sounds cool, but doesn't have a
lot of buy-in.
Oh, actually, no, this has a great deal of buy-in.
The issue with evolutionary game theory is that although there are tons and tons of situations
in which it very likely applies, because the world is a very complicated place, it's incredibly
difficult to figure out exactly what are the fitness results of this, what are the fitness
results of this specific action, and to disentangle it from the fitness results of all the other
actions that an animal is going to take or a population is going to take.
And just random things that no one can control.
Exactly.
So it's very difficult to actually measure this, although it certainly applies to a lot
of situations.
For example, it's applied very, very often to mating strategies.
Oh, right.
Okay.
Oh, do you remember what I'm going to talk about?
Probably, but go ahead.
Okay.
I have mentioned this before.
Okay.
Okay.
The one with the male that acts as a female to get into the harem?
So that's one of them.
Okay.
And that's a very common one.
So in cuttlefish, in various types of beetles, et cetera, et cetera, there are different
male morphs.
So there's a male that looks like a female versus a male that looks like a big burly
male, and it's the dominant male versus the sneaky male situation.
So those are the different strategies that are being played.
For our populations in which both of those persist, that there's the big dominant male
and also the sneaky male, we kind of assume that it's evolutionarily stable, given the
circumstances that, of course, we don't know, because it's really hard to measure the stuff.
I was actually going to give a gender swapped example.
Okay.
There are insects, and the ones I heard about were, I think, midges, but in dragonflies I've
seen this, too, that there are two different female morphs.
There's a female that looks very different from the male, and then there's a female that
looks quite a bit like the male.
Interestingly, in the species I heard about, including dragonflies, females suffer a big
fitness hit.
Let me take a moment to explain what fitness is, by the way, because I don't think we've
defined it.
Fitness is defined by the, that's pretty much the number of offspring that you have that
can themselves have offspring, so your ability to pass on your genes and, therefore, pass
on that trait.
And when we speak of fitness, we generally, I think, it's more an action that increases
your probability towards fitness, rather than-
Because we're talking about it in populations, rather than in individuals.
Or even if it's just in individuals, doing a certain thing might increase your, if it
was definitely to increase your fitness, then everyone understood all the time, but there's
probability variance this year, right?
Well, let's see, that's the thing, is that if there's a mixed strategy equilibrium, right?
If there's a mixed evolutionary strategy, stable strategy, then actually, what's best?
What's best?
It's not necessarily what's best, but what's stable, and that's also an important distinction
to make, kind of like in the prisoner's dilemma, what's best is not always what people actually
do.
It's all the same in wild populations and evolutionary history, too.
So, I'm sorry, what were you just saying?
Well, I was just saying that I think fitness, you know, so whatever it is, finding a successful
mate increases your genetic fitness, but say, whatever, sharing a pile of food if you're
a dove, you know, might probabilistically increase your fitness, because then you live
to, you know, find a mate another day.
Yes, absolutely.
Absolutely.
So, not all of it's so direct, like how many, like literally how many matings can I have,
like how many gametes can I spread, it might be, do I get more sunlight, I'm a tree, and
I have a large body size, do I get more sunlight, and therefore, have, be able to do more photosynthesis
to create more gametes, or, yeah, so there's, there's all sorts of indirect ways to get
there.
I was thinking, I think, in terms of evolutionary arms races, which is a fun thought experiment,
even, to think of trees, but that'll get us too far afield, I want you to keep going.
Yeah, trees are, trees are a great example of the idea of evolutionary game theory in
practice, and have been studied, and they're a little bit more simple, I guess, than some
of the other animals that you can study.
When they're not running around for food.
Do you want to get trees then, since they're simpler?
No.
No, you want to do the ground.
Okay, dragonflies are more interesting.
I want to talk about dragonflies.
Okay.
Plants are boring.
That's, well, depends on your opinions.
Because they're not running around and hunting and looking for mates and stuff.
See, I hate dragonflies because they're really big.
Well, I like dragonflies.
Oh, there are other bugs that I don't like.
Yeah?
Yeah.
I've never had a problem with spiders.
I don't freak out about spiders, but spiders don't fly at your face.
They're on the wall, and you just mush them.
Spiders are mine.
Watch your hands.
Dragonflies don't fly at your face either.
They turn at the last second.
Fuck those guys, and they're stupid chicken playing.
I am not a fan.
I'm a fan of dragonflies.
This example's going forward.
To reiterate.
I'm sorry I used the word reiterate, but I'm not actually sorry.
Dragonfly.
I can't unpack that.
No.
Okay.
No.
Why would you be sorry in the first place?
Okay.
Okay, I'll tell you.
Yeah.
Because, because iterate, like it's just being redundant in the same word.
Iterate is repeat.
To reiterate, re-repeat.
That doesn't make any sense.
Maybe you'd already iterated once.
So you are reiterating now?
Just keep iterating.
Hey, regardless, can we please continue?
Oh.
See, that's the one that actually kind of bugs me.
Yeah.
But you can, the language evolves.
You just go along with it, right?
Two females.
Two females.
One looks like the male.
One looks a lot like the male.
One doesn't.
In dragonflies, interestingly, females will actually leave the areas that have the most
prey density.
Because they suffer, well, the idea is because they suffer a significant fitness penalty
for being around males if they're not breeding.
Why?
Because males are really pushy and they want to mate a lot.
They have a high drive to mate.
So the females are busy getting, getting...
The females want to get food.
Instead of eating.
Right.
I see.
They're busy.
And not only that, it's not like a quick thing.
They hold on to the females and a lot of species do mate guarding.
So they will literally hold on to her until she lays her eggs.
Now, if you're a pre-reproductive female, and so this is just like a non-starter for
you, all of this is pure loss.
So the result is that a lot of pre-reproductive females just don't hang out where the mating
sites are.
They have less opportunity to get food, but get more food because they're not being forced
to the ground, grabbed onto their head by the, by the male's sursy little, little butt barbs.
So anyway.
So the ones that look like males don't have that problem.
Exactly.
Solution.
Cool.
There's ones that look like males.
They don't get, they might have a lower fitness in one way because they don't get as many
matings, but they do get to get stronger so that they can produce more eggs.
Right?
So that's a fitness plus.
Yeah.
So all of these, so that's like a fun, a fun Game Theory question too.
Yeah.
Bring this home for Game Theory for, for deep rational actor, or is this just about bugs
