That sounds like a sweet deal.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a lot of incentive in the military to get married.
If I ever fall in hard times.
I think.
If I ever marry someone in the military.
Right.
Would you like to read that top one?
This is for our voting episode which just came out.
Yes.
I'm surprised there was no talk of Brexit.
But maybe this was recorded before that all went down.
If more rational minded people in the UK voted last week, it would have been a different story.
I don't have much of a comment there.
Did I say the commenters name Eddie Flash?
You did not, but now you have.
Now I have.
That was for episode 11.
Yeah.
And that was, we do record generally three to four weeks before they go on air.
So that was definitely before the Brexit was in the news.
But I'm interested.
I would have been interested to hear about what our guest thought about that.
I know personally, I don't know what he felt about the voting, but I do know that he was very disappointed with the results.
I expect based on how many people right now are having breg regret or whatever they're calling it.
Regret.
Regret.
That maybe to his point, if people who are less informed would have stayed home, this might not have happened.
Yeah.
Because I think that was one of Tim's things, if you aren't very informed on the subject, just don't vote.
Yeah.
I don't think that this disproves this point in any way.
That's interesting.
I don't know much to say.
I just like the, I mean, I'm sure that there's a whole big world collapse over this, but for me it's just kind of fun to watch.
Kind of that perverse part of me that wants Trump to win the election.
I just like seeing what happens.
Burn it all down.
Raise it up again from the ashes.
Burn to the ground.
Another comment on the voting episode is from Jess.
Jess said, I love this podcast and all the work you put into the relevant links and follow up, smiley face, keep up your excellent work, guys.
Thanks, Jess.
You rock.
Thank you.
Yay.
What else we got?
Do you want to read this one from Peter?
Sure.
Okay.
This is regarding the polyamory episode 9 and 10.
If there's any chance at all that adding secondary partners would devalue the bond with my primary partner, it's just not worth it.
The costs are too deep and the benefits too shallow.
They go on to say, I'm not defending strong claim, adding secondary partners weakens your primary bond.
I'm defending the weaker claim.
If there's any chance adding secondary partners will weaken my primary bond, it's not worth it.
So my answer is there are a lot of things that could have a chance of weakening your bond with your primary partner.
You know, things as common as getting a new job or a promotion.
Things like eating a different kind of ice cream.
I don't know.
There's a lot of different things that you could do.
So it's one of those situations where you kind of want to weigh things out.
Things like having different tastes in music.
Yeah.
Although I guess that's not a thing you would do.
No.
But maybe like one of you would go to a concert and the other one wouldn't.
I don't know.
Bonds are weird that way.
Personally, I honestly, it depends in a large way, but my bond with my husband of eight years in most of the situations I think has gotten stronger and stronger even when I dated people who were not really good partners.
Yeah.
I wanted to say a similar thing to that.
In my experience, having a secondary partner actually made the bond with my primary much stronger.
Because when you only have the one primary partner, the thing you're comparing them person to is the idealized partner.
You know, the person who's perfect in every way and only exists in fantasy.
And when you have an actual real person to compare them to, they're better in some ways.
But in other ways, you're like, Oh God, I am.
I am so glad I don't have to live with this person because I couldn't stand that one little thing.
And the grass being greener on the other side.
Once you actually go to the other side, you're like, Oh no, the grass here's about the same.
I like that side where I was on there before too.
Let me tell you why I felt like it strengthened my bond with my partner with my existing partner.
I'm not going to do the primary secondary thing.
Right.
Like, I got to see him in action being an awesome, supportive, kind human being and sticking with me through thick and thin and reaching out to people.
And yeah, there's just, there was so much awesomeness that came from that.
So yes, I guess there's a chance you can make things weaker, but there's also a chance it can make things stronger.
So it's not just the tiniest chance that it might make it weaker.
There's also a chance that it could make it stronger instead.
Also, you have a team dedicated to dating you.
I would say as far as, you know, really anything that you're considering that might have an impact on your relationship.
It's the kind of thing that you should talk about with your current partner.
And I think there are some people that Polly would weaken a relationship, others that it would strengthen it for.
The only person who can really decide that is you and your partner.
And then one final thing, which I hope will be our last thing about the Polly because we've just gone on for about it so much.
There was a person whose name I'm not sure I'm going to say, but in the second episode 10, near I think the 10 minute mark,
I started mentioning some things that might make someone undesirable, I guess, in a hypothetical sense.
And they responded negatively to that saying, Jesus, I can't believe you just said that and online as well.
Many sexually evicted men are not like the stereotypes you pulled out of your ass at all.
And I felt bad about that. So I wrote something in reply and I'm just going to read what I wrote.
I just want to interject very quickly that what Anjash said was, if you are a terrible person, then you need to up your game.
Yes.
Pretty much.
Yeah.
So he's referring to.
Yeah.
So my reply is that I apologize for my careless words.
We've been recording for well over an hour and a half at that point and I was getting tired.
And I flailed around searching for descriptors that would commonly be associated with people at the very lowest levels of desirability.
Quote, I did not intend this at all to include all men who are involuntary celibate.
I have read both Scott Alexander's and Scott Harrison's essays on this and I sympathize very strongly with them.
There are many men who are not awful and undesirable and who still have immense trouble finding a partner for a number of other reasons.
I meant only to say that the most unlikeable people don't do any better under monogamy than they do under polyamory
and trying to force a solution of every woman must be paired with one man so that even the least desirable man is assured a woman does not work.
As often people would prefer to stay single rather than the alternative.
In addition to not working, it is also reprehensible because it again treats women as objects to satisfy men rather than as self-directed agents.
And since a systemic solution is untenable, while a personal solution is viable if potentially difficult.
I was trying to convey that but my tone was crass and I'm sorry.
I have one more comment I want to dig up.
Do we?
We have exactly one review on iTunes.
Do we?
It's a one-star review.
Oh no!
They made it 30 seconds into the first episode.
Okay.
One-star.
The title is stupid.
The submitter was VU alumni.
I couldn't make it past the one-minute mark on this podcast.
Within the first 30 seconds, the host refers to you as the listener as not smart enough and that's why you're still listening to the podcast.
Oh shit.
Dude, I told you.
What would possess you to think that when you are trying to build a fan base, the very best way to do that is by insulting the very people you're courting
to patron your podcast.
Bum bum bum.
I am the suck.
Well.
Did they not wait until I called you on it?
Apparently they did not.
Apparently they had their finger ready on the pause button and ceased listening immediately.
So those of you who are still here, glad you're able to make it past that.
We don't think you're stupid or that we're stupid.
We just think that we're crazy.
Yeah.
We were freestyling it in the first episode.
So here we are now.
That said, this is our friendly reminder to please go on and give us some reviews and ratings on iTunes if you think the podcast is worth 30 seconds of your time to do so.
Yeah.
Even if you think we're worth two stars, it'll increase our average rating.
It's true.
Sorry guys.
No, you're good.
It's okay.
Okay, this has been the Basian Conspiracy.
Goodbye everybody.
Bye.
See you soon.
See you in a couple weeks.
Bye.
