But you'll be paying me a few hundred dollars an hour.
And she said she wanted to go for it.
The end result was he recommended that she go out by the most expensive turkey baster that she could possibly find and that he would make sure that her ex paid for it.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, that sounds like a better solution just getting the old one back.
I was thinking the second that, like, the court order showed up on my door to return the turkey baster.
I did some very nasty things with the turkey baster before I returned it.
Yeah, but it's still spending hundreds, if not thousands of dollars over a, what, $5 turkey baster.
Yeah.
You have to stick it to someone.
But on the other hand, that also comes in very useful because patent trolls count on the fact that nobody's willing to go to court and spend $30,000 to defend something rather than just pay, you know, a few hundred dollars for this patent bullshit.
Mm-hmm.
Are we all familiar with patent trolls?
Oh, I am.
Okay.
It's usually people who companies that buy up pornography.
Oh, you looked at me like this is not.
No, I hadn't heard the print.
Well, because when I hear about patent trolls, it's generally through, you know, NPR and other news media.
And so I guess they take more family acceptable examples.
Okay.
In my, in my very limited experience of reading about this online on, I think it was Popat.
Okay.
Um, so we'll find the link, but it's, it's crappy little companies that get set up specifically to buy out of copyright porn or not out of copyright, but really cheap porn rights.
Mm-hmm.
Put them online and then when they get pirated, they go after the people who pirated them.
Oh.
So they just buy up a bunch of titles for super cheap just so that they can go after people who pirate porn.
Okay.
Download porn legally.
And then a combination of embarrassment and not wanting to go through the expensive process of court.
They are able to get huge amounts of money by, by exploiting people.
Okay.
See that's that, that is very similar.
When I was thinking patent trolls, I was thinking of the, again, shitty little companies that just buy a bunch of patent rights.
And the way patents work in this country is really, really copyright and intellectual property law in the US is broken right now.
And they need to do something about it.
They will buy up bullshit copyrights that someone has copyrighted a graphical UI element, for example, or the one I'm most most recently heard about is a supplement for muscle building shakes or whatever.
There's a simple amino acid that's added to all of them.
And there was a university that did some research on it, filed a patent related to it.
And this company bought up the patent for really cheap because it turned out that the, it didn't do what they wanted it to do.
So they just kind of, the university just kind of left it on the shelf.
They bought it up real cheap.
And the guy started going after every single protein muscle mass shake on the market, saying you have this amino acid in your, in your, in your supplement.
You have to give us a few hundred dollars or a few thousand dollars, whatever it is.
And most places were just like, fine, whatever, here's your, here's your money.
But this one guy was like, no, screw you.
And he's spending literally millions of dollars in court to, to fight this.
And he personally is not ever going to make that money back.
However, across the industry as a whole, it's estimated to be about $2 billion worth.
So he's, he's doing a lot of good by fighting this, but he was never going to see that money back or make a return on it.
So that's, he's not, he's not acting as a rational actor in this particular game.
No, he's not.
He's being like the lady with the turkey baster.
But in this case, it's for justice.
Yes.
So he's the lady with the turkey baster.
He's not a rational actor and he's not reaching national equilibrium, but he is an irrational human being.
And he's doing the right thing.
Yeah.
Well, if everyone were to do this, then patent trolls would know they cannot get away with just buying up shitty patents and threatening people with legal action.
Man, nobody is going to cooperate with his patent trolls.
Right.
It's, it's, it's why the US doesn't negotiate with terrorists.
Life sounds really easy for willing to compromise all your ethics.
There's a lot of easy ways to make money if you want to just be a bad person.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So speaking of not negotiating with terrorists, would you like to talk about the chicken game?
Yeah.
Are we okay moving on to that?
I actually wanted to talk about the Prisoner's Dilemma and the people who got together and created programs and a competition to win the iterated Prisoner's Dilemma.
So the Prisoner's Dilemma that goes over and over and over again.
And there was one top strategy by Anatole Rappaport, which is an awesome name.
And it was the simplest of any program, entered with only four lines of basic and it won the contest.
The strategy was just to cooperate on the first iteration of the game.
And then after that, do what the opponent did on the previous move.
It's called tit for tat, right?
Tit for tat with forgiveness.
So it would also randomly do something nice at some point, I think.
So there's a small probability that the player is going to cooperate anyway, even if the opponent defects.
Okay.
And then it works really well.
And Wikipedia put together a list of conditions that are necessary for our strategy to be successful.
One is that the most important is that the strategy be nice.
So it's not going to defect before the opponent does.
It retaliating.
So if the opponent does defect, then it also defects.
It's forgiving.
So even though it retaliates, they fall back to cooperating if the opponent does not continue to defect.
And that stops the long runs of revenge and counter revenge and Maximals' points.
And finally, non-envious.
So not striving to score more than the opponent, at least the best outcome.
When you mentioned the name Rappaport, it made me think of an essay that I read by Daniel Dennett.
It was called, How to Criticize with Kindness, Philosopher Daniel Dennett and the Four Steps to Arguing Intelligently.
And as he went on to list how the program played its game, I'm like, oh, that's the same Rappaport.
Anything?
Yeah.
What's the amatoll?
Is that the Rappaport's first name?
Anatoll Rappaport.
Sweet.
And I'm going to link to that Brain Pickings article by Daniel Dennett because it's the best way to argue.
But we don't have to go over it now because it's not really relevant.
I always think of the pansy Parkinson's, again, from the Methods of Rationality as the worst players because they would always defect.
And I think that's why you want a, I guess they're calling it a super-rational strategy, rather than a rational one.
Because in a world where you might run into a copy of yourself, if you can't even cooperate with yourself, you have some serious issues.
Well, and I think, you know, since I'm unlikely to run into another Steven Zuber, but I am more likely to run into people that think along the same lines that I do.
And if I can't get along with people who think like I do, then I think I'm thinking wrong.
So that's where I think that the generalizability of my rule to cooperate, at least until I get screwed over a bunch of times, maybe then I'll just start defecting out of spite.
My tendency is to cooperate based on that premise.
Yeah, well, people spend a lot of time studying cooperation, altruistic behavior, among both humans and animals, trying to figure out where it came from.
And that's why I was looking at the evolutionary game theory. But I think that we should talk about chicken first.
Okay. Do you want to start up the game again, and Katrina and I can play chicken?
So, the game of chicken is very simple. It's been shown in multiple movies. Two people get in the car, they drive at each other.
Different cars.
Yeah, sorry. Two people get in different cars, they point the cars at each other, they step on the gas, and they drive towards each other.
And if the two cars hit, they're both going to die, obviously. Two head-on collisions is a terrible thing to have.
So it's going fast.
Yes, they're going fast, and they're not wearing seatbelts, and they don't have airbags. This is in the 1950s.
Are we greasers?
You probably are, yeah.
Yeah.
I'm smoking a cigarette.
That's right. Comb in your hair whenever people are looking.
So you're driving at each other, and obviously you don't want to collide because you don't want to die.
So someone is going to swerve off to the right. The person who swerves off to the right first is a chicken.
I freaking have no guts at all. So that person loses.
The question is, how do you win in a game of chicken?
And the best answer is, after you start, you remove your steering wheel, you throw it out the window while the other guy is looking at you, and then you just keep going.
Because you're like, dude, I can't steer away.
I have committed to going forward by removing my ability to steer right. You have to be the one that steers right.
That solution sounds generalizable outside of just the game of chicken.
Dory time from six or seven years ago.
We did a lot of all the stupid stuff you weren't supposed to do when you got cars, including playing chicken with strangers.
No, you didn't.
The one time. So we didn't crash, but it still was a fun story.
So long story short, we were chasing this random car around because that's what we did.
We would just chase them until they got pissed and then we'd run away.
What the hell is wrong with you?
We were jerks.
16 ish.
So this car is going like 75 miles an hour down a 35 mile an hour street.
We chase them.
They turned left across traffic to get down to the side road.
So we have to wait till traffic leaves before we can follow them.
And then they flash their high beams and we're playing chicken.
And where did you grow up?
Did you grow up like on some farm?
No, it was in Fort Collins.
It's Fort Collins.
Yeah, you know, never going up there now.
The Hedonic Index, that city went way up soon as we left.
Yeah.
The kids from Fort Collins said that they would just throw knives at their own hands for fun.
I don't know what kids you were talking about.
We weren't that stupid.
This is more fun than that.
Well, you do seem smarter than the average bear.
Well, what happened?
I wasn't smarter than the average bear 10 years ago.
Okay.
So we flashed the lights at each other.
Yeah, so the way this worked out is we were going pretty fast.
Well, this actually concerned me right around at the time when we were kind of getting close to each other.
It's like, what if we both turned the same way?
Because we didn't know the rule was turn right.
In fact, we both turned left.
Oh, no.
Well, it still worked out.
Yes, because you turned the same.
But they blew a tire as they turned.
So us being super nice, we were just messing around.
We get out to see if everything is okay.
Then being a bunch of thugs get out to, you know, flex and be all scary.
But it happens to be where one of our number knew one of their number.
Okay.
And it ended amicably.
Uh-huh.
But yeah, that was my only experience at the Game of Chicken.
And no one died.
No one died.
So...
I can look back at a number of incidents from right...
Actually, you did both turn left because you turned left.
I wasn't driving.
Oh, but the guy you were with turned left.
Right.
And if the other guy went the same way as you...
They turned left.
No, they turned their left.
So they turned...
Now, if they turned their left, it would have been fine.
They turned right and you turned left and that's why you went in the same direction.
They turned my right, they turned their left.
Well, they...
We both took left turns.
They did not crash into each other, but they did.
But they did.
