Yeah, they're fine.
I can't remember if we actually turned or not.
I think they might have just turned.
I'll have to find out.
Oh, my goodness.
Anyway, don't try this at home.
If we were to turn this into a decision tree, if we were to talk about this in a Game Theory
way, what would it look like?
It would be the payoff is...
Not being a chicken.
Well, the payoff of not being a chicken is one, but the payoff of dying is negative ten.
Oh, sure.
Oh, it's only negative ten versus one, huh?
It depends on how much you value your life, I guess.
If you're playing chicken, I'm assuming you don't value it all that much.
Or do you think they're immortal?
Okay.
That's exactly what I was going to say.
Teenagers think they're immortal, so...
That's a stereotype, anyway.
And apparently it's true sometimes.
At least in some cases.
Or you just don't want to live anymore if you live in Fort Collins.
It wasn't that we were just goofing around.
Okay.
And the guy that was with us was a very good driver.
Okay.
James Bond style.
So the result, if you both choose...
So if you both choose cooperate, what do you run into each other as how the situation is?
I don't think it has the same sort of payoff matrix as a prisoner's dilemma does.
Okay.
If you choose straight versus turn.
Mm-hmm.
So if you both choose straight, then it's negative ten for both of you.
Yeah.
If you choose straight and they choose swerve, what do they get?
Zero.
I'm assuming negative one for being a chicken.
Oh.
Negative one and you get a positive one.
Yeah.
And then if you both turn, then when?
I guess...
Is it zero?
I guess if you were to both turn at exactly the same time, it'd be a tie.
Yeah.
It'd be zero.
Yeah.
So that's like the best opportunity is you both turn at exactly the same time.
Yeah.
The stretching is the kind of game where you couldn't generalize your optimization strategy.
No, you can't with the prisoner's dilemma.
Yeah.
Because if you're both driving, say you hit cruise control at 75, and then you see the
other party throw their string wheel at the window at the same time you do, then you
just both have a few seconds to regret that you both made that decision.
Yeah.
But I think it's a...
Get out of cruise control, Steven.
But you can't turn.
I guess you can slam on your brakes, but sticking with the game.
Wait, you can't turn in cruise control?
What if world is this?
No, if you threw your string wheel at the window.
Oh.
So the strategy where you declare to them, I'm going to go straight until the game's
over.
Yeah.
You can't do that and want your opponent to do the same thing like you can in a prisoner's
dilemma if you cooperate.
Yeah.
But it's a demonstration of the fact that when you're playing these sorts of games, what
you want to do is change your player's opinion of you.
You want to portray yourself as the biggest, most badass, not going to turn no matter what
thing, no matter what person.
And whoever portrays that best generally is the one that wins because the other person
turns away sooner.
So it is literally about modeling your opponent.
And the problem with trying to model your opponents on things like that is that people
lie all the time and people can bluster and say, you know, that they're more courageous
than they actually are.
So they have an extra steering wheel to throw out the window?
Well, no, that's the whole point of the throwing the steering wheel away.
It is a credible pre-commitment.
The saying, I'm not going to turn away, is a pre-commitment, but it's not a very credible
one.
No.
It's a credible pre-commitment.
And that is why the United States does not, in theory, negotiate with terrorists.
Because if you never negotiate with a terrorist throughout your 200-year history, and if you're
willing to take giant losses in civilians or whatever to not negotiate with terrorists,
then there is not much incentive for terrorists to target you.
Because they're like, well, no matter what happens, we're not going to get what we want.
We're just going to kill a bunch of people and then get killed as well.
Well, that depends on what they want.
Well, yes.
If they just want to kill a bunch of people, then it doesn't matter.
That's the...
But pre-9-11.
Funny.
Funny.
Yeah.
In that nice little window, post-Cold War, pre-9-11, we had this nice window where that wasn't
the goal of the opponents.
Right.
The goal was to get your plane to Haiti or wherever so they can defect to the local government
or make a statement.
I don't know.
I don't really know what people did back then.
But yeah, that's the same reason why if you're in a country where there is a lot of kidnapping,
the best strategy for the society as general is to never pay any ransom, even though it
means their family members die.
Because...
For society in general, but not for you and your family.
Exactly.
That's not how things work.
If everyone in society never paid a ransom, there'd be no incentive for kidnappers to
kidnap anyone and kidnapping would stop entirely.
You wouldn't have to worry about being kidnapped.
But yeah, like you say...
Actors work on an individual level.
Yes.
And so people do pay ransoms because they do want their family members back and therefore
kidnapping continues to be a problem.
So that's...
Yeah.
It's the same kind of defection, except now it feels much more personal when it's your
family member that's been kidnapped.
All of a sudden you're like, I don't want to cooperate with all of society, I'm going
to defect because fuck you, I want my family member back.
That really does remind me of evolutionary stable strategies.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like the Hawk and Dove game.
So our first item that we have to re-record is Hawk and Dove games, which Katrina was
telling us about.
Katrina, what is this Hawk and Dove game that you speak of?
The Hawk and Dove game is an example of evolutionary game theory and it was proposed by John Maynard
Smith and George Price in 1973.
So the way that it works is that there's two strategies, Hawk and Dove.
Hawk is the aggressive strategy and Dove is the peaceful strategy.
And the idea is that they're both meeting over a pile of food.
So when a Dove and a Dove, the two peaceful strategies meet up, they equally share the
food and they both get a positive three fitness.
When a Dove and a Hawk meet up, the Hawk is easily able to take more food than the Dove
because it's so aggressive and the Dove is peaceful.
So the Hawk gets five plus five fitness and the Dove is plus one.
However, when two Hawks meet up, they even injure each other a little bit and maybe even
destroy the food, they each get zero.
It's kind of harsh.
Yeah, it is.
It's a harsh world out there.
So if you're thinking about it as a prisoner's dilemma and there's player one and player
two playing those strategies, do you know which ones would be the Nash equilibria?
I would go with both going for Doves because I like cooperative strategies, but I recall
that was not...
It's not Nash.
Yeah, no.
So the Nash, you said it was a strange mixed strategy where some people are Hawk at a certain
percentage?
Yeah.
So, well, that's the evolutionary and the stable strategy is mixed, but the Nash equilibrium,
if you're again doing a player one, player two, and they can play either strategy.
So if player one plays Dove, player two is going to be happiest playing Hawk.
Right.
Right?
Yes.
Player two is a dick.
So that they'll get five plus five and the Dove person will get plus one, if alternatively,
and again, this is a situation like the prisoner's dilemma where they're really choosing at the
same time, but looking back, Dove person isn't going to want to change their strategy knowing
that the other player played Hawk because if they were to play Hawk, then neither of
them would get anything.
They would get zero and one's better than zero.
So the best, the Nash equilibrium strategy is Hawk, Dove or Dove of Hawk, right?
So there are two Nash equilibrium.
Okay.
Now, if you're talking about an animal species that has aggressive individuals and peaceful
individuals, it's easy to see kind of taking it from the Nash equilibrium that the best
strategy involves both Hawks and Doves.
That's why it's a mixed strategy.
As an animal, you don't really get to choose which one you're going to do at any one moment
or you might, it depends.
So it's going to go into a mixed strategy where the animals play Dove a certain amount
of times or a certain amount of individuals in the population play Dove and a certain
amount of individuals in the population play Hawk.
That this, I see what you're saying, what you're saying, how that that's Nash equilibrium,
but my human fairness instincts makes me very mad about this.
I do not want the other person to choose Hawk and instead of Dove because I would much rather
us both have three than me only have one.
Yeah.
I think that's why we need governmental regulation of Hawks and Doves.
I suppose, or I could just be a Hawk too and you know, take the hit in order to impose
costs on that guy.
You could.
Yes.
And if you're the only Hawk around, it sounds like a win for you despite probably not being
well liked.
Right.
