and animals and it's not something that we can generalize to the population?
Well, it's, it's an example of mixed strategy.
Yeah.
So it is an example of mixed strategy, but we can't actually calculate if it's mixed
strategy unless we're able to actually track the fitness for those different kinds of females.
And we're not.
Year after year.
I think a lot of people try.
I mean, I was looking at Scott Alexander's example of vampire bats feeding each other.
So you can go out, be a vampire bat and not get any blood.
Maybe you can.
You, what?
You said I could go out and be a vampire bat.
I do not have those skills.
A vampire bat can go out, look for a meal and not get a blood meal.
They expend a huge amount of energy.
It's a, it's a big cost to choose to hunt.
So when they get back to the roost, they're in trouble, but oftentimes they're taken care
of by a neighbor in their roost that has actually had a chance to get a blood meal.
So they're fed and that's good, right?
But it's, it's a, it's a minor cost to the bat that's feeding the other bat and a huge
benefit to the bat that's being fed.
And in that example, there was some, there were some almost anecdotal examples that was
seen that bats that hadn't cooperated by feeding other bats were in turn not being fed by other bats.
So that was.
So in any social species, this sort of thing evolves pretty quickly.
The idea of.
Of fairness.
Fairness and cooperating over time and punishment.
Yes.
So fairness and punishment are examples of mixed strategies?
Those are examples of creating super rational.
Yeah.
Nature having adapted.
Well, because that's what it makes sense, right?
There was a great example in Robert Sildini's influence on science and practice.
Robert Sildini and his book influence science and practice, which is a must read.
So the book discusses price gouging, which the idea is during a time of shortage of scarcity,
people will go nuts and try and procure as much of that resource as possible.
Whether it be guns, there's the running joke in the last eight years or really whenever
there's a Democrat in the White House that the president's a great gun salesman because
of all the proposed, you know, supposed gun bans or something.
There was a great experiment or wasn't an experiment that happened to be done in real
life where in a county in Florida, they banned phosphate detergents and people went berserk.
They would drive to the next county and convoys and come back with phosphate detergents just
and no one could have cared less until they banned nationwide now.
Oh, nice.
That makes sense.
But it was just a fun example that people couldn't have cared less until they were told they
can't have it.
Then they lost their mind.
I did the same thing actually when my phone provider went from unlimited data to limited
data.
Forget this and I switched carriers even though previously I'd only been using like less than
a gig a month, but it was just the idea.
I liked the option.
In full knowledge of what I was doing, I switched carriers.
Anyway, so in this example that Sheldini gives in the book, it was during, when was that big
oil crisis?
Mid-80s?
Oh, the big one?
That was late 70s.
Late 70s.
Carter administration, right?
Yes.
Yeah, that rings a bell.
So people were stockpiling gas, however you can think of buying drums and filling it and
stuff.
And for the most part, gas stations just dried up.
And then one guy realized, hey, I can make a quick buck and triple or quadruple the price
of gas.
And it sold in the short term.
People were still like, well, this is ridiculous, but I need it, so I'll go ahead and take it.
What worked out happening a few weeks later after things stabilized, people remembered
what a dick this guy was by overcharging, so they stopped going to him and apparently
his business closed.
All of that is hearsay from what was in that book, but taking it all is true.
It's a pretty good example of...
That only happens because he was the only one who did it.
That's true.
If everyone, if say they had all gotten together and said, all right, guys, want to be dicks
and they all agreed.
They don't have to be dicks.
That's as known as the invisible hand of the market.
If the supply goes down, the price goes up.
And economists think that this is like a good thing when...
Well, not necessarily a good, good thing, but when there is a shortage of something, the
prices should go up and keeping them artificially low just leads to worse shortages.
Because when the price goes up, first of all, people generally buy less if they don't need
it as badly.
And also the people that do have it are more incentivized to sell, right?
I believe Katrina, you mentioned that too.
Yes, absolutely.
I mean, I think that there are counter examples to that in real life.
So it might make sense in a lot of cases, but in the example of, say, if there was a monopoly
of three large businesses that owned 90% of the water in the country, like the drinking
water, and they were like, hey, let's all get together.
They have some backdoor deal where if we all tripled prices tomorrow morning, no one can
complain.
Does this tank girl?
No, but it could be.
But a real life example could be something like Comcast, right?
But that's in cases of monopolies.
And I think it's supposed to be a more general case that during when you have an inefficient
market, you price gouging is not to be that discouraged.
Yeah, because I mean, of course, governments and governments and people because governments
are made of people react with anger over people who are supposedly price gouging and making
price ceilings can cause a lot more damage.
And it's kind of tricky, though, because it does hit that fairness instinct again.
The water is always this price, and now all of a sudden that I need a badly, you're going
to screw me.
I can understand why people get emotional about it.
Absolutely.
I think it brings a lot of stuff to the table.
And I'm not an economist, so I guess I can't weigh in too much.
But I do think that you can pretend that there are like three companies like Comcast.
But for whatever reason, all the CEOs got together and they were like, hey, let's just keep doing
shitty business and double our prices.
I can't see a reason why it couldn't work in real life, even if there wasn't a monopoly.
But it is the same reason why you'll pay like $15 for a sandwich on an airplane.
Oh, yeah.
Well, they did the same thing with light bulbs for a while.
I don't remember how many years it lasted, but they had a very, I guess you could even
call it conspiracy among the major light bulb manufacturers to sell shitty light bulbs
because they could make more money that way.
Oh, yeah.
Stephen, if you're really concerned about the water issue, if there's not enough water
and it's really expensive, then, I mean, you could ask for some sort of outside regulatory
solution that doesn't involve price ceilings.
Like there's other options too.
For example, like you could have tax money buy up certain amounts of water and redistribute
them to people who are under a certain income level or something like that.
And there is also basic water, a base water amount.
Right.
And there is always kind of the worry that, I mean, the theory is that people will pay
more if they value the thing more, but for people that have a whole lot of money, it
doesn't cost them anything to bid up a bottle of water to $10,000, even for some really
shitty use when someone who doesn't have that kind of money needs it to live.
So, you know, another argument to have more equality in society, it makes the prices
more accurately reflect how people actually value things.
Yeah, that's true.
I mean, so, you know, like housing might be a more realistic example, because I don't
think we're in any shortage of running out of water in the United States.
But I think in Denver, I mean, maybe, yeah, there might be places like literal deserts
in the United States.
California is having issues.
But it's not like their taps are turning off.
They're just, you know, it's costing more.
But that said, actually, the issue is that it's not costing more.
It is kept artificially low.
And that's why there's water shortages.
People literally don't have any.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's a good example of where price ceilings are problematic.
Gotcha.
And I just had another really good example, but I can't remember what it was.
Oh, housing.
You know, I mean, we can, we can dive into this and the other.
Yes.
So game theory guys.
Yeah, right.
Sorry.
I wanted to mention a fun mixed strategy game that I'd heard of where you and six other
people wake up in a room, all separate rooms.
You're not together.
You've been knocked out and dragged there by the, you know, evil mad scientist economist
who wants to study your behavior, I guess.
Okay.
And you have a button and within the next 10 minutes, you can either choose to push the
button or not.
And if one person pushes the button, you're all let free.
But if no people or more than one person pushes the button, then you're all killed.
The question is, what's the best strategy in that case?
And ultimately it's just roll a die.
And if it comes up six, push the button.
And that way statistically, you'll, you'll usually have one person push the button.
Well, more often than if you had any other sort of decision theory, you will have only
one person push the button.
Okay.
So you go into a room, there's a die.
And the instructions are.
Yeah.
You know, you, you know, I got into six other people.
The economist isn't that nice.
This is why everyone has to carry an emergency die with them at all times.
I see.
Cause it's something like this could happen.
It's a possibility.
It's happened before.
And the cost of carrying a die are so low.
Right.
It's the same reason I carry everything that I carry adds up after a while though.
Yeah, it does.
What's your quick weight?
Right now, 72 kilograms.
Okay.
Dude, you got to get the strong back perk.
I'm up to 300 pounds.
