The fascinating thing is the only thing they are told is you have to meet a person in New
York tomorrow.
Yeah.
And that's it.
And, and I think it was like half the people or so managed to do it anyway because.
By showing up at the Empire State Building at noon.
Right.
Or Grand Central Station.
If you think of New York, those are like the two places where you meet people, right?
And noon is just kind of the time that it, that sticks out in the day.
And you're like, well, sure, let's try that and it manages to work.
Yeah.
And it was the guy that, uh, the guy that came up with that is Thomas Shelling, which is why
it's Shelling Points, places that people naturally converge to.
Yeah.
I was at the post office.
Why does that come to mind when I think of Shelling Points?
Maybe if you're thinking of very small towns.
Maybe for some reason I think I have this, my node with Shelling Point immediately jumps
to post office in my brain and I'm not sure why.
I'll see if I can Google those terms together if anything comes up.
It reminded me of another insect example.
Okay.
And, um, and the reason that Shelling Points came up, I think is also when we're talking
about cooperating or defecting or, you know, there are evolutionary things that people,
that people are kind of programmed to do to help them coordinate for all sorts of different
games, right?
And that applies to animals also.
For example, butterflies.
A lot of butterflies are known as hill toppers.
All right.
Do you know why that is?
They go to the top of the hill?
Yeah.
Why do you think they go to the top of the hill?
That's where other butterflies are?
That's right.
All right.
Um, finding mates, especially if you're very quiet and maybe there aren't that many of
you, is, and you want to find mates that aren't your brood sisters and brothers, right?
That also hatched at the same time as you because you don't want inbreeding.
Um, it's a problem in the animal kingdom and animals have different ways to deal with that.
Some of them have like flashing light signals.
If they are angler fish, for example, or pheromones, or there's all sorts of different
things that they can do.
But if you're a butterfly, you don't get any of those.
Well, it depends.
Oh, okay.
But, um...
If you're a lane butterfly, you don't get any of those.
But you're cool enough to know that the other butterflies are going to go to a meeting point,
and that meeting point is at the top of the hill.
And that's where you can find a butterfly to mate with and increase your fitness.
Cool.
Yeah.
And then you can leave the trait of going to the top of the hill to your offspring.
Actually, to kind of bring that towards humans, because I know that you're interested in bringing
that towards humans.
Um, you know, those little midges that swarm together, they're a bunch of swarming flies
if you're maybe out on a soccer field or a park.
Well, one of the reasons they swarm around your head is because you are locally the
tallest thing, and they're finding other midges to mate with.
Right, now I'm less annoyed at them all of a sudden.
I'm supporting sex orgy.
Or mid-orgy.
Literally, every time I walk through a cloud of them, I'm thinking, you have the entire...
Like, not the entire sky.
You know, it goes so high.
Right, right.
But you have literally everything around, you know.
It's like, why are you flying right in front of my car?
Exactly.
You have the whole sky.
Why are you right in my face?
But now I get it.
Now I can sympathize a little better.
Yeah, they're very responsive to even small changes in topography to find other flies.
In order to avoid a horde, what do you call it?
A gaggle?
A mix?
A swarm.
A brood?
A swarm, that's the word I was looking for.
Midges, you could say, carry an umbrella, but rather than try and fend them off with it,
you'd hold it above your head?
Yeah, so, I mean, that's what I thought.
In practice, I've tried that, or also getting next to somebody who's tall and then crouching
down.
Okay.
I think it works to a certain extent.
Get a small person, put them on your shoulders.
I think that once you're kind of in that situation, they kind of, once they find the tall thing,
they also go out to the sides and just kind of around.
So you want to just start being short and continue being short in that situation next to a tall
person, potentially.
Your best weapon is, what is that, bug spray?
DDT?
No, not DDT.
You spray that everywhere you go.
DT.
DDT's very different.
Okay.
Kind of past the side.
I think we should wrap it up.
I think so too.
I think we've gone over, actually.
I'm a little disappointed that the newcoms thing, I was hoping we knew someone who would
one-box on it.
Julie Galeff is what you claimed before.
Julie Galeff, I mentioned she went on a date where someone tried to newcom-box her.
They set up a newcom-box thing for her for fun.
I can't offer you such a one-box or two-box or not.
Yeah.
I'm super skeptical at this point now that I've had that conversation with Patrick,
people say that they one-box or two-box, that they actually are just coming from a different
set of presuppositions, right?
Okay.
Just a different set of priors.
Yeah.
I think they'd have to in order to one-box.
Or excuse me, to two-box.
Because the answer's so cut and dry, but I'll look into it.
I'm sure there's some good reason not to.
Oh, I'm sure there is.
I think that if you were...
I know a lot of classical, I don't know if it was classical economists or classical theorists.
Some groups said very strongly, you should two-box because Omega cannot change their
decision anymore.
So what?
You should go in...
You should go in pretending that you would only open one-box.
You dress like a hose.
You dress like a one-boxer.
Yeah, exactly.
That's what makes it somewhat relevant to me how Omega comes up with a decision.
Because if it's like, say, a brain scan when you enter, well, you can try and change your
state of mind or something, or whatever it is.
But if it's just some alien magic power, and they're like, I'm pretty positive you're
going to do this, well, I don't know how to trump that by just sitting there thinking about
it.
Yeah, you don't really have the resources.
I don't know.
You could always try making the stakes higher.
I remember the True Prisoner's Dilemma post where Ali Eiser compared paper clips versus
saving a million people's lives.
Maybe it could be like you have a bunch of sick friends that are going to die, and the
opaque box is one pill that will cure one of them.
And, well, in the clear box is one pill that will cure one of them.
And the opaque box is either zero or ten pills.
Or five.
Or zero or five, yeah.
And so all of a sudden...
So if you get both of them, then all your friends will survive.
But if you only pick the opaque box, then five.
This episode is a bit more of a primer on some of the terms in Game Theory and not so much
a Now You're a Game Theory expert.
No.
Just this way people will know what we mean when we say one boxing or cooperating and
defecting.
I feel like I know more about Game Theory.
You have to be prepared for this episode.
Same.
So we'll compare the benefit to you by linking to basically everything we read to prepare
for this episode.
Awesome.
I think we did okay.
I think we did too.
So stay tuned for listener feedback, which we will get into now.
Now is the part where we do listener feedback.
Starting with a comment from Condition of Man, who says that the Uniform Code of Military
Justice Article 134, paragraph 62, still prohibits adultery in response to us saying that polyamory
was not illegal in the United States.
Was that Polly Episode 10?
Either 9 or 10, one of them.
Okay.
9 and 10.
9 and 10, I guess, both of them together.
Yeah.
So we looked into it and it's really vague.
It's more of a conduct unbecoming if it causes distress in the military or brings disrespect
upon the military.
So when they actually enforce it is very much up to the courts.
I guess that's why half the army has not been kicked out of the army yet.
I know you go overseas for a year.
What do you expect is going to happen?
But it is technically in there so they could drum you out for being poly, even if it doesn't
bring any drama into the military or any disrespect on it as long as some judge says that he doesn't
like you or he doesn't like what you're doing.
Well, that's too bad.
Yeah.
There's a lot of weird stuff around marriage in the military.
I know somebody who married into the military specifically to get a financial gain.
Yes, same here.
I think everyone who knows people in the military knows that.
I know one person in my age range who's in the military and he got married for love.
But the fact that they're each getting like a bonus thousand a month was, you know, there.
And upgraded housing.
Yeah.
I've heard once you're married you get your own little special area instead of having to
share a bunk with, you know, seven other dudes.
