Oh.
Oh man.
Okay.
That's a good answer.
Hey, want to bring this home to game theory?
I want to hear an example of a mixed strategy that people actually do or can do or whatever
it is, right?
Yeah, the box is you guys because I don't really know much about the box.
No problem.
The box is a solo game strategy situation.
It's more of a morality game than having anything really, I think to do with game
strategy.
Well, morality can have something to do with game strategy, right?
It seemed more like a joke thing.
Like Steven was like before that guy even got to the plus side of the box.
Oh, yeah.
Well, the joke is making fun of the box.
So the idea of the box has been a moral, what do you call it, a moral dilemma for a long
time.
So the idea is someone comes in and they offer you a box.
If you hit the button, then one person in the die, one person in the world who you do
not know, a stranger dies, but you also get a million dollars, right?
Yes.
And the joke was you said one person in the world you do not know dies and Steven goes
push the button.
Yeah, there was someone made a video where they hadn't even finished their pitch and
they just kept pressing the button over and over.
It's hilarious.
We'll link it.
Yeah.
Was this a Saturday morning breakfast cereal?
Oh, no.
No, this was an actual video.
But it could have been also a Saturday morning breakfast cereal.
Okay.
It was also a serious movie with Jennifer Lopez.
Oh, what was it called?
The box.
Oh, it was literally called the box.
Maybe or the decision or something.
We can take a look.
Oh, yeah.
There was totally a movie about this.
So that's what these things were making fun of was the movie, which was made based on
a very simple moral dilemma.
Yeah, you know, kind of the idea that if it's somebody else's life who cares, I get
a million dollars.
I'm the individual making this decision and that's considering that I am a strictly selfish
economic actor, then should definitely take the million dollars.
Right.
Yeah, I think that's it.
I'm not sure what its real connection is.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
Yeah, of course in the movie, they press the button and it's the person who dies is
like the doctor of the sixth son and the son's going to die.
And then it's a whole horrible nightmare.
Oh, of course it is, right?
Comes back to them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it wouldn't be so much of a movie or just some random person in some third world
country died.
You know, we're trying to press the button.
It had to be somebody that would turn around and fuck them.
So sounds terrible.
Yes.
So I'm not sure what it's real time is to to game theory other than being just a fun
little intuition pump about, I guess, people's cost-benefit analysis versus their own money.
I don't want to run a person dying.
Of course.
There is also solo game theory, right?
You don't have to have two players.
Don't you?
No.
No, you can just do it on your own.
It depends on the game.
You can just go through a decision tree on your own and make the right decisions.
Oh, sure.
But isn't part of game theory like anticipating the actions of other agents?
Not necessarily.
It's you can be playing against the world, which is set up in a certain way.
Or I guess playing against yourself.
All right.
Okay.
Fair enough.
What was I going to say about...
Oh, the joke about the box would be, I guess, if you could press the button half a dozen
times and get $6 million to charity and still probably...
Save many more people than the six people you killed.
Unless like the 60 billion killer, like Elon Musk, Bill Gates, and, you know, just save
billions of people.
Everyone would want to meet you if you announced that beforehand.
Oh, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That'd be a good way to get around this.
Strangers.
That's how you manage meeting with the press.
You're like, hey, I'm going to press this however many times.
So you're going to want to know me.
That's true.
I'm desperate to be popular.
Right.
Okay.
So this was something that I brought up originally while the music was playing.
So I'm going to go ahead and bring it up again now, even though I don't remember exactly
how it came up.
This, I guess, is not as controversial as I first thought it was.
I was really hesitant to talk about it when we first recorded.
And now I feel a lot better because of the feedback I got from the two of you.
But I had been taught in high school that the official reason the U.S.
gave for dropping nuclear weapons on Japan was the actual reason.
That was still being taught the party line.
That it was the bombs were dropped.
Grandparents dropped those bombs to hasten the end of the war and save
ultimately hundreds of thousands of lives.
And nowadays the consensus is that that really doesn't seem to have mattered.
Japan was already discussing surrendering.
And it's not like the bombs themselves changed how the war was.
How the war was being fought because we were already both sides were already
leveling cities, wiping out entire city populations, destroying the land in
order to get to the factories that created the war's machines of war.
So nothing tactically or strategically was different about it,
aside from the fact that I guess now you only need one bomber instead of a fleet of them.
But the effects on the ground were identical.
The real reason that the United States decided to use the weapon was to show
the Soviet Union since the Cold War was already ramping up before World War II was over,
that we had these weapons and we were willing to use them on civilian populations.
It was a sort of, we were talking earlier about how you pre-commit to your opponent,
showing them you're really serious by throwing your steering wheel out the window of your car.
It was obviously not that big of a commitment, but it was a very similar thing where
you are demonstrating your willingness to do this so they will take you more seriously
and maybe swerve before you were to swerve.
That's interesting. Do you think when people plan bomb droppings and stuff like that,
they actually write things out in terms of lives saved versus lives spent?
In general, I don't know, I don't think so, but at the highest levels,
I believe that was the thinking in this particular case.
Because hundreds of thousands of people were killed in those bombs being dropped.
So about 145,000 people in Hiroshima alone.
Right. It was horrific. They were wiping cities out everywhere and it was a nasty war,
one of the worst we've seen for civilian casualties in history, I think.
I mean, it depends on how far back you want to go.
It turns out that even the 20th century with all of its horrors wasn't as bad as, say,
the big wars in Persia and Greece a couple thousand years ago.
But surely we had more people to kill.
That's true. Probably in terms of percentage of population, it was different rather than absolute numbers.
That is the point that Stephen Pinker makes in The Angels of Our Better Nature,
that your odds of dying as a civilian now are so much lower than they used to be.
So even how much it sucked, you're still better off for your risk of dying.
Well, it turns out just about everything, but especially being killed in a war or as collateral damage.
Did you guys ever see Dr. Strangelove or how I learned to stop worrying and love the bomb?
I sure did.
I sure didn't.
Well, it's great, but one of the major conceits of it is that the Soviets are creating a dead drop weapon.
That if a nuclear explosion is detected anywhere on Earth, they launch all their nukes at the U.S.
Yeah, it's fully automated. They cannot control it.
And it is literally throwing your steering wheel out the window.
And apparently there were plans to actually implement something like this that they never quite got around to during the Cold War.
That's a relief because it's only a matter of time before North Korea decides to test its new nuclear weapons.
And if all of a sudden all of Russia is launching us because of that, that would hardly be a dynamical situation.
They're always testing air quotes, by the way. They're always testing their nuclear weapons in North Korea.
Yeah, I think it was specifically if there was a nuclear explosion detected in Russia.
I don't remember the details, but in any case, they decided to still keep some humans in the loop rather than to make it completely automated.
That's a relief.
But, and then my teachers would say, but there's also evidence that that's not the case.
Okay.
I kind of ended it that.
Okay.
I'm also curious where people are giving these answers from.
I imagine different parts of the world might teach it differently.
So, depending on international audience, I'd be particularly interested in hearing from them.
On a side note really quick, there was a great...
It was in one of the Scalaxander posts where he talks about a game that was on TV where they played Christmas dilemmas.
It was over brief cases of cash.
Did either of you guys read that?
Yes, yes. The Golden Balls.
I was looking for that, but I couldn't find it because the guy at the end...
It's not what it sounds like.
The guy at the end had the perfect strategy.
Yes, we have to show these people. We have to put a link up to the Golden Balls on our website.
What was the perfect strategy?
So, it is a game show that literally is the prisoner's dilemma at the end.
Yeah.
The two people have messed a lot of money throughout this game show, and then at the end, you both get two balls that are painted gold.
That's the golden balls.
Uh-huh.
Inside one of them, it says Split, and in the other one, it says Steel.
Uh-huh.
If both players play Split, they split the money evenly between them.
If one player plays Steel, and the other player plays Split, the person who plays Steel gets all the money, the person who plays Split gets nothing.
If both players play Steel, they forfeit everything, they both go home broke.
Yeah, and so in all previous episodes, it had come down to people saying,
No, dude, I'm totally gonna split. I'm gonna split, man. Don't worry about me. I'm gonna split.
We just split. We're gonna split.
And going back and forth like that for like three minutes, they finally play the balls, and then you see, did they both split?
You know, and do they share the money, or did one person steal, or did they both steal?
That's where all the drama comes from.
Uh-huh.
In this strategy, the guy goes,
