Alrighty, so for our listeners who have in the past heard sounds of music in the background,
we were very confused by that and then we discovered that where a place we're recording,
Zuber International Studios is right next to a big old radio tower and apparently our
microphone was picking up interference from that without us actually hearing anything.
We discovered this the hard way when in several places in this episode, the music came through
really loud and it's kind of hard to make out what we're saying.
So we are re-recording at just a few little spots where the music was bad and after this,
this won't be a problem anymore.
Welcome to the game conspiracy, my name is Katrina Stanton, I'm Inyash Brotsky and I am Stephen Zuber.
Today we are going to be talking about game theory because we realized that we have been
referencing it in earlier episodes and we probably will in future episodes and some
people might not be that familiar with it.
Also, you live it.
Yes.
We live it.
It determines all of our decisions.
Can you expand on that?
What's game theory?
Okay.
I'm not as good at the trans- you can tell my trans- it sounds much more forced than Katrina's.
So I have a definition that I like is treating situations as if they were games with preset
rules and win conditions and the various agents in them are players that have to stick with
these rules and trying to maximize the outcomes and each player tries to maximize their own
outcome and then figuring out via those interactions what is the most likely thing that is going
to happen.
Okay.
It will become more clear as we continue to talk about it.
Can I pop another definition in there?
Please.
Because to prepare for this episode, I read the sequences on game theory by Yvane.
Ah, yes.
What is that person's name?
Scott Alexander.
Scott Alexander.
So same person, but this is on less wrong and we'll have a link up to it.
It says game theory is the study of how rational actors interact to pursue incentives.
It starts with the same questionable premises as economics.
Everyone behaves rationally, but everyone is purely self-interested and the desires can
be exactly quantified.
Now, of course, like any theory, a lot of it is playing with those presuppositions and
changing them and watching how the results change as a result of that.
Another quote from Scott Alexander on less wrong from his game theory sequence.
I'm not sure which posts I didn't save them.
Some of the examples in game theory won't work in reality.
Some of the examples that we give to illustrate game theory, they're more of a reducto ad absurdum
of the so-called homo economicus who acts free from any feelings of altruism or trust.
Which I think someone said that that was the main critique of game theory and I guess other
economic theories that involve people, which is that it treats them like quote-unquote
rational psychopaths.
Yes, but again, just like any other theory, you make it certain assumptions and you figure
out what the result will be given those assumptions and then you kind of figure out why the results
difference.
And that tells you important things about human nature, about evolutionary psychology,
that kind of stuff.
And I like the fact that the name game draws attention to that fact, at least in my opinion.
It points out that yes, these are games that we're setting up, this is not necessarily
how people act in real life.
I just like the word homo economicus.
Right.
Homo economicus.
The behavioral economic subject.
That's right.
Really, really I think that is the scientific term for the straw vulcan.
Ooh, nice.
Nice, let's turn that down somewhere.
Well, we have it in the podcast.
It's saved forever.
Inga shows it.
So do we want to quickly go into the most famous game theory game?
Prisoner's Doma.
Uh-huh.
Yes.
Alrighty.
That's my jam.
All right.
So Steven, I heard you and Katrina broke into a warehouse yesterday.
That's why I arrested both of you and have you in my prison cell now.
No, and we're separated.
You are separated.
You are selfish and rational people.
I should certainly hope so because this whole example fails if you aren't.
So you guys have broken into a warehouse and I can tell that you've done it because there
was glass DNA all over both of you.
Glass DNA.
In this world of glasses DNA.
Shit.
I knew we overlooked something.
So you are both going to get a year in prison for this breaking of a window thing because
we do not tolerate window breaking in our world.
It's got DNA.
It's obviously, you know, alive and self-aware.
So you just can't go around breaking glass.
Yeah.
But I've separated each of you.
Steven, you're not here right now.
Hey, Katrina.
Hey.
Year in prison sounds pretty shitty, doesn't it?
Oh, it sounds terrible.
I don't want to do it.
Well, while we were searching the warehouse, we found someone left an upper-decker in one
of the toilets.
And that comes with a 10-year prison term.
I'm willing.
I'm willing to cut you a deal because we can't really prove whose upper-decker it is.
Do people have DNA in this world?
Not in their poop.
We are all made out of a non-DNA material.
So unfortunately, the only way I can figure out who this is is by getting you to confess.
If you confess that you guys were in there and you got kind of drunk and then Steven
left an upper-decker, well, they're the book at him.
We'll give him 10 years.
But you get off scot-free.
No jail time for you at all.
Now, because I'm a terrible cop, I'm also going to tell you that I'm going to give
Steven the same deal.
And if Steven turns on you before you turn on him, then you get the 10 years in jail
and he walks away free.
But because I'm the worst cop, I'm going to let you know that if both of you squeal
on each other, the jury is just going to be like, ah, fuck it.
These guys are both assholes.
Give them six years in jail each.
So both of you will get six years in jail if both of you squeal.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah.
That is the basic prisoner's dilemma.
Well, my initial impulse is I want to roll on Katrina.
I'll get off scot-free and she gets to go to prison for 10 years.
He's not talking to you.
No.
All right.
I'm out of the room.
Well, right now you are.
Yeah.
Well, we are both making this decision at the same time.
So I was just giving you a hard time, Steven.
No, you're good.
That's what I was trying to emphasize was that we are both aware of the deal and the clock
is ticking for both of us.
We have to make this decision.
Yeah.
So in game theory, if both of you decide to keep your mouth shut and take one year
of jail time each, that's called cooperating because you are cooperating with each other.
If one of you squeals on the other one, that's called defecting because you have defected
on the deal where you don't talk.
And, you know, if both of you talk, then you both have defected.
So the question is for each individual prisoner, what is their dominant strategy?
What strategy gets them the least jail time?
Yeah.
Well, so for a rational actor.
Yeah.
For a single iteration.
Yeah.
Let's say you're thinking this through right now.
Oh.
Stephen cooperates.
What are your two options of Stephen cooperates?
So if Stephen cooperates, then I should definitely defect because then I get zero jail time.
Yes.
And what if you cooperate?
And I don't care about Stephen in this situation.
Yeah.
So what if Stephen defects?
Well, then I should definitely also defect because then I'll get less jail time than I
would if I cooperated.
Because if you cooperated and he defected, you would get 10 years.
Exactly.
Okay.
And Stephen, is your mind in the same place on this?
Yeah, you've laid out all the options pretty well.
Okay.
Thanks.
I appreciate you guiding me through this officer.
You're making your guidance process really well.
Awesome.
Getting both of you six years in jail.
And that is the fun part about the prisoner's dilemma is that looking at the payoff grid
from an objective point of view, you can tell that both people cooperating gets them the
least amount of jail time.
They both get one year.
Stephen, I can't believe that you pooped in the upper part of the toilet.
Katrina, that was you and we know it.
Throw the bucket in both.
Wait, no, no, no.
You both do it.
Ah, fuck it.
Send him off to jail for six years.
We got no time to sort this out, but we know one of them did it.
They both confessed.
That's right.
There's no other evidence in this situation.
Nothing else to consider.
Nope.
Yeah.
So that's one situation, right?
The rational, the rational result is that both defect and both get six years.
See, and that is an example of Nash equilibrium.
Yes.
Which we're probably going to be using that phrase multiple times throughout this episode.
Would you like to define the Nash equilibrium?
