Dude, I want you to know I am a man of my word. I would never go back on my word.
This is the most important thing to me, so I'm gonna steal.
And he was like, what? He's like, no, I'm gonna steal. You should split.
After the show, I'll give you half the money, but I'm gonna steal.
And he's like, this is stupid. If you're gonna split the money anyway, just play the split ball.
The guy's like, no, I'm not gonna do that. I don't roll that way. I don't trust you.
I'm gonna play Steel, and after the show, I'll split the money with you.
And there was, yeah.
Did it work?
It did. The other guy played Split, and the guy who said he was gonna play Steel, played Split as well.
Yeah.
Because from the other person's point of view,
what I'd heard is that the guy had already played his, whatever, he had touched his golden ball.
No, I don't think he had.
Oh, maybe he hadn't. I thought maybe he had to play at the same time,
but the point was he had pre-committed to saying, look, I'm stealing.
You're guaranteed to get nothing if you try and change the outcome.
Right.
So you can say, well, I don't really trust you, but that's already fine. I already stole.
Okay, no, they had not played the ball yet.
Oh, yeah. So he's like, if you want, I mean, I've already pre-committed to stealing.
So far, that's the purpose I've already stolen.
Yeah.
So if you want a probability of getting anything, you just have to split.
Right.
Whether or not I defect on my word about splitting it with you after the game doesn't really matter.
I'm already, I've already pre-committed to stealing.
Exactly.
So this brings to mind.
What's up?
Yeah.
There's a TV show that I've been watching a bit of called Cutthroat Kitchen,
where they spend money to screw each other playing some kitchen cooking game.
That's kind of funny, and I've always, there hasn't been a player who's played any games like this yet.
I don't know if they can exchange money between players.
Not expressly prohibited in the quick rules that they give to the audience,
but it would seem to make a lot of sense to me.
Someone buys some crazy sabotage for somebody.
They're going to give it to me.
They bought it for $2,000.
Hey, I'll give you $1,000 to give it to that person.
Right.
If you get half your money back, I don't get it.
They would, you know, but no one's done that yet.
But I think it'd be kind of funny.
It's got to be against the rules.
I don't know.
Or people just might not be that smart.
People might just be playing it.
Yeah.
So do we want to talk about the probably, in my opinion, one of the most interesting games
and the one that takes this pre-commitment thing to a weird place?
I think we have to.
Okay.
We're talking about Newcombe's problem.
Okay.
You've heard of Newcombe's problem?
Boxes?
Yes.
Yes.
Awesome.
Who wants to set it up?
Go ahead.
Very well.
Do it.
All right.
So Omega flies down out of the sky.
Pause.
Yes, there's Omega.
Omega is the perfect predictor and who has a lot of money at their disposal because they
want to go around and make, uh, play this game with humans.
Omega may or may not be human.
We can't tell.
But we do know Omega is really good at predicting shit.
Yeah.
Maybe not necessarily perfect, but really good.
Yeah.
And we have reason to believe that.
Right.
However, Omega is not God.
It does not have supernatural powers.
Omega is like data from Star Trek.
Really freaking smart.
But if he's not in the room, he can't magically affect things that aren't in the room.
So Omega comes up, looks at you for a bit, does a brain scan or something.
He's like, okay, I've predicted what you're going to answer when I ask you this question.
Then he fiddles with two boxes, presents you with the boxes.
One of them is clear.
One of them is opaque.
In the clear box box, you see $10,000.
And Omega says to you, you can now choose to open only the clear box, only the opaque
box, sorry, or you can choose to open both the boxes.
And then he leaves and he's left a note that says, if I, if I have predicted that you will
open both boxes, the opaque boxes empty.
If I have predicted that you will only open the opaque box, then the opaque box has a million
dollars in it.
At this point, he cannot change what's in the box anymore, and you have not yet made
your decision.
The opaque box either has a million dollars or doesn't.
And the question is, are you going to open both boxes or only the opaque box?
So you've gotten additional information here.
And the additional information you have is that Omega is fantastic at predicting these
things.
Yes.
He's been right 9,000 times out of the past 9,000.
Wow.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
I would say that, um, given that he's really awesome at predicting things, you should only
open the opaque box.
Okay.
That's, that's to me, that seems like the only answer.
I want the million dollars.
But is there a still man case for taking both boxes?
I want the million and 10,000.
Well, the case is that he can't change what's in the boxes.
But he's predicted what you'll do with, with, with very good accuracy.
So that's me.
He's kind of like, I'm not going to even try and hedge our bets on outwitting the predictor.
I'll just take the million.
I, I personally agree with you, but I think you said we know someone who would take both
boxes.
Do we?
Patrick?
Yeah.
Did not Patrick say that?
No.
Wait, who, which Patrick?
I, I'm soon shaping.
Do we know another Patrick?
No.
Okay.
And also no.
Oh no.
He would just take the one.
Yeah.
And that's because he sets up the problem differently.
Oh, how does he set it up?
I don't know, but in a way that trusting the additional information that Omega's very
good at predicting things would result in getting a better thing from the two boxes.
Yeah.
Patrick and I were talking about this last month and it was about.
Well, do, do the his setup of his setup is better.
Well, it wasn't actually like this one.
I like this one better because it's more clear cut.
His was more tenuous on how much you can trust Omega's predictive prowess.
Okay.
And that, that makes sense.
Or, or I guess by what method Omega makes the prediction, you know, maybe I can't remember
what his setup was, but I mean, there are other standard setups that I've read about
where like say.
But you don't have to know.
You don't have to know all you have.
You can just have the evidence that Omega's fantastic at making predictions.
You don't have to know how.
And, and he knows that too.
I don't want to, let's not put words in his mouth.
No, no, I'm, I'm, that's why I'm kind of diverging from what he said because I can't
remember exactly what it was.
I remember that when he and I were talking about it, one boxing, the Newcombe problem
was much less obvious.
But it seems to me that depending on how much you trust Omega's predictive powers and
really, I guess that's it.
Well, I mean, either Omega got it right or he got it wrong.
The box is already in front of you.
Right.
So if he got it right, you might as well open both boxes and get the million dollars and
the 10,000 extra.
But like in an absurd way to put it, like if Omega's strategy is like flipping a coin.
Yeah, that's true.
I mean, if they got it, I don't know.
I, I, I like, I like,
And if you get it, if he got it wrong, then you open your one opaque box and there's
nothing in it and you're like, fuck, you got it wrong.
But if your odds of that are like say one and two because Omega sucks at predicting
or they're one in a hundred thousand because Omega's great at it, I'd rather take the,
you know, the much better chance of getting the million dollars.
Right.
But if you're, if your predictor is just flipping a coin, then you take both boxes.
Right.
Of course.
So, but the difference is the amount of information that you have going into it.
There's one more thing that I wanted to cover.
That's okay.
Yes, please.
The coordination problem.
So if there's a lot of different things, Scott mentioned a game show where people
had to figure out like to win two different people would be dropped in New York and they
had to actually choose where to meet up and show up at the same place.
I don't think this is game theory, but this is also a thing that we should cover at some
point.
So we might as well do it now.
It's, it's kind of game theory.
Okay.
Or it was certainly covered in the game theory sequence because there are a lot of situations,
there are a lot of places where they could both meet and they would be successful.
They wouldn't regret that choice at all and they wouldn't change their answer given that
the other person chose that.
Well, the fascinating thing is.
So that's the, those are all Nash equilibria.
