Yeah, we're just like backups. We love net net Netflix
quality productions. Okay, well, in which case, let's kick
off. So we've we've had a couple of technical problems
with the stream. So now we're going to go pre recorded
instead, which is absolutely fine. So we're going to talk
about quite a few things today. Now, one big theme, I think
is talking about an activism and the kind of compatibility
between the free energy principle and an activism. We're
going to talk about. Now we have to be very careful how we
pronounce this words auto poetic. Is that right, Maxwell?
That's right. Yes. Amazing. So forgive me when I get it
wrong. I'm going to get it wrong. I'm sorry. So we're
talking about auto poetic and activism, which of which, of
course, was the brainchild of Varela. And there's an
interesting paper that came out, which was actually quite
critical of FEP. We're going to talk about some of the points
in that paper. And that was called laying down a forking
path tensions between an action and the free energy principle.
And in that paper, there were a few areas. So there was the
definition of auto poesis, historicity. So we're talking
about temporal sequence invariance and non steady state
equilibria and what it means to be a Goddick. There was this
critique about the non stationarity of distributions.
And also really interesting discussion about internalism
versus externalism, because of course, the the inactive view
is is is a form of externalised cognition, which is this very
interesting view that you have cognizizing elements outside
of the mind in the environment around you. So we'll talk about
that as well. We'll touch on goal directedness and also
structure learning, which is a really, really exciting thing
in in any any Bayesian cognitive framework. Now on the call
today, we have obviously, first of all, Professor Karl
Friston, the inventor of the free energy principle and active
inference, a man who requires no introduction whatsoever.
Professor Friston, welcome to the show.
Great to be back.
Fabulous. We also have Dr. Maxwell Ramstead, one of the top
scholars in the free energy principle and the active
inference literature. Of course, we've had Maxwell on very
recently, but welcome back Maxwell.
Always a pleasure, gentlemen.
Amazing. And we also have a new face. Professor Buckley, would
you like to introduce yourself?
Yeah, yeah. So yeah, my I'm a faculty member at the University
of Sussex, but I also work with versus with Maxwell and Karl. So
I have a background originally in physics in postgraduate in
physics, and then moved into cognitive robotics. I was kind
of working in behavior based robotics, and an activism somewhat
early on my my PhD, moved into kind of theoretical neuroscience,
and kind of really got interested in the free energy
principle about eight or nine or so years ago and wrote a review
on it. Originally, you know, wanted to challenge it and
then eventually fell in love with it and now think it's the
right way to go for it for what we want to do. So I came as a
skeptic and then have been bashed into into into place. Do you
think now this is is the correct way to think about things?
Amazing. Well, let's let the bashing commence. Well, we'll
move straight on to the subject of an activism. So there is this
paper laying down a forking path tensions between an action and
the free energy principle. And the name is very hard to
pronounce it as Esquiel de Paolo. Paolo.
Okay, thank you so much. Now, just just to be fair to them,
because Maxwell, you did actually couch FEP as an activism 2.0,
despite the inactivist rejection of information methods. And maybe
we should start by defining an activism. And also, there's some
similarities with this other idea called ecological psychology.
So why don't why don't we just start by framing some of these
ideas up?
That sounds good. Yeah, I think that's a great idea.
Did you have like a pre prepared definition you wanted to
share? Do you want us to riff on this?
Well, why don't why don't we start with Varela's an activism?
So there are some so it's in terms of philosophy, there are hints
of existentialism and phenomenology and eastern influences
and focus on lived experience and stuff like that. One of the and
the core things is that they reject information processing and
computationalism. They focus on actions and interactions.
It's a very embodied tradition. So why don't we just kind of
start with that?
Okay, yeah, that's a great way to set it up. Well, I mean, we should
probably just add a little bit of context and a few caveats
before launching into this. So I think Chris and I are of the
generation that was trained in the inactive embodied tradition.
I would describe myself as a reformed inactivist. I don't
know if Chris, you resonate with that I still believe in
activism. Yeah.
So these, the inactive approach is one of the so called four e
approaches that have become very popular since the 90s. And I
would argue is, at least in in the more philosophically
informed corners of cognitive science and neuroscience, basically
the dominant theoretical paradigm right now. So it we have to
say there's a this is a broad church of approaches that go
from a more kind of minimalist recognition that cognition
involves bodily processes to the more radical approaches that
you were describing earlier that just wholesale reject
information theory, the computation, the computational
metaphor for mind that mind is basically a kind of computing
device. And yeah, the inactive approach grew out of
auto poetic theory. They're distinct. It's important to say.
So auto poetic theory was developed by Maturana and Barrela
sometime in the 1980s and 90s. And it was a very mechanistic
approach to mind. I mean, you know, some of the early kind of
flagship papers in this tradition are what the frogs I
tells the frogs brain and this kind of stuff. So you know, hard
nose kind of systems biology type thinking. And I mean, there
was basically a break in the literature where due to Barrela
in a lot of ways, the emphasis moving from kind of mechanistic
models to phenomenology to a kind of more dynamic, coupling
interactive kind of mode of explanation. So yeah, the inactive
approach is basically committed to this idea, fundamentally that
cognition is basically bringing about a world, a structured
world of meaning and significance through adaptive
appropriate actions left in the world. So the the slogan is, you
know, yeah, exactly constructing this meaning, you know, laying
down a path and walking, I think is the the slogan, the poetic
slogan form that's so popular. Yeah, and in its more radical
inclinations, this inactive approach says, dynamical
systems is really the way to study systems that have mind. And
so the kind of the background assumption there is that there's
a fork in the path in the road somewhere, you know, where we
have to choose between information theory and dynamics. And
yet they obviously go down the dynamics path. So I think that's
a setup. And before launching into criticism, I should say that
we as a community, genuinely appreciate and benefit from
friendly critical engagement. So I just want to caveat all this
by saying that the criticism comes from a place of wanting to
build community from a place from our hearts, basically. And
yeah, although I'm going to be saying a lot of critical stuff
about the inactive approach. In my heart, I'm an inactivist, I
think just that the a lot of the, a lot of the methodology and
explanatory constructs that are leveraged in the approach are
problematic. And in particular, you see this come out when
the free energy principle comes into play. So
So Chris, do you want to add anything to that that definition?
Yeah, I mean, I guess it's like, I see, I'm going to use this kind
of phraseology was in in one of Carl's books, which is a low
road and a high road and activism. I basically was brought up a
low road and activist rights. So this is kind of rejection of
representationalism in cognitive architectures. It was a
move away from good old fashioned artificial intelligence to
embedded and embodied agents. So this is kind of the origin in
Rodney Brooks's behavior based approaches to robotics. And
those are the kinds of ideas I still embrace. And then there's
the kind of high road and activism, which kind of embraces
auto pieces and operational closure at its heart. I mean,
to me, I mean, if you're if you're a high road and activists,
they are the same thing, they are they come from the same place.
But I think there's a kind of there is a there are messages
to take from an activism and the low road, which are super
important for cognition, right, without kind of going into the
depths of the auto poesis. Just in terms of like the language,
I think, I think there is a split between dynamical systems
theory, which is kind of the origins of descriptions of
automatic systems and information theory, but that that
community has begun to embrace, you know, a little bit of
information theory, but it tends to has been done through kind
of phenomenological models, simple models, rather than kind
of have this kind of theoretical angle or deep theoretical basis
in something like Bayes that like we do, right? I mean, I to
that paper, I read it before we come to me, it doesn't seem, you
know, some of the language is quite dismissive. But to me, it
seems an opportunity to see whether we can reconcile these
frameworks. And I think they've done a nice job in pointing
where there are maybe things we can express better within the
free energy principle that kind of address things like
operational closure. I feel that this community sometimes feels
like it has to be divided. But I'm very much an inclusive
person. So some really nice dialogue between people in an
activism and what we do in the active inference and the free
energy principle.
Interesting. I mean, I'll bring Professor Friston in in just a
second. But I was reading this very interesting paper by by
Maxwell, written in, I think it's 2019, multi scale integration
or internalism. And I was 21. Okay, so it's the multi scale
integration paper. And you know, of course, this this an active
philosophy is all about externalism. So you know, you
actually have these cognizing elements outside of of where
the brain is. And in a way, it's, there's this Helm-Hopsian
sharp separation between the organism and the environment,
which is perhaps embraced by neuroscientists. But the
interesting thing about the free energy principle is, is I
think it maintains some vagueness about this notion of
whether it's an internalist system, where you have strong
representations and predictive power about what's going on in
the world around you, versus being this kind of dynamical
externalist, inactive type system. And in that paper,
Maxwell, you are saying that well, actually, we can integrate
the two views because you can have these nested boundaries. And
as Professor Friston has said, human minds, the reason we have
this temporal depth of planning and sophistication and
representation building and so on, is because we're at the top
of the stack. But there's many, many layers below us where
perhaps it is more of an inactive externalized form of
cognition. So we can kind of speak to both worlds. But
Professor Friston, perhaps you could come in on that.
Yeah, I was frightened, you were going to ask me well, if I had
anything to add about inactivism, because I haven't, I'm here
to find out whether I'm an inactivist or not. So at the
end, it's only come tell me whether I'm an inactivist, I'd
be very grateful. There's probably some nuanced version of
