it, like a moderate, epistemological inactivist
retrying. So I think, in that last point, Tim, I think is a
really interesting one. And in fact, I just reviewed a paper
synthese yesterday, I think, touching upon this issue from a
philosophical perspective. But very simply, the free energy
principle basically will accommodate both perspectives. It
rests upon an externalist view of the universe as a random
dynamical system, that just by equipping that system with a
partition that separates something from everything else,
then induces an internalist explanation for the way that
thing makes sense of its universe. So there is a necessary
enmeshing of both the externalist and the internalist
perspectives. You put it another way, the internalist
perspective is entirely licensed in terms of the
interpretation of self organization as a process of
inference. And you're with that an explicit commitment to a
certain kind of representationalism. But that only
inherits from the way you start from, which is an
externalist view of the thing in an external world with with a
particular metaphysics here described in terms of random
dynamical systems. And it's interesting, also, you pick up
on this fork in the road, which I confess, I completely, I do
not understand. You know, all interesting information theory
read as probability theory, that is used in physics inherits
from dynamical systems. You know, we're talking thing
ranging, things ranging from the master equation through
to Schrodinger's wave equation, the Fokker-Planck
equation, Comer of Ford equations, all of these are
information theoretic treatments of dynamical systems. So I don't
really understand the nature of this fork. So I probably should
now pass you back to me.
Well, can I follow up on that, Chris? And then maybe I don't
get it either. And so what what confuses me about it is, one of
the the brilliant things about the free energy principle, to me
is this exact connection between random dynamical systems of a
certain degree of complexity, let's say approaching
auto poetic, right? And in this behavior that they must
manifest in order to be what they are, right, which is which is
this balancing between between, you know, uncertainty and
prediction and that sort of thing. So to me, they're hand and
glove. And so I guess my question to you, Chris, since you were
going to jump in there is, what is the source of this conflict?
Like, is it a fear that if it's linked, if you link the
information and dynamics in this certain way that they have to
conform to this principle that we're all going to be put out of
work, or we're not going to be able to study the things we want
to study or just do you mind if I just quickly interject with a
little bit of context? Okay. Just to I wanted to elaborate a
little bit on what Carl said, because I think there were some
things in here that might move in what Carl said that might not
be clear to the audience of the bears repeating. The first is
that there's this idea that Markov blankets kind of seclude the
organism from the environment. This is sort of like the
Helmholtz style story where our relationship to the environment
is in some sense only indirect and we are separated from the
environment by our Markov blanket. The important thing to
point out is that just definitionally, the Markov
blanket comprises the set of degrees of freedom that separate
and couple systems together. So it's not the veil, it's the
interface. So that's the first thing to point out. So a radically
internalist interpretation of the free energy principle doesn't
work, because you actually need external states to be in play
for the math tour. If there are no external states, then there's
nothing to track. And there's nothing beyond the Markov
blanket. So you don't get the story started, like it doesn't get
off the ground. If you don't assume that there are these
things that the particle in question that the thing that
you're interested in is a tuning to and that so there needs to be
something to couple and to be separated from for the story to
get off the ground. So yeah, it's a if you write down your
dynamical systems equations, it's always the generative model
that we keep talking about is defined over your internal
blanket and external states. So that's the first point. What
Carlos is the other the other way around to which is if you're
empty of all internal states, and every single state you have
can be influenced from the outside. Well, there's less to
talk about. Well, then you're not a thing, strictly speaking,
right? That so you know, it's it's definitional to what it is to
be a thing to have this kind of interface between that thing
and other things. So that's a first point. So the internal
states as your point as you're pointing out do play an
asymmetric role. So the FEP says if you have this boundary,
then the internal states are going to parameterize the
belief about external states. So you do get this kind of
internalist looking thing going as well. So the there is a I
think a a kind of reconciliation of internalism and
externalism under the free energy principle. This is what the
2019 paper that you are referring to is about. It's
called multiscale integration. And that's precisely the idea
that things that look separated at one scale can be integrated
within, you know, the auspices of an overarching structure at
the scale above and so on and so on and so on. We're separate as
individuals, but we're coupled in this active inference
community. And, you know, arguably, there's an intentionality
also at play there. Same thing for ourselves, right? Our
cells are separate because they have their individual
boundaries, but then they're integrated on the time scale
of me as an organism and so on. So that's that was about
internalism and externalism. I wanted to speak quickly to the
split between dynamics and information theory. Whenever I
talked to my friends in high end mathematics about this, they
are always as perplexed as you know, Keith and Carl, you are
because it's a nonsensical starting point. To do dynamical
systems theory seriously, you at some point are going to need
to appeal to information theoretic measures. So for
example, distances in state space. So, you know, the
inactivists are all thought, you know, they like to appeal to
dynamical systems theory and stuff, but the systems that
they're considering are usually extremely simple, with a few
degrees of freedom that are coupled together. But if you
want to do like, you know, grown up, dynamical systems theory,
then you're going to need to appeal to things like information
length to describe the really the metrics on your state space,
you can't avoid that. Similarly, when we're talking about
information, we're talking about dynamical, you know, the
dynamic time course of the these coupling. So we're interested
in the dynamics of information, these things are not actually
separable. The idea that they are comes from philosophy,
actually, it's a set of papers from the basically late 80s,
early 90s by Van Gelder, and Port. And at the time, you know,
dynamical systems theory was a new thing in cognitive science.
And what they were saying was, Hey, there's this approach that
we can take, it's dynamical systems, it's not computational.
And basically, it moved from there to there's an there's this
alternative approach that's mutually incompatible. And that
shift kind of happened slowly by a self referential literature.
So, you know, this is where I'm going to be a bit critical. You
can really do the historiography and trace these claims back to
I mean, basically Van Gelder and Port, and to some extent
Gibson. But these folks, they don't offer a formal argument,
right? Like, they're not saying here's a proof that dynamical
systems and compute computational approaches are like
incompatible. They're just starting with this gut feeling
that hey, maybe there's something different here. And then
that turns into I would argue, splurrata sizes or like hardens
into like an a priori dogmatism, crystallizes that isn't
necessary. Yeah, exactly. That is just based, like I was saying
on this kind of circular, you know, we're just citing other
philosophers who cite other philosophers who are making this
stuff up at the bottom. So, yeah, I mean, I kind of feel like
this is a problem with the philosophy literature is like,
you know, taking just conceptual arguments from other
philosophers, maybe a bit more seriously than they should,
without really taking the time to do the proper historiography,
looking where these claims are originating, and then asking
the question, is there any real warrant for this kind of
separation? So yeah, I've been going around recently saying
that yeah, this split between dynamics and information theory
is mostly in people's imaginations. There's no
mathematical basis for it.
And Chris, you wanted to jump in. No, no, thank you wanted to
jump in earlier and maybe talk about your personal journey
that might come into play here.
Yeah, I mean, Maxwell's, you know, said some really
interesting stuff there. I mean, I guess I take a slightly
less hard line on that, right? I mean, I think it's a historical
thing. So Tim Van Gelder, we're looking at deterministic
dynamical systems theory, like this is in the absence of
noise. And unless you do ensembles of systems, it's not
there's no clear pathway then to information theory. And then
initially in models, when in the 80s and 90s, typically, yeah,
deterministic dynamical systems theory, looking at
bifurcations and so on. And then, but obviously, the richer
the richer set of descriptions is stochastic
dynamical systems theory. And that's when information theory
becomes irreplaceable, right? This become and then they've
come fully in meshed these these descriptions as Carl writes
about so nicely and lots of his work, right? But I think, you
know, I didn't see the forking path as kind of this. I know
in the community that there's a history of using dynamical
systems theory, and there's a sense in which the free energy
is really embraced information theory. I didn't see that
that's as a as a key, the for the key in the fork of the path,
right? I mean, I got to say that it's a way out of my area,
this this kind of depth of philosophy, but it seemed to me
the kind of the problem of operate the definition of
operational closure that seemed to be upsetting to Randall
Behr and is equal to power. And the fact that they don't think
that can be embraced by the tenants of the free energy
principle. I mean, I don't I think they they made a nice case,
I don't think it a priori that's the case. I can't see there
was a hands down argument that there is this forking path. I
still think it's an interesting angle to take to think deeply
about operational closure within the free energy principle is I
know Maxwell has and he's going to tell you the answers to this,
but you know, so I'm just aware of the trickiness in defining
operational closure that's happened in the literature in the
last 20 years. And then really, in an inability to kind of
really get a concrete quantitative description of what we
mean by operational closure. And so, you know, I guess it's to
say that we've simply solved it within the free energy principle
that might that might have put some backs up somewhere. But you
know, Maxwell, maybe can give you a bit more insight to this
because he's thought deeply about how to define a place
closure within the frame. Can I can I can I frame up for you,
Maxwell? So the paper quoted you actually, I think you you said
on one of your papers that there is an analogy, almost a direct
mapping between this concept of organizational closure and a
Markov blanket. And of course, the Markov blanket is this
conditional independence that you're talking about. And you
