be engaged in this kind of modeling behavior. But yeah,
it's a model, it's a map, you know, this probably is not the
final word. And, you know, we're, we're uncovering some, you
know, mathematical structure underneath the free energy
principle and the principle of unitarity and maximum caliber and
all of this stuff that we're tentatively calling G theory for
now in homage to M theory from string theory physics. So yeah,
you know, as most scientific models, like the progress of
science means that things will probably change. Like again, this
isn't a metaphysics. This is just a cohesive modeling approach
that inherits from the physics of information and self
organization. I would quickly just point out that the these
things like seem intrinsically related to observer
dependence, because they are in some deep sense. Carl's 2019
monograph, a particular free energy principle for a particular
physics ends on this idea that the free energy principle at core
is a metrological statement, where metrological means measure
theoretic or relating to measurement. And it basically
says, Well, things that exist, look as if they're constantly
measuring themselves and like keeping themselves within
certain bounds. So this is and you know, this is even clearer
from the quantum information theoretic formulation, where
like literally what we're saying is that the free energy
principle is a theory of observance, you know, the sort
of the it from bit, right? Like the it's thing this, but from
another perspective, it's observance, which which are kind
of the same thing. I'm sure Carl could say that again, more
eloquently than I. But at a high level, that's how I would
respond to your point.
Maybe Carl would like to give it a go. Yeah, Carl, you could do
that. And then also, since you're trying to decide if you're
an activist, you know, maybe, what other questions do we need
to ask for both of us actually to decide, you know, that we
haven't, that we haven't covered yet?
Yeah, we can we can ask Max, well, and Chris, to.
So just to pick up on that last exchange and come back to the
free energy principle as being gloriously gray. I think I like
that because, you know, the validity of that principle as
a method. So, you know, as a physicist, you would read any
principle as a method, something that you apply to some
thing. I think is is underwritten, not by its
explanatory scope, but by its internal consistency with other
principles that that people do apply. And I'm, that's what is
mentioned one. I think one important example of that, you
know, beyond the principles of least actual variational
principles that underwrite for, you know,
say Richard Feynman's work. I'm thinking of James's maximum
entropy principle. So Max well alluded to that in terms of
maximum caliber. So maximum entropy of distributions over
states just now becomes transformed into distributions
over paths when you move from when you move to the maximum
caliber principle. So the maximum entropy principle is
just a Max Janssen Max entropy principle for a pathological
formulation. And I think that's important to raise. The free
energy principle just is that it is just a constrained maximum
caliber principle or maximum entropy principle. And you may
ask, well, where did the constraints from come from? That's
just the generative model. It's just in the description of the
characteristic states that pull back a tractor that constitutes
the goals of the principle. And I think that's important to
realise the free energy principle just is that it is just a
that constitutes the goals we're just talking about. So, you
know, if you remember, free energy is just the expected energy,
the constraint part plus the entropy. And therefore, when
you're now drilling down on the constraint part, where does that
come from? It's just a description of the pullback
attractor of the characteristic states of the system that you're
trying to try to understand. So I really look at the free
energy principle as something terribly new. It's been
implicit there all the time. It's just people using slightly
different words for different concepts. So I think that's I
kind of why I'm saying this, but it seemed important to say.
And Max, what were you just talking about? Because there was
a link in terms of
were you maybe leading into the metrological aspects, the
self measurement?
Absolutely. I know that was really important. Yes, that's
right. So just looking backwards. What is the the sibling
of the, or the sibling of the free energy principle of in the
past century, in the past few decades, I think that would be
the maximum entropy principle, constraint maximum
entropy principle. Looking forwards, what would be the
bedfellows of the free energy principle? I think that the
that metrological or relational thing is vitally important.
And, you know, I love the work of
Carlo Revelli and his work with, you know,
quantum relational approaches to quantum mechanics, which is
all about relationships. And of course, how do you how do you
quantify a relationship? Well, it's just in terms of the
interaction, the coupling, which is going to be a sparse
coupling, it is just a measurement, it is just an
observation. So inference, measurement, synchronization,
sparse coupling, they're all the same thing. And so I think
that what will hopefully happen is that somebody will write
down a math possibly Dalton will write down a calculus that
says all of these things are just the same way of looking at
it. And I read yesterday, because I had to because I was
reviewing this paper for Synthese, about ontic structural
realism, ontic structural realism. And it seems to me that
that is basically philosophers having discovered the same
underlying fabric that the reality is in the measurement,
but it's the measurement of how we relate to each other via
that measurement of each other or things, measuring other
things, purely in terms of their relationships. So I think
that there is a lot of, if you like, work to be done from the
point of view of free energy principle theorists in consolidating
the links to what has gone in terms of things like maximum
entry principle, and what is to come in terms of, say,
quantum loop gravity or Chris Fields quantum information
theoretic treatment of holographic screens in the
Markov blanket. At each point, the FEP will become grayer
because it will be less easy to discriminate it from
everything else that stood the test of time.
Chris, do you have any comments on that?
You're on mute. You're on mute yet.
You're on mute, Chris. Sorry. So yeah, I think I'll leave it
there. It's a bit too deep into the philosophy for me, and
we've got two experts here, so I'll pass.
Wonderful. And to my point earlier, I mean, we won't go
into it now, but I guess my perspective is it all seems
like epistemology to me rather than ontology, and maybe we
can debate that a little bit later on. But as our uploads
are all quite slow, and I want to check that we secure this
beautiful interview, I'm going to cut it off at this point,
but gentlemen, it's been an absolute honor. Thank you so
much for coming on MLS here. Thank you so much to me.
Genuinely, always a pleasure, gentlemen. This is always great fun.
Beautiful, beautiful. Yeah, I always enjoyed it.
