of the black colored nodes had one arrow going out and
connecting to another one. And they had a kind of diagram
just showing an organism. But what's the official definition,
Chris?
Yeah, so this is a definition from Varela, as an autonomous
system is that is that organization is characterized by
processes such that the processes are related as a network, so
that recursively depend on each other in the generation
realization of the processes themselves. And two, they
constitute the system as a unity, recognizable in space, in
which those processes exist. So it's kind of this deep
recursive recursivity between the processes, maintaining the
network is necessary for the processes, this kind of
generation of the system's own constraints. I guess this has
been it's always been the kind of slightly ineffable within the
auto put it literature, what this means formally, right?
There's a deep intuition. This is correct. You know, you think
about, as Keith said before, we the matter is changing as as
fluxes changing these processes, but the identity is
somehow staying the same. And that's the organizational
structure that's maintained over time, rather than the
material components of that, that structure. And I do think
you know, that there is a sense that was when we did focus on
these state based descriptions of the free energy principle, I
think that kind of undersold the solenoidal flow that Carl was
talking about, whereas that is, I think it's much more
important to the people in in auto poise is because this notion
of this kind of flow of information and the organization
is dynamic within the equilibrium is important for for that
field. So I think the you know, the new directions they've got
in the free energy principle things that Maxwell and Dalton
are pursuing is to me an exciting opportunity to kind of
reconcile some of the ineffability of these operational
closure ideas in auto poise and this framework, essentially.
Cool, cool. So
Maxwell, do you want to do you want to comment maybe briefly on
that before we move on? Like Chris, Chris called out some of
your work there with Dalton?
Yeah, I mean, in a good way, though, I think what Chris is
saying is that he agrees with the direction. I would just say
that this isn't really new work. And this says that you would
Dalton and I are just doing is extending work that Carl did
20 almost 20 years ago. So I see this as more continuous. You
know, someone might say that I'm being overly generous, which I
might be, you know, by looking at this as like one kind of
continuous development. But yeah, I don't really, I think, you
know, you can think of the state based description as sort of
the asymptotic limit of the path based description, the two are
kind of like deeply connected in some sense. So no, I mean, I
think this is real, this is the direction that we want to go.
There's still some interesting stuff that you can say using the
density dynamics formulation. We just have to be you know, it's
like we were discussing Keith during our MLST interview last
time, this is mind physics, right? So, you know, a hallmark of
physics is idealization. And so, you know, necessarily some of
these constructs are going to be, you know, the map has to be
simpler than the territory, it's like we were saying, right?
You know, otherwise, you get you wind up in a boar has novel
with like, you know, a map the size of Los Angeles that you
can't use. So, you know, for certain kinds of oscillatory
cyclical bio behaviors, the non equilibrium steady state is a
perfectly fine, you know, model of it. You know, I drink coffee so
regularly that it might as well be like, you know, deterministic
and like, you know, orbiting the sun kind of thing. So, you
know, this speaks to the fact that the free energy principle
is what it says on the tin, it's a principle. It's a it's a that
leads to a modeling method. And you know, we make some
assumptions, and we're able to say some things. But the principle
itself doesn't rest on any of these assumptions. Like
stationarity, for example, like you don't really need that to
get it to get it working. All you need is a markup like it in
your random dynamical system and you're sort of ready to go. In
terms of like the formalization of the inactive approach, I
always saw this. So, like Chris, by the way, I think this is
under, I don't talk about it very much, but much like Chris, I
started off recalcitrant to the free energy principle. I found
out about this stuff in around 2014. And it, you know, like I
said, I was trained as an inactivist. And this really
conflicted with my intuitions. And I went into this thinking I
need to and this is also what I think the spirit that motivates
a lot of criticism, you go into this thinking I need to
understand this just enough to be able to know for sure that I
don't need to understand this actually. And, you know, you go
into this. And I, you know, I remember having like a conversion
experience reading Carl's 2012 entropy paper called a free
energy principle for biological systems, which was a path based
kind of formulation and everything and really, you know,
seeing, oh, wow, like, there's no, there's no resisting this,
like this is inevitable. And really getting like, oh, yeah,
this is an inevitable consequence of physics, isn't it? Like
there's no, there's no getting around this. And then kind of,
you know, doubling down in my conversion and then becoming a
part of the community.
So what's funny is I had the opposite experience of you two. So
I when I first saw it, I'm like, this is amazing. Like this is
exactly how it works. And now I've been trying to escape ever
since, you know, I don't like being shackled, like to the free
energy principle. And funny enough, we've talked before about
how, you know, Carl, that the free energy principle is one of
the few principles that applies to itself. It's like, as simple as
it is, it can be and still and still work. The other aspect in
which that's true is, as we've been talking about it maintains
this flexibility, or maybe vagueness, you know, critics
might say, but it maintains this flexibility, which leads to
it inevitably generating all kinds of controversy and debates,
you know, and people arguing about like the limits of that
flexibility, right?
One thing I would quickly point out is like, there's this
sense, I think in the literature that there are like 17
different possible interpretations of the free
energy principle, and that you can make it say one thing and
it's opposite. What I've been going around saying is no, that's
not correct. There's only the free energy principle. And it has
the implications that it does. And there are misinterpretations
of the free energy principle. So for example, you know, I
think this idea that some people in the literature have been
pushing that like the free energy principle is even compatible
with this kind of radical anti realism, this kind of, you
know, like a Descartes demon kind of thing. That's not that
just doesn't follow. It's incompatible with the math, like
the you need, you need there to be an actual world out there to
couple to you for the math to get off the ground. So there there
actually isn't a bunch of different interpretations. There's
just the free energy principle. It's just that it's a lens that
makes you makes you see that a lot of the dichotomies that use
to structure the way we think about things are false. This
comes back to the thing that we were discussing at the end of
our interview, Keith. This is sort of like a, you know, you're
sort of abolishing the distinction between the
super lunar re and the sub lunar spheres, right? So classical
mechanics abolishes the distinction that was popular
as scholastic philosophy, which was, you know, like 1000, 1500
years of like, you know, natural philosophy saying, well, I mean,
if you look at the way things behave, the things out there
beyond the moon in the super lunar sphere, right, they move in
perfect orbits, perfect circles, seems to have nothing to do
with, you know, things here that fall to the ground or rise and
have a beginning, a middle and an end. These seem like
radically distinct spheres of reality. But then Newton comes
along and classical mechanics equips you with a set of
equations that apply equally to things here and things over
there, thereby just abolishing that distinction. And I think
like the free energy principle comes around and does undoes a
lot of these false dichotomies in the same way, like we were
talking about internalism versus externalism, it allows you to
say, yeah, there's something to the internalist story, the
internal states are doing something special, but you
actually need the external world to be there to get the story to
kind of pick up. So I think you get a lot of this. And I guess
my hot tag is that the inactivists need there to
be a bright line in the universe, like a bright red line on the
one. And then what's on each side of the line depends on the
inactivists, right? So like, but the story is always something
like there's physics, there's mere physics on one side. And
then there's the interesting stuff on the other side, there's
biology, or maybe there's mind or there's something like that.
And there is this bright red line, like, yeah.
So Max, Maxwell is saying the free energy principle is the
ultimate shade of gray. I hope you
know, I know Tim, Tim, we wanted to move to a new topic.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, there's there's a few things to touch on
there. I mean, certainly the philosophy of, you know, an
activism versus ecological psychology is an interesting one
because with an activism, we get quite a few philosophical
things bagged on that possibly we may or may not want, for
example, the phenomenology, the existentialism, which is this
idea that you can shape your own experience, this kind of
Eastern philosophy, which is that in some sense, there's no
distinction between you and your environment. And it has been
criticized as being quite ill defined and vague. But I think
Maxwell, you have said that there's much more of a tighter
compatibility with ecological psychology. And that's essentially
that we see the world through affordances. And what that means
is that we see the world as trajectories of actions in our
physical environment that we live in. And philosophically,
that's a realist ontology. So that means there are no
representations, we're taking actions in the real world, and
we know that the real world exists. And now many cognitive
science people, of course, resist to this notion because they
say we need to have representations. And then we get to
this interesting discussion that we're having about this kind
of continuum between this idea that on the one hand, there are
no representations if we are Gibsonian, and we are
ecological psychologists. But on the other hand, we might need
to have increasing levels of representation if we actually
have this temporal depth, if we have these nested Markov
boundaries, and we are sophisticated minds that are
making predictions into the future. Now with that laid out, I
wanted to talk about this notion of goals. Now in a
externalist and activist framework, I think that goals
are not something we should explicitly define. Now when you
speak with go fi people, and they talk about building
cognitive architectures, they say that goals should be
explicitly crafted into the architecture, at least that's
what they would have said 20 years ago, now they're slightly
more refined. And they say, Well, we should have a goal module
in the architecture, but the goals should be acquired
empirically, and there should be sub goals and so on. Now, if I
understand correctly, we were just talking about the free
energy principle has this notion of paths, and we have
