like, yeah, there are these kind of regular cyclical
behaviors that I want to model, even in that context, the
free energy principle can handle path dependence, like
literally, I think on page 12 of like Carl's monograph from
2019, on the density dynamics formulations, there are already
terms that contain, you know, expressions that are able to
handle path dependency, that are basically dependent on
changes in surprise in your system. So, so
before we, before we move too far, maybe Chris, you can, you
might be able to steel man what the, the paper was trying to
say there, or
well, I'm just, I'm just, I'm trying to understand, I'm trying
to decide if I'm an inactivist, because Tim's a big fan. So I
want to, you know, give it fair judge anyone, does anybody
want to steel man, you know, where the paper might have been
coming from, in terms of this argument against
historicity?
I can straw man it if you want it.
No, I'm happy to have a go at it. But I mean, so we're a very
broad church at within this community, we we debate within
ourselves about the, you know, the true origins and how we get
these things out. So I actually was worried about this
historicity thing. In an earlier version, we did in, we
published in physics life reviews with a student, a very
talented student of mine. And we found real problems with it
when we were in a state based formulation of the system. And
I know Maxwell feels that that even in the state based
description of probability densities that we can recover
historicity, I guess we still not complete agreement on that.
But what's majorly happened in the in the free energy is this
movement to pass. And I agree with Maxwell, if you go back into
Carl's original work, talking like Carl was not here, but you're
back to Carl's original work, he was framing in terms of paths.
But the presentations in the monograph were to do to do with
states. And when we work through that, we found that the
historicity was hard to to to get back into these systems. But
the path formalization then makes it clear how historicity
because it's built into the system because you're preserving
sets of paths you go to, you know, homeoresis rather than
homeostasis in the descriptions of these systems. And then
there's this kind of nice, elegant way to deal with
historicity. And, you know, and I think so, I don't think
that's a real issue with the free energy principle. So, but I
can imagine, I don't know what technical literature they've
read. But perhaps if they've read the state based formula,
formulation, they had the same worries about those about
historicity. And if they read these new path based stuff that
Maxwell and Dalton are developing, I think those kind
of dissolve. I think that it's a much richer framework now.
So maybe Carl, what were you thinking back then when you did
it as as paths, you know, maybe just give us some some thought
behind your intuition for why you originally formulated it as
you know, path, path integrals for past systems and you know,
what your perspective is on what we've been discussing so far.
Right. I can't really remember. I suppose the obvious answer is
much of this inherits from Richard Feynman's work on the
path integral formulation. Indeed, the variational free
energy can be traced right back to I think probably is PhD
thesis. I haven't actually read the PhD thesis, but I've been
told that all the maths you need is there. So it would be
difficult for me to conceive of a calculus that wasn't framed in
terms of in terms of paths, until you start to try and draw
graphics and explain to people who are not familiar with, you
know, with the notion of, you know, with the path integral
formulation and its equivalence with density dynamics as
articulated say with the Vokker-Planck equation or I repeat
sort of Kolmogorov forward and backward equations. So I think
that is, you know, that's one really important aspect of
historicity and becomes I think even more prescient when you
think about deploying a path integral formulation of self
organisation in the context of 21st century physics, because
what we're talking about now is a move away from 20th century
equilibrium physics with pointer tractors to open systems that
are far from equilibrium. So mathematically, or one
mathematical bright line between the physics of equilibria and
the physics of non equilibria, which is what the free energy
principle is about, or specifically, when non equilibrium
city-state solutions admit a Markov blanket, but returning to
the sort of what is definitive of non equilibria, it is
effectively the, not the historicity, but the itinerancy
you get from solenoidal dynamics, sort of conservative
dynamics that now supplement the dissipative flows that
characterize completely classical physics and equilibrium
equilibria steady states. So if you wanted to define the
difference between an open system or an out of equilibrium or
non equilibrium system from an equilibrium system, the simple
kind of systems that Chris was referring to in his toy models
of your does a free energy principle work in your in this
kind of system, then all you would do is write down the
dynamics in terms of dissipative and conservative or
non-dissipative divergence free components. And that, if you
like, decomposition of the flow into conservative and
dissipative parts is just the Helmholtz decomposition is just
the fundamental number of variational calculus, I think,
or fundamental theorem, which just says that, you know, any
flow, any dynamics can always be decomposed into this sort of
gradient descent that underwrites classical physics or
equilibrium physics, and the a solenoidal divergence free flow
that underwrites classical mechanics. But you put the two
together and you have, by definition, now a mathematical
image of non equilibrium systems. And notice that in
introducing this kind of itinerancy, that is, for
example, you know, heuristically, you know, water going
down a plug hole. So the dissipative part, the gradient
flow would be the the water tumbling down into the depths
of your house. But as it circulates around, technically,
in terms of the information theory around on ISO contours,
the probability distribution, but you know, you can just
visualize the water circular, that's the solenoidal part. And
of course, when you talk about biotic self organization or
self organization, non equilibria, that has that sort of
life like our biotic form, the key characteristic of this
kind of biotic circulation is basically rhythms and life
cycles. So the very fact you're dealing with this kind of
historicity that is inherent in the itinerancy of any system
that is not at equilibrium means that you are you have to
write down or have an understanding or a mathematics
that deals with these with these flows and these life cycles.
Just one interesting twist here is if you take the randomness
out of it, if you go back to deterministic dynamical
systems of the kind, I now understand under the split or
the fork in the road in philosophy. What you do is
you're basically removing from the perspective of the
Helmholtz decomposition, the dissipative part, and you just
left with the conservative part. What is that? That's just
Newtonian mechanics. It's his classical mechanics, which is
why the sun, we rotate around the sun or the moon takes these
orbits. This is just this solenoidal flow in the limit that
you've ignored the randomness that you need that calls for the
information theoretic or probabilistic descriptions of any
world. So that the free energy principle doesn't deal with all
kinds of systems. It deals with systems that have an admixture
of both the dissipative and the solenoidal or divergence free
parts. If you wanted to just do the dissipative parts, you do
quantum mechanics. If you just wanted to do the solenoidal
part, you do classical mechanics and deterministic
systems. But in the middle, you're in the Goldilocks regime
in which you and I operate, we're talking about stochastic
chaos, basically, another description of this itinerancy.
So I think that that's that's, you know, one aspect of
historicity, which, you know, is celebrated in the physics of
self organization. And I keep using the word self organization
because I read auto poesis as self creation, or at least self
maintenance. I now appreciate it is not quite self. It's slightly
beyond self maintenance and in the sense that, you know, to
create your imply something slightly greater that maybe I'm
going to have to ask Chris, it may be related to operational
closure. So I'd like to if somebody just describe for me and
the audience when operational closure is that would be quite
nice. But before you do, there is another important aspect of
historicity, which we haven't mentioned, which inherits from
the deployment of the free energy principle, or perhaps
just the Helmholtz decomposition in using the apparatus of the
renormalization group. And what that brings to the table is a
separation of temporal scales. And as soon as you have that in
play, there's a different kind of historicity, which you have to
accommodate in any given calculus, certainly for open
systems, which means that the kind of steady state solutions
that are non equilibrium set solutions, we are talking about
in the context of a pathological formulation only exist over a
certain timescale. There's always a timescale above that
contextualizes it. And there's always a timescale below that is
much, much faster, where things live for very, very short
periods of time. I think that's another important aspect of
historicity that we're not talking about a unique or
privileged timescale here. So when people talk about
stationarity, or ergodicity, or steady states, they, you know,
one cannot say that this is the configuration of a system at
equals infinity. Because you have to acknowledge that there is no
privileged timescales at this timescale, we will assume that
is a state solution. But we have to be very explicit is at this
timescale. And this does not apply at the timescale above, or
at all the timescale below. And interestingly, just
mathematically, perhaps a naive mathematical or certainly a
physicist's mathematical perspective, and the very fact
you have the separation of timescale basically means that
there are fast, there's fast stuff for fast dynamics and slow
dynamics. And at the end of the day, if you now consider what is
the difference between the flow of states that you would find in
deterministic, deterministic dynamical system, and the random
fluctuations that convert it into a random dynamical system, the
only difference between these things is whether they're fast or
slow. So you can treat the random fluctuations, the noise that
induces a probabilistic description, and all the
information theoretic treatments, as simply the fast things, and
everything else is the slow stuff. So again, speaking to, if
you like, an almost necessary connection between any dynamical
systems formulation that is sufficiently liberal to include
fast and slow stuff, and probabilistic treatments of that
of the kind that Richard Feynman pursued in terms of trying to
work out the probability of the path of the small particle or
electron for his PhD thesis. Anyway, what is operational
closure?
So just go up a definition from Varela, if you want me to read
it out.
Can I just frame you up there, Chris? Because in that forking
paper, there was I actually thought it was a little bit
hand wavy. It's not like in graph theory, where you have very
kind of precise definition. So they had a they had a kind of a
node diagram. And they said it was operationally closed if all
