also called it an interface earlier on. And when they speak
about the definition of auto polices, they say that, I think
the way that you folks in the FEP literature culture is mostly
as a form of autonomy, which is this ability to maintain your
own identity under precarious position, you know, situations.
And they say, well, the Varela kind of definition of auto
polices is very much about structure and organization. So
it's not it's not just maintaining your own identity,
but it's about this self organization and this kind of
generating structure as well. So I wonder just just with those
things on the table, could you, could you
absolutely. So in that paper, I confess that I probably should
have spoken, we probably should have spoken a bit more
precisely. We say the Markov blanket formalism. What we mean
by that is, and I don't think that this was fully appreciated by
the authors at the time. What we mean is Markov blankets and the
generative models, right? Because the claim is, right, let's
remind the audience, just put the terms on the table. A
generative model, right, is our model of the dependencies that
link the states and parameters that make up a given system,
right? So it is our way of talking about basically the
causal, connective tissue or structure that underwrites a
given system. And what the free energy principle says is, if
the underlying system has is disconnected in a certain
appropriate way, then you get this tracking behavior. And
formally speaking, it says, if there's a Markov blanket in
this dependency structure, right, if conditioned on certain
blanket states, then it looks as if subsets of the system are
independent from each other, but also tracking each other,
then you know, you get you get this interesting behavior, like
the if there is this Markov blanket is if there is this
independent structure, then you will get this tracking
behavior. That's what the free energy principle is talking
about. So of course, it's not sufficient to say that things
are carved out in a specific way. And therefore, you know, you
can say interesting things about them. But I think what's
missed in the argument, and this has to do with like, you know,
I think the app, the, the, the, I'll say, provocatively, the
dogmatic commitment to anti-representationalism is like
what when the inactivists read generative model, they mean a
model in my head that I carry around, they hear like a
representation, right? But what's really at stake is the
generative model is the dependency structure. Right? So if
you have the right kind of dependency structure that
generates a Markov blanket, I would say that you have what the
inactivists call operational closure. In fact, you can show
this mathematically, it's I don't think it's appreciated, but
there is a duality that has been rigorously established. Dalton
Shakti Maribel is probably the main proponent of this work,
but you know, Carl has done a lot of work over the last two
decades in this direction. Yeah, I think the the kind of core
idea to remember is that minimizing your variational
entropy with your variational free energy with respect to a
generative model, right? So the usual free energy story, right,
is dual to or equivalent to maximizing your entropy with
respect to a set of constraints. So when the inactivists talk
about constraint closure and all this stuff, you know, Alicia
Gerero's new book, context changes, everything, the
inactivists in the auto poetic tradition really want to go
hard on this and say, Well, what you really need to do is map a
set of constraints, such that the system kind of self
generates. Well, that is rigorously, and absolutely
equivalent to minimizing your free energy with respect to a
generative model, there's no difference there. So we're talking
about the same thing, we're talking about the way that like a
set of structured dependencies generates a thing that's able to
sustain itself over time. And as I was saying, this sustained
over time is a way of describing the interface or
coupling between the system and its environment. So that just
mathematically, we're talking about the same thing.
But let me ask you a question here, because there's, and this
is hopefully because I like Carl, I want to find out if I'm an
inactivist. So maybe, maybe you can help set us up for
considering this, a big bone of contention for them in that
paper, is this distinction that they have in their mind between
structure and organization. And they seem to get upset when any
attempt is made to link organization to structure. For
example, you know, to me, the Markov boundary that say
analogous to a, a animal cell membrane, I understand as a
former person who studied biology, that the molecules of
that membrane are in flux, things come and go, proteins
are added, carbohydrates are removed, etc. I don't have in
my mind a set of molecules that's like they're forever, and
some type of like, you know, stationary structure, like it's
a very dynamic kind of system. But they seem to say, Oh, no,
if you if you equate, you know, a Markov boundary to an
organizational structure, then you're making this, you know,
fallacy of kind where you're associating like an organization
with like the substrate that, you know, manifests that in
reality. Like, can you explain to me like what they were
actually up and about with this organization structure? You
know, maybe Carl, if you could comment on it, when Maxwell
tells us so we can figure out if we're an activist. So I'll just
let me bracket the stuff about stationarity and historicity
for one second. Because I have some stuff to say about that. But
so it comes back to that we'll come back to that question about
that. It comes back to what I was saying about, you know, it's
not just about Markov blankets, it's about generative models. If
you don't appreciate the distinction. And what you think
we're saying is Markov blankets tell the whole story, then
obviously, you're going to, you know, think that we're
conflating structure and organization. When you realize
that what we're talking about is, you know, a Markov blanket
within this dependency structure, right, that then I think you
you move to something else, I would say like what the
inactivist called structure corresponds to these Markov
blankets that we're drawing. And the organization we talk
about, and we harness in the generative model, right, that
remember, the generative model is not my internal
representation in my head, it's the overall dependency
structure of the system. It's what they would call the
organization of the system. So I mean, I would agree that we
shouldn't conflate them. And I would, you know, add that we
don't, there are distinct constructs that map onto these
things. And, you know, I would also point out that Markov
blankets are flexible. We will be putting out work over the
next few months on wandering Markov blankets, like we've got
figured out algorithmically now, we can draw a blanket around a
flame and stuff like that. Now, so we've got all of that
working. And it's not
I've been looking forward to that since Carl mentioned it in
the first, the first interview with him, let's, let's set an
anchor to come back to that because that that's very
interesting. Actually, one comment you made in your
multi scale paper was that these are ontological boundaries by
which I think you are implying that they are not a lens, they
are fixed to some extent. But I want to just stick on this
organization point for a second, though. So in the paper,
they said that essentially the way the FEP couches this is as a
form of homeostasis, which is just about, you know, maintaining
structural properties. And when they spoke about organization,
they said the conservation of organization is what's spoken
about in the classic orthopedic literature. And I think you are
just making the argument Maxwell that that that generative
model is in some sense the conservation of organization. So
is that the missing link? I mean, maybe a professor for us and
you can come in.
Yeah, do you want to take that Carl? I mean, I think that's
right. But Carl will probably comment more eloquently than I
on that.
I don't think so. I think you're being very eloquent.
Thank you.
Do your worst and then I'll chip in if necessary.
Yeah, I mean, I think that's that's exactly right. Like the
Markov blankets don't have to be permanent. They can be
shifting and basically minimizing your free energy with
respect to some generative model corresponds to keeping some
structure in play.
Yep. Actually, this segue is nicely into the stuff about
stationarity and historicity. I think this is the biggest
problem in their paper. They claim that the free energy
principle can't account for historicity, in the sense that
it can't account for path dependency, right? So for our
audience, path dependency is this idea that it's not just your
position in state space that matters. It's also your velocity,
roughly speaking, right? That like the kind of direction that
you're going in, where you came from is just as important to
where you're going is where you are currently. And they claim
that, you know, the free energy, so they make a bunch of false
claims about the free energy principle, which leads them
astray. So for example, they claim that the free energy
principle assumes stationarity. It doesn't. As we've discussed
before, there are different applications of the free energy
principle in the literature. The two main families of
applications are density dynamics and path intervals. So I
drink a lot of coffee. And if you were to sample me at random
during the day, I would say there's a one in 25 chance. Yeah,
exactly. I would say there's a one in 25 chance that I'm
drinking coffee if you just sample me randomly during the
day. If you were to sample me over a week, once per day,
there's a 100% chance that I would drink coffee per day, right?
So there's a difference between looking at the probability of
states of me, you know, Maxwell is drinking coffee, and the
probabilities of paths of me or entire trajectories of me. And
that is a really critical distinction. The free energy
principle started off as a path based formulation. And I think
this is absolutely underappreciated in the literature.
If you look back at Carl's early papers, including the ones
that everyone has read, right? The 2010 unified brain theory
paper in nature. Yet these are all written in terms of paths.
Carl is taking like a sensory path and then writing down, you
know, blanket paths and internal paths. And it's all, it's all
about the way the trajectories of the system are maintained. So
this is a cool idea that was there before and that we're
doubling back down on now, which is that it's really, it's
about blanket paths that make internal paths independent of
external paths. So there's a sense in which like, it's always
been about counterfactual futures. It's, and it's difficult to
argue that, like, you don't account for historicity when
literally the core construct that you're deploying is, like
probabilities of different histories, like counterfactual
futures. But that entire argument about historicity makes no
sense formally, just abs, you know, and again, we appreciate
the critical engagement. This isn't to, you know, bash anyone
specifically. But like, this is a complete non starter
mathematically. Also, when you're doing density dynamics,
right, when you're not considering probability densities
over paths, but rather you're considering probabilities of
states, and you're doing this non equilibrium steady state
stuff. So when you are assuming stationarity, you're saying
