Yes, yeah.
Right, we were just adding an IO channel to the brain
that wasn't there before.
I want to...
Sorry.
No, no, please, Carl, keep going.
No, I was just thinking out loud,
so the catch word in my world is sort of non-invasive,
brain imaging, and that has a meaning,
that you're non-invasive, but there isn't,
there is a whole centuries worth of legacy
of invasive studies and lesion deficit models
and depth recordings and the like,
which I think speak to this,
how far into the Markov blanket can you peer
without destroying the thing that you're trying to,
in the Heisenberg sense, trying to get out.
I was witching.
I'll shut up and have a quiet cigarette
while I listen to you now.
I just add that it's non-invasive kind of by convention
and that you're invading the brain with a magnetic field
that wasn't there before.
You're just not damaging it much.
Like Carl said, it's invasive,
but I wonder what that tells us then
about augmenting the Markov blanket.
Because yeah, Carl usually will say,
if we want to non-invasively understand it,
well, then yeah, you can't peer under the Markov blanket.
So mortal computation, I think,
kind of is connecting towards the idea
of what you're saying, Chris, right?
Because we can augment, we can add IO channels.
You are designing, engineering these things.
So now this was something that did not exist.
I don't know, Michael, how does that shed light
on the question that you originally wanted to get at,
which is, you know, peering at these internal states.
Because I think this is like an indirect way.
Because I was, Carl gave me great answer about,
well, if I just design,
because my brain goes to the ultimate engineering,
I'll just design it all myself.
And I even was thinking about if I build the hardware,
but Carl's right, even when you get to hardware,
you're guessing a lot of times,
even with the best educated guesses.
So there's still the Markov blanket
that you're not really breaching.
But if you perturb or change,
it's even like augmenting the cell membrane
with something in your lab's group
is, you know, an example of modifying these things.
What does that do to your question?
How does that shed light on what you're thinking?
Yeah, yeah, I mean, I even wanted to do,
talk about a much more annoying aspect of this,
which as I always do, which is to take it way down.
So nevermind brains, nevermind even cells, right?
My question, you know, also extends like that transition
from, you know, you got a pendulum,
you got a thermostat, you've got, you know, right?
And you can sort of build these things up
and then eventually at some point you get to a cell.
So I'm still curious about whether this impenetrability
goes all the way down.
So we can't read the mind of a pendulum either,
or there is some sense of progressive opacity
as you climb this sort of continuum of cognition
from extremely simple systems,
where I think the conventional story is,
hey, look, it's all third person accessible.
We know exactly what's going on,
but at some point you don't.
And so I'm curious, when does that happen?
And if we think there's a phase transition here,
or if we think this is smooth, I mean,
I tend to think everything is more or less smooth
in these cases, but maybe I'm wrong.
Yeah, that's one thing I wanted to kind of probe
a little bit is how does this play out
when you start, not start at the brain, you know,
where, okay, we can all agree that's sort of very opaque,
but what about from the most simple physics systems, right?
How do you get to that opacity?
Yeah, and then on the flip side,
and I'm conscious that I don't want to monopolize this up,
we only have five minutes left,
but something that's very interesting,
I think an implication of this is that we can't really know
and we're all inferring.
If you take the approach that I took in this memories paper,
where your future self has to make a lot of guesses
as to what your memories mean,
because they were written down by your past self
and you don't have all the metadata,
you have to now interpret these compressed n-grams,
then that leads to this kind of more,
the little kind of disturbing question is,
so we can't even tell what we used to think really, right?
We can sort of guess, but we don't really know then
if this is the case, if that impenetrability holds,
then it's there with respect to our past self
and our past memories too.
So that's kind of wild.
I don't know what we all have to say about those.
I'll refer to this wonderful thing
called the Conway-Cocon Theorem,
Conway of the Game of Life
and Cocon of Quantum Contextuality.
This was published three decades ago now
or something like this,
but they proved using mainly relativity theory
that if they considered a generic observational scenario
and they said, if in any generic scenario,
what you consider the observer has free will
in the following defined sense
that what the observer does is not completely determined
by that observer's past like tone.
So this is, if the observer is not subject
to local determinism,
then the thing being observed
is not subject to local determinism either.
And at the end of the paper, they say,
so one could ask, do we really mean
that electrons have free will
in the same sense that observers do?
And the answer is yes.
They say in their paper emphatically.
So if you did on the free will theorem,
yeah, I remember you're catching this.
Yeah, and if you drag quantum theory into the picture,
then you get an equally strong result
that any system has to be able to effectively choose
its own semantics for how it interprets
whatever incoming information is.
And if you take that choice away,
then you get entanglement.
The system ceases to have a separate identity.
So I think the answer,
kind of the principle answer about opacity is,
yeah, it goes all the way down.
Can I just follow up on that
and refer to Chris's in a screen hypothesis
and the notion of an irreducible Markov blanket?
If you've got a system
that has no internal Markov blankets,
has no deep structure or hierarchical structure
or heterarchal structure,
then that is, I think, where the hard no would apply
or the hard yes of unknowability.
But clearly if it has internal Markov blankets,
you can peel away and invasively
or non-invasively start to get within that.
So I think what you're talking about
is in that sort of vague gradation
of things that are noble and unknowable,
it's just the hierarchical, well,
the depth of the Markov blankets of the Markov blankets.
And there is a kernel of either
an irreducible Markov blanket,
which you can never get into
because you change the thing itself.
But there's also a limiting case
from the point of view of classical physics,
which is when the inner states,
intrinsic, the internal states are the empty set.
So things like inert particles or stones
don't have internal states,
they just have Markov boundary states.
So I think you're absolutely right to think of this
as a gradation, that there are inert things
that are defined operationally
in the sense that their internal states are the empty set.
And you could also say that there are sessile things
that don't have active states.
So all of the states of this kind of particle
are just sensory states, they're just inputs.
Inputs that can also influence the outside.
There's no restriction that sensory states
have to not influence the outside.
So there still can be observable.
And then you get to things that now have a non-antiactive
sector of the holographic screen or the Markov blanket.
And these are things that move.
So you might think these are natural kinds
that have mobility or motility.
And then you get to things that whose internal states now
have a Markov blanket within them.
And these would be the kinds of things that can fan.
And these are usually multicellular things
or certainly compartmentalized things.
I think at each stage, the no ability depends upon
whether either the internal sets are empty or not,
or they are irreducible in the sense
there are no Markov blankets within them.
So I think it's a nice, simple mathematical picture
of that gradation that speaks exactly to the electron
through to the pendulum, to the thermostat
