taking out a second mortgage, but even like, you know,
spending a thousand dollars, which is not negligible,
but it's not going to like keep us from feeding ourselves.
Well, and every afternoon that you spend on it
is one afternoon that you aren't getting better
at rationality or writing a novel or, I don't know.
But it's also one percent chance
that a, you know, a million percent return, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Losing an afternoon if your life is a lot.
I would lose a, I would lose a couple of summers
for a hundred thousand dollars.
Well, for guaranteed hundred thousand.
Yeah, yeah.
So I think, I think by that, by that logic,
that I'd be willing to lose one half of a day
for a one, one percent chance, right?
Right.
I do see that objection, like, to when it was first coming out,
like, obviously, it's like, why am I going to burn a day
figuring this weird stuff out and giving some, you know,
machine my credit card number that I've no idea what's happening.
I can see that being more of a stopper.
But like, you know, if your only thing is like,
oh, I'm busy in an afternoon is important,
like, yeah, I like walking around too,
but I also like making money.
So anyway, what was the rest of the other years reply?
That was basically it.
Did Scott reply to that?
Because I'm curious too, what general thought process
could lead to, like, making calls like that?
Not that I saw, but I don't have infinite afternoons.
So I don't keep up on everything all the time.
If I had an infinite afternoon,
it would be a much happier person.
Oh, God, yeah.
That's, I think, one of the reasons, you know, just as long as it's,
you know, as long as I'm going to ramble, I, you know,
like how I wanted to marry a time-turner
with a irrationality, I felt exactly the same way.
Like, that is just the idea that, like, you know what,
I'm going to burn, I'm going to go take an hour.
And just like, you can just go do that whenever you want
a few times a day.
Yeah.
I would, I would seriously sacrifice, like,
10 years off my lifespan to have that power
for the rest of my life.
If I, say, if I knew I was going to live to be 100,
I'd give up 10 of those years on a heartbeat,
if I knew that I could do that, right?
I might give up 20.
That's, I mean, that's one of the reasons I'm not,
I say now I'm not as willing to give up an afternoon
because I have this back list of reading
that I got to do to stay current,
and also just because I enjoy it, right?
I'm also curious how you find all these things.
Like, what, maybe this is actually a good time to pitch this.
Like, what is your, like, first of all,
when do you read all these things?
And second of all, do you have a,
do you have, like, a RSS feed that emails you
every new post on all of these?
Do you go to these websites once a day
or every couple of days or?
No, I, so there's some that I hit fairly regularly.
Scott Alexander's blog, of course,
Leistar Codex, The Ungrumpable Grinch on Twitter,
on not Twitter, on Tumblr,
and the unit of caring on Tumblr
are ones that I check pretty regularly
because they give me the burst of dopamine.
I just enjoy checking them.
And every now and then they'll link to cool things like this.
I make an effort of going to Leistar Wrong sometimes
and of going to V's blog sometimes.
And just, I don't know, it's,
this is one of those things I enjoy doing in my spare time
is just reading around and finding these things.
I don't really have a method or a RSS feed or anything.
I stumble into things a lot.
And then now I'm going to start making notes of them
so I can bring them up during my weekly pick
or bi-weekly pick.
Sounds fun.
Like, so for me, I do,
especially now that I fall into a nice job where I can,
you know, I'm happy because I,
I'm waving my arms a little bit as I say, I'm happy.
Like, I enjoy my work even when it's stressful.
Like the, the class of problems I have now
is so much better than they used to be.
I have downtime, I have smart peers,
I have interesting problems to tackle.
And, you know, even when it's stressful,
I still get to figure something out.
And that's like really rewarding.
But part of the purpose that I get a lot of time to like,
you know, I read stuff related to work
and stuff not related to work.
Like I read Robert Hansen's book last month,
exclusively on the clock, I think.
Well, maybe minus 10 to 15%.
But like I was paid to read almost all that book.
I would say I do a good 60% of my reading of this stuff at work.
So I guess what I'm trying to figure out is I would like,
maybe we can put this on the, on the website
or maybe every time we link one,
or we talk about one in the future,
we can be just be sure to link to where it came from,
like the blog in general, where you found it or something.
Because I would like to have a cool thing to check every,
you know, once every couple of days,
just, you know, a list of five places I go look and see.
A lot of it comes from Facebook.
I just friend people in the rational sphere
and every now and then they'll put something on Facebook.
And whoop, there it is, you know.
And I use the ignore function very liberally on Facebook.
I think there's no more than,
probably 90% of my friends list is muted
because I'm just like,
okay, you got, you got personal things going on in your life.
Unless, unless you're like one of my 12 peers
that I really care about, I'm muting you
because I don't care about your personal life all that much.
But this interesting article that someone just posted,
that's cool.
And so I keep those people that post interesting articles
pretty high in my, in my Facebook nose.
I click through those links a lot
so promotes their shit to the top of my feed.
Yeah, I think I, I think everyone that I was friends with on Facebook,
like what do you call unfollowed me?
Because when our girlfriends in New York getting their masters,
we just like send each other like cute pictures
through Facebook three or four times a day on each other's walls.
And when you see other people's activity,
it's like, oh, I'm missing another fucking puppy
and you just stop following this.
So like, I'll notice, you know,
I don't know, a couple of years ago
when I would still try and reach out and do stuff,
I'd get like two replies even though I have like 200 friends.
I'm like, you know, no one's seeing this.
Oh, that makes perfect sense.
I would have unfollowed me too.
No hard feelings.
So no one looked at my stuff for,
or I guess if anyone is still seeing my stuff,
they're not seeing anything.
But also I found, I was digging up on here
to try and find the post.
I was trying to find Eli's reply.
And he just links to Facebook post that replied to it.
He didn't reply in the comments here.
Okay.
The only thing in the comments he says,
this is pretty low on the list of opportunities.
I'd kick myself for missing.
A longer reply is here.
And he posts to the Facebook page.
Okay.
So I probably got that reply
because I just pasted it into my text file.
I probably got that reply off the Facebook then.
That makes sense.
But I'm curious.
I'm going to skim it really quick while we're here
just to see if Scott replies to it or not,
because if he does, I'd be interested in hearing that reply.
Oh, here we go.
Scott Alexander's reply.
I'm not arguing people were bad
for not being able to figure out Bitcoin was great in 2011.
And if anybody had had, excuse me,
I suck at reading out loud.
And if anybody had all of this in mind,
that Bitcoin might go up, but there's no way to make sure
that Bitcoins wouldn't be stolen along the way
and who would know when to sell and so on.
I can't criticize them,
basically the stuff that we were saying.
My main point is that a lot of people,
including me, did specifically decide Bitcoins
were a great investment, tell others they're a great investment,
confirm with people that they believed the same,
and then didn't do anything about it.
I talked to a couple people who did the correct EV calculation,
mined a few Bitcoins for a while,
and then forgot about them
because they were difficult and annoying.
EV being expected value, I believe.
Yeah, I think so.
And yeah, I was the same way.
When I was deciding whether to go into Bitcoin or not,
I didn't think, oh, I might get hacked or whatever.
I just was like, oh, this is kind of a pain in the butt.
