Well, yes, they do.
So, yeah, that's what I was talking about, yeah.
I don't think she actually murdered anyone.
There was no foul play in the fall.
If he was just an old dude at the end of his life.
Well, why do you prove foul play
if you just died of old age?
You know, it looks a lot like old age suffocation,
just saying.
I guess it could have been, but...
But no, there is so...
I mean, I would want to be able to make the trade
with someone,
hey, look, I have a lot of money.
I know I'm not physically attractive anymore.
But you make me happy.
I have Viagra.
Will you stick around with me for a few years?
I will give you all the shit after I die.
Oh, that's rough.
I wonder what the going rate is
compared to like your entire life savings
versus just like, you know,
five hours a week with a prostitute or something.
Yeah, well, I mean, but there's a difference
because five hours a week with a prostitute
is not...
doesn't come with much of an emotional relationship to it.
Having, you know...
Well, I won't get into that.
But, uh, so...
Uh, the...
The...
The...
Being having something that you can share your life with
and who will like, you know,
live in your house and help clean it up
and take care of you
and share all sorts of experiences with you
is something.
That's true.
And like, if I had the money to make that sort of a deal,
I might be willing to make that sort of a deal with someone
and I would be really upset to learn afterwards
that my parents were contesting the will and court.
And that's what they're doing right now.
They're contesting in court because,
again, it's the law.
Everything is negotiable.
So, even getting married and having a will isn't 100%.
It...
It kind of sucks.
That's interesting.
And I'll say, like, having seen this on the other side,
that's pretty detestable to watch people argue over,
like, some, you know,
a dead family member's stuff and money.
Yeah.
Like, when my great-grandpa died,
actually, shortly before,
like the summer before he died,
his son, who I had never met,
I met him first at Grandpa's...
Or, I guess, Grandma's funeral.
But when he was out there for Grandma's funeral,
he also had grandpa who was in his 90s
and not 100% with everything.
But he was still, like...
He was still there.
He'd, like, no trouble remembering who he were or anything.
But, you know, his son wanted to see inside,
like, his cool safe.
We had all these antique coins.
And then he emptied it.
Oh, shit.
And, you know, because it's his son,
he, you know, felt, you know,
like he couldn't really do anything about it
and that sort of thing.
And so, this would be my dad's biological dad.
But my dad was adopted when he was two.
And I don't know when he first met his biological dad,
but I didn't meet him till I was in my 20s, I guess.
Or, I guess, late teens.
I forget when Grandma died.
But, like, I never met Tom's kids.
Actually, well, drop a name.
Who cares?
We'll call him Tom.
Okay.
You know, I've never met his kids.
And yet my dad's kids, me,
we went out to see my grandparents every summer.
Like, you know, and they're great.
We loved them.
And, like, you know, his biological dad,
his kids couldn't give a less of a shit.
And they're one step closer to my great-grandparents
than I am.
And, like, they didn't come out for the funeral.
And, like, you know, his fourth wife
took Grandma's wedding ring out of her purse
when we, after she was buried.
And, you know, oh, yeah, well, you know,
Grandpa said I could have this.
And, you know, it's like, well, no, he didn't.
That's why he wants it back.
Like, you know, but, like, anyway, so that level
of weird petty stealing from dead people's shit is disgusting.
That's just my thought on that.
You might notice that sometimes we record these shows
at night, and the later it goes, the weirder it gets.
So buckle up, we're not done yet, exactly.
So.
Although, to be fair to Shelly,
she did say lower likelihood of Will being contested.
Not that, you know, it wouldn't be.
It's well thought out.
I want to keep going.
Greater chance of being able to get
to health insurance coverage from a spouse's policy.
True.
And you did talk.
Oh, no, that was off the air.
I want to throw in Yasha some props.
Naveen asked him after we finished recording,
is there any circumstance under which
you would still marry somebody,
given what your position is now.
And you, I think, very thoughtfully,
and you maybe won't admit how thoughtful
and why reason it was,
you would said, yes, I've thought about this.
And if somebody that I cared about was going,
you know, needed medical treatment and couldn't afford it,
I might marry them.
I would likely marry them or something, whatever you said,
to give them my health insurance so that they won't die
or theoretically improve their life,
which showed me that you'd actually thought
about, like, all the angles and didn't just, like, say,
I'm against it.
What's all my ammunition for it?
You thought about the various perspectives,
and I thought that was really cool.
So I wanted to give you props that you did anticipate that,
just not on the air.
Being able to make medical decisions for our spouse
without needing medical power of attorney document,
I guess that's true,
but are medical power of attorneys documents that hard to get?
I don't know.
I've never looked into it.
But yeah, that's true.
Being able to become a guardian for a spouse
who needs guardianship without needing
the Declaration of Guardian support.
So I think, like,
these are the things that I was talking about,
you could get other paperwork for.
Eligibility for step-parent adoptions in many states.
Um, being legally granted preference over legally unmarried
people for adoptions in some states.
So, um, oh, sorry, she goes right on to say,
even though there are other legal documents
that can grant certain rights
plus privileges that are typically bundled
into legal marriage,
the authorities often ignore these documents.
Yeah, that is, that is unfortunate
and some horrible bullshit.
I remember back before gay marriage was legal,
there were people that would get some of these documents
for their, uh, for their gay partners.
And sometimes the hospitals would just ignore them.
They'd be like, I don't care that you have
medical power of attorney.
We don't approve of gayness in this state.
And therefore you can't go see the,
the person that you are legally allowed to see.
If they were legally married with the doctors.
And they'd be, what are they gonna do?
Push over the orderly and muscle your way
into the room?
That's not going to make anything better.
Would a legal marriage put,
stop some bigoted orderly anyway?
No, probably not.
Like just saying in that particular case,
like agreed, it did, you know,
might have made it harder.
But the fact that people,
Like for some reason, like there are a lot of people,
especially the bigoted old school people,
ones that has the word marriage are like, well, fine.
I guess now that it's officially okay with God
and the government or some shit.
I don't think that they think it's okay with God
if they're old bigots, but they think,
yeah, it's okay with the government apparently
