Bitcoin. According to the recent Slate Star codec survey, 9% of SSC readers made $1,000 or more
from Bitcoin as of December 2017. Among people who refer to SSC from less wrong, which he uses
as a standard for long time less wrong regulars, 15% made over $1,000 on crypto, which is nearly
twice as many. A full 3% of less wrongers made over $100,000. That's pretty good.
On the other hand, 97% of us, including me, didn't make over $100,000. All we would have needed to
invest $10 back when people on less wrong started recommending it. But we didn't. How bad should
we feel and what should we learn? Part of this might be me protecting my own ego. Actually,
I don't take that much protection. I didn't know about Bitcoin in 2011. I'm shielded there, but
I imagine some of the reply would be, this is the one I didn't read. I don't know anything about
what Scott's position on this or any, I guess I know what his position is now, but I didn't know
this coming in or what any of the feedback might be. But I would say part of it is a couple of
things. One, you had no idea of knowing that this would do anything. Granted, $10 isn't a huge
investment, but you don't know. There's $10 lottery tickets, right? And to the point,
$10 lottery tickets are really easy to pick up, whereas getting into Bitcoin back then was a
process. You would need someone who knows how to do this and like an afternoon.
So that combined with the fact that when I was coming onto the scene and all the ones that are
sub-a-dollar, there's like 100 that come up pretty easily when you're searching. So I was like,
how do I know which one's going to be the next Bitcoin? So maybe it was easier when there's
only one. Maybe it was a less excusable mistake, but I haven't invested in any of the tiny ones.
One of the guys that I know at work does, and I think he's made some money, but not $100,000.
I don't think he's made $1,000. I don't know, but he's not rolling it yet. He still works there,
I guess is what I'm saying. All right, let me articulate this. I think it is a reasonable
rebuttal, which I'm positive Scott gets to because he's a smart guy, that we couldn't have known this
would do anything. So what's the reply to that? Back when Bitcoin was the only one,
Bitcoin was never the only one. One of the people who I've replied to Scott's post on this was
the first person who knew, one of the first people who knew about Bitcoins because he was a
moderator on the forum where it was introduced. So he even saw it before the normal forum users,
and he said at that time there was about a dozen new cryptocurrencies that people were pushing,
and Bitcoin was just one more of those. And so there were a number of people who said that
sort of thing, but Scott's reply was that there was a lot of people who we knew to be smart,
and know these technical matters, and we trust who are in the rational sphere who are telling us
there is a 1% chance that this thing could go to the moon. Maybe 0.1 even, but it's a decent chance
that you can get 5,000 times returns on this thing. And yet most of us did not jump on it,
and that as a rationalist is something you should do. And again, people pointed out, you know,
when something is a 1% chance, you go in for the first three, four, five, maybe dozen,
you keep getting screwed by these things that take $10 plus an afternoon of your life,
and eventually you're going to burn out and not do them anymore. And again, Scott's reply was like,
as a rationalist, you should expect only about one out of 100 to actually pay out if you assign
it a 1% chance, and not get discouraged after a dozen because you realize that the chances are
most of them will fail. But then we're talking about $1,000 investment on average. No, we're
talking about... If we're spending $10 per thing. Oh, over 100. Yeah, yeah. So then I think that
becomes a harder case, right? If I'm going to give $10 to everything that has a 1% chance of making
me money, I mean, so like your odds of making your money back on a scratch lotto ticket are like
one in five, or maybe one in four. So like a lot of them pay back the dollar you got to get you to
buy in again. But the expected returns on a scratch ticket are always less than $1. And in
fact, in some cases, significantly less, right? Well, like slot machines advertise that they're
really good because they pay back 98% of every dollar that you put in on average. On average,
right? Yeah. Which is... I want to shudder when I see that advertised as a good thing. They're
like, we give you back 98% of your money. So there's two things with that. One, I've never seen
that advertisement. Okay. But I guess I don't... Maybe it was on... It was on a billboard as I
was driving. Okay, that's hilarious. So the other thing about that is... So you're telling me I'll
only on average lose 2% of my money. That's like... If you're reading this, even the literal way,
which is the... Obviously, like I said, it's on average. So you get a jackpot winner. So they
give back 98%. And they're saying, we only keep 2% for the house or whatever. But that's telling
me as the player, it's like, oh, okay. So on average, I plan only lose 2% rather than lose
nothing if I don't play. Right. That's insane. Yeah. But this is a thing where the payoffs were...
Like when Gordon said, has a chance of going to over $10,000, that's a case where you invest $10
and you get back $100,000. What was Gordon's case for that? I don't remember. It was yours.
I know. But I was wondering if it was referenced in this article, because if all he was saying
was like, I think it'll get big. No, like...
Gordon is Gordon. He spelled out reasons he had to have, because man is meticulous.
But I guess... And I'll have to find this case. I will look it up. But I'm curious how he could
have anticipated. Also, was Gordon one of the 3% that made $100,000? I don't know.
I certainly... He'd better be after proselytizing for it.
And there are a number of people who... Well, I'll get to that in a second. But there was
there's the fact that if you expected to have a 1% payout, sure, that's $1,000 to go into all $100,
but a $10... If any one of those hits and you've put in $10, you expect to get back $100,000.
So that's still 100 times your money back. You put in $1,000, you get back $100,000,
totally worth it. Yeah, that sounds pretty worth it. I'm not an economist, but...
Right. So, I mean, that would be like the expected payout of, for every dollar you spend,
we only give you $100 back. That would be a gamble I would take.
So it was an interesting post. And he said that, but as is pointed out, 3% of people
got really super rich by following this. And a lot of people said, this looks good in principle,
but then just didn't follow through with it. And he said, I think our epist...
Epistemological. Thank you. Our epistemological... My mouth isn't braining today.
Our epistemological rationality is pretty good, but our instrumental rationality still needs
serious game because we may know things, but we don't act on them. And there were a number of
people who pointed out things like, for example, an afternoon is a significant investment of one's
life. If you have to spend 100 afternoons, that's a lot of fucking effort. There were a number of
people who said, I did buy in very early, and then I got out when it hit 400 because I didn't think
it would ever get much more above that. There were a few people who said, I got in early,
and then I lost everything when the Mt. Gox hack happened. So it's... Yeah, this wasn't actually
as risk-free as some people necessarily make out. Yeah, that plus... It'd be one thing if we were
all told... I guess I still need to read the original case that Gvern made because we're all
told with really high reliability that this would work, but if it's one person's well-thought-out
speculation, that doesn't mean that we knew something and didn't act on it. It means that we
knew, I guess we knew odds that we didn't project properly and act on those. I remember when I read
it, I was excited by the article and I even had a friend who was really into the cryptocurrencies
and was trying to push me to get into them as well. I looked into how big of a pain in the
ass it was to do, and I was like, eh, it probably won't pay out, and I didn't do it, and now I regret
it. I was looking into getting on one on Reddit. It was a Litecoin clone that someone made a
couple weeks ago called Garlic Coin. Garlic Coin, there's no break, so it's 1c.
And Garlic Coin is built on an understandable and familiar stack that Litecoin is built off of,
and they were going to hand out two free ones to everyone who subscribed to the subreddit
and this and that, so I was like, all right, I'll subscribe and I'll follow this a little bit,
and it's largely hilariously shit-posted memes because everyone's just making the biggest fun
of this ever, but they're actually worth something now. I'm not sure how much.
Really?
Less than... I saw something that... I can't even... So that's the thing. As I imagine this is probably
easier than it was getting into Bitcoin eight years or seven years ago, but I can't even figure
out how to buy this shit, so I followed a few links, and then it's like, all right, cool, download
this thing, and then put in your credit card and stuff, and that sounds shady as hell. I didn't
download the thing, but I couldn't even figure out who to give my money to or how to do it.
So if all I'm hearing is that, yeah, go to this weird site and download the software
under your computer, and then suddenly you own part of the blockchain, trust me, that's a thing,
you're good, and then when you put in your credit card, that's fine too, don't worry about it.
I think there's a lot of good reasons to say, no, it'd be really easy for someone to steal my
money if I was just going to put my credit card and stuff that I don't know what I'm doing.
You know my project for this Saturday?
No.
Going to create basecoin?
Yeah, perfect.
Apparently launching garlic coin was harder than I thought it was going to be,
so... and they have quite the cult following on Reddit, so heads up, it might be kind of hard.
But yeah, I saw something about how that must have been a dip.
I think it went from like 1.5 cents down to 0.5 cents.
But shit, if it was 0.001 cents to start or something, then it goes up to five bucks.
It's like, yeah, sure, I'll put in $10, who cares?
But I couldn't even figure out how to do that, and honestly, maybe I should have,
and I'm kicking myself.
In fact, fuck it, I'll figure out maybe how to buy garlic coin when I get home.
Because in 10 years, this is the next light coin, they're all worth 130 bucks each,
then I've made some money.
Can I give you a buck?
Get me a buck worth of garlic coin?
I'll throw it in for...
Hold on to your paper.
If you want to Venmo me a dollar or whatever.
But yeah, we'll see how this works out.
I don't really, like I said, I'm not even sure how to get my hands on it,
but I think that might have been the objection that people had back then.
And I knew people too who bought or who mined and bought Bitcoin back in the day,
and then sold it was a few hundred bucks.
I guess they could have said maybe my returns will keep going, but in a lot of ways,
that's like, I'll keep doubling down on green on the roulette wheel.
Rather than take my 500% return and leave, I'm going to stick around for more.
Like that sounds insane too, right?
And I sincerely wonder whether or not like if there was this big epidemic of a lot of
rationalists investing in Bitcoin, and then they all bought and then it crashed.
If they'd be like, you guys should have sold it and it was high,
why did you guys keep gambling?
Or why did everyone buy into this thing that's an obvious mistake?
Because it did crash quite a few times.
There was a number of times where people were like,
God, I wish I had sold when it was at $40.
Because now it's down to whatever it was down to.
So I wonder, this does seem, autopsy is a good word for it.
Because now we're analyzing the situation, that happened,
and seeing how do we get here and how can we appraise it.
But the situation could have gone differently.
And I wonder if we'd all bought this and it blew up,
or if we'd all bought this and it withered and died,
then he'd be like, how could you guys all have been so stupid?
This only had a 1% chance of working, right?
Well, but you shouldn't feel that bad about it,
because you knew it only had a 1% chance of working, right?
I don't know.
But how bad is he saying we should feel knowing
that only had a 1% chance of working now, right?
Not too bad.
He said, okay, so I love this paragraph,
which I just want to read verbatim.
He says, suppose God had decided,
out of some sympathy for our project,
to make winning as easy as possible for rationalists.
He might have created the biggest investment opportunity
of the century, made it visible only to libertarian programmers
willing to dabble in crazy ideas.
And then he might have made sure that all of the earliest adopters
were less wrong regulars just to make things extra obvious.
But he said, basically, I think we did mediocre.
We got to see, in his opinion.
That's hilarious.
But they're still seeing that going the other way.
You know, suppose the devil set us up
and they wanted to trick us to some stupid Ponzi scheme,
and then I'll blow up in our faces
and we're all acting all sad and surprised, go figure.
Eliezer actually replied directly to it.
And he said, he disagreed directly with Scott.
He said, what thought pattern would have generated
the right answer here without generating
a lot of wrong answers in other places
if you had to execute it without benefit of hindsight?
Which, you know, I guess that's a much more eloquent way
of phrasing what I've been trying to articulate this whole time.
Yeah, he says, a bounded rationalist should not expect to win
at everything at once.
And looking back and thinking you ought to have gotten
all of the fruits that look easy in hindsight
can lead to distorted thought processes
or distorted thought patterns.
Which I'm like, okay, yeah,
we don't want to beat up ourselves too much over it.
We also don't want to go out and piss away our,
like, you know, take out a mortgage
and buy a bunch of garlic coin, right?
Yeah, oh, God, no.
Well, so like, that's my point.
But if, or maybe, you know, Scott wouldn't have advised
