and the government's forsaken their lord or whatever.
I don't know how these,
I'm too tired to think of in these people's shoes.
Yeah, I, you know, I don't spend a lot of time
in the hospital, luckily yet, fingers crossed.
And, you know, I would be pissed, you know, fuck it.
Like it's just a social weight that comes
from that particular piece of paper
that doesn't come with a lot of others.
I just think it's stupid.
Like if my friends want to come visit
and I'm unconscious, come gawk at me.
I don't care if I'm awake and, you know,
I say I wanted to see them.
It's like, well, you can't because you're not married.
I would, I would, I don't know,
throw my colostomy bag at whoever said that,
like my bedpan or whatever.
Like fuck that.
That's insane.
Although you could probably hit with an assault charge
for doing that.
I would find some form of revenge to do for that.
I don't know.
I don't think they would actually hit you
with an assault charge.
Oh man.
I would kind of hope they would.
I don't think they would work in hospitals
if somebody threw literally shit at them.
I hear that happens a lot in hospitals.
Oh man.
And they get only paid like 11.75 an hour.
Yeah.
Which isn't enough to like pay for,
I guess, whatever medical treatments you might need
to look and like, am I going to get sick now?
Jesus.
Okay.
In general, I think a solution in which government
had less interest in knowing which adults
or each other's family members would be better
and certainly less institutional singleism
would be better.
But as things are now, on an individual basis,
there are many benefits for whom the practical
bent, or excuse me,
there are many people for whom the practical
benefits of legal marriage in the U.S.
currently outweigh the risks.
That's a well-reasoned position.
Kind of like your thing about net neutrality,
like, hey, if there are no regulations and no
bullshit going on here, that'd be great.
Since there's tons of bullshit,
then, you know, this is the way to play the game.
So I guess if I'm not a veteran,
if I'm not, if I don't have social security,
you know, like a lot of these don't apply
to me right now, right?
Yeah.
And there are, there's an interesting other
aspect to this where if,
so we said that a lot of the benefits of marriage
can be replaced by things like these,
these wills and medical power of attorney,
that sort of stuff.
And I don't, I think this was a different comment.
I'm not sure it was in Shelley's comment,
but someone else pointed out that,
yes, but you can get all those cheaper and easier
with a marriage contract.
Just sign that for, you know, 10 minutes,
pay your $50 fee or whatever it is.
And you got all that instead of having to hire a lawyer.
I think the interesting thing behind this is that
there is a very small subset of people that
marriage is actually beneficial for with these
benefits that a lot of people mention.
If you are rich enough that you need inheritance,
that you're worried about inheritance stuff,
you can probably afford a lawyer to get an actual
well-written will out.
Like the people, the people who are so poor,
they just need to run down and get a marriage
for $15, don't really have anything
that gets transferred over, right?
I mean, maybe like a junk or car.
If you have an estate that's worth your family
bickering about, you have enough money to hire a lawyer.
Yeah.
Like not even, it's not going to be, you know,
a $3,000 venture probably, right?
You're going to bring somebody on for, you know,
people do wills for not the like, you know,
$400 an hour lawyer rate, right?
The more interesting aspect to me more recently
has been that there are a lot of benefits
to not being married as well that the government provides.
I remember reading, do you guys,
do you read SMBC comics?
Yes, big fan.
God, love SMBC comics.
It is like, in my opinion, the rationalist comic out there.
Zachary Wintersmith has been on rationally speaking twice.
Fucking fantastic.
That's on the less wrong Slack.
Cool.
The less wrong Slack channel.
Okay.
Yeah.
So yes, it is definitely the rationalist webcomic.
SMBC for XKTV though, while not rationalist,
is it's like a warm version of, yeah.
Yeah.
It's very close, read by a lot of the same people.
Yeah.
I was off mic for a second.
I mentioned XKCD has another awesome webcomic.
And that it is like the worm.
Yes.
If it's not quite rationalist thick, it's damn good.
Yeah.
All right.
But yeah, there was, when the healthcare overhaul
was happening with Trump a few months ago,
Zach Wiener posted about it and said that a lot of people
who are, especially people who are creative,
self-employed people.
I saw that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or really freaking out like,
what can we do about this?
And he said that he was in a meeting
where some people brought up jokingly
that they had looked into getting divorced
for the benefits.
And that stuck out to me because I know a couple
who has gotten divorced for the tax benefits.
Because like literally went through with it
because there are a lot of benefits the government
does give to people who are in the lower income bracket
if they are single and have children.
And by getting divorced, all of a sudden the female
in the relationship was now a single mother.
And she and her children could get on much better
medical coverage.
They're eligible for all sorts of government programs
which more than made up for what few benefits they got
from the tax break for being married.
And so if you're on the extreme low end of the spectrum,
marriage is more costly for you.
You get more benefits out of not being married.
If you're on the extreme high end,
marriage is too costly for you because you can afford
to protect yourself.
But yeah, I know.
So there's this very small slice if you're kind of
in the middle where you don't have a lot of assets
but you have some and you don't have a lot of spare cash
for lawyers but you do have a little bit of money
and if you are of the traditional 50s housewife
and husband model of family
where the tax benefits actually help you,
then yeah, there's a slice of the American electorate
out there who probably gets more benefits out of marriage
than most of the people that I know, I guess.
But there's a lot of people to whom marriage
just doesn't have all these benefits.
Like who cares about being able to not have to pay
income tax on inheritance of almost nothing, you know?
Yeah, it's a whole weird thing.
Like I think I said everything I can think on it.
I mean, those are interesting points to raise.
And you know, I was talking with another friend
about this too.
I think the benefits are overhyped,
I guess is what I'm saying.
And like a lot of those benefits don't apply to us, right?
Like because we're not soldiers, we're not vets,
we're not on social security.
So like, you know, those things,
like those particular ones don't apply to us
but they do apply to some people and that's an important caveat.
I feel like the whole thing is kind of just like,
you know, and this is something that you've expressed a lot
but I'm saying more and more of,
it's like why is there just so much fuckery in this?
Like why is it 50 things
and why does nobody know about all of them?
And it's really, it shouldn't be this complicated.
But, you know, the other thing too, well, I don't know
how you can even go about that.
So we won't.
So let's go on to the next feedback thing here.
Okay.
Unless anything's more on to say on to Shelly's.
No.
Zeke Rahn says,
