I think you guys had some misconceptions about what
common law marriage is.
According to Colorado law,
you cannot accidentally be common law married.
Oh.
Neither Stephen nor Enyash are going to have to go
through a common law divorce
if they split up with an antagonistic partner
because I know neither of them are signaling
as if they are actually married.
So one thing with that is,
like I said, my leasing office thinks I'm married
and I don't correct them,
but we're not running around introducing each other
with husband and wife.
But you're saying check lower than that or something.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think we basically covered that in the episode where
We can skim.
We can tell me whichever one is going to read or whatever.
I don't mean to just go through all of them.
There are a lot of comments on this one.
Sure.
Which is a friendly reminder that there's lots of fun
conversation to be had at the Bayesian Conspiracy Subreddit
if two hours of this in your ears every two weeks isn't enough,
you can get online and argue with strangers at the subreddit.
So by all means, strongly invited.
The one that I wanted to, that I think we should respond to
because it was a good point was Zikaron said,
I think Stephen had the best argument in the first five minutes.
Did gays fight for the right to get married
based on hospital visitation rights and other benefits?
Yes.
Therefore people find value in the legal contract known as marriage.
I feel like this was ignored for the rest of the conversation.
I think he steel manned my argument.
I was asking if that was a question and I think I even
flippantly said something along the lines of like people
raised this point every time it came up,
like it was happening to everybody once a month.
And I was being somewhat dismissive.
Like I get like that happens to real people and that's bad and it shouldn't.
But like that shouldn't be the reason why you're fighting for marriage
because there's a one in 10,000 chance that you won't be able to visit
your loved one in the hospital, right?
Or even like, I mean, that's probably not a good number.
There's like a one in 10,000 chance your lover will end up in a hospital
and then further the constraint of you being barred from visiting them or something, right?
Or you being barred from visiting them after trying to set up a
whatever legal document that lets you visit.
So because of that also being barred,
you're putting a lot of epicycles on this.
I think that like that's probably a tiny number of people, right?
Now granted, we don't discriminate against anybody and that's fucked up,
but like to say that we all want this because of hospital visitation,
that seems like a weird flag to get under because that's a very small subsect of people.
I wanted to, I feel when I read this, I felt a twinge of pain because I thought that was an
excellent point and I had wanted to address it, but I got distracted by something and it
flew out of my mind and I, we never really got to it.
Maybe I'll disregard the whole thing I just said about not liking the point because it
sounds like I was being so gallant, but no, no, no, no, I think that was decent.
I think, I mean, the reason and I guess I am asserting this rather than having researched
back it up, but the reason that gay people wanted marriage equality was because they want
fucking equality. They, as long as that right is denied to people by the government,
the government is saying you are lesser humans. You do not deserve the same rights as everyone else
and that is a shitty thing for the government to do and also is that I think that a government
should not be allowed to do. I totally agree. Yeah, they're not allowed to say to people that
you do not count, your love doesn't count, your relationship doesn't count,
and you are a lower class of human. And that is really what they were fighting for, for the
social status to be seen as equal to everyone else, that their love is just as important,
their lives are just as important, and in that case, this meant getting the right to marry,
getting the right to fuck up their relationships like all the straight breeders do.
But I think that was a Homer Simpson quote, like why don't we let them get married miserable
like the rest of us. It was some TV show, but no. But the way that that has to be fought
for in the courts and in other public arenas is that you say we are being denied these benefits
that married people get like hospital visitation benefits and adoption benefits.
Right, you can't point to the social recognition and say we're being denied that because it's like,
well, so what? But if you can point to legal discrimination, then that's where the case is
made. Exactly. Okay, so that's the statement, and I can totally see that. So they really,
they say it's for these fringe benefits that very, very few people get to benefit off of.
But like you said, and you put it much more eloquently than I could have, it's like, no,
we're doing this because whether we all love this or not, the culture says if you love somebody,
you get to marry them. And you're literally not letting us get married, you're saying that we
can't love each other in society's eyes, and that's fucked. So if you have to fight that
terrain on like quasi legitimate grounds of like, you know, what if I want to visit my
partner hospital or have them have my social security, then yeah, fight to win because it's
important like the victory there was important. And while I wish the victory wasn't important
because it like it seems weird that you need this, you know, 50 page government contract to
say that you love somebody. Since that's the case, it's kind of like, you know, again,
the regulation thing, the less there is, you know, whatever. But yes, since that's the case,
you know, fuck it, go nuts, right? Yeah, I totally agree. I think it's a symptom of buying into the
if you love someone you get married thing, but you know, they bought into it, so they were fighting
for marriage. And that's fine, you can buy into all sorts of things. Heck, the fact that I
disagree doesn't even mean that I'm right. It just means I disagree, which I'm sure everyone who
thinks I'm wrong would agree with very strongly. I think that's that's fair. Let me see what's
going on here. Sorry, I was reading. I didn't I didn't hear the last thing you said that was rude.
I was giving the rest of this post. Fine, it's fine. Not without incident said,
not without incident was the person that we quoted and responded to when they said,
I quoted them as saying, they don't care about the economic impacts of a net neutrality regulation.
They just care about their personal experience. And this is going to be like the third time now
that we're responding to that sort of thing. But yeah, not without incident said,
I wasn't trying to suggest that economic growth was never good for consumers or internet users,
just that there isn't an obvious correlation between any given period of growth or contraction
and the experience of people on the internet. Karen was approaching things from a macroeconomic
perspective first, and I don't agree that that's what's important in this case. I was like, okay,
I should at least read that and let him have a say because I didn't want to misrepresent what
he was saying. Also, sorry, not without an incident said in terms on the marriage side of
things. Maybe this is self evident to everyone else, but I wish there had been some discussion
about why community property is bad from an FX standpoint. Everyone, even Navin seemed to agree
it would be better to maintain separate finances while still gaining the legal benefits.
Just from a personal perspective, I'm happy with community property because it makes life
so much easier. And my wife and I were basically living that way well before we were married.
If I get divorced, splitting everything 50 50 seems fair regardless of who earned it.
What's more, this seems like the general understanding people have of marriage through
personal experience, divorced friends and pop culture. When Kanye says, when she leave your ass,
she go and leave with half. I don't think he was imparting any secret wisdom, which Kyle,
if right here you could underlay some gold digga beats, he would be so pumped about that.
Well, unfortunately, I don't really listen to much in the ways of hip hop. So here's my best effort.
Um, Shelly also said my impression is that most people are aware that losing significant amounts
of property and or having to pay alimony are possibilities in most states. And yeah, I mean,
I was also aware of that. And when we bought our house together, I, I, okay, I'm about to say I
knew I was going to lose it when we got divorced, but that's not the correct thing to say because
it's not losing it. Like if you buy a car and then you fix it up and sell it at a profit after
you've sold it, you don't say, Oh, I lost my car. You know, so we bought this house together,
we fixed it up, we sold it at a profit at the divorce. And so that's not losing it.
She deserves half that house, half that house is hers. And I was totally fine with that. It was
all of the other things afterwards that she found as ways to bite into me and hurt me
that I didn't realize the law made possible. That really sucked. Like the fact that you almost
lost your like town home that you had before you met. Yes. That to me is insane. Yeah. And I get
they all belong to the marriage now, but like that's, that's the kind of shit that how could you
possibly fucking known that that's your stuff. You know, her name couldn't be on any of it, right?
Right. And when I, when I married her, we were both pulling an income and mine was a bit more
than hers. But you know, it was at the point where the alimony would not have been much of
anything. I would have been like, yes, I am happy to give you a few thousand dollars, maybe, you
know, even $10,000 to help you on your way as we are splitting apart. But after, after
some period of our being married, she basically, well, she did quit her day job and wasn't drawing
any income for the rest of our marriage. And I was supporting her as she was trying other things
out. But the point being, after all that, it looked like rather than me loaning her money and
helping her investor or small business, I was supporting her. And this was now the lifestyle
she's accustomed to, quote unquote. And I had to keep doing that, which was, I mean,
I mean, really, people can just say you married the wrong person, you shouldn't have married
someone who's that irresponsible and blah, blah, blah or whatever. But when I got into the marriage,
we were making not that different of an, you know, amount of money. And like,
you know, I didn't want to get into this and we can do this later if you want or never. But like,
you know, nobody gets married thinking, all right, this person, you know, has like a one and
two chance of flipping on me, right? You think it's a distant, if not impossible, like or possibility,
I guess, you know, it's, you wouldn't have done it if you thought it was going to happen, right?
So like, planning for it and saying, you know, well, if you know, she was making less, whatever,
like that's nobody, nobody thinks about that, or rather they do and they dismiss it, not dismiss
it, they conclude that it's a very low risk, right? That's why whenever I talk about it,
I couch it in the terms of like, what if one of us had a stroke or something, you know, because
that's really the likelihood situation where I could see it happening. And that's probably
somewhat how you felt like it's, and sorry, this is personal. No, no, no, it's fine.
But yeah, I was talking to a friend about it. And he was, you know,
because he called, he was listening to this episode. And he was like, where was I on this? I was,
like, it was basically just that, you know, like, nobody does this if they feel like they're,
they're really putting themselves at risk. You just feel like you're doing something that
people who love each other do. And it's, I'm going to just keep repeating myself. I also do that
when I'm tired. So I, in our meetup earlier this week, someone said, just imagine, like if,
because of the whole marriage and polyamory thing came up briefly, they're like, yeah,
imagine the alimony you'd be paying if you divorced four people at once. And I was like,
oh no, from what I know of marriage, if I'm married to four people, I quit my job and go
immediately unemployed so that when we get divorced, I collect alimony from four people,
which is sadly what I would literally be incentivized to do if I were to get married
again, I'd be like, well, I'm going to quit my job right now. So when this goes south,
it was a solid rebuttal. I was trying to be funny and I think you made a, made a good,
good counter argument. I wanted to do a couple more of these. We've got a Shelley doesn't drink
saying that Navine's stated reason for wanting legal marriage, wanting to site, wanting society to
put him and his wife in a pen is pretty awful in my opinion. I kind of agree. And we talked about
that, you know, this hard to get out of box with nothing in it. I understand that the ability
to pre-commit is a game theoretic advantage. So if you want to limit your own autonomy, go ahead,
but don't try to get society to limit your autonomy for you. That leaves society
distributing others with their autonomy too, often in cases where they, unlike you, didn't want it.
Also, it's coercive, disrespectful, and lacking integrity to deliberately use the legal financial
pressure to make your intimate relationships last longer. I might have read that fast, but it was
basically what we talked about, which is funny because it's, it shows the nuance and Shelley's
position here because she gave all these reasons pro marriage, but she's saying, look, all the
reasons are for it. That one shit. And here's why. I also didn't like that reason. And that was,
that was Kyle's reason that we talked about in the feedback of the last episode. So it's
interesting. Sorry, I'm still reading.
I wanted to quickly put in this one from the crash store, said, this one, this one actually
hurt me. The crash store says, once again, you didn't taboo the term you were arguing about,
then proceeded to use the majority of the park podcast to argue past each other by assuming
different definitions. And yeah, I, when, when I read it, I was like, fuck, we did. And I mean,
it's okay if you do it once, like we did with the spirituality episode, because you can,
you can fuck up once, right? And it's whatever it's a fuck up, but this was two times in close
succession. And I, we really, I personally should have paid attention and known better. And so I,
I apologize to our listeners. I should have done better.
It was a learning experience. I feel like it was still fun to listen to. But yeah, I mean, like,
and we did articulate down the road, because I didn't know what Naveen's position was before
we started talking. And then it became clear that he was defending something that you clearly
weren't arguing against. Or rather, he was defending something that you, let me, let me phrase that.
We were talking past each other.
Well, he, you guys agreed on like everything. But I feel like he knew that going in and neither
of us did. And I think it was like, he knew your position and presumably he knew his,
whereas you didn't really know his, all you knew that he was going to come is defend marriage.
But he was defending in his words, this unobstantiated class that never is actualized in the real
world of marriage. And that's not really what we were talking about. Like it was what he was
