Well, that's fair.
One of our friends, Thomas Elliott,
was on the podcast replied to Scott's reply there.
And so the Eleizer said, well,
all I can say is that I didn't reason that way.
Maybe I'm not the right person to ask,
but I do have a general heuristic that says,
I could have made this great financial investment
and outperform the market.
What was me usually is a losery thinking.
Is that Thomas's reply?
No, that's Eleizer's.
Thomas's was, I think I made this mistake,
and I think it was a genuine mistake.
And I think the reasoning in the OP
as to why it wasn't is specious and excuse-making.
So a lot of disagreement in both directions
on this particular topic.
I did think it was really interesting, though.
It is interesting.
And we are here to bring you the rationalist news.
Yes, today we are.
The feedback.
Yes, feedback.
So before we do feedback,
let me quickly think our think,
thank our supporter for the week.
This week's supporter is...
Hold on. Where was it?
Ah, here's the list.
Matt Freeman.
In fact, Matt Freeman.
Is that our Matt Freeman?
I can only assume what's our Matt Freeman.
Okay. Thank you, Matt Freeman.
If you are our Matt Freeman, you rock.
If you're not our Matt Freeman,
you obviously also rock
because you are helping support the podcast.
So yeah, whichever Matt Freeman you are, you're cool.
I'm pretty sure it's the one that's been on the show.
Okay.
I'm only, I'm guessing.
We can ask him.
Yeah, that's fair.
Awesome.
But yes, and thank you to all our supporters, of course.
But in this week specifically, thank you, Matt Freeman.
We couldn't do this thing without you.
And I mean, I guess technically we could,
but we wouldn't want to.
Agreed.
I want to rephrase that now.
That sounded kind of bitchy, didn't it?
That we wouldn't want to do it without you.
Your money doesn't just fuel for the servers.
It also fuels our hearts.
That's a good way to put it.
That's the dumbest way to put it.
I like it.
If this stays in my caveat about this being the dumbest way
to put it, it has to stay in too.
Okay.
So there's a lot of conversation on the Reddit
about the marriage episode.
Yes, let's, let's read a little bit about that.
So Shelley doesn't drink.
I don't know if that's a Shelley that I know.
It is.
I also know the Shelley that doesn't drink.
Yeah.
Legal marriage in the US does grant a lot of benefits,
sometimes in ways that play into systemic
or institutional singleism, discrimination against single people.
For instance, as you mentioned, the fact that spouses
can't be required to testify against each other.
There's some other legal benefits.
Bullet pointing through, because this is what I was asking about.
At the end, I was like, why do people want to get married?
If all this does is put you up in a situation
to shoot yourself in the foot, and why was this like,
why weren't gay people lucky that they weren't,
that there wasn't pressure for them to get married
because they couldn't?
And you guys were like, kind of shruggy.
I'm sad we didn't address that more.
There was a commenter that actually asked us the same thing.
So we should, we should get to that too.
We will.
But I'm going to list off some of the things
that Shelley pointed out here.
So various immigration benefits.
That's true.
The ability to sue for wrongful death of a deceased spouse.
Can you not sue for the wrongful death of a friend?
Probably not.
I mean, I have a related example that I'm pretty sure
at least you can for family members,
but I guess spousing makes somebody a family member.
So let's see.
That's interesting that you can't sue for the wrongful death
of a friend.
If that's true, then fuck that.
And thanks for pointing that out.
Inheriting the social security and veteran survivor benefits
of a deceased spouse.
Can you not sign that?
I'm assuming that she's done all our homework on these.
So I'm going to assume that they're all true.
Yeah.
But I know that like at my work,
I guess it's not social security,
but it's not veteran's life.
So it's neither of these,
but like my life insurance policy,
I can give to whoever.
Yes, you can.
But I think social security is specifically,
and maybe veterans too, is specifically for spouses.
Then that's the thing.
Workers comp, ability to roll a deceased person's 401k funds
into an original retirement account
without paying income tax,
and in many states inheritance taxes on those funds.
And I mean, all of these make sense if you assume that
the marriage is one person.
So I guess the positive effects of that are these things.
So I'm going to keep that in mind
with the rest of these going forward.
Spousal inheritance in general
for people who haven't made a will,
lower likelihood of will.
Make a will.
Yeah, make a will.
I need to do that, by the way.
Let's sort of just hope whoever is in charge of my stuff
will be nice to it.
I guess that's the latest will ever.
Well, I mean, there's some default things.
It goes to next of kin, which...
I don't know who my next of kin is.
Whoever's most closely related to you by blood
that's still alive.
I think it might be your parents.
Oh, you have a twin brother.
I'm not sure it takes that into account,
but I believe it'll go to your parents.
Then I trust them to be nice about it,
but yeah, fair enough.
If your parents are gone, then siblings, and so forth.
All right, I'll learn to make a will,
and I'll get around to it.
Got to stare death in the face to do this,
not look forward to that.
Can I just say wills, sometimes not the greatest thing.
Well, not as ironclad as some people would like.
This just happened at my work like two weeks ago.
There's an older gentleman who recently died
who had a lot of money,
and during the last four years of his life,
he married a wonderful young woman
who is less than half his age, and...
Sure, it was true love.
You know what?
I ain't judging.
Point is he was happy, and he...
You know, he married her,
and he signed over a lot of stuff to her,
and now the rest of his family, specifically his siblings,
and his children from his previous marriage,
are all really pissed and are taking it to court
because they're like,
look, this lady only knew him for a few years.
She comes in, swoops in, gets everything
given to her in the will,
like almost nothing at all left for anyone else.
Even though she wasn't around helping him
when he was sick, like in his 60s,
he had something or whatever,
and she has a habit of doing this.
The last person that she married
was also an old man with too much money who died,
and she got the same thing.
Black widow.
Yeah, right.
All right.
Yeah, so...
Which, I mean, if that's the line of work you can get into.
Right.
You know.
I mean, and...
I say tongue in cheek, no one take that seriously.
No, no, no.
Like, I think of it from...
What if I was the old man,
once you're like decrepit and in your 80s,
and divorced,
like not that many hot people are going to be into you.
I thought Black widow specifically married
and then killed their partners.
