talking about. But yeah, taboo, we'll work on it. That's a good life lesson. I'm not going to beat
myself up over it. Like, what can we do? But other than try and get better, which we will.
So all right, I personally will flatulate myself quite a bit.
I have one last one. So go ahead and do whatever you would like before I get to that one.
I got it. I'm just giving you go right ahead.
Okay. The last one is one that I absolutely loved and agreed with so hard that I almost
broke my monitor. Basically, boss says, my mother was a housewife who was divorced a few years ago
after approximately 23 years of marriage. Since then, she has had to find a new place to live,
get back into the job market, and frantically try to put together money for her retirement.
Things have mostly worked out for her because my mother is capable and lucky.
Before marrying my father, she was a government contract negotiator work that hasn't changed
much and has a decent pension plan. But most people in her place have a pretty hard time of it after
20 plus years out of the workforce. The terms of the marriage is a contract designed to remove
risk barriers to one income households on the assumption that marriage is for having children
and raising a child is a full-time job. Preciousness of childbearing years aside,
spending 20 years out of the workforce to raise a child is going to seriously dent your
professional skills and income growth. And yeah, I absolutely agree with that.
We talked about that. We acknowledged that, I think. We maybe didn't give it a fair enough
shake and it hits home with this person closely. But that's not the context that you were in,
for example. That's not the context that many people are in. Although, I know people who are
in marriages that it would be great if they weren't in, but they've been married since they were 30,
they're now 55. And it's like, well, what can I do? Maybe I have a job but it's not very marketable
and many of them don't have jobs or they didn't have opportunities to get jobs that would be
sustaining. And you could do a $12 an hour temp job or something, but that's not going to let you
get a place to live in the town that you've lived in for the last 30 years. It's just this whole
weird fucking thing. But I guess I don't see a way around that one. I don't know if it's...
I think that that is a very... Okay, so two things. The first being that if people are
getting married for this reason, I think it should be acknowledged up front and that people should
say, I am... I consider marriage almost buying another person. I am going to be buying your
services for the rest of your life. I know that you are losing basically the opportunity to have a
real career due to the 20 plus years you're going to sink into this. So you get part of my
retirement fund, you get part of my pension, you get to own half of this house. And that is what
I am giving you in return for raising my children and making this house a wonderful place for me
and the kids to live and all the other things that a wife does. And I mean, it'd be better, I think,
if they could literally split the income into two different accounts and have two different pensions
or whatever so that it's easier to split up later if they want to. And the house would just have to
be sold because it's only one house, you can't split it in two. But if they want to do it the
way that it's currently done, sure, that's fine too. But as... Sorry, what was the name again?
As basically Boss says just a little bit later on, I can't agree that marriage is obsolete,
which implies inferior to newer alternatives because for long-term,
monogamous relationships with a full-time parent, one full-time parent and one income earner,
it's actually a pretty damn good solution. And I agree with him. But the reason I say
marriage is obsolete is because that basically never happens anymore. I mean,
probably there's some places in the U.S. where it does, but...
And going forward, it's happening less and less.
Exactly.
Like now that women aren't barred from the workforce.
Yeah.
And there's far more relationships are both parents working. A lot of people choose not to
have children at all. But when they do, it's usually both parents working, hiring some outside
help to watch the kids. Things are much more equal nowadays and it just doesn't apply. Most people
aren't monogamous and no longer have to keep up the pretence that they are while having an affair
or something on the side. They're just... Maybe I shouldn't say most. But a lot more people are
more honest about these sorts of things and it just doesn't apply to most relationships that I see
nowadays. That there are some people that it probably still works for. But for the majority
of people that I'm assuming are listening to the podcast, this is sort of an obsolete institution.
I think I agree. And I think basically, boss agrees. Well, to some extent.
They say it would be nice to have a different contract backed institution practice as a default
people could do to demonstrate loving, but not necessarily permanent commitment. So like,
you know, the social recognition without the legal baggage.
Yeah. They say something like hand fasting for maybe five years.
I'm not sure what hand fasting is.
Hand fasting, I don't know where it comes from, but it was a thing where like you
hold your two hands together and you tie like a thing around them.
Oh, for a friend to get married that way. I saw his pictures on Facebook.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And that, my God, like I just so want that to be the default,
like showing loving and through a commitment without all this other bullshit that comes from the
old style one income husband goes to work, earns money, wife stays home and watches the kids,
which just to me anyway is distasteful on per grounds of personal autonomy.
But I understand some people do want that and like that. So I'm not going to.
That was my childhood until I was in my teens.
And, you know, it was largely like my dad had, you know,
trade experience and had a career at the time. No mom didn't. Well, I think she had a job.
But like it just worked out to be where, and if you current the numbers too,
like the wife in the, you know, since it's typically the wife who stays home, it's not
always, but being for my general, for my personal experience, my mom wasn't making enough at the
time to make it worthwhile for her to keep that job and hire somebody to take care of us.
So like, I think it averages out to be something north of 20, something
plus $1,000 a year to hire, you know, full-time care for your kids.
And I guess that's in today's money, not in 1990, early 90s, whatever, but
it, whatever it was, it made economic sense for her to do that too, not also because that's
what she wanted, but it just happened to pan out that way. But yeah, like, you know, it's 2018,
man, things are a little different is my tongue-in-cheek conclusion to that for now.
So, yeah, basically, boss says the real problem then isn't that marriage itself is bad,
it's that widespread ignorance plus the pressure of it's what you do when you're in love pushes
people into making a decision that isn't right for them. And yeah, that's, that's absolutely
where I stand and I love everything they said. I fully agree.
I think that's a good note to wrap up on. Okay. I think, I think we might be at time too, so.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So thank you, Kyle, again, for being awesome. Yep. Kyle, our sound engineer,
makes this show less painful. You still have to listen to the words, but at least they don't
sound so bad coming in. So I'm kidding. I like doing this. I hope people like listening to it.
I was reading, that's why I mentioned the iTunes thing at the beginning. I found them on,
when I was reading, once again, Matt Freeman's, We Got Worm podcast, I was reading it in the
podcast store on the iOS. Nice. And it was easy to do. So I looked at ours. There's some nice
thoughtful things there. And honestly, the fact that people listen to this and enjoy this make
me really happy. Like I did this when it was just going to be like, you know, three people hanging
out chatting, but not doing it over coffee. And if it made 10 people happy, that'd be cool. But,
you know, people listen, I don't know, it gives me the warm fuzzies. So I do this for the fun of
it. And there's also that. So although now they're probably regretting it because I sound like an
inarticulate loon. So we've got it. We've got it. You're getting all sandy on everyone.
All right. No, I agree with you. Cool. All right. Thanks all. Thanks. Bye.
