which is the same thing. A lot of people are just making it day to day with $100 in the bank,
or maybe less. They're living off their credit cards. And if something happens, if a tire blows
out, they're fucked. They can't get to their job. They might get fired. If you get in a car accident
and can't come to work for three days, then you could lose your apartment or your house because
now you can't make a payment. It's very important to have a cushion, a little margin of error
for economic things. So he defines... I didn't mean to interrupt you or in the flow. Go ahead.
Oh, well, and that he was saying that this goes to more than just money. That in work areas,
like I just got off a brutal month of work because it was year-end and year-end is always
awful for accountants. But in a typical work situation, you don't want your people working
at 100% all the time. Because first of all, people do need to rest. But second of all,
this means there's no room for if something goes wrong to go back and correct it. There's no room
for someone to get sick and everything goes to hell. There needs to be some inherent slack in
the system. And there is actually an article out there, interestingly, that argues that in
programming areas, it's 60% is how much you want to optimize, how much you want to utilize your
system at any one time with 40% of time devoted to Slack because any more than that, and you start
losing productivity because you can't take the time to fix small things that come up or whatever
the situation may be. So the argument in general is that Slack is incredibly important to have
because it makes it possible to not be in a permanent state of emergency and to take advantage
of opportunities that show up. And I'm going to read a little quote directly from it, but go ahead
and say what you were going to say. I was going to say two things. One, I can attest to that in
software for sure. I don't think my boss's boss listens to this, but for possible designability,
I know somebody whose direct manager says, I plan for you guys's work for five hour days.
And I know you guys are here roughly between six to eight hours a day, but we're not going to plan
for more than five hours or the work a day at most. And that's because a lot of that time,
so I read a lot of work. A lot of it is for stuff that relates to my job, but I don't have to do my
hardening my knowledge at home on my free time. It's a part of it for that, but there's also
a Nerf gun battle this afternoon. And there's ping pong. In fact, there was just a company-wide
tournament where one of the developers won. He's apparently the best ping ponger in the company.
And just random little shit like that. And that keeps morale up, right? So there are some parts
that people are like, and I'm coming in on something like this this week, it's weird,
but because it's the first time I've had actual obligations since I started there,
where I've got to deliver something that I don't know how to by the end of the month.
But it makes the times where you're crunching. If you're always crunching, if your job was
always like it was last month, you would last three months, right? So the fact that there needs
to be some downtime. And yes, your employer doesn't want to pay you to dick around, but they have
to if they want you to not dick around for six hours a day, right? So yeah, just supporting
that for my thing. And I wanted to define slack the way that's V did on the post. So slack was
the absence of binding constraints on behavior, which is super vague, but it fits into exactly
what you described, right? So the idea that you have some cushion, if you're 10 minutes late,
it's not the end of the world. If you have unstructured time, which if you're working
two jobs and you take a two-hour commute between jobs or something and you have six
hours of sleep at night, you don't. So slack is just this commodity that in the way that that's
to be portrays it is this commodity that you have that is this encapsulation of everything that gives
you freedom from behavioral constraints, I guess. You know, so it's and I'm sorry, go ahead. Yeah.
Can I read the thing because it ties in perfectly right to what you're saying right now?
Go.
Okay, this is like the little part of his post that I just really loved because it
almost felt like a poem to me where he is again continuing to define slack. He says,
slack means margin for error. You can relax. Slack allows pursuing opportunities. You can
explore. You can trade, which just as real aside, you can't take time to explore if you're in
permanent crisis mode, right? Slack prevents desperation. You can avoid bad trades and wait
for better spots. You can be efficient. Slack permits planning for the long term. You can
invest. Slack enables doing things for your own amusement. You can play games. You can have fun.
Slack enables doing the right thing. Stand by your friends, reward the worthy, punish the wicked.
You can have a code. Slack presents things as they are without concern for how things look or what
others think. You can be honest. Without slack, you cannot relax. Your life is not your own.
Those who do not value slack will soon lose it. Slack matters fight to keep yours.
I loved it. The reason I didn't finish this, even though I had 15, 20 minutes at work because
I read it slow, and I thought of examples for each one of those things, right? You can do the
right thing. You can have a code which if you're financially desperate and you open your car door
in the parking lot and it dings somebody else's door, you can't afford to do the right thing and
go tell them, right? Because you're deductible will mean that you can't pay your rent. That
constraint makes you have to violate your preferred moral norms, right?
A lot of dystopian fiction is that kind of thing where people just don't have the ability to do
the right thing because it would literally kill them. That's what makes it dystopia, you know?
Yeah. That's a good definition of dystopia. You can be honest. That is a
slacky freedom that we have. I profess my weird beliefs to my coworkers, but if I
worked in a less free environment, then I would be less free to share those things.
I liked that a lot. Then you had the line to fend slack. Where was I on here? What was it again?
Those who do not value slack soon lose it. Yes, because other people are happy to take advantage
of it. That's why I like, even I think with some exception, even at my job where you're not expected
to work all the time, you're expected to kind of look like you're working most of the time.
You can get up and play ping-pong whenever you want, but you can't spend the whole day over there.
When you're at your desk, if you're not working, if you can put code up on one of your monitors
and then you're reading a blog post on your laptop, then at least it looks like you maybe
are reading something related to your job. I'm ready to keep going.
Okay. It seems to have caught on because it's a concept that everyone intuitively
understands, but now there's a word for it. There's a handle that we can use to talk about
this concept and that's super useful. Also, the tool that I use to dig around a lot at work is
called Slack, which he mentions in the article. It's like an instant message tool. People who use
it will hate that because you can make channels and it works cross-company and that sort of thing,
but I also use it for formal communications between people that I'm working with and collaborating
on, but I also have fun channels with my team. If you want to just ship post or plan lunch or
something, we talk there. Zvi was on Slack. What was the other guy's name? What was the name of
the article that he posted in case someone doesn't want to get it? Ben Hoffman. Was it a blog post
or was it a book or what was he? It was a blog post. I still have the link. Okay, cool. Sounds good.
I'll put it up. All right. All right, so that was two. That was two.
Are you familiar with this Bitcoin thing that's been going around?
Let me take a wallet real quick. It was a scary week for my wallet.
You messaged me when it was up around $14,000 or something and saying,
like, what should I do? And I said, sell half of it. What did you end up doing?
I hold onto it. So I actually, I only bought, when I initially bought, I bought my,
I think the weekly spending limit that Coinbase gives me and pros of this will hate that I use
Coinbase, but it's easy. So I used it and I bought 25% Bitcoin, 25% Ethereum and
what, 50% Litecoin? Is that what that average is out to? I've since sold the Bitcoin and put it
all back into Ethereum. But yeah, so now Bitcoin is down to eight grand, which is slightly above
what it was when I bought it. Which means it's now up to eight grand because wasn't it down to six
like a week ago? Yeah. Okay. But so it's still left from when I bought it, but that 14 bubble
did pop. But it's like, obviously if I'd sold then I would have made some money and I bought
right before it exploded, like the first week of December is when I bought. So I've never gone
negative, but I came within 15% of, of like, so my total gains went down to 15% like earlier this
week. Oh no, 15% gain in two months. Well, considering that when like, after two weeks,
it was 100% it had gone up 300% or wait, I guess 250 ish. So like, it was huge. But my plan
basically now is just to like, hold on to it till I need it. Since I don't really see it going
below my initial investment. When it looked like it was going to earlier this week, I was gonna
finally have to face the hard question of how low, how much money am I willing to actually lose.
But so far, all I've lost is forsaken gains. So like right now, and you know, the best thing about
investing and gambling is like, you don't lose anything until you cash out, right? So if my,
if my coinbase wallet is $10 next week, well, as long as I don't sell, there's always that hope
go back up. But yeah, right now I'm holding on to it as sort of like a, I'll probably need it
down the road, like I'm trying to buy a townhome at some point. So I mean, fuck it, if it goes nuts
again, I could put that could be a substantial hit into my down payment, which would be really cool.
So I, I initially bought, I didn't buy very much. I think it was like $500 worth when it was at 4000.
And then I sold a large majority of that when it hit 9000. Because I was like, it's probably not
going to get any higher. And I was like, damn it, I wish I held on to it until it's 16.
But like in your defense, you couldn't have known, right? And you doubled your money.
I did. I'm more than doubled it. So that's pretty cool.
Yeah, that was nice. And now I'm like thinking, what point should I buy back into this shit?
Frankly, if you'd bought back in on Monday, I know it would have already been up 20%, 25.
Yeah. But I mean, so like, just on this out there, if you're thinking about it,
now might be the time, I'm done. I've already decided I'm not going to put any more money
into it. You threw out the number, how much you put in? I put in $2,500, which I'm kind of like
new to having like, expendable income. And this was enough to where like, I wasn't going to
mis-rent if it all vanished overnight, even though I was confident it wasn't. But it would have
sucked. Like this was, this was a substantial amount and still is of like my total amount of money.
But the lowest it's been since I got it was 3,100 after I was had access to it. So like,
but at most it was pushing like 66 for my entire wallet. So maybe a little more,
69 or something at some point. So like, there was a period where like, I made like four grand
and just doing nothing. So that was kind of cool. And so this Bitcoin hypey stuff, I'm somewhat in
the loop on, but not enough to, I'm not technologically informed on it that much. But even
the friends I know who are, I went to talk to one this earlier this week on Monday when it was
dying. And I'm like, what should I do? You know, should I, you know, what did you do? And
he's like, Oh, I sold it all last weekend when I was, you know, getting my new apartment. I'm
like, Oh, then you're good. And he's like, Yeah, I'm fucking lucky. But, you know, I was like,
Well, what would you do? You know, he's like, I don't know. And he's like the most knowledgeable
person I know about any of this stuff. So my impression is that nobody really knows anything
about any of this. And that like, it's literally gambling. I was, I was waiting for it to hit 5,000.
I was like, once it hits 5,000, I'm going to buy back in, but it never did. And now it's up to like
eight again. You could get not Bitcoin and get something else. It's true. I have like 12 Litecoin.
I think I have 12 and a half Litecoin and they're 120 ish bucks right now. So,
and when I bought them, they're at 100. So I'm still up on Litecoin, but for like a week,
they were over 300. Like it was insane. So this whole thing's weird. And I feel dumb talking about
it because it's like, it's like, you're at the roulette table. It's like, I've hit green like
four times in a row. Isn't this awesome? I'm going to keep going back in. So what's the,
what's the rationalist blogosphere have to say on cryptocurrency?
Well, this is actually Scott Alexander's grading the rationalist community in a way,
sort of, not really. Actually, he did literally assign it a letter grade, but
what was the letter grade? C.
Or is that spoiler? C.
C. Yeah.
Passing.
Yeah. Yeah. He, he,
as rationalists, we should be getting A's and I'm assuming he's grading us on our rationality,
right? So.
Yeah. He actually has a very good, a very interesting post on this. It's called a
less wrong crypto autopsy. And he posted this over at lesser wrong.com instead of on his normal
blog. I'm pretty sure we've mentioned lesser wrong before, but less wrong is where this whole
thing more or less started with Eliezer posting and then everyone else jumping in and turning
into a big conversation and community. And it kind of died out and people went their separate
ways on the internet to their own personal blogs, which is why we now have a blogosphere
instead of lesser wrong.com. But there is some effort to try to revitalize this. And so lesser
wrong.com is around now. And they're actually making a pretty good go of it. There is,
there's some interesting content there fairly frequently and some, some decent posters. I
mean, there's a V posts on there. Scott Alexander apparently is now going to be posting on there
now and then.
Matt Freeman said he posted a lot over there. We've had him on the show.
Yeah.
Same as plug for his, his worm podcast called we've got ward. That's what it's called now.
It's for the sequel to worm. I just started giving it an honest listen and I love it. So
I want you to listen to that show. If you're reading worm and if you're not, you should
read worm and listen to this accompanying podcast and then read ward and you can do it in real time
with Scott and Matt while they, while they do the podcast.
And I know at least one of our listeners wrote to say, Hey, thanks for letting me know about
that podcast because that was really cool.
Cool. Yeah.
What was I going to say about, oh, lesser wrong. They also have, it's like lesser wrong is fun,
but it was clearly not. Well, I don't know. I guess I can't say clearly anything, but it,
at first glance, it is not optimized for like newcomers and like there's a small button that
says sequences, but it doesn't, you know, other than the fact that no one shuts up about it on
there, especially back in the day, like read the sequences, you don't really know where to go.
Lesser wrong has like a nice cool thing where it's got a suggested reading thing.
And Slate Star codex is on there. The sequences are on there. So anyway,
it has recent posts on there. Yeah. So yeah, he posted on lesser wrong, a crypto at autopsy,
where he starts it out by giving a history of how closely intertwined the original cryptocurrencies
and less wrong were. Says way die, which I don't know if I'm pronouncing it right. Why day maybe?
Anyway, I'll go with why day. Why day? One of the first people Satoshi Nakamoto contacted.
Are we, before I go on, we know who Satoshi Nakamoto is.
Let's pretend we don't.
Okay. He is. I don't. They is a fictional person who is the anonymous creator of Bitcoin.
Okay. Yeah. I didn't know that. Yeah.
I thought I knew something about Bitcoin. I guess I don't.
No one actually knows who this person is, but they made Bitcoin.
God, I hope it's like Elon Musk. Sorry.
So way die. One of the first people that Satoshi Nakamoto contacted about Bitcoin
was a frequent less wrong contributor. And yeah, some of his posts were really good,
some of my favorites. So was Hal Finley, the first person beside Satoshi to make a Bitcoin
transaction. The first mention of Bitcoin on less wrong, a post called making money with Bitcoin
was in early 2011, when it was worth 91 cents. Yeah. Gwern also a big poster on less wrong and
famous for his incredibly involved and complex posts where he explores things with his own
Kula experimental method. Gwern predicted that it could be someday be worth upwards of $10,000 a
