The problem, as we noted before, is that either such a criterion is certain, and is going to fall prey to the paradox of dogmatism,
or it is not certain, and we need some way to determine that criterion's prior probability.
Yet, the only way we can determine its probability is one of our four possibilities.
It can't rest on three or four as we've already eliminated those as simply being arbitrary and resting on faith.
It can't rest on one or two as these would lead to circular reasoning.
Or basically, our criterion would be justified by itself. Whatever degree of belief we have in it would be justified by itself.
And not only would it be justified by it, it would be very determined by it.
So maybe what we should have for our degree of belief in that criterion is actually less than 0.5.
It's extremely low, but because we already had a degree of belief in that criterion and then used that degree of belief to self-justify it,
we ended up with a much higher degree of belief in it than we should have had.
Therefore, any criterion that we choose to determine prior probabilities must be arbitrary or circularly justified.
And nay, the very probability that we put in that criterion is going to be arbitrary and circularly justified.
The same problem is going to present itself if one is the case,
as once again the prior probability of whatever criterion we choose will either be circularly justified or arbitrarily chosen.
So, with no way to assign a degree of belief to our criterion of prior probability determination
without falling into arbitrariness or circularity,
we cannot determine that any degree of belief that we come to is rationally justified.
No matter what criterion you want to write down in the comments for coming up with a prior probability,
there's no way for that criterion to decide for itself what the probability we put in that criterion is.
Therefore, whatever probability you think we should assign to that criterion,
it will be arbitrary and circularly justified.
So, Bayesian epistemology may bill itself as a way to solve the problems of philosophy of science and classical epistemology.
However, it is unable to provide an adequate solution to the problem of the priors
and therefore is plagued by the very same problems that wreak havoc on the very theories that it attempts to replace.
That was the final video in our series on Bayesian epistemology
and the last of the objections we have to Bayesian epistemology.
Watch this video and more here at carnades.org.
Check out the SEP for lots more information on Bayesian epistemology.
Offer in the comments anything that you think can reaffirm or justify Bayesian epistemology.
And as always, stay skeptical everybody.
