In spite of the steady accumulation of detailed knowledge, how the human brain works is still
profoundly mysterious.
The ultimate goal of neuroscience is to learn how the brain gives rise to human intelligence
and what it means to be intelligent.
Understanding how the brain works is considered one of humanity's greatest challenges.
I got into this field because I just was curious as to who I am.
How do I think? What's going on in my head when I'm thinking? What does it mean to know
something? I can ask what it means for me to know something independent of how I learned it from
you or from someone else or from society. What does it mean for me to know that I have a model
of you in my head? What does it mean to know I know what this microphone does and how it works
physically even when I can't see it right now? How do I know that? What does it mean?
How do the neurons do that at the fundamental level of neurons and synapses and so on?
Those are really fascinating questions.
The neuroscientist Francis Crick observed that scientists have been collecting data on the
brain for decades. They knew a lot about the workings of the brain, but they hadn't converged on any
meaningful theory of how the brain worked. How intelligence emerges from low-level cells in
your head is still a profound mystery. To be intelligent, the brain has to learn a great
many things about the world. To understand how the brain creates intelligence, we need to figure
out how the brain learns a model of the world and everything in it. Jeff Hawkins thinks that the
reality we perceive is a kind of simulation, a hallucination, a confabulation. He thinks that
our brains are a model of reality based on thousands of information streams originating in
the senses in our body. Critically, Hawkins doesn't think that there's only one model, but rather
thousands. Jeff has just released his new book, A Thousand Brains, A Theory of Intelligence.
It's an inspiring and well-written book and I really hope after watching this show you'll be
inspired to read it too. Now, Jeff is a sub-symbolist. He thinks that our knowledge is sliced and
distributed over the substrate of synapses in our brain, but similarly that our simulated models of
the world are also distributed over hundreds and thousands of cortical columns. This means that when
we recognize a dog, there's a society of cortical columns all independently predicting that the dog
is there and mutually calibrating after a consensus is reached. Now, Jeff Hawkins is a materialist.
He thinks that despite appearances to the contrary, mental states are just physical states and that
the latter emerges from the former. There's no inception, no ghost in the machine, no Cartesian
theater. If I had to summarize into one big idea is that we think of the brain, the neocortex is
learning this model of the world, but what we learned is actually there's tons of thousands
of independent modeling systems going on and so each, what we call the column in the cortex,
there's about 150,000 of them, is a complete modeling system. So it's a collective intelligence in
your head in some sense. So the Thousand Brains theory says, if I'll, where do I have knowledge
about, you know, this coffee cup or where's the model of this cell phone? It's not in one place.
It's in thousands of separate models that are complementary and they communicate with each
other through voting. Hawkins says that the neocortex is the outermost and most recently
evolved layer of the mammalian brain, a bit like a wrinkly napkin, which wraps around the old brain.
It occupies about 70% of the volume of your brain and it's responsible for all aspects of your
intelligence. That is to say your sense of vision, touch, hearing, language in all its forms and even
abstract thinking such as mathematics and philosophy. The neocortex is surprisingly different
to other parts of the brain. It has no visually obvious divisions. The anatomical organization
is strikingly similar. Nevertheless, different parts of the neocortex still perform different
functions like vision or hearing, for example. The complex circuitry of the neocortex looks
remarkably alike in visual regions and language regions and even touch regions. It looks similar
across species such as rats, cats and humans. The variations between regions are relatively
small compared to their similarities. Now Hawkins argues that the complexity of the brain is in the
content of its connections and its wiring, which is an emergent property of a simple learning
algorithm. I mean, look at the open AI microscope, their tool for visualizing trained convolutional
neural networks as an example. The learning algorithm is simple, but all of this beautiful
complexity emerges as a result of training. Even after this type of visualization, it's not really
understandable by us humans. It's possible that any successful knowledge representational substrate
for some domains of data may never be understandable by humans. Now, the neocortex is arguably one
of the main organs of intelligence. It gives us sensory perception, motor control and abstract
thought. The key attributes it has are its ability to learn continuously, learn rapidly,
its power efficiency and its flexibility, which is to say its ability to learn diverse and novel
tasks. Now Hawkins argues that the neocortex learns a model of the world, that each cortical
column is a complete sensory motor modeling system. He thinks that cortical columns use
reference frames to store knowledge and generate behavior. Our brains learn about the outside
world by processing our sensory inputs and movements. The neocortex anticipates the sensory
results of movement. When we touch objects or observe the world around us, our brain receives
a sensory motor sequence of information. When moving our fingers over familiar objects, we
quickly notice discrepancies suggesting we make tactile predictions that are specific to particular
objects. Hawkins believes that the prediction of sensory stimuli after movements is the fundamental
primitive of cognition. The brain does not just memorize the sensory information as this would
become quickly intractable. Instead Hawkins claims that evolution repurposed the ancient
systems that evolved to model spatial relationships such as grid and place cells. It generalised
those systems to model abstract concepts in abstract spaces. In this system, thinking and
reasoning becomes a kind of traversal through a complex topology of relationships in the brain.
Analogous to the traversal of a physical space. The whole cortical sheet is made of collections
of primitive columnar units called mini columns. Each cortical area is a collection of millions of
cortical mini columns. These mini columns are organised in about six layers with specific
types of neurons and connection patterns in each layer. Neighboring mini columns have the
same receptive fields. They have the same inputs from other cortical areas and these mini columns
form complete fundamental and primitive units known as macro columns or as Hawkins calls them
cortical columns. Now pyramidal neurons are the typical excitatory neurons in the neocortex.
Their name comes from the triangular shape of their cell body. The dendrites of each
pyramidal neuron connect to tens of thousands of excitatory synapses, equally split from local
and remote sources. The neurons can look significantly different in their connection
arrangements depending on which neocortex layer they're situated in. The thalamus is the main
input and output subcortical structure to the neocortex and it could be viewed as the seventh
layer of the neocortex. It primarily sends sensory or pre-processed information into
layer four of the neocortex. Moreover, columns in the neocortex learn to model whatever systems
are wired to them. Columns wired to the ear, for example, learn to process sound. Columns
wired to the retina rods and cones learn to process images. The neocortex can retain remarkable
plasticity even later into life. Perhaps the most striking examples are those of post-injury
plasticity, where the brain's overcome injury by rewiring remaining neurons to regain
some or even full functionality. The cortical regions are densely interconnected with many
feedback and feed-forward skip connections across the hierarchy and all functional areas in the
neocortex are bi-directionally connected with other brain structures, but their main inputs
and outputs come from other cortical areas via long-distance connections. All cortical regions
are densely connected, but there's some apparent asymmetry and even hierarchy detectable in the
overall structure. Century areas tend to be lower in the hierarchy than associative or
motor areas, for example, and bottom-up information flows are known as feed-forward
and top-down connections are known as feedback connections. What should be pretty clear from
looking at this structure is that there's no blank slate. There's a very clear cognitive
architecture and much of this high-level structure is there from birth. There are many skip connections,
a high level of recurrence with many feedback loops, and the process is highly distributed.
At this point, I want to draw your attention to a paper published last year by psychologist
Joseph Cesario. It was titled Your Brain is Not a Tiny Onion with a Reptile Inside.
Joseph pointed out several misunderstandings of nervous system evolution, which he says stems
from the work of Paul McLean, who in the 1940s began to study the brain region, which he called
the limbic system. McLean later proposed that humans possess a so-called triune brain consisting of
three large divisions that evolve sequentially. The oldest, the reptilian brain, controls basic
functions such as movement and breathing. Next, the limbic system, which controls emotional responses,
and finally the cerebral cortex, which pretty much means the neocortex, but he thought that that
controlled language and reasoning. Joseph said that McLean's ideas were already understood to be
incorrect by the time he published his 1990 book. Since the 1970s, many in developmental neuroscience
thought that the ideas from McLean were a myth. Due to its longevity, the triune brain idea has
been called by neuroscientist Lisa Feldman Barrett as one of the most successful and widespread errors
in all of science. Joseph pointed out that the problem with this view is a simple conception of
evolution being arraigned sequentially from the simplest to the most complex organisms.
This view implies that anatomical evolution proceeds in the same fashion as geological strata
with new layers adding on top of existing ones. Instead, most evolutionary change consists of
transforming existing parts. Joseph says that the neocortex is not an evolutionary novelty
unique to humans or primates or mammals. All vertebrates possess structures evolutionarily
related to our cortex. Joseph concluded that these ideas are consistent with traditional views
of human nature as rationality, battling emotion, the tripartite platonic soul,
Freudian psychodynamics, and religious approaches to humanity. It's also a simple idea that can
be distilled and communicated to a lay audience. Look, I'm not suggesting for a second that Hawkins
subscribes to the idea of a tree in brain, but I think it's possible to get this impression
reading his book, which is why I wanted to bring this up. It turns out it's very tricky to get
neurons to do this, to build a map of an environment. We now know there's these famous
studies that's still very active about place cells and grid cells and these other types of cells in
the older parts of the brain and how they build these maps of the world. It's really clever. It's
obviously been under a lot of evolutionary pressure over a long period of time to get good at this,
so animals know where they are. What we think has happened, and there's a lot of evidence that
suggests this, is that that mechanism we learned to map like a space is was repackaged, the same
type of neurons, was repackaged into a more compact form and that became the cortical column.
In 1972, John O'Keefe discovered the first component of an internal GPS system in the brain.
He discovered place cells in the hippocampus, which activate when a rat is situated in specific
locations in a room. More than three decades later, in 2005, May Britt and Edward Moser
discovered another key component of the brain's positioning system, grid cells,
which represented a coordinate system which allowed for precise positioning and path finding.
These discoveries solved the problem that has occupied philosophers and scientists for centuries,
how the brain creates a map of the complex world around us and how we navigate our way through it.
What's intriguing about the brain solution is that it seems to create multiple hexagonal
grids with slightly different orientations and scales. Because these grids are orientated and
scaled differently, each point in space activates a unique combination of grid cells. In other words,
the brain encodes locations using bits in a sparse distributed representation.
Jeff thinks that sparse representations are crucial to the success of the human brain
and should guide our construction of artificial intelligence.
What's intriguing about the brain solution is that it seems to create multiple hexagonal grids
with slightly different orientations and scales. Because these grids are orientated and scaled
differently, each point in space becomes a unique combination of grid cells. In other words,
the brain encodes these cells using a sparse distributed representation. Jeff thinks that such
sparse representations are crucial to the success of the human brain and should guide our construction
of artificial intelligence. If you're going to build a model of a house in a computer,
they have a reference frame. And you can think of a reference frame like Cartesian coordinates,
like x, y, and z axes. So I can say, oh, I'm going to design a house. I can say, well,
the front door is at this location, x, y, z, and the roof is at this location, x, y, z, and so on.
That's a type of reference frame. So it turns out for you to make a prediction, and I walk you
through the thought experiment in the book where I was predicting what my finger was going to feel
when I touched the coffee cup. It was a ceramic coffee cup, but this one will do. And what I
realized is that to make a prediction what my finger is going to feel like, it's going to feel
different than this, which will feel different if I touch the hole or the thing on the bottom.
Make that prediction. The cortex needs to know where the finger is, the tip of the finger,
relative to the coffee cup, and exactly relative to the coffee cup.
And to do that, I have to have a reference frame for the coffee cup.
Jeff says that after many years of thinking about the function of the neocortex,
he deduced that it must store everything that we know, all of our knowledge, right,
using something called a reference frame. But what exactly does Jeff mean by a reference frame?
Well, consider a paper map as an analogy. A map is a type of model, right? So a map of a town
is a model of a town. And the grid lines, such as the latitude and longitude lines,
are a type of reference frame. A map's grid lines is its reference frame. So they provide
a structure of the map. A reference frame tells you where things are located relative to everything
else. And it can tell you how to achieve goals, such as how to go from one location to another
location. Now, Jeff realized that the brain's model of the world is built using map-like
reference frames, not one reference frame, but hundreds of thousands of them. Jeff thinks that
most of the cells in your neocortex are dedicated to creating and manipulating reference frames,
which the brain uses to plan and think. Our brain's knowledge representation is a simulation of
reality. And this applies in concept space, as well as physical space, as was the case with grid
and place cells in other parts of your brain. So Jeff now thinks that the way we think is
analogous to how we navigate spaces. He says that the similarity of circuitry observed in all
cortical regions is strong evidence that even high-level cognitive tasks are learned and represented
in a location-based framework. To be an expert in any domain requires having a good reference frame,
a good map. Two people observing the same physical objects will likely end up with similar maps.
For example, it's hard to imagine how the brains of two people observing the same chair
would arrange its features differently. Jeff said in his book that being an expert is mostly
about finding the reference frame to arrange facts and observations. I mean, Albert Einstein, for
example, started with the same facts as his contemporaries. However, he found a better
way to arrange them, a better reference frame that permitted him to see analogies and make
predictions that were surprising. What's most fascinating about Einstein's discoveries,
relating to special relativity, is that the reference frame he used to make them were everyday
objects. You thought about trains and people and flashlights. He started with the empirical
observations of scientists, such as the absolute speed of light, and then used everyday reference
frames to deduce the equations of special relativity. Because of this, almost anyone can
follow his logic and understand how he made the discoveries. In contrast, Einstein's general
theory of relativity required reference frames based on mathematical concepts called field equations,
which are not easily related to everyday objects. Einstein found this much harder to understand,
as does pretty much everyone else. Jeff Hawkins is one of the ultimate gentleman scientists of our
age. His first major project was palm computing, which is a company that he founded. He invented
the palm pilot in the mid 1990s. And despite his incredible success in the nascent mobile computing
industry, his heart was never in it. His passion was always for theoretical neuroscience. He knew
the biggest prize was understanding human intelligence, and then using that knowledge to
create human level machine intelligence. So in 2005, he co founded Numenta in Redwood City,
in California. Numenta is a machine intelligence company that has developed a cohesive theory,
core software technology, and applications based on the principles of the neocortex. Its dual
