leaving that term out. And so we should be able to pretty much write down that we want the concentration
of NO squared because there's a two here divided by the concentration of N2 times the concentration
of O2. And so that's the equilibrium expression. And so what happened is somebody
let this reaction go. They mixed the two reactants and then come back sometime later
and they measured this k, they calculated this k and they found that k for this reaction at whatever
temperature this is going on is 0.05. So that would be the equilibrium constant for this reaction
every time no matter how much is in each side at a point in time. And we also probably have
to specify the temperature and maybe even the pressure since these are gases. Just to say
to make sure that we're staying in equilibrium. So you look this up, you look up a table of
equilibrium constants and there's tables of them. And so now the chemist measures the actual
concentrations. So now that we know what the equilibrium constant formula is and what the value
was when this reaction was performed and calibrated, then the chemist goes in and measures these
concentrations. So nitrogen is one and a half molar, oxygen is 1.3 molar, and nitrogen monoxide is
0.02 molar. So this is a lot less than that. So we put those values in here and let, except we don't,
we're not doing it at the equilibrium point, we're doing it at some other point in time.
And we can answer the question. It's a reaction at equilibrium. So let's calculate k at this point
in time. So we put in the numbers, the concentration of NO was 0.02, and that quantity is squared.
And then we put in the concentration of nitrogen gas and oxygen gas. And so we look at this, we can
do the math, we can kind of calculate it or do it long-handed and get the math, 0.02 divided by
1.5 divided by 1.3. And then the units left over is you have molar squared in the numerator,
and then you've got molar times molar. So molar squared in the denominator. And so the units
cancel. So our k, as our measurements show right now, is equal to 0.0021. Well, that's different
than the equilibrium value that we looked up, or that maybe it's a value that we measured before,
after we knew these things were at equilibrium. So because this value is not equal to this
value, then we would say, well, no, this reaction has not reached equilibrium yet. There's something
else going on with this reaction. And so we know it's not at equilibrium. And then the next thing
is, well, what's going to change next? Are we going to get more products? Are we going to get more
reactants? And so the way to calculate that is to just look at the relative size of these two numbers.
So since the actual value of k, which is 0.0021, is much, much less than the equilibrium value of k,
which is 0.05, the reaction is far from the reactant side. So the reaction must be,
must shift towards the products as the reaction goes on. And that's one of the things
you'll have to learn to say is, yeah, the reaction is going to shift towards the products,
or maybe something went wrong and the reactants shift back towards the products.
But that kind of language is common in chemistry literature. So that's where I am. Boy, that went
quick. And that's all I got for today. We'll continue those on next week. So did anybody have any
questions? Or do we need to go back over any of this?
You guys are easy to please today.
What was the other thing?
I have a, I was wondering, since we have time, if we could go over
finding the rate constant and law thing again.
Okay, from last week. Do you mean the online thing?
Yes.
Okay, we can go to that. Let's see.
So did you try some of these? Did you?
So I think I kind of know how to do it.
But because I kind of got it from when you were talking about it, and I had looked up
some extra videos and stuff. But I'm having trouble doing it because on this one,
you know how it has A, B, and then there's a C? I'm able to do it if it just has A and B.
I'm struggling with the C part.
Yeah, it'd be fun to go over this. So it is a little different than what we did in the,
what the book does. So it's a little bit more challenging.
So I kind of, part of me kind of regrets that. And I brought up my calculator here because
I know I'm going to need that. But if you can do these, you should definitely be able to do
the ones that are in the book. Okay, so it's kind of like you're going to practice harder than you're
actually going to have to perform on the field. So maybe that's what we'll think about doing here.
So has anybody else tried this yet? Or is Adriana the only one?
Okay, way to go Adriana. Brownie points for you. All right, so you come to this page and you got
to say, I need a new problem. And what it's going to do is it's going to fill in this table with some
data. All right. And so the first thing we need to do is calculate the coefficients for the
concentrations A, B, and C. So one of the things in the textbook, they use X and Y,
or we would say X, Y, and Z in this case. But this page, instead of saying X, they just have A.
All right, so let's look at the data. Because remember, we only get these rate constants
from data. We don't have any, at this point in our careers, we don't have any specific way to
calculate these based on other chemical knowledge. So I'll look at column A where they pick. So what
they did, they did four experiments. And in those four experiments, they knew these concentrations
for these three reactants. And given those, so given, for example, in experiment one, they had
these three concentrations, when they measured the reaction rate, this is the rate they got
in molarity per second. All right. So let's look. So for A, they did two with A being 0.06 and two
with it being 0.18. So let's pick a pair of experiments where A was held constant. So let's
look at one and two. And then it looks like they also kept B constant at 0.04 each. So the one thing
that changed between experiments one and two was the concentration of C. All right. So
let's see. So here what we see is we look at the ratio to see how much they changed C. So here
they had a concentration of 0.08 molar. And here they had a concentration of 0.24. And just let's
look at the ratio of that. So I'm going to take 0.24 and divide it by 0.08. And that ratio is three.
Now, these are, that one was actually pretty easy. I could do that math in my head. I could see that
that the concentration of C tripled as it went from experiment one or trial one to trial two.
All right. So now we want to see, well, what had the next part of the question is, well,
what happened to the rate when that happened? So let's take this. So we took 0.24 and divided it
by 0.08. Let's take this number and divide it by this number. And so I can just type it in exactly
the way they've got it. So I've got 4.84 e to the one minus. All right. So that's this number.
And I'm going to divide it by this number, which is 1.61 e to the one plus or minus.
And that number is also very close to three. So I would ignore these things down here.
So when I tripled the concentration of reactant C, I tripled the reaction rate. So that tells me
that for C, the coefficient here has to be three.
No. It's got to be one. So tripling and tripling gives us a power of one. The ratio of three to
three is one. So I'm going to put a one in there.
Did that make sense, Adriana?
Yes, I think so.
Okay. Well, we're going to do it two more times for the other two things. So we'll just keep going.
All right.
Oh, man, where did it go? My stupid browser messed me up.
My browser has never done this before.
All right. Let me, I'm going to have to start over. I'm sorry.
That's a bad thing about this website, I guess, is if you leave the page.
You'll lose your progress. Okay. Let's try this again.
All right. Starting with the, maybe it's good to just try it again anyway, just for practice.
So let's look at this first column. I could pick any other column. All right. Let me look at the
third column, concentration of C. And I see that for C, they did three of the trials with a 0.1
concentration. And they did one of them with a 0.2 concentration. So that's a little different.
So, so I have to pick the 0.1 concentration. So let me look at
the next column over. Let's look at B. So here, I see that B has a corresponding experiment where
its concentration is constant. So I'm going to look at rate trials three and four now.
So because C is constant and B is constant. All right. So now let's look at the ratio.
So this one, actually, the math is a lot easier. So here, going from trial three to trial four,
I can see that the concentration doubled. All right. So 0.2 divided by 0.1 is two.
And when I go and look at the rate for that, I see that this rate also doubled. So 0.24 divided
by 1.2 is one. It's a doubling. So now I've got doubling and doubling. So that tells me that these
went up proportionately, which means that the power for A has to be one. All right. So
let's look at another. So this C, let's stay on column C. And I'm going to look at
concentrations of A. So here, this 0.1 and this 0.1. Okay. So in that case then,
I'll use this 0.1 and this 0.1. I can see that for A, 0.1 and 0.1. So A is constant between trials
one and three and C is constant between trials one and three. So I'm going to use those two
to see what happens to B. So here, again, I've got 0.15
for the concentration of B. I'm going to divide that by 0.05.
All right. And that's a ratio of three. So when A and C are constant in trials one and three,
I see that the concentration of B tripled. So let's look at what happened to the reaction rate.
And it turns out that the reaction rate didn't change.
So what that says is that even though I tripled the concentration of reactant B,
the reaction rate did not change. So that means that my formula, my thing cannot depend on B.
So that means it's going to have a coefficient of 0.
Okay.
Now we've got to find out the coefficient for C. And so I'm going to try to find two reactions
for A and B are constant and see what happens to
in C. So let's see. I guess I'm going to have to pick
react trials two and three because here I've got 0.2 and 0.2 and this is 0.15 and 0.15. So
for trials two and four, the concentration of A is constant and the concentration of B is constant.
So now I need to figure out what happens with C. So the math here, I'm going to,
I can say that 0.2 divided by 0.1, it means that the concentration of C
doubled going from reaction four to reaction two. So that's a factor of two.
All right. I'm going to put that down on my calculator side.
All right. So that's a,
yeah, that's a ratio of two. So what happens here now, the ratio of this reaction rate
to this reaction rate, let's see what that ratio is. So 9.6.
Oops, I didn't, that's not right. I wanted to remember two. So I'm going to put that in my memory.
That 9.6 divided by 2.4 equals four. All right. So I doubled the constant, all right,
just to summarize that then, I doubled for trials two and four, I doubled the concentration
of C. So 0.1 to 0.2. But the reaction rate went up by a factor of four.
So if something doubled on one hand and it was quadrupled on the other, that means I had to square
it. So that means that C has to be two or squaring.
Are you with me then, save your honor?
Yeah. So I'm just going at my regular speed here. I'm not trying to go slow or fast. So
if you're following me good, but it's not, I can rethink that.
You did? Okay. All right. So now we, so what we can do, there's a button here to check the orders,
A, B, and C. And we'll just take advantage of that and check it. And it says we're correct. Yay.
But I still don't get the total correct here. I don't get credit for unless I get K right.
So how do we get the K value? And that's where, let me pull up my white board here.
All right. So
the rate is equal to K and let's see, we had concentration of A
and that's to the one power. So, right? So I don't have to,
so yeah. And then I have concentration B should be here, but it's got the power of zero.
So anything to the zero is one. So I don't have to put the one in there. And then I have C,
concentration of C.
And that has a coefficient of two, the order of two. So the order of A is one, the order of B is zero.
So it doesn't show up here. And then the order of C is two.
All right. So now what we do is we pick any one of these equations and we will use it. So let me,
y'all can't see the webpage on my computer right now, right?
All you see is a white board. Okay. So I'm going to, I can see it. I can,
so I'm behind the scenes. I'm going to write down these numbers. So I'm going to pick this one. So
I've got, well, let me solve this for K. So I can, well, I know it's easier just to put in the numbers.
So I'm going to say the rate, which I'm going to pick this, wrote two, it's 9.6.
Is equal to K times, all right, concentration of A is 0.2.
0.2 times the concentration of C, which is also 0.2.
And that's got to be squared. Okay. So I've just gone back to my table and I put in the rate constant
and then these two concentrations. And now I can see the only unknown in this equation is K.
So I can write that as K equals 9.6 over 0.2 times, that's the times, 0.2 squared.
All right. I'm going to pull up my calculator, which y'all can't see that. So I'm going to just
put in 9.6 divided by 0.2 divided by 0.2 squared equals and I get 1200.
All right. So, all right, I'm going to, so does that make sense? Did you follow that, Adriana?
Yes.
Okay, all right. So just to recap, so the first line here, this R, is that's the rate equation
for this problem because we determined that B doesn't show up because it had an order of 0.
So that made it kind of nice. And then I picked any one of the reactions. I could,
could have picked any of them. I just happened to pick this one.
And I could check this, I guess, if I picked another reaction and put in the values. So,
but anyway, I saw the reaction rate was 9.6 and that's when this concentration was 0.2
and this concentration was 0.2. And then I solved this for K. I divided both sides by
0.2 divided by times 0.2 squared. And when I put that in my calculator, I got 1200.
So the question is, is that the right answer? So I'm going to quit sharing my desk, my white board.
I need to share my desktop with you, I guess. All right, so now we're looking back at the thing
and I said it was 1200, right? So I'm going to put in 1200.
And if I check the K and it's wrong, I'm going to get an error. If I check the K and it's right,
hopefully it'll tell me total correct. It's there. So let me say it. I'm going to click here and
check K and it's correct. So now I've got one correct. So it's a little bit more difficult
than the ones in the book, like you say, because it's got three reactants. But it's the very same logic.
So what do you think about that? Do we need to do another one?
I think I'm good. I think I got it.
Okay. Well, if you get stuck, let me know. I mean, any of you, if y'all get stuck on this when
you're actually trying to do it, we can get back on to easy talk and work through it with you, okay?
So I realize it's a little bit challenging. So I'm hoping you guys will be able to rise to the occasion.
So next time we will finish up this chapter and we will. So we made it through.
We talked about the details of the equilibrium constant and a little bit about using the
equilibrium constant. Next time we'll set off the Laplace principle and see how that goes.
