all done. So we're going to talk about chemical equilibrium in this module. It kind of really
wraps up this whole string starting with some thermodynamics and so forth. So we'll define
what we're talking about. We'll talk about the equilibrium constant, details about it,
how to calculate it and so forth. And then we're going to talk about how to use the
equilibrium constant. Why in the world do we go to this much trouble? We'll talk about
Le Chatelier's principle, which is a way to let you know how to figure out what's going
to happen if something like the pressure changes or temperature changes. And then we'll try
to apply this to acid-base equilibria. And then we'll talk about the pH scale, which we had
some pH paper early in the year for a project. And so maybe that'll ring some bells. And then
acid rain is something we want to try to talk about at the end as an application of this
equilibrium principle. So previously we talked about chemical equations as if they go all the
way from reactants to products. So we would give you reactants and we would talk about what the
possible products would be. And we use this arrow that points to the right to say all the
reactants get used up and converted to products. Now the exception to that would be if we had
like a limiting reactant, a limiting reagent, then that would be so you would end up with some of
the reactant being left over at the end because the reaction had to stop because there was only
so much of one of the reactants. So that's one class of problems where not everything went to the
right. And we've never really, even though we've done some thermo and we figured out enthalpy
and how to calculate enthalpy, we talked about entropy and how to calculate entropy and we did
Gibbs free energy, which gives us an idea of whether a reaction is spontaneous or not.
We're still not all the way to the point that we can say whether the reaction occurs in a reasonable
amount of time or whether it's going to take a while and how we can monitor that progress. So
that's kind of the things we're going to touch on in this module. Yeah, so we don't know, we haven't
really finally put the nail in the coffin with a chemical reaction to say whether a spontaneous
reaction goes all the way to the right. So usually, and mainly we won't know, so we don't know whether
a reaction quote goes to completion, meaning it goes all the way to the right. So really what we
should do is write in a chemical equation this way. And this is the format or the form of a
general chemical equation which we've had before. But instead of having an arrow that points directly
to the right or just directly to the left, we have this two headed arrow. Now I couldn't find
a two headed arrow like the book uses. All right, so please forgive me for that. I searched and
searched, but I couldn't find one. Maybe I'll try some more before next week, but so this double
headed arrow says a couple of things. It says that A reactants A and B are producing products,
C and D, but if you think about it in the opposite sense, maybe reactants C and D are producing
some product. Is that a question or shoe in the cap? All right, so that double headed arrow means
that the reaction is going forward and going backward at the same time. So let's just do a
little picture about this. So let's say that we have a A plus B type reaction and we mix the
reactants at T equals zero. So the reaction starts proceeding and we learned how to calculate last
week and we did several examples and we used Excel to calculate the instantaneous reaction rate.
And so the reaction rate at time zero is particularly interesting, but as time goes on and the
concentrations of the reactants change, that instantaneous rate will change as well. So but
after some short time, some amount of the products is formed and so that means those products, you
know, they're accumulating and we could then start looking back and say well maybe those,
we should use those as reactants and they would react and go back to the starting materials.
So and if we do that, if we do that experiment and we could monitor the concentrations kind of
continuously, it might look like this. So after a little bit of time, the reaction might look like
this. So this is the reaction rate. This is how fast the reaction is proceeding on this axis.
And then this is time in seconds after we mixed the two components. So this is the reaction for
the forward. So this is like A plus B gives you C plus D. And you see as time goes on and reactants
form or are consumed, those concentrations change and therefore we get a different reaction rate.
And so this reaction rate kind of heads down. Now the the opposite side going from the C and D side
of the equation. It starts out with zero concentration, but after a short time there's some C and D
product made and that seems to continue to grow as time goes on.
So a little bit later, it looks like these curves are coming closer together. In fact,
the rates we started out zero for the reverse reaction has built up and it's getting pretty
as appreciable. And the forward reaction is slowing down. Well, after a substantial amount of time,
what we will see is that eventually the forward reaction rate, and that may or may not be the
concentrations, the forward reaction rate becomes equal to the reverse reaction rate.
So that's what we call chemical equilibrium. So this this point in time where the forward and the
backward rates are the same as when we have chemical equilibrium. So at chemical equilibrium,
the forward and the backward reaction rates are equal. Once you add equilibrium,
the reaction will tend to stay in equilibrium, unless you do something to disturb it. And we'll
talk about that. We could add in, for example, a little bit more of one of the reactants or take
out some of the product or something like that. But given that we don't disturb the system,
it's going to stay stable at that equilibrium point for a while.
Now, the time to reach equilibrium is not determined at this point. You don't know how
fast that is. Now, the graph that they did certainly shows some time that we got to think
about how to get the time scale out of this process. And the thing to remember is that even
though you're at equilibrium, so when I go back to this, even though I'm at equilibrium,
that doesn't mean this reaction stopped and this reaction stopped. They're still running full
speed. So the reactions are still running at full speed. They did not stop. If they stopped,
then the reaction rates will go to zero. But since they're not zero, we say that those reactions
are still running at full speed. So the average amounts or the concentrations of the products
and reactants do not change. But that doesn't mean that a given molecule doesn't participate
in a reaction. So thinking about the A plus B gives C plus D. If we have two A and B molecules
and they react and then transfer over to the product side, then what we know is at equilibrium,
some of that product will also at the same time react and go back to the
reactant side. So there's this continual exchange of
chemical structure between the two sides of the equation. So for our prototypical reaction,
we can calculate an equilibrium concept. What is the rate for that
equilibrium position? And that's given by this formula. We'll use this and talk about it quite
a bit, so don't panic if you maybe have already figured it out. So the equilibrium constant k,
and it's going to have some units. It could have no units. It just could be k without any units as
well, but it's going to have some units typically. So in the numerator, you have
C, which is a product, and D, which is a product. It's their concentrations of those two raised to
the power of their coefficients up front. So C to the C, D to the D at the equilibrium point.
And that's in the numerator. And in the denominator, we have similar thing for
concentration of molecule A raised to the A power and B raised to the B power,
and multiplying those, and that makes a denominator. So the product, the thing to
note about this is that the products are in the numerator. So C and D are in the numerator,
and A and B are in the denominator. So that's the order that a lot of equations that we
deal with are. We put the products in the numerator. So let's do an example of this. So here's a
chemical equation. It's ammonia plus oxygen. So it's the combustion of ammonia. And in this
particular case, we get NO2, nitrogen dioxide, and H2O, oxygen hydride, or dihydride oxygen.
You can see which way it goes. And so this one's been balanced. So there's four
nitrogens here and four nitrogens there. There's 14 oxygens there. And eight plus
six is 14 oxygens on the right side as well. And for hydrogens, we have four times three.
There's 12 hydrogens on the left side, and six times two, there's 12 hydrogens on the right side.
And all of these components are in the gas phase. So these are going to be miscible,
mixable, and they're going to give these two products, which are also
in the gas phase. So the problem states that in equilibrium, we have these concentrations.
Concentrations of NH3 is 0.8 molar. O2 is this part.
And it's got a concentration of 2.7 molars. And then NO2 has a concentration of 0.4 molar.
And finally, the H2O concentration is 0.6 molar. So you might see that would be a pretty
complicated measurement. Plus, it's on the fly because all of these concentrations are changing
as we write down and make these measurements. So you got to be careful about whether an
experiment is really doable or not. So then our equilibrium constant equation becomes this. So
the products, I've got NO2 raised to the fourth power because it's got a four out front.
And then H2O raised to the sixth power because it had six moles out front.
So and then in the denominator, we got to put reactants. And so we have NH4 raised to the fourth
power because it's got a coefficient of four. And the concentration of O2 raised to the seventh power
because it's got a coefficient of seven. So since the problem gives these, now the problem actually
the way it's worded in the book, they give you some misleading information. And they give you
the concentrations at the beginning of the reaction. Well, at equilibrium, it doesn't matter where it's
started. Every time you mix together the right ratios of these reactants, no matter what their
initial concentrations are, you're going to end up with this rate equation or this rate
equilibrium constant. So we put in the numbers and you do the multiplying
0.4 to the fourth power. So this is a good place where you need to practice your skills on your
calculator to make sure you can do this math right. And you end up with 2.8 times 10 to the
minus six. And the units, okay, in the numerator here, we have moles to the fourth times moles to the
sixth. So the overall there is moles to the 10. And then in the denominator, we've got moles to the
fourth times moles to the seventh. So in the denominator, we have moles raised to the 11th power.
And so the final result is 2.8 times 10 to the minus six inverse moles,
or molarity, inverse molarity, not moles. And so which this means one over m is the unit.
But this is a more compact way to write it. All right, so
the units for this constant depend on the exact form of the reaction. And so you've got to
think about it and keep them straight. So the worst case scenario is that you have
no unit constant. So it could be that k is just a pure number in some cases. But in other cases,
it's usually the units are some power of the molarity.
So let's talk about the size of this equilibrium constant. So here, we say that the numerical
size of this equilibrium constant is pretty darn small. It's basically three times 10 to the minus
six, which is a small number. So if k turned out to be a very large number, it means that the reaction
has gone very far to the right. And if k is very small, that means the reaction has stayed to the
left and hasn't gone very far. So when we write the balanced chemical equation for k being very
large, since everything gets shoved over to the right in that equation, we would probably write
just a right pointing arrow. And the opposite is true when everything is shoved to the left.
So the reactants haven't reacted very much. Oh, we haven't waited long enough. And so this arrow
points to the left. So
all right. So keeping a feel for the equilibrium constant size is really important. So usually,
the equations we've written this year must have had large k values. And so we would use the right
facing arrow in that case. So what the other change in perspective you need to realize is that
all chemical reactions are really just equilibrium reactions. Although some of them go all the way
to the right or some of them stay on the left, they're just equilibrium reactions. So we only use
a double arrow when k isn't too large or too small. So let's talk about some of the details
about this equilibrium constant. There are some additional rules for writing down this
equilibrium constant. The example we used, everything was in the gas phase. And so that made
it kind of simple. So the first rule, the first additional rule is that we don't include solids
in the equation. The reason for that is that solids, a solid that is a result of a reaction,
it always has a fixed concentration. So its concentration isn't very helpful in determining
this k. The other thing is we don't include liquids in the equation. And what this means,
this doesn't mean things that are dissolved in water. It means things that are real liquids
that would separate maybe from the other reactants. So we don't apply this rule to things that are
in aqueous phases. So ions and so forth do not cause that are hydrated that have aqueous
or not part of the thing that gets left out here. So this is the
diagram that they used to try to drive this home. So this is two different reactions.
Well, let's see. This two,
I guess this could be the reaction at one time and another time. But the equilibrium
that we're talking about only applies to things in the aqueous solution. So that's why we don't
worry about anything that falls that we would say that it precipitated out or fell out of solution
and became a solid. We don't worry about that to calculate the equilibrium constant. So
all right, let's look at this example. So here we have ammonium chloride. And it's in equilibrium
with ammonia gas and hydrochloric acid gas, HCl gas. So let's think about the rules to write down
what we need to write down for this. So
the products are both in gaseous form. And so we don't have a rule that tells us to exclude those.
But we do have this in solid form and our rule says to ignore solids and determining the equilibrium
constant. So what we would do is we would write down
the product stuff goes in the numerator and the reactant stuff goes in the denominator. So we don't
put a zero for these, we just ignore it, which means we put a one. So in this case, the equilibrium
constant is just the concentration of NH3 to the power of one times the concentration of HCl
times the power of one, because the coefficient up front is one. And we don't have any place in
our equilibrium constant for this solid. So here the units are going to be
molarity times molarity. So the units for this k are going to be
molarity squared. All right, there's another example here.
All right, example two is, all right, I guess I could ask you guys to name this thing.
So we talked about that the COOH molarity means that this is an acid. So a methyl acid is acetic
acid. And then here we have a compound with an OH on it. So probably this is an alcohol.
So in C2 is ethyl. So this is actually ethanol. So we have an acid plus an OH. So this is going
to be an acid-base type reaction. And so we get a different compound out in the aqueous phase.
And we get water out. So if we want to write down the equilibrium constant for this on the
product side, we have an aqueous compound here. So that's going to get included. But we have water,
which is liquid. And it's not going to participate in this equilibrium equation anymore. So basically
we have the concentration of this divided by the product of the concentrations of these two.
And so k is equal to the concentration of this product divided by the concentration of the two
reactants multiplied together. So this one then is going to have units of, so the numerator we've got
m molarity. And then the denominator we've got molarity squared. So the units for this k are
going to be one over molarity. So that you see is quite a bit of difference between k
calculated this way and k calculated that way. Okay. Any questions on that?
So there's plenty of practice problems. And if y'all could work on those, that would be good.
All right. So what do we do with this equilibrium constant? What in the world can we do? It's just
one more thing to calculate. It's confusing. Because previously we calculated rate constants.
So we've taken these equations that we have and tweaked them and used them in weird ways. But
what can we do with this equilibrium constant? Well, there's a couple of things we can do. So
for a given chemical reaction at a given temperature, if we can measure the current concentrations,
we can calculate the k, the equilibrium constant at that moment in that reaction. And then you can
decide, number one, are we at equilibrium? Is this reaction reached that point where the forward
rate and the backward rate are the same? So that's one question. And then the other one is what will
the reaction do next? Is it going to give you more products or more reactants? And should we be patient
and wait if we want more of the reactants to form? So here's an example. This is
nitrogen gas plus oxygen gas is probably or is in equilibrium with NO gas, nitrogen monoxide gas.
And to balance it, we end up with two NOs on the right. So the rate equation for this thing
is going to be pretty straightforward. There's no solids. There's no liquids to worry about
