Hello. Welcome, everyone. It is October 25th, 2023. We're in active inference for the social
sciences. And today we're in a discussion section. It is Avel and I. And we'll start off by just
saying hello and kind of reflecting on where we're at with the course. Then we have the
questions form that is on the course website. It's in the video description. Feel free to submit
questions via this form. And then today, we're going to look at the questions that have been
submitted and not answered yet. And we'll just give some thoughts on them. Also look for more
questions to arise in the live chat. So with that, what do you want to begin with? Avel, feel
free to give any kind of overview or statements. And then we'll jump to the specific questions that
have been submitted before today and during today. The only statement here that I want to make is
the last presentation I did. So prediction cause constraints to exist would be our wealth.
Sorry about that. But I really don't have anything to
say that she's more specific right now. All right. Well, this should be pretty fun. Let's
jump into some questions. Okay.
What are the challenges and potential solutions in using active inference to model
collective behaviors with various environmental constraints?
So the challenges first is that in any model, you have to pick what you include and what you
did not include. So when you talk about boundary conditions, when you talk about including the
model, you have to make hypotheses. Like if I tell you model, I don't know country that is under
sanctions like North Korea or Russia. Okay. How do you model that? Do you make a set base for
every possible product? Like every dimension accounts for a specific product or a type of
product and you have zero if you have access to it. Sorry, zero if you don't have access to it and
one if you have access to it. Okay. But what if we have new things that happen that is not very
useful if you're interested in innovation or something. So we'll have to make specific
points that we'll try to specific questions that you want to ask the model and using active inference
has no like does not change a thing to that. And where it is relevant is that
you can have endogenous evolution of constraints using active inference. I
think in a more meaningful sense than you'd have with a pure, let us say, Hebbian or like
non representational framework or framework that is presentational, but where the space
presentation is like hard-coded. So there is a space of models, let us say, of evolution of
certain norms where I think active inference would have an edge because active inference is
built to represent normativity and intentionality and it is not the case to my knowledge of other
like either dynamicist or cognitivist frameworks for modeling.
Could you maybe restate and go into a little more detail? Was it non representational or
indirect specification of what? Of the beliefs of the system. So what's being directly specified?
What's directly specified? And then what is being indirectly specified?
In active inference, you have at least in a sense
correspondence between dynamical constraints like information over where the system is
and belief that the system holds that are akin to norms or like international states. So beliefs
or intentions are things that are going on inside and to my knowledge there is no framework that
makes an explicit formal connection between the two. You'd have dynamicist framework where you
have stuff that happens and there is no presentation or intentional states and you have things like
utility theory where you have to specify preemptively what are the intentional states of the agents.
Which are not very relevant to represent like the endogenous solution of
social constraints within a collective system. So
situation where active inference would be useful is to model. I will try to remember the term that
Kofman used. Kofman is filling and filling.
So I will share the, can we both share the screen? No we can't.
You can add it directly in this code page.
Probably a little easier than I'll just go to the back end course code page
and then follow the token. Yep and then go to the questions table and pop it out.
I don't have the questions that is on your screen.
Just click on this little expression. Challenges and potential solutions and then pop it out.
Pop out what?
Just like next to the row. See this expand row and then you'll be in the same place.
What is the row? See there is no letters. No no no just look visually at the expand row.
Look visually at the expand row. Just click the expand row
on the question that we're addressing and you'll pop into this campus.
The question that we are addressing is not on the page at least on my terminal.
Are you looking at the public front end or at the course back end? I'm looking at the back end.
Okay and I don't have the question what are blah blah blah.
Oh it is a sub question. What are the challenges? Okay. Okay cool all right fun.
You were talking about Kaufman though what was it? Yes it's a paper that he cosigned
who's monitored his topophiline critique of economic like I say rationality but now they say it's
balling rationality. So the dictionary of cognitive biases approach to
modern human behavior and basically the point of the paper as I understand it is that you have an
evolution of the goals and norms that shape a social ecology and this kind of
opponented evolution of the intentional states of the legend I think is can be addressed in a
more meaningful way with acting in France than with any other formal framework kind of.
There are several other aspects I think so first to kind of restate the challenges and then go to
the potential solutions and the advantages like the advantages in principle and in practice.
You started with identifying like the major any kind of modeling challenges so active
inherits from all of these modeling challenges or areas that are difficult to step aside from
and then yes depending on the resources of the group and whether it's 2023 or 2000 you know
future time when there's different tooling so that is just about the the challenge of active
inference sometimes compared today with more off-the-shelf approaches which also may or may not
work but in an academic field be spending your time making something that may or may not work
may or may not be orders of magnitude more just sophistication of a modeling setting
than the team is ready to again that's a general modeling point but it's also very easy to get
into with active and to jump the gap between something that is pedagogical and helps show
something like intuitive or cool and making something for example that can be used in
high reliability settings and that's a jump that hasn't been necessarily conveyed in the open source
setting so it's difficult to see examples of whereas there's kind of like production type
machine learning algorithms that can at least be no that's just a little general point so what are
some advantages there's some really interesting concepts related to this like indirect specification
so like let's just say that we were talking about the mountain car example
or a social variable that seemed to be moving within a certain range
then the direct encoding of that constraint would be basically made outdated okay now the
landscape changes and then all of a sudden the mountain car can go twice as far to a different
direction so if that constraint had been explicitly encoded about cognitive um variables or about
the exposition of the mountain car then the model goes stale but if what's encoded is somehow
a relation with the agent and the environment so the mountain car has 10 horsepower and it
can go left or right as its affordances and everything that builds from there and then
here's the laws of physics or mechanics such that here's the weight of the car and and then
if the landscape changes or as model is changing then you get oh yeah now it can go
further or shorter in this direction but that's like an outcome of the relationship between
the agent and the environment explicitly represented as such versus just looking at the outcome
and then putting constraints on the outcome
yes to say we have historically the concept of explanation that we have inherited from the
19th 20th century is that we're explained by having a lawful relationship between variables
and to do that we have to prespecify what are the relevant variables
and this is not a thing that exists with open-ended evolutionary dynamics this is all in the
Genakalu cognitive agency something something paper so
and so when we ask questions to a model we don't want to have the answer where yeah
it will evolve and seriously we don't really know this is not what is expected basically so
we tend not to look at open-ended evolutionary dynamics I would say that active influence has
some leverage to represent that that all the framework would not have because of the relationship
between constraints as an inical thing and beliefs as an intentional state
yeah one thing that makes me think of so when we're when we're doing modeling based
uh outcome based modeling whether for hobby or for grad school for job like we're often
in a setting that either expects or rewards or accepts only a converging answer because
because it's being you know does insulin in Drosophila change their circadian this or that
it's like that's it's very it's very converged of a question already and it's something where
we're looking to reduce our uncertainty about so then that
closes off I mean to the extent that it converges it closes off divergent routes
not just of like doing and addressing that question that's more of a methodological point
but it then we we don't make models that can see a more open-ended horizon of what could
actually happen in the system because that can always adds more
state spaces that can be broken and unfolded so I guess again to the kind of kernel of the question
you've written these very interesting sequence of papers about symmetry breaking and and
all of this so how do you use that in a way that goes beyond just stating larger and larger
state spaces or feeling less and less confident when it seems like a large piece of this is that
certain aspects of systems are unprestatable sorry confident but what precisely unprestatable
unprestatable yes I'm confident that
you cannot pre-state the space of possibilities or space of belief that an agent can have and
model of an evolution something that could like that is by definition of the terms
something that could be argued is that there is no such thing as open-ended evolution but that would be
that would be a very bold thing to claim and most people would not say that explicitly ever
because it's kind of obviously not the case if there is no one for it I'd like to hear it
but the argument that
are stated against the open-ended evolution thing are
but basically you have I would say all rely on a confusion between the fact that
the law of physics work which they do and the idea that the specific language that physics
talks is a full and objective presentation of everything there is or could be which is
like it's a possibility we can discuss about it but this is the distinct possibility that the
statement that the law of physics work which again they do
okay cool well then just to sort of close on this
octave advantages many interesting conceptual advantages we hope
analytical and more uh transdisciplinary or more holistically and also another huge piece is
it's connected to an always improving open-source computational environment
we expect and prefer but in that case linking a system in year x social system or model it's
kind of like using a linux system that there could be some developments like in message passing
algorithms or interoperability of different generative models or category theoretic
augmentation of models that are connected to the active inference ontology
all these different kinds of synthetic technologies which we can basically already imagine and to
some extent already have it becomes a way to map systems to a lot and that that is not as far as I
understand um plausible without kind of a first principles and the ecosystems of share
intelligence and all these other kind of memes and themes that we talk about all the time
surprise minimization things doing as most likely for them to do paths of least action
Bayesian mechanics then there's a continuity of explanation with the rock just being there
and the investor trading with this strategy an instrumental unifying account that makes relatively
minimal claims about the territory that includes the rock and the investing activity
what's you add in
but um like what you said message passing is interesting to me because you have a broad
coalition of physicists mathematicians or scientists people in academia who basically
think there is one language to nature and what we do a scientist is to discover it and I I don't
think that holds water not only because of any evolution is a thing which is a sufficient
element actually but if you look at message passing if you look at quantum mechanism if you
look at category theory open formally and conceptually the possibilities that there are different
languages in the world and they may be more or less interoperable and they may be non-reducible
to each other and then you start to ask even questions I'd say especially when
implicitly or explicitly you are interested in what determines the fact that a specific language
works in a specific context why is um yeah I'm not gonna go further down the math road but
you have an important compatibility slash interoperability result between major fields of physics
I will give a reference by John Bayes I don't know if you pronounce it I never said this out
actually Bayes
so you have important interoperability results in fields of physics and formal science
and we don't have a proof however that you know
all the possible presentation of physics are interpreted or operable
how do you say that interoperable interoperable okay so they said it's wrong
notes it's a great point and what's really interesting is like the relationship between
Bayes graphs first off Bayes graphs being analytically described and then computationally
implementable is on the order of decades old and then as we kind of explored just yesterday in
live stream 55.0 the relationship between the Bayes graph and for any graphs which enabled
message passing to be done procedurally to optimize a Bayes graph which just brings all
of these computational all these analytical connections but that wasn't understood until
it was and that was only slightly over two decades ago so then in fact those kinds of
results and developments reflect
the the changing social and scientific niche so I don't know maybe this is a different question
but science as a social activity and then I don't know does that how does that ground our
work or give us more what so
about the whole language thing I don't know where it's at now but at least 10 years ago
it seemed that you can have message passing you can have well you can have Bayesian coherence
of state of observable that does not rely explicitly on probabilities as in a
dispersion that is embedded in a specific set space you can have Bayesian coherence that pre-exists
to the representation in which probability is embedded and if there was a way to cross
this and a message passing you'd have a pretty straightforward straightforward
road to
a straighter account of contextuality and social construction I say this with the scan quotes
great note exciting for quantum context and quantum social and scripts and constraints and
norms let's close that question for now though nice okay um
how can oh yeah great question thank you to whoever asked and again video description you
can ask it'll appear and we'll see if anyone writes more questions during the stream
how can or does a framework slash theory slash principle of everything
articulate with moral normative ethical deontic considerations
so I think it is addressed in
a good amount of detail by an activist how you relate a theory of biological individuation
to a theory of ethics I do not have a good grip on this literature so you have like
of say high level intuitive opinion on that but this is not like state of the art and
okay basically I'd I'd say this flows well with stoic
virtue ethics things act according to the nature so you might as well work so that your
