Welcome back to current80s.org. Today we're going to be continuing with our
series on Bayesian confirmation theory and the paradox of dogmatism. This is
part of our larger series on Bayesian epistemology. If you haven't watched the
videos leading up to this video, I would highly suggest that you do, unless you
have a really good sense of Bayes' theorem in the Dutch book arguments. With that
out of the way, let's get started. So today we're going to be looking at
confirmation and disconfirmation of hypotheses. Basically, how, for people
that believe in Bayesian epistemology, hypotheses can be confirmed or
disconfirmed. The cool thing about Bayesian epistemology is we have a
really quantitative, logical approach to confirmation and disconfirmation. We
have a very exact way to explain whether or not some specific piece of
evidence confirms or disconfirms a hypothesis. Let's take a look. So for
confirmation, evidence E confirms theory H if and only if our degree of belief in H
is increased if E is known. Or, in other words, E confirms H if and only if our
initial probability that H, or our initial degree of belief that H, is less
than our final probability that H, our final degree of belief that H, or our
degree of belief that H given that E, conditional on E. This should make sense
basically if our degree of belief becomes higher when we gain evidence E. It
would seem that E has in some way confirmed our belief that H. But let's
take a look at a specific example. So imagine that you're not sure whether or
not global climate change is taking place. You would assign the proposition
global climate change is taking place exactly a 0.5 degree of belief. You
don't hold the belief one way or the other way. And we're also going to talk
about the evidence, which is the majority of scientific experts agree that
global climate change is taking place. So you are also not sure about this
proposition either. You don't know whether or not the majority of
scientific experts agree or not. So you'll also assign that a 0.5 degree of
belief for your initial degree of belief on that. However, you're pretty
confident in the majority of scientific experts. You think that if global
climate change is taking place, then probably the majority of scientific
experts are going to agree. And if the majority of scientific experts agree,
probably global climate change is taking place. So you're going to assign the
probability of both E and H, 0.45, which is relatively high. You may not
seem that high in grand scheme of things. But remember, the highest you could
assign that is 0.5 with the prior probabilities that you have above of
0.5 and 0.5 for H and E. So 0.45 out of 0.5 is actually doing pretty well. Now,
based on this information, we can tell what you should change your belief in H2
if you are shown that E. What you should change your belief in global climate
change to if you are shown that majority of scientific experts agree on. So we
have our initial probabilities. Now imagine that you're told that E is the
case, that the majority of scientists do agree that global climate change is
taking place. We know that our final probability, our final degree of
belief for H is equal to H conditional on E. Well, we can find H conditional on
E using Bayes' theorem, which is just H and E over E. We have all those pieces
of information. So we put 0.45 over 0.5. You work that out with the math, you
get 0.9 as our new degree of belief in H. Because 0.9 is greater than 0.5,
because you now have a higher degree of belief in the claim that global climate
change is taking place than you did before, that's going to mean that this
evidence, the evidence that the majority of scientists agree on it, is going to
confirm that claim. Because your final probability of H is greater than your
initial probability of H. Your belief in global climate change would increase if
scientists agreed about it. So the evidence confirms the hypothesis. On the
other end of the spectrum, we have disconfirmation, which is just going to
be exactly what you would expect, the exact opposite. Evidence E disconfirms a
theory H if and only if our degree of belief in H is decreased if E is known.
Or in other words, E disconfirms H if and only if our initial probability is
higher than our conditional probability or our final probability or our
probability of H given that E. Hopefully that makes sense right now, but we'll do
an example just to make it clear. So let's take H as there is no afterlife.
And let's say you have a pretty high degree of confidence in this H, a 0.95.
You're really sure that there is no afterlife. E is the evidence that you die,
you know that you die. You wake up and see shining golden gates amidst a
landscape of clouds. You think this is pretty unlikely, probably not going to
happen, but you never know. So you give it a 0.05 degree of belief, almost zero, but
not quite. And finally, the claim that both E and H, that there is no afterlife
and in fact you wake up to shining golden gates after you die. Those seem to be
pretty contradictory claims. So you're going to assign that a very small degree
of belief, a 0.01 degree of belief. You really doubt that if you died and then
woke up to the pearly gates, that would mean that there still is no afterlife.
With those pieces of information, we can take a look at this hypothesis.
So now imagine that you do in fact die and you wake up in front of the pearly
gates after death. You're like, well, my, I was wrong. You will need to re-evaluate
your beliefs based on the fact that E. So the probability of H final is going to
be equal to the probability of H conditional on E. We can find that once
again, just using Bayes' theorem, which is just going to be H and E over E. We
have all of those. That's going to be 0.01 over 0.05 or 0.2 because 0.2 is less
than 0.95 or your final probability of H is less than your initial probability of
H. We're going to say your belief in the lack of an afterlife would decrease if
you woke up in front of the pearly gates after dying. Therefore, this evidence
would disconfirm your hypothesis. Note that you still have a 0.2 degree of
belief in there not being an afterlife. And in fact, depending on the way your
probabilities worked out, you could still think it's more likely that there
is not an afterlife than that there is an afterlife. The point is just because it
decreases because it goes down, that means that the evidence disconfirms it. The
evidence might not even convince you that much. It might only convince you a
little bit against it. All disconfirmation is, is just moving your degree of
belief down a little bit. In the same way that all confirmation is, is moving your
degree of belief up a little bit. So that was confirmation and disconfirmation.
Next up, we're going to talk about entailment and some interesting things
that come out of entailment, Bayesian dogmatism, and finally, the new paradox
of dogmatism. Watch this video and more here at carnades.org. Check out the
SCP for more information on Bayesian epistemology, and stay skeptical everybody.
