If you go out in into the future, deeper into the tree, the uncertainty starts to remove any useful information from going any further or any deeper into that tree.
So there's a natural depth that again is mathematically prescribed, just because you're now propagating beliefs into the future, as opposed to, you know, just decide if this that happens.
If you have uncertainty, you never have to do a deep research because there's no point because you're so uncertain about what's going to happen. There's no point thinking that far into the future.
So there's always an optimal depth between search and that's usually, in my experience, much shorter than people than people appreciate.
The third point is a much more practical observation, and it speaks to, you know, your question made me smile in the, in the, you know, in the sense that there's an infinite number of actions we can take and you're absolutely right.
Of course, you know, if I just take the simplest and probably really important action that I actually have to select nearly, you know, several times a second is where to look next.
I could, in principle, in terms of R and theta, look at an infinite number of points in the next 250 milliseconds and, you know, that kind of active vision is vitally important for our survival.
So how on earth does the brain do it? Well, it does it in parallel. So it has a something called the superior colliculus, which is basically a map that if you stimulate your eyes are drawn to that point in the map.
And one way of looking at this salience map, this layer of cells is actually a two dimensional representation of all possible actions.
So the answer, very simply, the way that the biological system scale up to large action spaces, not in time, you know, we don't just talk about one step ahead like policies, where to look next, but in terms of the number is instituted in parallel.
So if you do it biometrically or neuromorphically, I don't think the scaling, the scaling issue is insurmountable.
Okay, yeah. So do you think it's possible, like as we think as we have in this model, this latent space, state space, do you think it's possible to have a similar concepts also in the action space of some kind of latent action space or some,
let's say, action at a different level, higher level action.
Yeah, no, yeah, I think that's again, an exciting and important observation. Yeah, absolutely.
And in fact, that's that that that simulated reading example actually had that so there were low level actions where there were little micro saccades around the word to look at different letters, and then there were high level actions that jumped to the next word.
So I'm sure in our real brains, there are different levels where different levels can actually send predictions to our motor or autonomic systems to illicit illicit actions.
I think that, you know, that's, that's absolutely true.
But also, I think that's an interesting question from the point of view of control theory and, you know, can you actually compose continuous movements in terms of a succession of fixed points.
And, you know, it may be that that's how we work, and I certainly talking to friends in your robotics that that that may be how to basically model or generate the predictions that drive the, the trajectories of motion.
It's not a question of prescribing a complete path, you just have a series of fixed points which are basically become attractors for this discrete epoch of updating, and then you change to the next attractor so you're, you're pulling along.
You're pulling in continual in physical space than say a robotic arm, you're prescribing the street fixed point attractors at discrete points in time, and that are pulling the trajectory around an orbit, say for walking or for, you know, for reaching
limits. So I think this notion of discretization of action is is probably very important practically.
And, you know, and once you start to think about continuous dynamical trajectories and continuous state or space faces as a selection as a sequence of fixed stable unstable points.
There's interesting maths about sort of heteroclinic cycles and the algebras that live in a discrete state space that you can now deploy to start to characterize and generate continuous continuous dynamics.
Yeah, I think that's, yeah, I mean, I don't know that there has been that much work in my field on it but it's, I think it's a really important opportunity to try and put together the continuous with the, with the discrete in the, in the action debate, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay, thank you.
Okay.
My question from the audience.
Probably not. I think we are.
I mean, it's here.
So, let's thank again.
Professor three stone. Yeah, best wishes to everybody. Thank you for attending. Thank you, Carl.
Thank you. Happy Christmas everybody.
Bye bye. Thank you.
Thank you.
