but it all depends on, you know, how informed am I?
Like, how many people of these...
How many people took these before me?
What was the demographics that they were handed to, you know, like...
You say I would take the blue pill
just to help the people who did
because you expect to survive.
You expect you are helping the blue people
and you're not going to die.
Right.
So it's not actually a sacrifice.
You're not saying, I'm going to kill myself
just to be there with the other people who killed themselves
because it's better that way.
Hell no.
Okay.
That's why I wouldn't walk into the Blender Room.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, that's the thing.
You're not actually making any sort of sacrifice here.
You're just saying, like, look, everyone's going to pick the blue pill anyway.
I'm going to look good and feel good about myself
and not have to suffer any actual death.
I feel indignation at the accusations.
So let me think about...
I said it intentionally inflammatory.
Oh, no, of course.
Yeah, but I'm trying to actually think about
whether that was a fueling part of my answer.
And I think it was just that I hadn't thought through the question.
No, there's definitely some vibe in there of, like,
well, anyone who wouldn't take the blue pill is being selfish.
That was definitely part of, I think, my initial gut reaction.
Same here.
I think it's intentionally written that way to make you feel that way.
Like, what?
You would kill people just so that you don't have to have this tiny risk of dying?
What a beautiful...
Like, what would this do if it's not like a thought experiment
that pumps intuitions about how you should work in real life
or hypothetical real life?
What it does do is reveal a failure of cognition.
And it does seem like the answer upon reflection is,
wait, red pillars run no risk.
Why the hell would anyone take a blue one?
Yeah.
Fuck that, I'm taking the red one.
Yeah, it seems like that's the straightforward answer
given that you get a minute to think about it.
So that's fun.
That's delightful.
I hope that this person who wrote this isn't getting any shit online,
like, for having posed it.
Oh, I'm sure she's getting told to kill herself every few seconds.
That's why.
That's why I'm not on Twitter.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, it can't be part of that shit.
That's a stupid response to anyone who's doing that,
not get the fuck off.
This is a fun little thought experiment.
No one's making moral judgments on people about their answers.
Just lay back and have fun.
Man, I wonder how many times the person who initially put forth
the trolley experiment would have been told to kill themselves
if they put it forth while Twitter was a thing.
I feel much better talking about this with you.
For some reason, talking with someone in real life
and hearing their voice tone just feels a lot better
than reading something on the internet and being like,
how dare you?
I swear to God, I got to just unplug my computer forever.
You're going to Burning Man in a couple weeks,
so you'll be away from that.
And you'll be like, oh, I feel psychologically great.
I wonder if there's any correlation there.
And it might not just be the desert air that's making me feel happier.
I actually always do feel psychologically great,
and I realize a large part of it is due to being unable to access the internet.
And yet, I do not apply this lesson to my daily life.
I'm not on Twitter, but I've all kinds of other stupid things
that I'm burning my time on that I could put any sort of control on that I failed to.
I mean, but you're not on Twitter, so you're winning.
Well, I'm winning there.
But then also, I would have never found this red pill, blue pill thing.
And if I go completely offline, there will be no more things to base blast
or base in conspiracy about because all of that is born from things I read online.
No, you make a compelling point.
I'm not totally unplugged, but I think I am unplugged
from anything remotely resembling a comment section.
I think that's the difference that makes the difference there.
You know, it's like, I'm on YouTube to say that I'm on YouTube
is to say I watch YouTube videos, right?
But I don't remember the last time I scrolled to a comment.
And Twitter is just the comments.
Twitter is just the comments thread, yeah.
Oh, God, no wonder.
The poll is fun.
So I'm glad you found it.
Thanks for taking that bullet for the rest of us who aren't on Twitter
so that we could hear about it.
All right, man, this is a good one.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Have a good day.
