Similarly, if I was in Chelliacs, I'd be like, no,
no, I'm taking the red pill, because I know
some people will take the blue pill,
but there's no way in fuck it's getting to 50%,
and therefore I'm going to die if I take the blue pill.
At that point, it's just a question of
do I want to kill myself or not?
If you're out of rationalist meetup with 500 people,
which one do you take?
Right, because we're the ones who would overthink this,
and all take the red pill, right?
But I think the answer is like,
which would be nice if you could shout to the group,
like, look, in case anyone took the blue pill,
let's just all take it, and we'll all survive.
Wouldn't that be nice?
I would imagine in a rationalist meetup,
everybody would at least look around at their neighbors
and be like, hey, that's a blue pill there.
You don't want that?
Do you really want that?
I think, honestly, in a rationalist meetup,
people would just wouldn't take strange pills
that somebody handed them.
Yeah, absolutely.
Not if they don't already trust them immensely.
That ruins the thought experience.
So yeah, the main reason for taking blue pill
is the argument that, look, somebody's going to take
the blue pill, either because they're dumb
or they're on accident or something.
And so we should all jump in there to help them out
and help save them, which I think it's admirable.
And I think this is what leads me to my take.
I do think it's admirable to take the blue pill.
I think society in general, the fact that most people
would take the blue pill, that makes me very
bullish on society.
I am happy about this.
And yet I am intensely upset about this question.
And more importantly than that, I am really pissed off
at anyone who says that anyone who takes the red pill
is doing something wrong or is a defector.
A lot of people are saying, like,
taking the blue pill is cooperating,
taking the red pill is defection.
No, defection has a specific meaning
and not risking my life so that people
can be complete idiots.
Calling that deflection is like inflammatory.
Defection.
You said deflection.
Oh, oh, yeah, sorry.
I meant defection.
No, no, yeah.
To me, it feels like when this question is posed,
this question is created by blue pillers intentionally
just to show off how altruistic they are
and be like, man, I'm such an awesome savior, aren't I?
When they present this blue pill thing,
what you're saying is some people are going to be tricked
into taking the blue pill.
They aren't going to be paying attention or something.
They didn't read hard enough before they took the blue pill.
So we have to all risk death in order to save them.
We have just trapped someone into suicide
and now we have to force half the society
to risk death in order to save them.
And that really pisses me off.
And it makes me want to vote red intentionally
just to say, fuck you for setting up this scenario.
You don't go around tricking people into suicide
and then forcing others to risk their life for this shit.
That's why I really like the Blender question
because the blue pill red pill thing,
it works entirely on trickery and obfuscation.
It's like, oh, whoops, I took this tasty blue pill on accident
because blue is a friendly color and who knows?
My kid might accidentally put a blue pill in their mouth
whereas the Blender thing, it removes that obfuscation
and that trickery and you just plainly see
exactly what the question is.
And that's why I'm like, no, red pill,
fuck you and your obfuscation and your trickery,
just make the scenario plain
so that you aren't tricking people into suicide like this.
I'm trying to think of any hypothetical real life analogy here.
Like if COVID had a universal 2% death rate
and the vaccine had a 1 in 100% chance of killing you,
or excuse me, a 1 in 1,000, a 0.1%, right?
I guess that's not quite the same
because then you're just guaranteeing
that you have a 1 in 1,000 shot of dying.
I'm trying to convolut some way where it's like,
no, if it's the first people take the risk,
then it stops being risky.
I don't think that works at all
because in that scenario,
the people who take the vaccine are the red pillars.
They're making sure they don't die of COVID.
Yeah, I realized, I was trying to invent it on the fly.
If I can't think of any way,
it's like that's usually where I end up with thought experiments.
If I can't think of any way to tie this
to any borderline possible scenario, even like in principle,
then I kind of just like, oh, that's a fun little thought, right?
Yeah.
I kind of just hand wave it.
The teleporter problem or whatever,
if you see it as a problem,
that actually could plausibly tie into real life, right?
You mean if we ever get a teleporter?
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
So the circumstances whereby the usefulness of the thought experiment
bears fruit is if we get teleportation.
Where does this one actually bear out?
I mean, if people go around trying to
Joker style trick people into accidental suicide.
That seems somehow more far-fetched to me
than a teleporting machine.
Yeah.
And I think in that case,
the answer is to get a Batman to find the Joker.
Yeah, I mean, because it's not just that
like you're tricking people into taking pills.
Like it's also that you're giving enough people
like the actual presentation of the problem
than getting them to accept a pill
and then somehow tracking who took how many pills, right?
Yeah.
That's interesting though.
I respect your stance.
So when I called it defecting,
I realized it's not quite the same as a prisoner's dilemma,
right?
Because if everyone red-pilled,
like no one actually loses anything,
you red-pilling doesn't increase the odds
of someone else blue-pilling.
The only thing it does is make their punishment worse,
which actually is similar to the prisoner's dilemma.
Wait, what?
What?
If you take a red pill,
it makes the odds of the blue-pillers dying
just that much higher.
Oh, I see.
I mean, I guess the main disanalogy is that
you could just give the finger to whoever's
offering you these pills, whereas you can't do that
with the cops in the prisoner's dilemma
without experiments.
So you said this is starting some flame wars
in the Twitter circles on the internet?
It is kind of glorious,
the things that are happening on Twitter right now.
Yeah.
Everybody's getting all up in arms.
I'm assuming nobody is actually getting upset about it
because I don't see how you could get upset about this,
aside from the way I got upset that someone would even
pose this question and try to tar others as bad people
for taking a red pill.
Sometimes that's an OK reaction of just like,
you know what, screw you for even bringing this up.
This is silly.
Well, I mean, screw you for trying
to make a lot of people look bad for no good reason,
because again, in any real-world situation,
if there's someone at risk of death,
pretty much everyone around is going to pitch in
and take some risk of themselves dying
in order to save the person, right?
Like, this just happens all the time in our society,
and it's wonderful, and it's why humans are wonderful,
except for Russians, but...
Except for our awesome Russian listeners.
Yes, our awesome Russian listeners are, of course,
on the other side of that equation.
When you make these scenarios intentionally just to,
as far as I can tell, just to try to shit on people,
it annoys me.
I think one caveat that needs to be spelled out
is like, there is nobody taking these on accident,
as was kind of like hinted at a couple of times
in this conversation.
For the sake of the thought experiment,
no one's accidentally taking the wrong one
because it looks, like, tastier or something, right?
Right.
You have to assume that everyone's making
an informed decision.
Otherwise, like, this whole thing
kind of just goes out the window.
I think it's just more fun of revealing
people's gut responses to these things.
In the purely hypothetical thought experiment,
I don't see why I wouldn't blue pill
just to help the people who did,
