1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, BASE, BLAST, BASE, BLAST, BASE, BLAST!
Steven, time for another BASE BLAST.
What do we got, man?
This time you actually might get blasted in a more literal sense,
although I guess not really, because it is a thought-experiment only.
Oh, good. In a thought-experimental sense.
That's the only way I want to get blasted.
You're not on Twitter, right?
No. Wait, yes, correct, I am not.
So you are not aware of the current red pill-blue pill controversy?
This is probably the most effective scissor statement I have seen in 2023.
So this might go a little longer than a regular blast,
but I'm going to try to keep it to 15 minutes still.
Well, let's make it 15 minutes and 15 seconds.
So what's a scissor statement?
Oh, a scissor statement, again, coined by Scott Alexander,
because he's great at coining things,
is a statement which, when you state it,
just seems flat-out obviously true to everybody who hears it.
But half the population interprets it as obviously true in one way,
and half the population interprets it as obviously true the other way.
And when they look at each other, they're like,
how can you have this obviously false, idiotic interpretation of the statement?
The opposite is true.
And they both just feel that way about the other one.
They're like, are you trolling me?
Like, what the hell is even happening here?
This can't be real.
I really hope we come down on opposite sides of this scissor statement.
Let's find out.
There's multiple takes on this statement.
I'm going to try to hit the two major ones.
Give me your initial answer after I say it,
and then afterwards you can think on it harder
and see if you want to change your answer, OK?
Sure.
Poll question.
Everyone responding to this poll chooses between a blue pill or a red pill.
If more than half the people choose the blue pill, everyone lives.
If not, the red pills live and the blue pills die.
Which do you choose?
I'm a cooperator.
I choose the blue pill.
OK.
That is also my initial belief.
Now think about it for a bit.
So let's see.
Blue pill, it counts on half the people taking of the blue pill,
and the red pillers, they live no matter what.
So I guess they're incentivized to count on everyone else defecting.
What is their incentive for other people to defect?
Because the red pillers don't die in either scenario.
So what is their incentive to make other people take the blue pill?
There isn't one.
Exactly.
My incentive to take it is because I would want to set an example,
and of course, be part of the group that wasn't involved in killing people.
You're not killing anybody.
Repeat the query again.
If more than half the people choose the blue pill, everyone lives.
If not, red pillers live.
Yeah, I want to save the blue pillers too.
This is also what I chose initially,
but then like before I actually clicked the button,
I thought about it and I was like, wait a minute,
there's literally no downside to choosing the red pill.
If you choose the red pill, you just live and nobody has to die.
Nobody has to risk death.
Just everybody choose the red pill.
This is not even a hard question.
Why would you take the blue pill?
The blue pill is literally just a suicide pill.
I see.
So you're right.
If everybody chose the red pill, nobody dies.
If morons like me go into our intuition and say, well,
I want to hit that critical mass of blue pillers
so that the blue pillers don't die, we all die.
Exactly.
I mean, your case makes perfect sense.
It just seems like it'd be some weird Joker-like scenario
that we could put into the end of these bottles of pills, right?
Exactly.
That is my problem with this question.
But before we get to my problem,
I want to rephrase it in two different ways
that shine different lights on it.
The first way is Rocco's Blender.
And by Rocco or Rocco, it is, yes, that Rocco that we're talking about.
Our best friend.
Yes.
Our Lord and Savior.
Rocco tweeted out, okay, okay, okay.
There is a room-sized blender that kills everyone who steps into it.
But if more than half the people answering this poll step into the blender,
there's going to be too much resistance,
and it's going to fail to start.
So everyone who steps in it will be fine.
Obviously, if you don't step into the blender, nothing bad can happen to you.
Do you step into the blender?
Well, that case presents itself more dramatically, right?
Yeah, I wouldn't get into the Blender Room.
Why would you not get into the Blender Room?
Don't you want to save the idiots who walked into the Blender Room
for some reason?
I suppose if I looked in, and it looked almost full,
I might try to grab a bunch of people and pull them in there with me
and hit that critical mass.
If there was just a few people in there,
would you walk in to try to set an example for everyone else?
I don't suppose I can ask them to leave and go to the other room, can I?
I mean-
Not for the sake of their thought experiment.
I don't see why not.
Like, my answer to the red pill-blue pill thing is look around
and see if anyone is holding a blue pill near you.
You're like, hold up a minute there, friendo.
Yeah, slap it out of their hands.
Don't take the suicide pill.
Yes, exactly.
I don't know if you can talk to these people or not.
I would assume you have to not be able to,
because as soon as you can talk to people,
the entire experiment falls apart and everyone just uses red.
Maybe that's the point of the thought experiment.
The other thing to consider is like,
this isn't half the population,
this is half the people who participated in this experiment, right?
So it's only going to kill the people who thought to partake
and made the decision that I made,
which was to go into the blue pill.
The original question is everyone responding to this poll.
So people who opted in to answering this question.
I guess you're red-pilling if you're not responding.
That's true.
If you just see people going into this building,
one at the blender room and one at the red room,
and you're just like, I'm going to go about my day,
you're de facto red room.
There's people who don't think that the blender analogy
is an okay analogy, because I don't know.
The only thing I can think of is that blue pill is like,
ah, nice, tasty candy.
I might accidentally eat that.
Whereas the blender is like, oh no, sharp blades.
Obviously you don't go near there,
and people are just operating on visceral animal instinct
rather than actually thinking through things.
But I mean, I guess some people do.
The most inflammatory way I heard of someone putting this
is like, okay, if you choose the red pill,
then everyone who chooses the blue pill gets shot,
unless at least half of them chose the blue pill.
And I'm like, bitch, I'm not shooting anybody.
Don't try to blame me for this shit.
I just didn't choose to step in front of the gun.
There is the weakness of analogy there
where the pill thing sounds much more abstract,
but stepping into a room with big, ready-to-spin blades
is different, and it elicits different responses,
I think, probably in everybody.
Yeah.
The fact that it does get such different responses
means that there's something just analogous
to the original situation, right?
Actually, I have my take, which I was going to end with.
Let's say that this one is from Lily,
saying that this is not a compassion or rationality problem.
It's a coordination problem.
Blue is the correct choice,
because it only requires 50% of people
to coordinate for everyone to live.
If everyone chooses red, everyone lives.
If only most people choose blue, everyone lives.
Which do you hope most people will choose?
That, I think, was what I was intuiting
when I gave my first answer.
Yeah.
It's the kind of thing that you wonder
why anybody would take the blue pill,
especially with a blender room,
who would be the first one to step into it, right?
Nobody.
You'd have to look in and see that it's complicated
and only get two seconds to think about it.
But with pills, you could surreptitiously hand somebody
a pill without seeing what color they took or whatever.
The room thing, when you can see the sizes of the groups,
I think that's another big disanalogy there.
Yeah, I like the idea that, look,
if some poor schmo chose the blue pill for reasons,
colorblindness even, right?
All right, well, look, let's just get a sufficient volume
of us to take the blue pill, and that way we save everybody.
This is also, I still hold kind of a personality test
on how optimistic you are about the human race.
Like if I was in Russia,
there is no way in fuck I would choose the blue pill,
because Russians are famously cynical and bitter.
I don't trust them to take the blue pill.
