another nature show, and you're following the wolf, and you see the baby wolf grows up, and then
the mom has to feed its babies, and they've already lost four hunts. And the wolves are hungry, and
they're starving, and you see their ribs. Then it captures the deer, and it's like it's a big
celebration, and you're like it's the same fucking thing, depending upon which one we were following.
So it's so interesting to watch how our own emotions can feel so differently about that
scene, just even based on the context, right? And if I take any war or any cultural conflict,
and I look at it from the interior propaganda of one side of it, I'll start empathizing with it.
There was a project that was done many years ago on Second Life, where it was done with women who
were on either side of the Israel-Palestine border, who had very strong views on it. So like Zionists
and pro-Palestinian that were kind of on the Caliphate side. But for a week, it was something
like this. For a week, they took on an avatar in a made environment of the other side to see what
it would be like if I went from being an Israeli woman on this side to being a Palestinian person
with these experiences on the other side. And even though the tech was pretty low, it was enough
that it changed their views within a week of having that vicarious experience in the VR
environment. This is an example of all the really terrible things the metaverse will be.
There are some good things that the same tech could do, and the ability to take on different
avatars and have different vicarious experiences, one of the pretty awesome ones,
if done consciously, right? If done as a empathy training in a perspective-seeking process.
And little threads of this are starting to weave its way into the stories. Like imagine
the old Star Wars. Stormtroopers were absolutely dehumanized. You just blast as many of those
white fuckers as you can, and you blast them, and you keep blasting them. And as many as you
blast, the better off you are. And then in the recent retelling of Star Wars, there was one hero
that eventually took off his white Stormtrooper mask and was like, this is fucked up. I don't
want to do this. I was pressured into this situation in the first place, and I had no
interest in this. I'm going to join the other side. Now, of course, there's still the issues in
Star Wars with redemptive violence and the good versus evil and them never actually coming to
any kind of union and any kind of agreement of balance and respect for each other. But nonetheless,
it was starting to show that these are not just all dehumanized evil. There's a person underneath
that white mask or that black mask, and they're a real person. And that person has a real life
and real emotion. And it was a rehumanization, at least in partial, for this idea that as I think
helping support the new narrative that I think is really important for this third door.
Okay, so I'll finish the example you were bringing up about social media, because it's so important
for everybody. But let's come back to this redemptive violence thing, because we need to address it.
With regard to social media, we evolved in an environment where we could trust our senses to
give us a good sense of the world very differently than we can through telecommunicated media.
Because if I am just looking around the area that I'm in, what I see is pretty actually
reflective of the world that I happen to be in, at least in the bandwidth of light that I can see
in whatever that's relevant for my survival and evolutionary purposes. And it happens to be that
everyone else is going to see about the same thing, right? It's not going to be that I'm seeing bears
and they're not seeing bears. And so there's a shared basis of sense making, which is we have
shared sensing. So then there gets to be a shared basis of choice making, we can talk through and
seeing pretty much the same shit. And if someone says, no, really, this thing is over there, we can
just go look and check it out, right? So we evolved to believe our senses were giving us a good picture
of the world. But it was a tiny little world, right? It was this very tiny geographic area,
very tiny number of people that we were able to directly sense. So then we start getting
telecommunications and I can see the news and I'm seeing stuff happening in all parts of the world.
And I've never been to those parts. And I don't have a sense of what are all the other ways they
could have filmed and viewed that and all the other perspectives and what's happening about it.
And then there's way more total information than I can process. Then let's say I am watching
police brutality videos and I'm on a YouTube channel that just curates police brutality videos
and I watch a hundred of them. By the time I'm finished watching a hundred of them in a row or
even 10 in a row, I haven't also watched a million interactions of police not being violent, right?
So what I'm getting is a curation of a particular kind of thing where my sensing of the world
is curated in a very specific way that is not statistically representative of the whole world.
As a result, my blood is boiling and police are totally the enemy, right? And I have the sense,
look, it's just fucking universal, too ubiquitous. This is the whole thing that happens. And I read
the comments and everyone else thinks similarly because they're watching the same thing. So I
feel like everybody knows, right? But then if I'm watching another one that's curated for people
attacking police and the danger police are in and the heroism that they go through, I can have
this completely opposite sense that is also not statistically representative. So for me to be able
to look at the statistics, I got to say, what are all of the police non-police interactions that
happen? What percentage of them are heroic? What percentage are violent? Which percent
are very low-grade violent, like just slightly asshole-ish and abusive or kind of low-grade
heroic of them going above and beyond versus mostly just boring, right? Interactions. And can I
statistically average from all that anything that's insightful? But that's not what I get when
I'm watching social media. I get an emotional flood of I'm having a direct sensory experience of the
world, but it is cherry-picked to be non-statistically representative of the world. No one emotionally
is immune to that outside of weird neurological disorders, like weird kinds of emotional
in-processing, lack of the process disorders. So what that means is if you're receiving a curated
view of the world, which you are, because there are no views of the world that are coming that
aren't curated by somebody's agenda, then you're going to be having a sense that you understand
the world even though what you're getting is manipulated and not statistically representative
and you'll be having an emotional reaction that will both make you more certain than you should be,
more outraged than you should be. And we'll just start with those, both more certain and more
outraged and probably more righteous or sanctimonious. And yet there will be people just like the deer
video from the deer side or the wolf side, right? The hunt video. There will be people
whose view of the same issues is curated on the exact opposite side. Let's say we call it social
justice and CRT or vaccines or whatever it is, who have just as much certainty, sanctimony and
outrage in the exact opposite direction. And everybody's wrong. Like there's little partial
truths, but everybody is getting a view that has been curated more than is representative and is
under nuanced. So yeah, it's super important to understand if you think you're immune to it,
you are not, right? Like there are a number of us who have intentionally curated those
experiments. And even while we know we're doing it to ourselves, we're being emotionally affected
by it. So we're like, oh, fuck, there's a kind of humility I have to have because I am not immune
to this. Right. There seems like there's a way in which that can be actually used to our advantage
ultimately, you know, because what I sense is, is I sense that pressure creates adaptation,
you know, that's, that's always the way it happens. You put pressure on one particular
thing, adaptation arises. I've seen in my own, you know, in my own social media feed, which is
going through the same algorithms and which is used to hijacking extreme polarizing opinions,
people are so used to that now, they've pressed that button so many times that when I come with a,
what, you know, I've created the idea, the concept United polarity, which is built upon
shared reverence and an understanding of both sides. When I make those posts, they outperform
all other posts that I do by like a seven X, you know, seven X multiple. And I think the reason
is, is that people are now the pressure that we've felt from this polarization is actually
creating the opportunity for this middle path, this third door to actually flourish. It's like
this, it's gone to such an extreme that we're not quite there yet. And I think, unfortunately,
we may have to get even a little more extreme for actually it to take hold even more. But the
pressure itself is creating this other desire, this deep craving for a balanced and nuanced
conversation. Now, of course, there's selection bias, people who follow me, people who follow my
podcast, more likely to engage with that, I understand. But nonetheless, just in my own
audience, like those are the type of posts and discussions that people are really enjoying
the most. And I think that's, and when that happens, the algorithms will start feeding those,
you know, more often, because if we understand that these algorithms are not actually trying to
destroy the world, they're actually just trying to maximize profit and attention. So if profit and
attention are actually going to a more nuanced perspective, well, they will guide and deliver
that more nuanced perspective, that more shared reverence understanding. And so,
actually, the same mechanism could be used to create this other, you know, revolution of consciousness.
Okay, so the phenomena you're describing is that when there is a race to the bottom at a
certain point, it often creates the basis for a new race to the top. And that's what creates
boom and bust cycles. And this is kind of a well known market idea. So I've got a bunch of whatever
it is, fishermen that are all fishing in the same lake, somebody figures out that there's a way of
doing the fishing that is a little bit more polluting or a little bit more exploitative or
whatever, but more profitable, they do it than everybody else races to do the same thing more.
Eventually, the lake is so polluted and fucked up because of that race to the bottom,
that someone's starting to say, we don't do that thing, and we do this clean thing,
they can charge more for it because there's now a market basis for the organic or the free
trade or the whatever, or there's now a market for water purification devices or something like
that, right? So now you have a new niche because the badness of the race to the bottom created
a new desire. Unfortunately, though, it's all still just based on how I can get ahead market
dynamics and they will keep being both, right? So then I start having some little bit of race
to the top and there still keeps being a good niche for race to the bottom. We have to close
the race to the bottom niches. So it's like, only once fast food had kind of gotten as much
proliferation, fast food and junk food as it did, that you started getting ubiquitous obesity,
did you start getting the diet industry emerging so much? But then you have big consumer goods
companies that are selling diet products and fast food products in the same investment portfolio,
right? And it's like, great, are you feasting? Are you fasting? We'll sell both sides of that thing.
And so, but if you have boom and bust cycles, right, you have race to the top and race to the
bottom, but with exponentially growing tech in an increasingly fragile world, the busts start to
become things that you can't make it through, right? There's much harm from them. And so we
have to actually go a step better than that. Because yes, some people will be really excited
to get a more nuanced view that is not totally polarizing and weaponized. But that doesn't mean
that there still won't be susceptibilities to push on particular views that get a lot of traction.
And, you know, this is why like the Occupy movement, you started to get like the Tea Party
and the Green Party on the same side about something. We are the 99% and it was like
class issues are deeper than our other issues. It's like, whoa, that's a big fucking thing.
And then the news cycle started to run stuff like, I remember correctly, stuff about abortion rights
and gun control and gay marriage and boom, they just separated very quickly because you could find
the cleaving lines and push on them. Now, what Facebook is, is it a unbelievably powerful AI
that finds all the cleaving lines and up regulates both sides of them, right? Because it's optimizing
for engagement and you end up getting the most engagement where people feel the most passion.
They feel the most passion or they feel the most threat. And it was classic enemy hypothesis.
Now this comes back to the redemptive violence because a lot of those comments are some sublimated
form of violence, right? And so then you, when you were getting to the culture topic,
what you were getting to is how do we evolve what people want? How do we evolve their basis
for choice internally? Because the catastrophe side and the dystopia side, the catastrophe side is
if people have access to increasing catastrophic power and they are psychologically oriented
that they would use that, then the people can't self-govern, right? And they have to be governed
by something. It's too dangerous to let them self-govern. You can't just do some fully libertarian
whatever they'll figure it all out if the harm is not just that they kill somebody in the street,
but that they release a bio weapon. So you're like, okay, no, when people have that much catastrophic
capability, the libertarian ideas just become nonsense. So then if the answer is they have
to be governed, well, who could have the power to govern all of that? And how would we possibly
trust that thing? Now that thing becomes dystopic. Okay, fuck, we have to go back to how do we evolve
to have something that is more libertarian work? And I'm not saying we go full libertarian,
but to even have something where the people engage in institutions that have the ability, right?
So there's both bottom up libertarian type checks and institutional checks, but the institutions
derive their power from the consent of the governed and a governance of formed by the people,
the people have to all care about each other's cares and be able to really sense make all of
the stuff well. Otherwise, there's no capacity, no basis for it. The whole idea in a democracy was
that emerged like these modern democracies emerging out of the Enlightenment was the idea
that there was a patriotism as a binding where I wasn't going to make my fellow countrymen the
biggest enemy, like just not realize that compromise is better than war. And that we're only going to
do that if I have enough respect for my fellow countrymen that I will really listen to their
ideas because I don't want to come up with something they hate so much they have to war with me.
And so how do we respect each other enough to listen well enough to come up with strategies
that can work for everybody, right? I think the, but I believe that in this, the same dynamic,
I understand the cyclical nature of the race to the bottom creating the race to the top,
but if the race to the top is the end game move, which is, which is the anti fragility
where you don't have cleaving lines anymore because you don't see yourself as separate.
And that's the fundamental race to the top is back to unicity, back to union. So you're actually
becoming anti fragile in that same, in that same capacity. And in that top, well, not only reach a
top, but potentially theoretically could, could reach the top and stick. Because if it, if it's
designed in the right way, you know, the pressure that's pulling us apart, then creates the desire
for this other thing. But if it's steered in the right direction, and we've talked about how all
of the great religions reducing them to their mystical roots, not reducing them, but kind of
filtering away all of the different power grabs that have happened over all of these years and
understanding that everybody's pointing to the similar thing. If we actually get back to that
understanding, that is actually almost an invincible understanding. It's like, it's very, if you really
get that, you're not going to be susceptible. You may still be to some small and some small capacity,
but it feels like that's the end game move that actually creates a race to the top of consciousness
from which there is no retracement. You know, there is no race back to the bottom because you
can't unsee and unfeel what you've already come to know. And everything relies on that old structure
that's pulling you apart. Okay, so let's let's explore this together. So when you say if
the race to the top gets to be towards some kind of
culture that has the ability to be a wise planetary culture. And because it's planetary,
you don't have to keep having the selection for war on different sides, right? It can truly be
not based on unifying against an enemy, where you still have all those multipolar trap things.
Okay, well, you mentioned kind of unicity and oneness. We know this is part of it, but we also
know this is not the whole thing. So like, it's actually worth, we're not going to get into what
is the full memetic payload that is necessary and sufficient for an enlightened culture, but we'll
start because you've had experiences in nature and in meditation and on psychedelics of some
profound sense of interconnectivity with everything, right? The love thy neighbor as
thyself wasn't love your neighbor as much as yourself, but as an expression of consciousness.
That there is some sameness of consciousness in the eyes you're looking at, right? At the same time,
you come out of those peak experiences that you can't stay in and you don't want to share your
bed with every single human and all the homeless people in Austin. And you don't want to share
your clothes and all your shit with them, right? And so there, and there is a basis at which if
they were trying to really kind of aggressively push that you did share all your shit, you'd
knock the person out and be like, no. Okay, wait, I don't believe in oneness perfectly.
I don't experience it. I experience being an individual who wants some shit individually
