problems we're talking about are the result of human choices and technology is a massive lever on
human choice. I can attack somebody with my hands, I'm much more effective if I get to extend my hands
with a knife more with a gun and a lot more with a major nation states military, right, or an ICBM,
but it's a technological extension of a particular choice-making type of process.
First, it's important to know that it's not true that technology has values agnostic, it's neither
good nor bad, it's just power and how we wield it is just based on our consciousness. It's
extending our consciousness, but it's influencing it as well. It's a very good point because I've
often gotten stuck in this kind of reductionist argument that technology is agnostic. You don't
like Instagram, just use it in a different way. Use it in a way for, and yes, you can use it for
good, and there are ways to use it better, but it does have a built-in value system, and I think
that's something that the social dilemma and something that you guys covered in a really
powerful way on that podcast was understanding like, oh, okay, these tools aren't neutral,
because you can say that about guns as well, and I think that's actually a fair argument. The guns
don't kill people, it's people pulling the trigger that kill people, but the guns are far more neutral
than the algorithms, which are really designed to actually pull people apart and garner attention
in a really, it's like the guns don't beg people to fire them, it just gives them the opportunity
to fire them, but the social media systems are actually in some ways even more nefarious because
they have a built-in, they have a built-in kind of incentive and a built-in way about them that
is actually more harmful. Well, social media is, of all of the technologies that influence patterns
of human behavior and human psyche, it's the most powerful one we have evolved yet, because that's
it is a tool intentionally designed to do that. The intention of the tool is to take all of the
world's content and curate it uniquely based off of personalized tracking of my behaviors in a way
that optimizes my behaviors for purposes, for engagement and advertisers and like that.
So it's using exponential technology, specifically personalized data harvesting,
decentralized content curation and artificial intelligence to affect certain outcomes of
behavior mod, and it's why it's important to understand these companies are different in kind
than big agriculture or big pharma or even big defense, is that those are not intended to be
multi-billion person AI-empowered personalized behavior modification systems. This is actually
a behavior modification system down to a personalized level that is AI-empowered at scale,
at a scale that dwarfs nation-states. That's different. It's such a different category of tech
that it really needs thought of not just as a corporation in the market sector, in the private
sector, because already it has changed the nature of what the market itself is. To be able to be
effective in the market, you have to be effective in marketing. Now that there are monopolies of
where everyone's attention is, to be effective in marketing means you have to be effective in
marketing on Facebook, which means appealing to its algorithm, which actually means that the Facebook
algorithm has captured the invisible hand of the market and turned it into an algorithm,
which means there is no longer a thing called a market in an Adam Smith sense. There is now a
fully privatized captured set of algorithms that determines what succeeds and what doesn't
succeed very largely. To think of it from the old lens of we believe in capitalism and private
enterprise and blah blah blah, it's just nonsense. But now let's come back to technology's not
values agnostic. Technology extends human choice, which is human choice arising from human motivation,
which is our values and our understanding and our desires and all like that. But it doesn't just
extend the power of it, it also influences it. This is true for every piece of tech, actually.
And cumulative tech. If I had made this shirt by hand, right, depending upon how deep I go,
I raised the sheep and then sheared the sheep and made the wool and knitted the fucking thing,
I would treat the shirt very differently than my ability to press one button on Amazon and get
quite a few of them and to see which ones I like. So built right into the ease with which I get
the thing and can replace it affects the nature of how I engage with it, that affects multiplied
by all human behavior and not just shirts, but all the things I want affects the nature of
waste management and the environment writ large, right? Like my ability to get shit easily means
I'm going to go through a bunch of shit, right? Whereas if it was much harder to get, I just
wouldn't go through the shit in the same way. It means that I'm not even going to think about,
do I really need this shit in the same way that I would if I had to make it. So the nature of
the way that things get made easier affects human values, right? In almost invisible ways.
So we go back to the first really classic example. I mean, we can obviously go to stone tools,
but the plow is my favorite example. Because that's the beginning, it's a good place to take as
the beginning of what we call recorded history and civilization, where we started creating
cities and empires. Once we were able to create a plow, which means we were able to create grain
and store grains, we started having stores of calories rather than just hunter gather, right?
The hunter gather to agrarian transition. But we got something like 300,000 years of homo sapien
history before that to then have maybe only 10,000 after that. That's not enough to have affected
really our genetic makeup or anything. But before that, there's the best evidence indicates that
pretty much everybody around the world was animistic, right? The North America, South America, Asia,
wherever, the spirit of the animals, the spirit of the river, the spirit of the trees, there was
a sense of the spirit of everything, right? So if I'm a hunter and a gatherer, I might kill an animal.
But I'm making this prayer as I kill the animal that says I am killing the buffalo.
And then when I die, my body will go into the ground and create grass that its grandchildren
will eat. And there's this great cycle of life and we're connected and I do a prayer.
So I can believe in the spirit of the buffalo and kill it because I need to eat.
But can I take that buffalo and domesticate it into an ox, castrate it, put things through
its nose to then be able to yoke it and beat it all day long to pull this plow and still believe
in the spirit of the ox or the buffalo? Not really. Not really, right? Like the beginning of that.
It's at least very uncomfortable if you have to do that, right? And that discomfort drives the
separation. Yeah, because either I have to just say it's just a dumb cow and man who is given
dominion over earth. Or I have to say, no, there's a spirit of what it's like to be it and I'm an
evil motherfucker, right, who's just right, right, working this thing all the time. And so,
which is why in the American slavery system, which was so much worse than other forms of slavery
for some important reasons, which was other places didn't have the Declaration of Independence
saying all men are created equal and all deserve the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness. Like feudalism didn't make that claim. There was a very clear class system. The nobility
had a better deal than everybody else. But when you make that, all men are created equal and they
all deserve life, liberty and pursuit of happiness. And then you want to keep slavery, you have to
do some weird mental gymnastics to justify that. And it was at the time stuff like, well, the blacks
are a subspecies more like the animals, right? There was a lot of that kind of nonsense that
happened to justify that immoral kind of behavior. But that was already what we were doing with the
animals when the plow came. So the plow ended animism, right? There's a lot of different scholars
who will kind of debate fine points, but there's a kind of overarching assessment. And so let's say
I have a tribe that says, no, I'm not going to castrate the thing and beat it all the time. I'm
just going to continue to hunt and gather. Well, those people aren't going to populate nearly as
much as the people who get the plow and can create a lot more calories and support a much
larger population and make it through the famines. As a result, the non-animistic ideas will proliferate
and the other ones will die out and then get killed off in the tribal warfare between the ones
that have a much larger population and more resources. So the ideas themselves that caught on
were the ideas that lent themselves to power, not necessarily the ideas that lived in harmony with
nature or were true, good, and beautiful. And similarly, when you're talking about burning
the witches to death, somehow in the name of this Jesus guy who said, let he who has no sins cast
the first stone. And who says, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do while they're
nailing them up. Somehow in his name, we think that burning witches to death makes makes like
weird mental gymnastics to make that shit happen, right? And then the witches are
people who maybe believed in herbs or whatever was, but something that was,
let's say they were matriarchal cultures that were generally more peaceful,
but we offered them the Bible and they either got that or they got the sword.
There was a place where the more violent cultures, when they interacted with the more
peaceful cultures, killed the more peaceful cultures, took their stuff and moved on. So the
thing that you're mentioning about the kind of cultural breakdown is the thing that was selected
for was the thing that was selected for in the process of resource competition and war.
Now, then we get to a place where the wars become big enough that nobody can win them,
but what's been selected for is the ability to win wars, economic wars as well as kinetic wars.
So you're like, okay, what's been selected for for a long time will now self terminate,
which means we have to consciously select something that can make it through rather than
unconsciously just have it selected via domination capacity. And that's the unique turning point
we're at. And it's also very well said. And it's not only what we've been selected and almost
bred through these thousands of years of this mentality. It's also the stories that guide the
culture in which there's always the story of redemptive violence. That's the way that actually
wins. And this was a really potent critique of Avatar that came from Charles Eisenstein when
I was talking to him as I have an avatar pinball machine. I was real fired up about it. I was like,
yeah, fucking avatar, great movie. And he's like, well, there's a huge problem with that.
And the problem is that it's still the same thing. Somehow the, you know, the Navi people got enough
power together that they were actually able to kill and destroy the other conquerors,
which is the same story. It's the same war mentality. It wasn't the new story, like you could
read about in Starhawk's Fifth Sacred Thing, where they actually changed the mentality of
the conquering tribe at that point and rewrote their understanding of how to live in peace
and in a different way. It was still the same old story, but just told in a really attractive way.
And this dances with wolves attractive, you know, kind of format. But it seems like not only do we
have to rewrite our own selection, this natural selection that's occurred to select us for this
environment, but we also have to rewrite the stories that are guiding us so that we can understand,
like, what's the new way of the third door? How does that even look? And we're starting,
one of the ways in which I'm optimistic is we're starting to see some stories turn out like that.
Like there was a Disney movie, Raya and the Last Dragon. And that story actually has this
type of solution where the enemy was not ultimately defeated by a good that eventually got more powerful
even though they were good and smashed them. The enemy was defeated by making the enemy aware
that this lust for power and this need to destroy the other was actually a delusion
and to have them lay down their arms and live in peace. Like that's a different story. And I think
those stories hopefully will start to get told more and more because the futility of this system,
it leads only one direction and it's destruction.
I never heard Charles's critique of Avatar in terms of its narrative.
I had a very similar one when I watched it because the movie was done so well
that it was very easy to just like fall in love with the Omadikaya.
I'm like, fuck, I want to watch it again because I miss them. But I was also equally
bothered instantly by the narrative landscape because even before the point you made is
they were warriors, right? Some of them, the men were warriors. You're like, well, wait,
if they're all peaceful, what the fuck are they warriors for? Like there's a little conflict
and who are they warring before the white folk in the ultimatum or whatever it was came.
Unobtainium.
Unobtainium. But it's been many years since I saw it. But the other thing was that I really,
really disliked was it was very much a classic and then magic happened solution.
They were giving, they were losing and then all the animals just came in and kind of magically
turned the tide as a result of the prayer or whatever they did. I heard from a number of
Native American elders that like, we fucking hated that show because obviously it was kind of glorifying
a version of what the Native American processes and we're like, we prayed around and we got a
damn tree and the animals didn't just start fighting the white men. Like that just didn't happen.
Like that's not the right answer. The right answer is the dudes with the guns are going to beat
the one arrows. We have to do something other than just and then magic happens.
And so one of the other things is like, it was fundamentally a Luddite narrative. It was an
anti-tech narrative. Why guys with tech bad, right? Something that is kind of a high-nature
low-tech good, but there's no way to bridge how the low-tech thing will not lose to the high-tech
thing because the tech equals power, right? And so ultimately, like I feel very convinced
that there are no futures that work, that don't require complete catastrophe first,
that are low-tech, just aren't. Because anyone who goes and that we can be more peaceful through
low-tech permaculture, great, you will not direct the topology of the world as a whole.
The dudes building the AI weapons will and the other forms of like advanced technology. So you've
got to say, all right, we know that there were Buddhist cultures and Jainist cultures and matriarchal
cultures that got slaughtered by warring cultures. We know why Tibet isn't there anymore. We don't
need to try to build something that just definitely loses. But how do you not lose to something that
is putting all of its attention at effective dominance without becoming better than it at that
thing? That's a really tricky question, right? And I actually don't think it was really possible
before the type of tech we have today. I think the type of tech we have actually makes it possible
to create certain kinds of very adaptive and abundance generating power that are not offensively
oriented and can actually facilitate collective intelligence and collective sovereignty and
things like that. That doesn't mean that's how it's currently being developed, but could be
developed that way. Yeah, there's a saying in the permaculture, which is the problem is the solution.
If this exponential tech is the problem, well, then likely it's also the solution as well.
But it's a different application of it, which must come from a different consciousness, which
much has come from a different culture, which must come with different stories. And so these are the
things that must happen that must weave its way through. Like a lot of people want to demonize
McDonald's and say like, oh, McDonald's serving all of this. Well, McDonald's is feeding a lot
of people. So instead of demonizing McDonald's, how about utilizing this network of ability to
distribute food, but with a different consciousness about how they source their animals, where they
source their food, what they're offering on the menu, the education around what is actually nourishing
and what is not nourishing. But it's using the actual infrastructure of the thing itself rather
than saying, let's destroy that. And just, you know, Molotov cocktail all McDonald's. Well,
then people are just going to be fucking hungry. But if we use that infrastructure and the technology
that they've developed, but train it in a different way, that's how you're going to actually affect
change. And it's, in my mind, the same with tech, it has to come from the inside, almost like the
inside out, rather than the outside forces squashing what's already in existence.
Let's give an example of what that could look like for social media. Since that is, as far as tech goes,
both at the very cutting edge, and the thing that is most debasing the social and cultural
systems we've had so far. Let me take a quick detour there to explain, you were one of the most
intelligent, self-aware human beings I've ever had the pleasure of encountering and conversing with.
And you told a story on that podcast about how you intentionally trained the algorithm to show you
police brutality videos for a little while, and then police, you know, like police being heroes
and fighting for the good, and trained yourself in both ways. And even though you knew you were
running the experiment, you were still affected by it. And I think this is important to recognize,
don't get confused that you're going to be somehow so much more powerful than social media,
that you're going to be immune to its natural effects. So if you want to just share that,
so people understand what it's actually doing to the human psyche, and how almost irresistible
it is to fall into these traps. You know, there's actually an example that just came to mind as
you were saying that I think many people have experienced, which is, let's say you're watching
a good nature show, and you're following the deer, then the wolf is a bad guy, and it's really
terrible when the baby deer gets eaten, and everybody's really bummed. But if you're watching
