and has a differential orientation to my own experience relative to the experience of others.
Now, how do I hold those together? Because if I try to pretend that there is no real
deep basis of the individuality, it'll just become a pathological shadow. We'll all bullshit about
oneness and yet still want our partner to be sexual just with us and not with anyone else and
want some of our stuff to ourselves and we'll share the stuff we want to share, but we don't
want to share everything. So we have to be able to say what is the right relationship to the
individuality as well as the oneness to the difference as well as the sameness, right?
That has to be part of that memetic package. Otherwise, it's just the failed case of it.
Right. And the metaphor I use for that for holding those boundaries is the rose.
Like the rose, which gives its scents and its flower and its beauty to the world,
also has thorns. And the thorns don't go out seeking other people to attack and whip and
punish and whatever, but it holds its boundary. And because the boundary is necessary so that
it doesn't get trampled so that the flower, its love, its consciousness doesn't get trampled,
the bush doesn't die because something just comes and mows right through it. I mean,
obviously machines can and whatever, but the metaphor is that it carries the thorns to protect
itself, but also offers its love universally, which is through its scent. And so I think
these kinds of metaphors and these ideas need to be held because we are a multi-dimensional
being. We are both individual and same. And both are true and it's a paradox,
but that's the paradox of being multi-dimensional as we are, going all the way back to source
and oneness and all the way as far as we are now in separation, both being very real.
And I think so that has to become a part of this story as you correctly pointed out,
like we have to tell a more nuanced story than this, oh, we're all one. Well, that's, of course,
not true. It's only part of the story, but that part of the story is the neglected part of the
story, which needs to be brought back into balance with the individualism, which we got that shit
down. We understand that. We got a pretty good idea of our individualism, but it's our interconnectedness
and shared reverence and shared commonality and unicity that we don't get. And there will be
some, perhaps, that'll go full Jesus and be able to go all the way into that dimensional reality
where they're just seeing the unicity. And it is very important to not pretend to be Jesus.
It's great to be Jesus if you're Jesus, but don't pretend to be Jesus because then you're just,
your spiritual bypass and you're actually bullshitting yourself. And it's not actually real.
And again, you're living out your own shadow. So it is definitely a more nuanced story than
that. But I think I point to the one side because that one side is just grossly neglected and
underrepresented compared to the individualism story.
Okay, this is a really fun and fertile place. So when you say if one's experience authentically is
Jesus-like, cool, so if you notice most of the monastic traditions of the world had vows of
poverty and chastity. And there was a reason they had vows of poverty and chastity. As we just
said, the things you have a hard time sharing is your physical stuff, right? And because evolution
selected for survival and mating. And so there's a very strong desire to get stuff that enables
survival and to get stuff that enables mate selection. And interestingly in humans,
having more stuff than the other guy is there's no upper bound to how much that stays relevant
to mate selection, right? My 250 foot super yacht no longer seems as good when the 300 foot super
yacht pulls in. And so there is no upper bound on the amount of resource, even though there is for
survival. So both the survival impetus and the and the mate signaling impetus create a competitive
basis that drives this thing that we're talking about. Right, right, right. Violence happens.
So you're not going to own anything, you'll just live in the monastery and you're not going to mate
and you're not going to have kids that have you more focused on your own progeny than focused on
the good of everyone. That was the idea in so many of the monastic traditions. And usually even
further, you're going to shave your head, right? And either like the Buddha shave it fully or
like the fryer shave just the top so it looks maximally goofy as an ego game. So that you are
maximally not connected to the individual, either your own genetic progeny, your aesthetics,
or anything else, your your stuff. Well, we see that that didn't even work in monasticism all that
well. Right. And definitely not outside of it. And so okay, so it's important to recognize that
these beings genetically did evolve where mate signaling and survival were very real impetus
that are coded into the structure of our neurology and endocrinology. So we have to deal with those
impulses, right? We have to have an enlightened way, a more enlightened way of dealing with them.
And they're not one this oriented because I can survive and you die
if there's not enough resource. And I can mate and you not mate, right? Like really physically,
there is a differential basis there. And yet when I multiply that not just by we're going to fight
with our fists over who gets to get the food or get the mating opportunity, but we're going to
fight within weapons and then up to nukes, that same impulse multiplied by technology destroys
everything. There's a lot of people get stuck on this like, wait, what is the fucking cause of all
the problems in the world? It's a capitalism. But the USSR seem to have a lot of problems. And that
wasn't capitalism. It's something like competition. But wait, competition seems to actually drive
evolution in nature. Why is competition good for nature and not for us? But in sports, it seems
like it's kind of good in terms of developing certain things. Unbounded competition, competition
multiplied by tech is different than competition not multiplied by tech, different in kind.
In the evolutionary process where the lions are fighting for alpha lion mating status or whatever
it is to select for the genes that are best for lions as a whole, there is a cemetery between
all the lions where the difference is tiny. And that's what's being selected for. And not just
lion to lion, but also lion to deer that they're chasing, the deer gets away more often than the
lion catches it. So there is a cemetery and the power in all of those types of dynamics,
which is why we have weight classes. You and I talked about this before. The idea that like,
okay, we're going to show up to the boxing ring, but you show up as you and I show up with an
Apache helicopter. That's not an interesting competition to see who has better skills, right?
The Romans might have been interested in it, but yeah.
Not from the point of view of competition and selection, just from the point of view of enjoying
cruelty and spectacle. So the thing with technology is that we can have our competition
drives arms races, right? So if we want to compete, but we go from just having a little bit more stuff
to needing larger superyocks, and there's no upper boundary on that mate signaling kind of thing.
And then also not just us, but nation states, which are these weird fictions or major corporations,
and they have to keep evolving the tooling to compete. And they're competing on a single metric,
but they're externalizing harm to other metrics. If you get unbounded competition driving arms races,
competing for narrow metrics, externalizing harm for others, that system self-terminates on a finite
planet. And yet the goal to do that thing is coded in us. And we have to deal with that.
This is really, this is really shaking my, this is really important because I could,
I could suppose that if I could transfer my understanding of the world to everybody at once,
and not saying that this is moral or desirable or any of those sorts of things, but I could
hypothesize prior to this discussion, like people would be a lot cooler to each other.
And, and I believe that's to be fundamentally true. However, if everybody was an Aubrey,
you know, I understand my own sexual desire and my desire to win. I'm a, I'm a competitive person.
I enjoy the finite games and I enjoy, but I also have a deep understanding of the infinite game,
but I'm still compelled within the finite game because of my deep, deep lure and draw to sexual
experience. You know, I mean, I am, I'm very satisfied with my beautiful Wi-Fi Lana, which
I'm glad you got a chance to meet. And I'm in a great spot there, but all of the other
Aubreys would be looking at, you know, the different Aubreys and being like,
how do I get what that fucking Aubrey has? You know, and so it wouldn't necessarily,
wouldn't necessarily ultimately solve the problem of a finite world with the infinite
opportunity to accumulate and compete. So now let's say, now let's say that this other asshole,
Aubrey, he's an asshole just because he got some head injury, right? Stuff happens,
even if you try and get a culture well. He wants to do whatever he can, underhandedly,
to take FiLana, right? And so now you got to actually try to protect. Now you,
now you create a security service, but he also is doing well. He's got a lot of money. So he's
creating a more advanced attack service. Now you have the beginning of five stumps that have to
put more and more of their resources into the military process over the scarce resource, right?
And I would go to the fucking bitter end. I would go to the, if it came to protecting my
Vilana, I would go, I would go to the bitter end. I would get all the cans of proverbial spinach
to make sure I was fucking Popeye and that Bruno did not succeed in raping my olive oil.
And if every step that you make, he's making a comparable step, you're going to try to innovate
how to do fundamentally better types of steps, right? You're going to try to innovate. Okay,
well, my security forces in symmetry with his are problematic. I want to go asymmetric in the
competition. So let me see if I can get a helicopter in here in an Air Force to deal with his
workforce. Let me see if I can get some fucking surveillance on his team or whatever it is, right?
And so you can see how an arms race happens. And you start to say, well, why just wait for the
fucker to attack me? If I know he's going to, I should, the best defense is an offense. I should
just preemptively defend myself, right? Which is an offense. But then he knows that and that. So
then you see how the world gets to where it is. And now what we're getting to with the finite
number of Vailanas and an infinite number of Aubreys, we're in a very dangerous world.
That's a fundamental truth. And let's say that there's some really beautiful spot on the Austin
Lake that you want to live on. And it's right on the cliff. And there's just one of them. There's
not lots of other cliff sites quite like that one. Somebody else wants the same place, right?
And you kind of want for other people so long as they don't want the exact thing that you have,
because you don't want to share that thing. And there's a finite number of them. And so
all of a sudden our oneness-oriented empathy decreases radically and our individual-oriented
desire to win increases radically. And so then it becomes that it's not just Aubrey with this, but
Aubrey creates a relationship with a bunch of other people around because this is happening
now at a tribal level. It's not just you having that point and you having that woman, but it's you
and everybody you know having the chance to have any women and not all be slaughtered by these other
fuckers coming in where you and all your friends all decide to unify to create a military to deal
with that. And then some of the other tribes actually unify to be larger. Now you got to
unify with some other tribes and start doing politics to be larger. And you end up getting,
you go from tribes to chiefdoms to fiefdoms and kingdoms to nation-states to global economic
trading blocks to, you know, you get this fucking thing, right? And yeah, this thing self-terminates,
right? Because the thing that wins at the tribal warfare scale kills everything at the global scale.
And so we're at a place where what has been selected for,
selects itself out of existence soon. And our ability to understand that and consciously
select something different is kind of the only path, but it's not a really simple one.
Now, this is where we actually have to get not just the oneness, but the individuality and what
is the right ethics around that because we haven't got individuality well. Because our models of it
are almost exclusively competitive more than synergistic. And so my where I'm the same as others
gives me some basis for empathy, but where we have differences, how does that, how do we relate to
that in the more healthy and enlightened ways has to be just as important a part of the new
religion or new philosophy or ethos. A friend who I believe you just met, Mark Gaffney,
he has this whole rabbinic thing on the unique self, which is a big part of the kind of
Kabbalistic tradition is. So it's not just Buddhist oneness. And we can all kind of meditate into
that oneness because the moment you leave the meditation, that's not where you're at anymore.
Right. And that's not the whole story. That's a part of the story, but there's also that oneness
embodied and incarnated in unique ways. And so then is there a way to be able to hold the difference
where there is a uniqueness to you and what you can experience and what you can offer,
but where that uniqueness, if you and me are both actually unique, we can't compete on the same metrics.
Right. If I say that we can compete, like we are a function of our
money and the size of our cocks and our whatever it is for our main function thing,
and there's like four things we can compete on those and who's a better package. That's
actually not uniqueness. That's sameness. That's the sameness of a few metrics of selection.
At the heart of when you fall in love with someone deeply is something ineffable. It's
unspeakable. That is beyond a package, right? There is a taste or a quality of the uniqueness
of the thing that you have a relationship with. And so if there is something where the difference
of everyone actually has a uniqueness that has the interconnectedness, the quality of oneness,
but with a totally unique form to it, then those unique forms can't fundamentally compete.
There's no metric to measure or assess it on. And then there is, you can offer something to the
world that is different than what I can offer to the world, but where the world is better at my
own assessment if you offer it fully. It seems like still though, there's the issue of finite
resources, but I think the solution that I can see with that is we often think that we want
things, but we don't really want the things. We want the sensations that the things give us,
right? Like that's really what we're chasing. We don't want necessarily the car or the bank
account or the place in the lake. We want the feeling of what that brings to us, the feeling of
awe, perhaps when we look out at the view, the feeling of power and self-worth and validation
from the things that we accomplish. We want the feeling of love that our sweetheart gives us.
We really want feelings. So it seems like in order to get beyond the necessity to compete
over things is to break down the myth that it's actually the things we want and say, no, no, no.
You don't actually want the things. You want the sensations that the things give you, but there's
a way to get those sensations without the things. And that's like a deep, deep spiritual kind of
practice that would be required to train everybody how to get sensations without the things that
are giving them the kind of quick hit of the sensation that they're chasing.
Well, here's a real easy answer. It's already underway. Just hook everybody up with their
Oculus to the Metaverse. And in the Metaverse with Oculus, an Oculus will progressively turn
into a matrix boot. I can give anybody any feelings that they want, and there's no scarcity of
resources because it's all digitally created simulation. Well, that's on the hypothesis that
there are some feelings that are reducible and replicable by a machine universe, which I think
for those of us who've experienced the numinists like you and I, we believe fundamentally as a
tenant of faith that there is something that's irreducible. I'm wearing this little toad
necklace around my neck. I fucking guarantee you that, well, I don't guarantee you, I don't know
anything for that shirt, that certain, but I'm fairly confident that you're not going to get
a Bufo journey in the Metaverse. You're not going to be able to duplicate this feeling,
which is pure love, God, there's no other real way that I have to describe it. So I think there
may be some sensations that we could get by jacking ourselves into it, but some that may not
be even possible by, you know, and not replicable in the machine world and perhaps love itself,
even in the more mundane sense rather than the psychedelic, you know, rocket ship sense,
is not reducible to that, nor is the feeling of awe or nor is the feeling of that deep kind of
enlivening piece that you get in the meditative state. Maybe if you can alter your brainwave
chemistry and some things can happen, it's possible, but I think I feel like there's
things that are irreducible. And I don't know, that's just like a feeling that I have, but maybe
I'm underestimating what technology could potentially offer. So let's say that in addition to the
Oculus, you know, visual auditory haptic input. And of course, as soon as I go three, I start
three different axes of input, visual auditory haptic, I start getting the ability to simulate
immersive experience in the brain pretty deeply. But let's say we start to figure out how to add
chemistry to it. We've already know there are a lot of people and the thing with the heroin
addiction is someone is going for a particular kind of sensation, independent, decoupled from what
evolutionarily would have given them that sensation, right? Like why do I even have
receptor sites for heroin? Well, because natural opiates do emerge in certain kinds of processes,
what I'm in the same way that like if I'm doing the math and I'm getting the dopamine or the cocaine,
