dopamine is naturally produced. But it's naturally produced in association with things that had
evolutionary relevance, right? But if I can couple them and just get the sensation about the other
thing, that is almost always destructive because the thing that wasn't the sensation was actually
part of what was fundamentally meaningful, right? The sensation was just a part of it, which is why
in the simulation story, if I could simulate it better, I can use transcranial magnetic stimulation
on the right hemisphere to induce God experiences and whatever. And I know that I'm in that simulation.
Do I want to blue pill and just jack back in and have the thing? Or do I want a red pill because
there's some connection to reality that is meaningful for me beyond just the sensation of it?
It's a very important question. It is an important question. It seems like that actually
the synergy, it seems like while people are pushing against this technology, it could actually
be a useful part of the solution where people all of a sudden, when they realize that they can get
a lot of the sensations they are craving in a unlimited virtual universe where that sensation
is universally, ubiquitously available to them, then it may actually decrease some of this
competitive individualism, which is actively seeking to take from this finite world. It
could be productive in some ways, I suppose. I suppose this could be a part of this multifaceted
solution is in kind of helping to tame our baser instincts. Now, it depends upon
what it is being developed for, because let's say we look at the heroin and the McDonald's.
If the thing that is guiding the development of the tech, whether it's food tech or
farm tech or whatever, if the thing that's guiding it is a market process,
I can offer people sensations that they want. In fact, sensations that then they want so much
they get addicted to. Driving addiction is the best thing I can do from a business point of view,
because I want to maximize lifetime revenue of a customer. I maximize lifetime revenue by driving
addiction and ideally starting the addiction as young as possible. Then expanding the addiction
to the largest number of people possible. Now, if you think about this nonsense idea in the market,
the demand is like, when I say nonsense, there's an Adam Smith idealized market where people want
real things that will really enrich the quality of their life, and then wanting that and being
willing to give something to it creates a basis for supply. The rational actors here will choose
the supply that is the best product or service at the best price. People's desire creates a basis
for healthy innovation and the whole world gets better, except that the supply side becomes coordinated
in a way the demand side doesn't. There isn't all customers working together in some customer union
against Nike or Google. But Nike or Google is actually a company that is highly coordinated,
and the supply side starts to realize we've supplied the ship people want, but now we'll
make more money if we can get them to want shit they don't currently want. How do we change the
style every year so people need to keep getting new shit? How do we either do designed obsolescence
or perceived obsolescence or addiction driving so that we can manufacture demand artificially?
The entire idea of the intelligence of markets dives with that, with manufactured demand and
supply side drive in that way. Now it's just a self-authoring extraction machine on the way
to self-termination on the finite planet. If the thing that can provide the experience, because
there's no question when you're eating the hostess, you're having an experience that is of a different
nature of the total amount of dopamine than when you're eating a salad or whatever. You figured
out how to extract salt, fat, sugar and combine them in the ways that maximize that dopamine
hit. The same is true with whatever, the porn and lots of things. In the metaverse,
if it is continuing to have the technology developed by supply side that wants to optimize for
manufacturing demand, which will appeal to the lowest angels of people's nature, that becomes a
dystopian hell. What would the tech be that was actually healthy where we say, how do we ensure
that when someone straps the oculus on, it's not creating such hypernormal stimuli that it makes
people have a shittier experience out here because it's desensitized them to normal stimuli?
Because every girl in there is AI airbrushed and shit, so now all normal girls are not pretty and
whatever it is. My avatar in there is so dope that I don't want to be this avatar out here.
Let's say that one of the criteria of the digital world has to be that it increases the
quality of life in the non-virtual world. Well, then it could be a really awesome tool,
but who the fuck builds that thing? Because it's not going to be a market-driven process.
It would have to come from the pressure of the world not being optimized,
almost getting enough destruction that actually there's the motivation to do it. It almost feels
like there needs, and I pray that this is as gentle as possible, but it feels like the necessity
for things to fall apart a little bit to shake people out of this reality that we can continue
on the path is almost necessary for people to actually start making the choices and build
a new ethics that isn't bound to some white-bearded god who's going to punish you if you don't do
this or if you do do this or whatever, but it's built on this, again, mutually assured destruction
like where people really understand that this path is actually going to destroy the world,
not only for you, but for your children, and everything is going to degrade, so we must make
a different choice, but it feels like a little bit of pressure might be actually what's needed to
kind of raise that level of consciousness and actually allow ethics to bind people to their
desires. So I want to comment first on something really brilliant about the white-beard god thing.
Independent of whether and like whatever was problematic about it or whether it's true or
not, just like a functional thing that it did, and basically any system of heaven and hell or
reincarnation were able to do this, which is a perfected system of justice for self-organization.
So let's say that we have not got people to deeply empathize with other people's experience and really
care about their experience, independent of how it affects their own experience, and they're still
mostly just selfish fucks who care about their experience, and there are ways that they could
hurt other people and get away with it because they can hide it, they can pretend they didn't do it,
they can whatever it is, systems of actual justice are tricky because you got to have
policing in court systems and in jails and it's expensive and people still can get away with stuff,
they can figure out how to hide it, but an invisible watcher that sees absolutely everything and not
one jot, not one tittle shall go unnoticed before the day of judgment and that kind of thing,
that also is an absolute perfected authority so there is no appeal. And with infinite reward and
infinite punishment, it's really just like the zenith of behavior mod, right? What's the
best reward be? Well, eternity of everything awesome and what would the worst punishment be?
Eternity of everything terrible, absolute authority and absolute surveillance,
but it also sees your thoughts, not just even your actions, and you can go to health with
wrong types of thoughts, so now forever is so much longer than a short little time here,
even if you're just selfishly oriented to not burn in hell and to have good heaven or to not
have a shitty reincarnation and have a good reincarnation, you're still oriented to do
whatever the moral things in that belief system are because it's all being seen and there's
going to be consequence positive or negative for all of it. That's kind of awesome actually
from the point of view of how do we get a whole big group of people to follow some kind of code
when it's very hard to enforce them and where you have not yet necessarily figured out how
to have them all care about everyone authentically, how do you bind that caring about their own
experience requires doing the virtuous thing? And so like we're really missing a lot without
something like that. Well actually, so this is interesting because, all right, so I grew up
and I was in a pretty much atheist leaning agnostic family and Jewish by heritage and genetics,
but not really practicing, kind of phoned in a Hanukkah when my grandma was around and did
Christmas too because it was fun and then moved to Texas, it's much more Christian and I saw people
racked with a lot of guilt. I saw a lot of things happening with my friends and peers,
like people's first sexual experiences being incredibly traumatic and I was like,
what is going on? Like this is some craziness and then move along, I go take a trip to Italy,
I go to the dungeons of the Inquisition, which was in one of the cities in Italy and it was one of
the most horrifying things that I've ever witnessed in my life and then I started getting very anti-
religious and so atheist to the point of crusading to be anti-religious. Like this is,
I have to dismantle all of this superstition that's caused all this harm and it's continuing to
cause harm that I'm seeing in my peers. Okay, fast forward, I go do my first guided medicine journey,
combination of MDMA and psilocybin in the mountains of New Mexico. I feel my body evaporate,
this thing that emerges, which is consciousness or I could call it a soul, that was really what I,
the only name that I could say, what is this thing, this unborn, undying aspect of self?
Then what I ultimately realized was that there is a recapitulation of all of your actions and
deeds and thoughts that happens with the perfect unblinded clarity of seeing yourself without
all of the delusional, projective rationalizations and notions that we have that get us to do all of
these things that are sometimes blindingly pernicious, ways in which I've treated girlfriends and
different things. I mean, I was never like bad quotes, but I'd done things that were selfish
for sure and I just had to look at those like somebody had things that were holding my eyes
open and I couldn't look away from them. And that feeling was akin to hell. And then the
forgiveness of that was then the redemption and then the feeling of heaven, which was waiting.
And so I had this real interesting moment where I was like, wow, the story isn't that far off
in that there will come a reckoning where we have to look with perfect clarity at all of our
deeds and actions and that will be a hell if we've lived a life in ignorance or in denial of
some of these real morals and it will be a heaven and a celebration when we get to release this
physical form and experience the divinity of these other dimensional realities.
And then another layer which has recently come into my awareness is that moment when you actually
do it, because I was just pretend doing it with the psychedelics, right? I got to like touch it
and taste it partially, but not completely. Well, that moment you're outside of the bounds of time.
And this is of course, based upon predicated upon a multidimensional understanding of our
existence. And then these dimensions are not bound by time. So in a place that's not bound by time,
what could be a moment is also infinity. There's no, there's no difference between a moment
of this recapitulation of like, wow, what did I do? I can't believe I did I'm feeling all of that
guilt and the pain and the empathy for everything that you've done that stretches to infinity also
and is also a moment, you know, depending on how long it goes. So
in an interestingly, there was one of my very first experience 22 years ago, there was a synergy
that I never really thought about the importance of this, but it's coming to light now like,
wow, maybe that's actually really important to recognize and highlight that this is a way to
maybe potentially bind our own ethics is to understand that yes, there is a hell and there
is a heaven and it's us that's the judge. And it's the truest, fairest judge because it knows
not only our actions, but our intentions and it knows the truth, the truth of all things it's
aware of it's not blinded by the stories in the indoctrinations of cultures. It's really bound
to the truth and it's us lifted from all of our delusions. So I guess that's one way of saying
that potentially this is reality in some just slightly different way and maybe that is an
important piece to this puzzle is to bring this awareness back. Yeah, it's interesting when you're
in that experience, you're reviewing all of your actions, you're seeing them. So
that the space of that experience is that kind of review and judgment and the reward and punishment
whatever are in that space. When we talk about, but what's interesting is there's a transparency,
someone is forced to see themselves on the Ibogaine journey in a way that they aren't most of the
time. Right. And so this is that whole thing of like, how do you have, what is the basis of the
kind of behavioral upgrade of people if there is no transparency? What's the basis of justice?
You don't have justice if you can hide the effect of the action, right? So there's a kind of
transparency required for justice, which is required for the kind of cause and effect that
motivates behavior to move in the right direction. And so the psychedelic or the
self-reckoning experience is one way of that. The idea of a sky god who sees everything and will
punish reward is another. The sky god had to come when we moved from a small tribal scale
to a much larger scale. At the tribal scale, literally the tribe saw everything because
it was a small enough scale you couldn't fucking hide it. And it's actually interesting to think
about for the vast majority of human history and all of our evolved history, these small little
tribes of less than 150 people, you could never effectively lie and get away with it because
everybody's gossiping about everybody's talking, everybody's seeing everything and you couldn't
like hide the pollution somewhere or like make a mess and get like literally the tiny scale
created a forced transparency where what was good for the individual was good for the tribe became
bound. You weren't going to get ahead by fucking the tribe over, it just wasn't going to happen.
If you tried, you'd get exiled and then you'd die. And it's interesting to note that our whole,
like individual humans weren't selected for, individual humans would die.
Tribes were selected for, but they were at a small enough, they were at a big enough scale,
they could deal with bears and the cold, but they were at a small enough scale that what was good
for the individual was good for the tribe as a whole was bound because of the forced transparency,
the forced cause and effect. And so as soon as we needed to get much beyond a tribal scale where
I could actually do something where I could leave a mess somewhere and hide and nobody would know
who it was or I could fuck somebody else over or whatever, now I needed a sky god, right? Because
as soon as you start to get to the empire scale, now either you have to have some king that's
rewarding and punishing everyone, which you'd have as well, but it's hard. You have to like
whip a lot of people and monitor a lot of people, whatever, or you have that king as below the same
as above and you have some kind of religious idea. But it's, now the thing that you're noticing with
the psychedelic experience is, okay, can we self police, right? Can we self, where our own sense of
I couldn't actually be fulfilled. I couldn't actually respect myself because I'm monitoring my,
there's a mindfulness, there's a monitoring and I actually have my own sense of ethics that are deep
enough that that is the, a directing and a binding force for my own behavior. And then the question
is through the combination of both numinous experiences and ethical development and cognitive
and mindfulness development, can we develop people where they don't need a sky god and they
don't necessarily even need a tribe to have internalized that type of function?
It seems like, you mentioned Iboga and the, my first Buiti shaman that I spoke to and perhaps
there's different variations of the initiation tradition, but it's a very heavy dose of Iboga.
And what he described is they would have somebody look into a mirror for like the duration of
24 hours or some obscenely long amount of time where instead of gazing out at nature or wearing
a blindfold, you're looking at a mirror and you're looking back at yourself. And that was the
initiation of like, with this clarity that, you know, Iboga is bringing you, looking into the
mirror so you can't escape seeing yourself. You know, this was the initiation that actually
allowed the other people in the tribe to be able to trust you. Now let's come back to all those
other aubris, right, that conflict theory world, but where you're having that experience looking
in the mirror on Iboga regularly, it starts to, you see that there is one, you see where the
devil on one shoulder and the angel on the other shoulder image came from, right? And that there
is a sort of kind of lower angels of our nature that really just has to do with survival and
mate signaling and the desire to do better than the other guy at that. And there's also then a
higher angels of our nature where there are ways that I can do better than the other guy where I
can't actually be at peace with who I am. Right. And then specifically the pressure that you mentioned,
not only can I not be at peace with who I am, I realize that the other guy trying to do that as
well and us escalating actually ruins everything for everybody. And so I'm now bound to try to help
that guy in a way where we can find a better solution because there is no good, like I don't
just win the war once and for all, I win the battle and engender more enmity and a counterattack
and then all of our energies and this thing. So it's like, okay, ultimately, I have to find a
better way for all of us because they don't plan it. And so now we take the heaven and hell
myth of poetics and actually bring it back to something pretty literal.
One way I like to think of like the rapture story is, and this is not the only right way to think
about it. As you mentioned, you can have your own rapture experience in deep meditation or on a
bogey looking enemy, right? But the rapture story of the end is nigh, this phase is coming to an end,
there's going to be a great time of judgment. There's going to be a purgatory where we have a
