We didn't have the power of God, so to speak, to need to have the wisdom and love and prudence
of God to be able to guide it. So World War II comes along and all of a sudden we actually can
destroy the whole world in a relatively short interaction. We are not safe stewards for this
much power because the power that we did have, whether it was catapults or whatever, we always
used that power to kill the people. And we used the power to harm the environment. We've been
actually cutting trees down faster than they could reproduce for a very, very long time.
We just could only do it at so much scale. With industrial capacity, we started to be able to
do it at a much larger scale. But you're like, okay, we've used our technological power to
damage nature and kill each other and then create class systems that would suppress each other.
We've used it that way for a long time. We've not been the greatest stewards of power. Now we have
the power to actually mess everything up. How do we make it through that technological adolescence?
When I think of Daniel Schmockdenberger, it reminds me of Professor Xavier hooked up to the
cerebro. I've never met anybody who's able to grapple with all of the complex things that are
happening in the world at the same time. And with that, he paints a very interesting picture
about the place we're in as a global society and the changes that we need to make to make it
through this period. But nonetheless, despite all of the awareness of everything that could go
terribly wrong, he remains optimistic. And in this podcast, we talk about all of the situations
and what the case is and what the real purpose and way in which our optimism can play a role
in bringing about the reality that we all are looking for. Check this podcast out with Daniel
Schmockdenberger. The truth is, is that we're all the master. We're all the healer. We're all the
mystic. Give it up one time for Aubrey Marker. Daniel Schmockdenberger. It's great to have you
back, my brother. Very good to see you, my friend. Yes, indeed. And you were fresh off a very powerful
podcast on the Joe Rogan experience with Tristan Harris. And you guys spent three hours really
covering the basis of some of the challenges we're facing right at this very unique moment
in human history. And I would like for you to take a moment to just summarize in a cursory way
some of the issues that you explored on that. And from there, we're going to go a lot deeper
into some of the solutions and how we can be active participants in creating those solutions
and the necessity to hold this kind of right relationship with optimism through what could
be seen as this Kobayashi Maru unwinnable situation. But of course, as Captain Kirk showed us,
there's a way. There's always a third door. There's always another lane that we can take. And so
I'm excited to explore these issues with you. Yeah, so you said there's always a third door.
Maybe we'll take an exploration of what the two doors in front of us that both seem to suck
currently are as a way of explaining what the one one way of looking at kind of what
an overview might be to then say what is the third door, the third attractor we're looking for.
And we did get to discuss this at a bit of depth with Joe and having some other places. So people
can check that out. But just for a quick summary, for whatever total human history is something
like 300,000 years of Homo sapiens, we never got to a population over half a billion until the
Industrial Revolution. And then we went to we didn't get to a first billion till about 1815.
Um, the before the Industrial Revolution, the number of people we had and the amount of power
that we had in total military power and environmental harm power, like we just couldn't
destroy the world. We just didn't have the capacity to do that. With the Industrial Revolution and
starting to move into massive industrial scale capacities, we went from half a billion people
to you know, around 8 billion people in the what's really functionally the blink of an eye
from evolutionary time scales. And not only do we go from half a billion to a billion week,
the resource per capita being used went up many hundreds of fold, right? We if we look at how
many what are called extra corporeal calories, my life depends on how how much energy beyond the
food that I eat, the average person right now averaging the fact that there's so many people
in poverty are still, I believe the current numbers around 300 x the corporeal calories,
however much I eat, there's about 300 times more energy than that that's involved in making my
life work. And that obviously means for those of us in the affluent West, it's way more than
that to average. So way more people, way more resource consumption per capita with industrial
tech, we're coming up to a time period where the cumulative effect of a few hundred years of that
is hitting planetary boundaries, right? Overfishing of the oceans, excessive pollution in terms of
nitrogen runoff and dead zones. And so we have all these environmental issues, whether we're
talking about total loss of biodiversity, loss of forests, loss of key species, and also running
out of key resources on one side of a linear materials economy where we extract stuff from
nature faster than nature can make it to turn it into trash faster than nature can process it.
We try to do that exponentially because we try to exponentiate our monetary supply because you have
to make interest. The interest means that I need more money next year and the total monetary supply
than there is yet this year. And that's not even including growth of the economy beyond interest,
fractional reserve banking and all that. But that means I need to exponentiate my monetary supply,
which means I have to have an exponential growth of goods and services, which means an exponential
growth of the linear materials economy in relationship to a finite planet that you can't
run exponential growth on forever. So industrial era tech getting bigger and bigger and globalizing
still couldn't extinct us immediately, but the cumulative effects actually break the planet
down. So we're coming up to the place where around 300 years of the kind of cumulative effects are
getting us towards like planetary boundaries and fragility all over the place, then add to that
exponential tech, which is well beyond digital, I mean, well beyond industrial era tech. And now
I guess we'll start with go back to World War II and the development of the bomb.
And that was the first tech, right? Post industrial, the beginning of nuclear
phase. That was the first tech where we actually had the ability to kill everything all at once.
And it's really important to understand that for the whole history of the world and every
philosopher, whoever thought about human power and whatever, we didn't have to destroy the whole
world. We didn't have the power of God, so to speak, to need to have the wisdom and love and
prudence of gods to be able to guide it. So World War II comes along and all of a sudden we actually
can destroy the whole world in a relatively short interaction. You're like, we are not safe stewards
for this much power because the power that we did have, whether it was catapults or whatever,
we always use that power to kill the people. And we use the power to harm the environment. Like
we've been actually cutting trees down faster than they could reproduce for a very, very long time.
We just could only do it at so much scale. With industrial capacity, we started to be able to
do it at a much larger scale. But you're like, okay, we've used our technological power to
damage nature and kill each other and then create class systems that would suppress each other.
We've used it that way for a long time. We've not been the greatest stewards of power. Now we have
the power to actually mess everything up. How do we make it through that technological adolescence?
So you look at the history of Europe in particular, but you can look at the history of the world and
it's defined by the major empires warring with each other. And there's actually this beautiful
animation that shows a time lapse of the rise and fall of empires. It's set to some kind of
classical music. We should put the link in the show notes. I'll send it to you because
it gives a sense of like, it's just a history defined by bloody war. And then the bomb comes
the first time where the major empires can never fight again. And yet the whole thing is defined
by fighting. You're like, how the fuck are we going to do that? So we had to make this entire
world system to ensure that we don't fight, which is the post-World War II system, which was the
Bretton Woods monetary system, plus create the United Nations and all of the international
governmental organizations and mutually assured destruction. It was like a whole world system.
And the key was, okay, the major reason we fight is to compete over scarce resources.
So in order to make sure that everybody can get more, because everybody wants more, but we don't
have to take each other's stuff, which becomes the basis for fighting, we just have to make
exponentially more stuff all the time. So let's make a monetary system that allows us to just
make exponentially more stuff. It's so positive some so abundance oriented that everybody can
keep getting more without having to kill each other. Now, of course, the major nations will
still oppress the minor nations and class systems within the major nations will oppress lower class
within them. But nonetheless, the major empires don't have to kinetically war.
But that world system that was based on globalization and exponential growth,
you just can't keep running that thing forever because eventually you hit planetary boundaries
everywhere and we're there. Also, it said, let's make the world so globally interconnected
that you don't want to go to war with anyone because the computer that you're talking over
is made on six continents, the supply chains. And so whoever you bomb, you end up messing up the
thing that you depend on. So let's make it so interconnected. But then what that also means
is the system becomes so fragile that you get a virus in one part of the world and you start
getting cascading shutdowns of supply chains across the whole world. And so you get to a place where
the fragility means that the inevitable collapses that happen locally can start to have global
effects. So you can't keep doing that thing. You have to create more resilience in the system.
And the other key part of how we made it through the World War II nuclear tech is
mutually assured destruction. If they fire, we fire. And so nobody can use the weapons. But
that only worked when you had two parties that had one catastrophe weapon. Now with drones and
bioweapons and cyber weapons that can do catastrophic level of damage on infrastructure,
you have dozens of catastrophe weapons beyond the bomb. And you don't have two actors that have
them. You have dozens of actors, including non-state actors. So you're like, how do you do
mutually assured destruction when you don't even know what type of weapon you're talking about
or who has it? You don't. So basically, up until World War II, the world did not have to take
responsibility for global destruction power. Humans never had to think that way. At World War II,
we had the things that way. We built an entire world system that bought us like 75 years but
did it at the cost of planetary fragility, supply chain and planetary fragility,
literal biosphere fragility, and driving the tech that moved us from one catastrophe weapon
to dozens of catastrophe weapons. So basically, that phase is over and now we're entering a new
phase. And there is no previous precedent for how to make it through this phase, which is we can't
keep running exponential growth of the materials economy. We can't keep doing the cumulative
industrial thing, let alone the new exponential tech thing, the way we have. And so the two doors,
let me come back, I took a tangent. Exponential tech in particular, it's not just exponential tech
because it's the cumulative effective industrial tech within exponential tech, AI, computation,
et cetera, sitting on top of it. Exponential tech is so much more powerful than all the legacy forms
of tech and all the legacy forms of power that only the groups that are developing and deploying
exponential tech will really define the future because everyone who isn't will just lose.
This is not a it should be that way. This is a real politic assessment of it is that way.
So then we have to say, are the groups that are developing and deploying that power doing it,
like what is the value system they're doing it oriented to? What is the underlying philosophy
or civics? And that doesn't look really good. The exponential tech radically decentralizes power
in some ways and centralizes it in other ways. These are the two bummer doors that we're looking
for a third door on. Decentralizes it means drones are way easier to get access to than nukes. Nukes
are really, really technologically hard to make, like you're enriching uranium is really hard.
And it's pretty easy to control, but weaponizing drones not so hard, meaning tiny little non-state
actors can get them and can do really, really serious damage. Same with cyber weapons, the same
with CRISPR and biotech making like real advanced bio warfare abilities cheap in the next few years.
So on one hand you have, and we already see versions of this, which is little
actors being able to pollute the information ecology with nonsense
and affect the minds of so many people. So you've got like, on one side, the exponential tech that
is supposed to democratize things actually is democratizing catastrophic capacity,
meaning catastrophe weapons for everybody. How the fuck does the world make it through
catastrophe weapons for everybody? So one way that one of the doors that sucks is we just collapse,
like catastrophe and cascading catastrophe, catastrophes of an increasingly fragile world
with increasingly more decentralized tech with increasingly more radicalized people from the
nature of the way the media environment is radicalizing, the world will just kind of break.
That's one path. And there's a million different versions of that, but that's one path.
The other path is to control that and make sure that doesn't happen
requires the only way of trying to control it right now is like the way China's trying to do it,
which is totalized surveillance. Let's make sure that we know nobody's building drones in their
basement or building cyber weapons or building air weapons in their basement. In order to do that,
you got to know what everyone's doing in the fucking basement. And so ubiquitous surveillance
means you don't have to have catastrophe forever or one, but it means you end up getting totalizing
dystopias, exponential tech, AI-empowered dystopias. Those are the two doors we have. So the
exponential tech can decentralize power, it can also centralize power. And it's already doing that
naturally, like when you see there's really one search engine, right? You have one search engine
that's bigger than all the other ones combined, Google. You have one online store that's bigger
than all the other online stores combined, Amazon. You have one social media network, Facebook,
that owns Instagram and what's happened, whatever, that has more attention than everything else.
The network dynamics themselves already create centralization of power. And so you've got
decentralization and centralization, both of which are happening in ways that are not really
guided by any values we would want for the world. And so you either have dystopias or
catastrophes. Those are the two doors. All right, well, how do we have a 21st century that is neither
catastrophic nor dystopic? It means you have to be able to bind all the catastrophes without
some top-down state binding it or some top-down power binding it. So how do you have some form
of power that can check and balance all of this exponential tech power, but that has checks and
balances itself so it isn't dystopic? I would say that's a fair way of defining the third door we
want. How do we prevent all the catastrophes where the mechanisms that prevent them are
themselves not dystopic? So one of the things that I've really identified and felt for a long time
is the development of consciousness and the rewriting of our own understanding of who we are
collectively as one world, one species, one organism called Earth interconnected has not
developed at the rate that our technology has. It just hasn't. And you can look and blame a variety
of different causes for this, potentially the prohibition and the war against psychedelic medicine,
which is a powerful tool to help bring people into states of awareness of the interconnectedness.
I mean, you do enough of that and you realize that you are not so different from that person next to
you or that tree or that animal or that environment. This happens over and over again. It's a reliable
effect of this, but that has been prohibited. You can also go back even deeper to the nature
based wisdom traditions that have been largely suppressed by top down religious organizations
and different other forces, whether it's state or whether it's religion that's actually suppressed
a lot of this wisdom. Look at the burning of the witches, people who carry these wisdom traditions
that have been suppressed. So a lot of these different ways in which we could have been
evolving our consciousness along with our technology haven't happened. And we're making
a rally right now to try and catch up real quick, but some damage has been significantly done.
And it's landed us in this position right now where our consciousness is still in that war
mentality. All right, maybe the proliferation of nuclear weapons has stopped the nation states
from being able to kinetically fight, but we're still in fighting mindset. We haven't changed
that separation mentality that says, I am going to defeat you. We're just using now different
bot farms to destabilize nations and compete in other economic ways. And all of these different
things that are happening now between the nations that are competing and between people that are
competing within political systems, et cetera. So what needs to happen is a very quick catch up
of our consciousness, it seems, which in turn could then provide the avenue for the third door,
which is people creating an emergent understanding of something of a new way of doing things
that's different from the mentality itself that's brought us to this position.
Yeah, so when you talk about a new mentality, a new basis for choice, right, because all the
