I spoke, Michael, I've seen that very interesting talk between Matt Siegel and yourself.
And I was, I was very taken by it. I'm a great admirer of Matt and Sharon, much of his philosophical stance.
And I wanted to come back to the question of
the nature of form, really, which is seems to me the centrally interesting
undecided element here in in developmental biology. How is it that
antlers know the pattern to regenerate?
How is it that the the morphogenesis of the skull of a frog knows that it's going in the wrong direction, corrects itself?
Where is that knowledge or memory stored? And above all, where is the knowledge and memory of the human brains?
massively complex structures stored?
It's clearly not in the DNA string and you yourself have demonstrated there's no near enough information.
So what are we talking about? Where is this? Is there a field in physics?
Now, one's continually talking not so much about matter and and so on, but about
fields and forces of energy.
So do you think that's a way of looking at what we're talking about here?
Yeah, I mean, so I think we could address this in two ways.
I could certainly tell you stories about the mechanistic
medium in which I think this information is held.
And, you know, funny enough, although I started out by reading Harold Burr and people like that,
who really thought of bioelectricity as fields.
And he was, you know, Burr, who was very prescient and right about many things back in the 30s,
felt very strongly that we should be using field models instead of charge models.
And so so so I, you know, sort of that's my origin story there on on bioelectricity.
But despite that, we haven't really done anything with fields yet.
So everything that I've done so far has been on patterns of spatial patterns of static
gradients. So so we haven't really done fields, but people like Earl Miller at MIT,
who's done some amazing work on recasting the way that neuroscientists think about what's
happening in neural networks, recasting them as a field phenomenon.
I think something like that is certainly possible for us.
And so so we actually have a project starting to do that.
I'm postdoc in my lab and I are doing that.
But but regardless, you know, whether whether field or more classic kinds of things,
we can certainly talk about what I think is the medium that that holds these set points
or for anatomical homeostasis.
But I think there's an even deeper and so we can do that.
But I think there's an even deeper question here, which is, what does it mean,
both in the cognitive sense and in the morphological sense, for information to be,
for that information to be somewhere, you know, when people ask, where is it?
I'm not even sure.
I don't know what the correct shape of the answer to that looks like anymore.
Because anyway, so that's that's something we could we could discuss as well.
Because increasingly, that doesn't seem to me as the right formalism for that for that for that question, you know.
No, I see that, but we don't have a formula for things that are non-specifically located.
We have to accept that certain things like consciousness can't be spatially located,
although people like Mark Somes thinks that he can locate it in the brain, which is another question.
But we can't see where consciousness itself is located.
It's the wrong question to ask about it.
But nonetheless, we have to be able to deal with this idea of form fields that have very strong
interactions with information that we can more clearly specify where it is and
how it's accessed.
But we don't have any clue about where or how the information about form is even stored.
Never mind sort of where it is in a more profound sense.
Yeah, yeah, you know, and I think it really matters for many reasons.
One is like, I can certainly tell a story about a bioelectric network that
holds the memory to which the cells are going to build if it's injured or even in basic development.
So I mean, we can see it now.
We visualize this information structure.
We can read and write into it so we can modify it.
The cells will build something different if we change it.
So we're beginning and again, verse all of this in the 30s.
He proposed this and then he was right.
We can see all of that.
But to me, what's now becoming even more interesting is that we see that around that
there is a kind of a weird kind of almost latent space of possibilities that you normally never
observe until you perturb the system in a particular way, until you take the way the
cells and they make a xenobot or the wasp becomes and prompts a bunch of
of oak leaf cells to make this crazy spiky gall thing.
You wouldn't know that those things are in the possible space of these cells.
They're it's nowhere in the pattern that we would read out normally during normals, right?
And so I'm now really interested in addition to the mechanism.
I view all of these model systems now as telescopes that let us peer into this weird
invisible latent space, you know, the xenobot.
And I mean, I guess everything is a kind of device for asking what else is in that space,
what's possible.
You know, you start with a little keyhole through which you see a tadpole or an oak leaf
and that's all you see, right?
But but around it, we now know is all this other stuff.
And I'm really interested in without being able to, this is what Matt and I talked about,
you know, I certainly can't say where it is.
It's wherever the truths of mathematics are, right?
I guess, I don't know.
But would you accept that there's a difference between being able to upset
by intervening in some way to upset a form without knowing, in other words, how to how
to make the form not happen.
We don't that doesn't tell us how the form normally does happen.
If you see what I mean, it's like being able to intervene in a very complex system at a certain
point in a serial pathway of causation.
And you can intervene some way.
You can see a mechanism, you can intervene in it and you can create a possibly predictable
result.
But unfortunately, that doesn't help you understand the whole complex system.
It just tells you that you can you can wreck it in some way or change it better by interfering
in it.
And so the difference between knowing that we can interfere and knowing how it's actually
working when it's working properly.
Yes, although I see it as a continuum because, for example, we can do things with a tadpole tail
and head that definitely wreck it as far as a standard Xenopus lave as tadpole is concerned.
That's simply not correct.
It's a birth defect, as it were.
But actually, it's perfectly correct for a different species of frog.
It starts to look like a different an entirely different species of frog.
And for that species of frog, it's not a defect at all.
That's exactly what it's supposed to be.
There are certain things you can do that are absolutely you would you would put it in the
bucket of wrecking it for sure.
But there are other influences that are not so much wrecking it, but they're sort of going
in a different region of that space that would have been perfectly fine if that had happened,
you know, on on its own, right?
So there are sounds like you're suggesting that there is a field of form for some other frog
that if you divert the field of form for this frog, it will switch over to the other one.
And so it's sitting there, waiting in in potential.
Yeah, yeah, I don't you know, as much as you know, molecular biologists would say this is
a crazy talk.
I I'm starting to think that that's exactly what it is.
And funny enough, Darcy Thompson, right, in his classic and is what 41 classic,
or so growth and form.
He had these, I think one of the most my favorite part of that book are these four or five pages
where he he takes existing creatures, and he puts them on a grid on a on a, you know,
the man on man, what they call math paper here, right?
And then he stretches the grid in various weird ways.
And what you get are these distorted things that are a completely different species of
of of, you know, he's got crabs and fish and and whatnot.
Right.
And so I think he was onto, I mean, you know, you didn't have the language of attractors
and stuff like that yet.
But I think he was on to this, this idea.
So does the does the the language, ironically, of competence and performance,
linguistic language sense help here?
So when we think about sentences that are well formed grammatically, but have never
been uttered before, I think we're in that sort of territory, right?
So there are there's a deep structure in kinds of things that can be built out of
developmental processes.
And if you perturb them, it's not just broken or spoiled.
It's like, OK, I'll say something else.
But there's something else is the what's what's the closest thing I can say
semantically is still grammatically correct, given the language of things that are possible.
But take instance, so cutting off a set of antlers, or just one of the antlers from a
stag, and that stag has a unique formation in the cross sections of that antler,
and it will be reproduced by whatever grows back.
So to go a step back behind what you're saying, where is the sentence, as it were,
the right form sentence?
Where is that information?
Can you say that?
Yeah, I mean, this the story with the antlers is even is even more disturbing than that,
right? Because of the the trophic memory business that if you if you and I have these antlers
in my lab, actually, the guy who did all this, he and his son did this work for,
I think it's almost 60 years together.
And they sent me, you know, he's retired now.
He sent me all the antlers.
So I've got them.
I've had them CT scan and everything.
It's crazy.
They're all labeled with the name of the deer and, you know, 1981, 82, 83, 84.
So what you do is you make a you make a cut in the antler, and it grows a little bone callus
in the heels and then the whole thing falls off, right?
And next year, and for the next five or six years, when the new antlers come out,
it has an ectopic branch point at the location that you injured it last year.
So not only is that a memory, but it learns it's a it's a it's a it's a labial memory,
and then it goes away, then it gets progressively smaller and it goes away.
And so what, you know, just just just think about I remember reading this and thinking
about what would a molecular biological model of this look like where the cells in the scalp
have to store for months.
This idea that, okay, well, you know, three steps to the left.
No, there's an extra thing there.
And then I keep going sort of right.
So if you're thinking about local rules and, you know, like cellular,
automatic kind of stuff, you have to be able to work it backwards and to say what should
the rules be to give me an extra thing in the parade.
And it keeps that memory.
I mean, it's a very, yeah, I think the antler thing is a really profound example.
Yes, well, I'm not sure that we can, we can, I just want to keep it in mind because it's easy
to to feel that when it's rather like the hard question and the soft question.
If it's, I think, and what I think Mark's own start is answer the soft question.
He thinks he can point to a place in the brain where consciousness originates
or consciousness is most centered.
The neural correlates, as they say.
Neural correlates.
But that's the soft question.
The hard question is, but where does consciousness come from?
How does it arise and what is it?
And I think the same thing can happen in our discussions.
And we can say, well, I can specify a mechanism whereby this thing can correct itself or whatever.
But where is the plan according to which it's creating itself?
That's the thing that's because it's certainly not in the, in anything that we've looked at so far.
Michael, to his credit, has demonstrated this is nothing like the amount of information
that could conceive would be needed.
And when you consider that, whatever it is during certain periods of gestation,
up to 500,000 brain cells are being generated every minute.
But they've got to not just be a massive brain cells, they've got to be forming themselves
into the brain with all its immensely complex and my nuclear important elements in the correct place.
And the question still remains for me unless you can illuminate it, either of you.
What are we talking about here?
Where is this?
What is it that?
How does it know as it were what's going on?
Where is it?
So,
I've been thinking about that with Mike, and as one word, if you have more than one conversation with Mike,
and I've been developing an idea, a theory, a vision, possibly just an analogy about how that might work.
I haven't had many outings yet, and I don't know if I'll be able to get it out in a way which makes any sense to you,
but I wouldn't mind having a go if you're interested.
