So, I've been thinking about a metaphor that's a sort of a deeper concept of the music of life,
where information is held in a way which, in a thing, in a way that you might call a song.
And a song is something that's kind of in between language and a vibration which actually does mechanical work.
So, with language, you kind of think, well, yeah, that's okay, you could write something down, but I still need an interpreter.
Words themselves don't do any work, right?
But with a song, you have the idea that a note is actually a vibration which is capable of doing physical work by moving other resonators,
which are of a similar frequency or of a harmonic frequency.
You know, one note on its own isn't going to hold much information, but when you think about a stack of harmonic frequencies from one octave to the other,
they can hold much more information because of the way in which they stack on top of each other and do phase locking.
Each time you double the frequency, there's two, you double the number of ways in which the phase locking can occur.
Okay, yes.
Now, the high frequencies are, need must live in small physical scales, and the low frequencies live in larger physical scales.
And the various dynamical systems of an organism's body from molecular vibrations to gene regulatory cycles to cytoplasmic flows to cellular metabolic dynamics to tissue bioelectric dynamics to larger and larger scales.
All of these dynamics are not a one way decoding, but a dynamical vibration, and some of them are mechanical and some of them are electrical and some of them are chemical.
But they are all, thanks darling, they're all interlocked in a way which registers with the scale above and the scale below because there's a harmonic phase locking.
But also in a way which is labile that, oh, it could lock this way and it could lock that way, right, so it becomes productive like a language does that there's a deep structure to the utterances that can be held in such a structure.
And a song can be transferred from one suitably irritable substrate to another.
You can put the same song at one physical scale into another physical scale by changing the octave and it's still the same song.
Are you changed, you know, the G is still a G as you as you change the scales up.
And that means that the kind of combination of harmonics that you have in the particular shape of an antler, where there are bioelectric vibrations moving around that shape, where the shape controls the
the combination of harmonics that live happily in that antler like a combination of harmonics that live in a tuning fork.
That combination of harmonics can also be can also resonate with a combination of harmonics that sings the same song in a gene regulatory network or sings the same song in a neural network that it's those different
there's a substrate independence of those combinations of harmonics that enables the song to move about from one scale to another and one tissue to another and one substrate to another.
And it's the song that is inherited through evolutionary lineages and the genes, the genes play a part of that but the cell plays a part of that and the heritable environment plays a part of that.
All of those different scales set up the, the material substrate but also the dynamical properties, because the material substrate and the dynamical properties are co creating one another right that the, there's the fast scales, the
last time scales we think of dynamics which are controlled by parameters of the slow scales but the slow scales are not really parameters because they're also variables changing on a slower scale and held in larger physical media or slower physical media.
So, I think about answers I've been thinking about answers to questions like you were asking in those terms that a song is, is not just informational but it's also something that does something that does that has causal power in the world it doesn't need a decoder it just is.
But if, if the analogy and I like the analogy to a great extent and how, how, you know, as well where is the memory of it so, for example, I know play a certain piece of music by Bach, and then somebody else is able to know what that music is because it's written down on a score.
So, where is this information of the song, the memory of it I think the concept of memory comes in rather importantly here, because we're talking about an evolving pattern, which somehow knows about its past and its future.
Well, memory is not that difficult.
It's any substrate which is plastic, when it gets pushed stays like that. And there are all sorts of plasticities that all sorts of physical scales.
But the, you know, obviously one important question is, what's the relationship to the genetic information.
And I've been thinking about that in with a particular sound, sound phenomenon, which is called cladney plates, do you know how they work.
Please explain.
So, cladney played around with squares of metal and circles of metal, which he would bow with the edge of the plate with the help supported in the middle on a post, and bow the edge of it with a violin bow, and then sprinkle salt or sand on the metal.
Oh, yes, yes.
I'm familiar with this. Yes, yes.
So, striking and beautiful, actually, yes.
The modes that fit in a geometry reveal the dynamics which are in that particular structure.
The modes are in part determined by the geometry of the plate and in part determined by the frequency with which it's vibrated.
If the sand was a bit heavier, it would be in part determined by the memory of the note that it had just been played.
Yeah, okay.
So, the experiment is designed that the sand is supposed to be just a way of reading the vibrations but it doesn't actually alter them it doesn't interfere with them.
It's not, I don't think it's too much of a stretch to imagine that it does interfere with them that the position of the sand holds a little bit of memory in the plate that makes it more likely to adopt one mode than another, just because that's the mode that was held previously.
But as soon as a new vibration was set up all that would be lost.
Yes, if you assume that the vibration is driven rather than sung.
If the vibration was itself the dynamics of the plate in interaction with the dynamics of other physical scales, then the song both creates the structure and is affected by the structure.
It's kind of like when you when you put two metronomes that are out of phase on a shared wobbly board right and they lock up with each other.
Which one, which one was in charge did the one on the left to do what the one on the right said or did the one on the right do what the one on the left said right of course that's the wrong question isn't it.
Yeah, because it's a dynamic system.
Yeah, but dynamic systems are always are always changing.
And if we want something that is constantly repeated, you have to have a way of knowing how to hold things sufficiently stable for this, this familiar pattern to be expressed again, it seems to me.
Otherwise you'd find something else altogether happening.
We're concerned with the extraordinary consistency of enormously complex forms in three dimensions where exactly. I mean a song is a lovely idea but it's also only by a stretch of the imagination isn't able to store three dimensional information.
I don't think that's the case.
So, the combination, the combination so a particular frequency lives naturally on a string of a particular length.
But I don't think it's too much of a stretch to go from a combination of frequencies defining a two dimensional shape and a chord of more notes defining a three dimensional shape that the combination of geometries particular combinations of geometries won't fit in a one dimensional
orbit but they'll fit in a two or three dimensional orbit.
They can be notated in a in an entirely two dimensional plane. And as long as you repeat whatever it is that's inscribed on that piece of paper.
In other words information has two dimensional instructions but it can't. How can this sort of thing describe the structure of the skull of a frog.
I wonder if I could find that little illustration that I showed you Mike it might be useful.
You want to chip in a bit whilst I see if I can find it.
Sure. Yeah, I mean one one intuition pump for these things and I'm in no way suggesting that these things are properly captured by the model of cellular automata but if you, if you think about cellular automata like the game of the classic game of life right where
the genetics of each cell is a very simple rule that counts neighbors and depending on that it will either be on or off in the next generation that's it that's all it has.
So so on a reduction is this sort of on a really reductionist level there's nothing else you can see all the rules there's no magic in that world.
And then if you run this, what happens is that our visual system inspecting this world sees things like gliders right so you see these patterns that are moving.
If you take them seriously you can do things like, like, build a touring machines in that world that use gliders as a bit you know bit streams and things like this right, and so on.
And so now these gliders have an angle at which they move through the plane and they have a speed at which they move through the plane.
And so, one could ask, where in the, in the genetics and physics of that environment is the speed and an angle of motion of these things recorded, like where is that set.
And you'll never find it because it isn't the rules don't say anything about gliders right it's in the, in fact according at much like with everything else that we're interested in here at the reductionist level they don't exist there aren't any gliders.
But of course if you don't believe in gliders you miss out on quite a bit because you can know you can't engineer the way that somebody who believes in gliders could.
But, but as soon as you accept there that they exist in some useful fashion, you face this insolvable problem of, but they move and I forget what it is I said 45 degrees the 35 or something I forget what it is, but they move at this particular at a very characteristic
angle and so it's, it's sort of like pie in our world or E or these other you know these constants that just sort of show up and, and you know and then where they recorded right.
So, I always kind of come back to the same thing I really feel like the same thing that allows evolution to save all kinds of effort when it's evolving a triangle all it has to do is get the first two angles doesn't need to evolve the third one, you get the third for free, right.
And so, and so I feel like that's you know that's a free gift and so I feel like the there is an important sense in which biology by taking advantage what loosely said said very roughly what I think biology is doing is figuring out pointers into this space prompts or pointers
into this enormous space of possibilities which I think exists in the same way that, you know people make, you know, people make these maps of mathematics right as you got you know number theory over here and then next to it is some other thing you know.
Yeah, I feel like this is not made up I think, you know and some people agree I think Penrose would agree with this that that that these things are out there in some important way and I don't think biology has to invent everything from scratch by by searching them, you know this kind of
very difficult micro space of all the things you have to do I think you know.
But I mean two things occur to me there one is that that's a step forward in itself because you're saying that, rather as in the way there are sort of pretty much eternal forms of things like pie and the triangle and so forth.
There are somewhere forms when we can't say where those are and we can't say where the biological ones are either is that right.
And the second thing is that the analogy with the gliders is slightly different I think from anything that I'm wanting us to focus on because gliders are a kind of illusion within our visual system if you like that really behind what we see as a glider there is something
else which is not a glider and that's what you were basically saying, but if we're looking at the structure of a brain.
It's not that, you know, you know, I just look at the brain and happen to see this complex series of ganglia that are perfectly formed and then the right and that's the kind of visual perceptual illusion that it's absolutely real.
So, yeah, so let me push back on that a little bit because something that so and Josh bond guard and I tried to formalize this a little bit in a recent paper.
And I think I think people have said this, you know, Don Hoffman would say something like this I think one way to think about almost anything is as a construction in the mind of some particular observer.
Right now, I'm not. I'm not I'm certainly not going in the way that every every anything goes because I think some constructions are way better than other constructions.
But, but, you know, we could you and I I'm sure have had the experience that we can talk to a physicist who will say brain what brain there's no brain there's a collection of symmetries of some underlying field and some particles, maybe nowadays probably not even particles.
And that's it and you're making stuff up to all this talk of brains and tabletops and even space time itself, right Don Hoffman says now that space time is doomed according to I mean I don't know but the but the physicists apparently are not into space time anymore.
And so, you know, there certainly are people who would I think push back and say everything we see is exactly the status of a glider it is some successful observer, putting a stencil on reality and saying this is the frame.
I want to look at things at this level of organization not below not above and, and so on. So, you know, I don't know. Well, I mean, if we to go there I fairly fundamentally disagree with with Donald Hoffman about this.
In a way, it's an old story, which is that it's almost a Kantian vision that really we can't get beyond perceptions. And as it where we're inside a windowless room seeing projections on the internal screen or reading out from a dial as he says.
But I don't think that's an adequate description of what happens in it. And I've, I've written that length about why in the in the matter with things. But I think the, what is the mistake in here is something that both Niels Bohr and a whitehead pointed out which is that the
Bohr said, you know, the trouble is that scientists mistake their model for the reality, whereas all we're trying to do is to make things clear here, but it's not necessarily the reality. And so, although there is a way in which you can conveniently make things clear here.
There is no guarantee that this is a representation of any kind of a reality. Now that's not saying that there is no reality that the only reality and the only reality that we can actually have is a model that we've designed and created because there is a whole realm of perception of emotion of
embodiment of experience in which we find that certain things are truer, more veredical, more repeatable and so on than others. And so this whole area of experience is ruled out because of using a purely cognitive construct of how reality can be or could be thought of.
The error is to mistake a passable model for anything to do with reality. Now you may say, well, how do you judge what reality is? And that's why as a neuroscientist, I begin my inquiry in neuroscience in which you can see certain things about different parts of the brain and their ability to sustain something that is veredical in any sense that you or I would accept that term,
I would say to me that if we followed its promptings, we would be less likely to end up in a catastrophe than if we followed another one. So there are realities that are experiential testable and to say that we can never be certain of something and we can never, perhaps, ultimately know it.
It's not to say that we can't really know what's going on out there to do what I mean. We go from, we can't be certain of it and therefore our minds help to construct it too.
It's all constructed by the mind and I don't like either of these rather naive in my view conclusions are kind of really excessively naive idealism and then excessively naive realism either of these is a wrong answer. And it's in a relationship between these things that everything comes into being.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
So, I wonder if
I wonder if it's useful to think about how one song sees another, how one frequency sees another frequency, right.
So, if if I'm an oscillator with a particular frequency, what kind of influence can I have on other potential oscillators or other other other dynamical systems.
But if they're very if they're a very different frequency from me.
Then, there's a sense in which they just can't see me, because, you know, will be in phase for just a moment will be out of phase the next moment and there's there's no stability in our relationship.
On the other hand, if, if we're very similar in frequency, then I turn very slowly compared to them and if we're identical in frequency then I stand still like like and like a rotating object in a strobe light.
And when I see something with a particular frequency strobe, I see it one way but when I see that look observe that same thing with a different frequency strobe I can see something else.
And, for example, it will also seem stationary if I flash it at half the frequency.
And I don't really know whether it's the same frequency as me or whether it's double the frequency of me, because it would seem stationary for both those things.
So I'm not really making one observation I'm not really measuring its rotational speed. I'm only measuring its rotational speed with respect to mine.
And if I'm not just one frequency but I'm a whole collection of frequencies, and I'm observing something else which is a whole collection of frequencies, then some aspects of it will seem stationary and some aspects of it will seem invisible to me.
And other aspects will seem to be, you know, not invisible but rotating quickly.
And the ones the ones which are more like me are not just things which I can see but they're things that are actually connected with me, because the phase locking that occurs between us is mutual that the whenever there's any weak coupling between the systems.
It's the coupling that's described by a one to one ratio or a simple harmonic that are the ones which I can see.
And the difference between our two songs is also a combination of frequencies in itself so that our relationship also creates a new song in our relationship to one another.
So this is a way of seeing an observer dependent way of one dynamical system observing another dynamical system without it without it sort of throwing your hands in the air and saying well you could be anything depending on how you look at it.
Yes, but then to go back to the musical model, there are obvious ways in which an octave and a fifth relate to note relate to one another.
But they're also important things like a diminished seventh and other sorts of passing in bark is absolutely full of all kinds of colossally different relationships but they do work together functionally even though they don't have this like me resonance at all in fact they have the opposite of that.
So that becomes part of the resonance.
No, that's not true they do have the like me.
So and you have to put you have to fill in the rest of the cord in order for the diminished seventh to feel like it's concordant and not discordant.
But surely that means that all notes in that case.
It's a case of it's a case of how long is the story I need to tell for you to see that this other note is a harmonic.
So when it's the same note or an octave or a fifth. I don't need to tell a big story right for the fifth I only need to go up to octaves and then down a half in this and there we are right.
But for the diminished seventh there's a there's a bigger. There's a longer story that I need to tell you to warm you up to the idea that that actually this does belong in the same family.
And if I if I tell that's a different story a different way I can actually make it sound like it belongs less.
So what you've demonstrated is that the whole has an influence on each part of it and so the whole song, as it were, the whole piece of music, the whole whatever you like to call it has unfolding resonances with itself that suggests that it's already completed
otherwise one couldn't understand where one was going in it.
You've got to go from the top down as well as from the bottom up.
That's right but that's exactly that's exactly what happens in harmonics right. So the liability of the song is that I can, I can play you a note and another note which goes together and then a sequence of notes which seem to go together.
And then I can play you a repetition of that sequence that obviously goes together because it's the same as the previous one but I can also play you that same sequence that's a fifth up or a third down, or I can play a variation of that sequence.
Right. And those are those are all utterances in the same language, but it doesn't but they are all error correcting within their own frequency as well right there are still big gaps in between them.
I can't just play any old note and have that fit right and the entire tuning of the entire key scale that I'm playing at still disallows most of possible frequencies but there's still an enormous language of possible songs that I can play.
Unless you're stockhousing.
But I mean, I don't, I don't know how you can get from this which is a very, very wide ranging conception of relations. I think relations is very important which is why I like your image of music.
And it seems to me that, like this, one has no sense of what we need, mustn't get too far away from the formation of a frog skull or the formation of a human brain.
Can you explain to me how this model that allows so many different variations in there either helps to perpetuate a form so that it is repeated in future or where the information is I mean the case of markets obvious I mean there's a score.
We open it or we hear somebody play we were able to write it down like Mozart and then we can play it.
But where is this and it has this actually added to the question where is the information and how is it repeated and what is the memory of it.
So I didn't explain the connection with the cladney plates yet. So imagine that you are instead of playing one vibration to the cladney plate you play a song right you play a combination of chords or a changing combination of chords over time.
And now, for some particular special kinds of molecules that have that kind of linear
read right, you know, tape like kind of behavior. If you're putting those vibrations onto a molecule whilst you're moving the read right head across it, you're leaving those patterns along it as you go.
And if those patterns next time you read it influence what you read that they can be read rather than written.
Then you have a way of recording a dynamical process into the sand as it were as you as you travel. That's, that's how I'm viewing the relationship between the behavior shape and form of the organism and the, and the information that's in the DNA.
So the sand is not where the vibrate where the, it's not like a musical score of the vibrations. No, it's just a, it's a, it's a projection into a low dimensional space like the salt is of the mode that's in that's in that's vibrating in the plate.
Yes.
It's enough to influence it but it doesn't know it's not a code for it.
I like this. I just think we've got a long way to go but that's fine. I mean this is, this is a, this is a, I think a helpful step, but it's still a very long way from helping answer, but that's okay the questions with which I started.
And another way to think about this I sometimes like to work backwards and ask myself, what I know the answer if we've, how will we know the answer if and when we find it so what does, what does the ideal situation look like and this is this to me is very similar to the quest for, for a theory of
consciousness you know so we look at the ones that have been put out. And for each of them we can say, Oh but that's not that doesn't work that's not what you know that explains something else it's you know neural correlates or behavior or physiology or something
that's not what we mean by consciousness. So, so then, so then eventually once it's okay well what would it take never mind what the situation is in the real world let's assume we can make up whatever we like.
What we know what would be a story that would we would say, Ah, now you see now you've cracked it right that's that's it that's that's that's a that's a sort of I'll buy that as an answer or whatever whatever that might be.
And I think it's very hard I think oftentimes, certainly for consciousness I think it's very hard I think it's very hard to, to think of what what a theory would be where we would say well by golly that's that's you know that's it that's it that answers my question I don't really see what what a coherent
theory about that would be that we would buy. And for the shape you know for the shape of, of course this is very important and I talk about this to the people in my lab all the time.
It's like what, what are we going for what is the, you know, what what does the final answer look like and I think, you know, in keeping with my sort of the instrumentalist view on on reality I think what we are looking for then is a set of
protocols as it were for making the shape be whatever you want. So, so I will say that you've got the answer to this question, if and only if I will say I want a frog with six legs and a propeller on top and and and you know that the tail like a like a tiger.
And you say to me, we can do that and here's how you would do it you I will change this and that and there you go that's what you will get and, and if they can do that then I will say well by gum then you must have found the, the encoding right because otherwise but like what what's better than that I don't
imagine why I don't know what's better than that.
So, you know that's where but but I'm open to other other views on this what what does a solution to the what what does it do you know what.
Well, two things occur to me, I mean, one is to do with the the immediate analogy that you made of if we could have a frog with et cetera et cetera. I can understand how you could work experimentally within this complex system and find a way of intervening that
cause it to have six legs and a propeller or whatever.
But you still haven't I think what I want to emphasize is that this isn't an answer to the question how the developing embryo knows how to further develop the frog skull and how when it's disturbed or you intervene in it, it says I don't like this I want to go back to a frog skull.
But is that true do you think that do you think that it's possible to get to the point of being able to have being able to make any shape that you want biologically and not have answered that question.
I don't know about the technical aspect of whether you can make frog embryos do these things you're the man to answer that. But what I'm saying is I'm not sure that this is well I don't think that this is the same as saying what we're doing what you can report is what you've done in the lab and you
said in this and that and the other, but this is slightly like my comparison between the hard and the soft problem of consciousness. You know you said that. I mean, okay.
Mark songs can say, you know, and it's perfectly true and I knew that when I was a medical student that in a particular activating system is incredibly important for consciousness.
And if people have a stroke that affects this area, they're not conscious so that that's a different question from what is that brings me to the second thing my reflection on what you just said which is I think that that's absolutely fair.
And I think what you're pointing to is the limits of a certain methodology or modeling or whatever, which is that it's satisfied if it can account for something within certain terms but it's not satisfied.
Or does it or has to accept that it can't answer it. Then it says well what would a real answer to this look like now I think that's progress I think that's good, because I think the proper way to approach consciousness is to say we've tried every possible way we can to see how you can
extract consciousness from entirely unconscious matter if matter really and truly has nothing to do with consciousness. And that's a big question because I believe that's not the case.
But if that were the case, it is no known way and probably known knowable way. So you're then moved forward, I think, to the position that I hold about consciousness which is that it is an ontological primitive it's not extracted from or emergent from anything
else. It is what it is. There it is. And I think that what I'm saying about the forms in this respect is that they may be of a kind that the kind of science that you perfectly correctly and honorably are pursuing is not going to be able to give us an answer to where these
forms are or what they are. So if that's the case, is it is it reasonable enough to posit that there are such fields of form somewhere, and we may in the future come to know something about them or we may actually never be able to locate them or say what they are.
Yeah, you know, I'm with you on the parenthetically I'm with you on the consciousness bit. And I also agree that these kind of loss of function experiments where you knock something out and it disappears that's not remotely sufficient so so I'm in agreement on all that.
I think that what you know my counterfactual story is was that if we had the if we really had the ability. So I view it as a necessary condition that that if in order to have the ability to make whatever kind of shape you want.
You can screw up a shape and say oh look it's gone wrong and I don't mean you know I don't mean that I mean literally I tell you I want this you know this this this elephant in three fold symmetry with what like what I like literally complete control.
I don't think you can get there without as much of an understanding of where form is encoded as there is to be had. I just do you know that that that to me is the strongest criterion for being able to say it's a little like, you know someone could say, I know you got airplanes and gliders
and rockets but you still haven't understood flight right like there's this you know there's this there's this this this essence of flight and I just don't feel like we've got it yet right like like sure you know there's airplanes and whatnot.
So I you know I don't know there may well be other things behind it and and I think you know I think our positions are not that different because I do think that somewhat similar to consciousness.
Some of the stuff is an ontological primitive in the way that the truths of mathematics are I mean I really do have this this platonic view that that some of these things are.
Now, that doesn't mean we can't explore them in fact I think that's exactly what we're doing in synthetic bioengineering and things like that is we're sort of getting a peep into that into that world.
I'm glad that we're that close and I believe we are, but just to, if I may revert to the question whether we've really understood where forms are and how they operate, if we can change change to the elephant that has 17 trunks or whatever it is we particularly want.
I think the thing is this you could say well in this particular sequence of amino acids I've done certain changes and I've manipulated that and so on and you've therefore got an account of a narrative of what you did.
But Ken, is that the same as saying to me I now know how how this information works because what you're saying is, I have a handle on a proxy for it that I can shift, but what is it that I'm actually shifting.
Yeah.
But if I didn't how would I have known which, which knob to twist right I mean you can, you can pick some low hanging fruit without knowing what you're doing for sure right and you can make some things that's, you know, fumble around.
But, but, but to really, you know, I'm sort of asking for past that right to really have complete control. I don't, I don't think you can do that without a proper understanding of where the encoding is otherwise you wouldn't get an infant and in fact what what you just laid out is is basically the
reason why the technologies like CRISPR and genomic editing and this kind of stuff. This is why I don't think they're the fundamental solution to regenerative medicine because they're going to get stuck exactly where you just said.
So yeah, you can pick some low hanging fruit about well like I know some things I can twist and get, but you will get nowhere near a complete, complete control over over mesoscale properties and things we really care about you know fingers and eyes and so on, with that approach.
Yeah, I don't want to take up all the time I think Richard's got his thing cute up.
Sure.
Thanks, I don't know if this will resonate with you or not but resonance is the idea.
So I'll just share my screen for a second just to show you this figure so this is, this is a wave, a one dimensional wave through time if you like.
Can you see that okay.
Yes, yes.
If I zoom in on it you can see there's quite a bit more structure here than you might guess.
Yes.
So within these.
Yes, within these blobs there you know when you get close enough it is just an oscillation right yes, yes, and it's not it's not built in any programmatic way it's just a combination of you know cosine to the fourth plus sine squared plus you know that sort of you know
