sine of two X and that kind of stuff all all added up together to make a whole bunch of just to make a complicated looking wave.
And, and you can see that there's a sort of a I summed things which were harmonic so that they, there's a macro scale wave structure to the whole thing as well you this repeating blob.
It's slightly different each time, and within that three repeating blobs and so on and within a new zoom and you get more and more detail.
Yeah, I want to show you what that one dimensional wave looks like when you render it in two dimensions by taking the x coordinate to be every 13th.
And then the Y coordinate to be every 14th Y position so they slip slightly with respect to one another as the reading frame slips the reading frames for the X value and the Y value we're going at slightly different places.
As you move along this song.
And the result of that is the link which I put in the chat.
Because if I try to just play the video experience suggests that.
Okay, that won't work so I put the link in the chat so that you can download it and play it.
Lay it. Thank you very much. Yes, I'd like to.
Yeah, thank you.
I don't know how to get rid of chat now there.
We're probably approaching an end but I.
I think there's something very important that we're touching on here that perhaps it would be fruitful to think more about and talk more about.
But it's really the question whether if you know how to control something you understand it.
It seems to me that this is a fundamental problem in culture is that we believe that because we found ways of understanding of sort of controlling something we actually understand what it is we're doing and what it is that we're dealing with.
And I think this is is part of what we're coming to here is that.
It's like the story of the, you know, the sources apprentice who knows how to utter the spell and those that certain things will happen, but doesn't really understand what he's doing at all.
And so I just want to keep that distinction between the sense of understanding something that knows that if I intervene in this way certain things will predictably happen and the kind of understanding that I'm really talking about which is behind that above it or on the
better level from that which is what is actually, what are we dealing with here which is a philosophical question. And I know that, you know, in certain scientists minds that's the kind of way of saying, not important, but I don't think so at all.
I mean I think science and metaphysics have to walk hand in hand and science is wrong to discard metaphysics and metaphysics is wrong to disregard science.
Yeah, no, I agree 100% and the way that the way that I think about this is the type of engineering that we were just talking about where where you make your, you know, three fold elephant or whatever.
I view that kind of control engineering as a narrow part of what I what's really meant which maybe generalizes as relationship.
Because because across that agential spectrum, you know, on the left side you've got some, some mechanical clocks and some things like this where the only relationship you're going to have is to rewire the thing and that's it right.
But on the right side, you have systems where to really understand them and to really have that kind of relationship.
It's not all of it's in fact it's largely not about control going in one direction it's a bidirectional you know you're going to benefit from their agency you're going to form some sort of, you know,
And the kind of thing that I'm talking about is somewhere in the middle where, at least for the for the biology.
I that that is also bidirectional relationship and truly understanding it is not enough to just, you know, sort of create some stuff and say see I made as many trunks as you want you know, it's right I agree with you that I think it's all part of, you know, to really understand
something. There's more to it than just the unidirectional control right there's also wider.
But but but in the but but I do see it as one continuum so it's almost like this, you know, it's like engineering on steroids so to speak that at some point it's not just you tweaking the system it's some kind of dance.
Yes, by which both systems benefit and sort of scale up and all that kind of thing.
Yes, and one interesting consequence of that is if you believe as I do that all relationships are reciprocal or reverberative or however you'd like to put it, there is no such thing as an interaction in which only one party has changed.
Then we come to the interesting point where the nature of our intervention affects what it is that we're going to find and what we find affects the nature of what it is, we think we've seen, and what we next do.
So it's just worth always remembering that that the model or the dynamic that we are pursuing and we think that we understand this as helpful may well be helpful, but it's only a partial help and it may deceive us and it's an adjunct on a process where we have to keep
revisiting our model. And what I'm playing for really is a less mechanical model, because I don't know where the mechanism is and I'm not sure that anyone does where this phenomenally complex three dimensional material is so exquisitely preserved.
And if we have to go outside of a view of mechanism as we've had to do in physics, I think it is no shame if biology also has to recognize as it may cause a revolution in biology as the findings of quantum mechanics for the revolution in physics.
