And I feel like if there is no real compelling state interest to do
something like this, and you can reasonably assume there's going to be
expensive litigation, constitutional claims against it, I feel like it really
should come at their cost somehow.
You know, there should be some kind of censure against them for, for pursuing
these kinds of agendas, because as it stands now, there's no, there's no
harm in it to them, and it's no cost to them either.
Raper made a ton of money off of crowdfunding for his tank
commandments monument.
He way overfunded for it.
That monument costs like 18 to $20,000.
He crowdfunded for $100,000.
The first one.
Rectangle with birds on it, too.
Yeah.
The first one was run over by a car.
So a born again Christian smashed into it.
I love that.
Right.
And he tried to blame us.
He tried to say that, you know, he was, he was publicly exploring the
options of using some kind of obscure anti-terrorism bill to say that we had,
we had promoted this idea that the, the tank mammoth monument should come down.
So we were some kind of, uh, terroristic overlords in this born again
Christian crashing into the tank commandments monument.
And, you know, I think by the standards, the secretary of state has in Arkansas,
that it should have been insured, right?
But he starts crowdfunding for it anyway.
So he's just, he's just rolling in the dough.
And then after it was run over, they put up these security bollards, you know,
these big kind of concrete pillars, uh, uh, on four points surrounding the
tank commandments monument so couldn't get taken out by a car again.
And I'm not sure, but I think that was paid for by the state, but I am sure
that the case is being defended by the secretaries or not the secretary
of state's office, but the attorney general's office in Arkansas.
So the people of Arkansas are paying for this meaningless litigation to put
forward pastor, Senator Raeper, it's little crusade in Arkansas.
And all the while he's profiting from it and there's going to be no
consequence for him at the point where the court say that the 10
commandments monument has to come down, which they almost certainly will.
Oh, I didn't realize that was still in litigation.
Yeah, it's still in litigation.
We were supposed to have a July, uh, hearing, um, and it got delayed due to
COVID and now they're just kind of sitting on, uh, some motions that the,
the judge needs to rule on.
And it's, it's taken a really long time now.
Uh, everything just kind of got, got held up by COVID and then just seemed
to grind to a halt, but, uh, but that case is still moving forward.
And I'm still, I'm still very confident about that one.
Uh, Raeper has been so stupid in the way he's presented his case.
And he's been so open about the religious purpose and meaning of the
10 commandments monument.
He hasn't displayed any of the savvy of somebody who's working, who's aware
of the legal angle he's trying to work in the bill he signed off on.
You know, he's sometimes throws in some, uh, some terminology about
heritage and history, the secular purpose of the monument and stuff like that.
But that doesn't work when, you know, on Sundays, you're at the pulpit as a
guest speaker in various churches talking about bringing the gospel to the
public square and making sure that we have godly leaders within the United
States and things like that.
I mean, you're not giving the courts anything to work with it, even if
they're inclined to find in your favor.
Yeah.
I like the idea of there should be a smell test required before the government
can endorse and Baphomet acting as that sort of smell test.
Yeah.
Well, it doesn't even have to be Baphomet.
Like I said, I think it's simple enough that, you know, if there's no
compelling state interest and you can reasonably expect these kinds of
constitutional claims, I really don't think, uh, I really don't think law makers
should get away with, with pushing that kind of agenda then.
Yeah.
Chase, did you have some?
Um, I was just honestly wondering if like some Hindu church wanted to put a
statue of Ganesh, whether they would have fought back against it as virulently.
Like, you know, it's, I think that's on one hand, it's like, I sort of, I think
that's sort of almost like sort of attacking it from two angles.
If you could, it would be fun to see if you could like partner with some
genuine church that wanted to put like, I don't know, a Buddha statue or something.
Well, interestingly, there was a Hindu church, uh, that made its presence known
during the Oklahoma thing.
And they might have sent a letter during Arkansas as well, but their problem
is they, they didn't follow up and it appears that they didn't intend to.
It seems like they, they took the tactic of writing the letter and thinking
that that would be enough and it's not in Oklahoma.
They were ignored like we were, but, uh, the fact that they had put in the
request, generated interest, support, and, uh, in media attention as well.
Um, the next time they came around, I think people were aware that they
hadn't followed through before there wasn't a monument to show for this, or
it was overshadowed by the fact that we clearly could be counted on to, to show
up and, and see it through because everybody knows we have our monument
and it's on the move and we're, we're ready to, we're ready to plant it on
the Capitol grounds.
I think that's one of the big advantages of being, um, the church of Satan or
the satanic temple rather than some other religion is that a lot of
Christians just find it inherently offensive.
And so they're going to push back in a way that they wouldn't against like Hindus.
And like, I, I've been really awkward though, watching them try to push back
against a genuine church.
Like, I just, I'm like really curious about the counterfactual or like the,
you know, alternate universe where there's, Oh, okay.
We'll, we'll, we'll put our Buddha here and we'll have Ganesh over here.
And then we can have a some Islamic thing over here.
Like, uh, we, I think there's, there's some news for you though.
We, we are a genuine church.
We're, we're federally recognized.
We are, I recognize, we, uh, you know, we, we tick all the boxes and, uh, when
we took a case to, uh, the court in, in Scottsdale, um, uh, we were arguing
about, uh, city council meeting prayers in, uh, in Scottsdale, we had offered
to give an invocation before a city council meeting where usually they
open up with a Christian prayer and they, they wouldn't let us do it.
They, they rescinded the offer.
You know, we, we had put in to, to do it and, and they signed off on it
because that's what they're supposed to do, you know, and they're not supposed
to, uh, evaluate whether they want a certain religious group or not.
They opened that door, right?
And instead, uh, you know, the city council got all pissed off.
They rescinded the offer to have us, have us give the invocation.
And it was very clearly based on religious animus.
So we, we, we pursued this lawsuit.
We took it to trial in, uh, in Scottsdale.
In Scottsdale was trying to argue the entire time, even though we
recognized by the IRS as a, as a church tax exempt, uh, Scottsdale was
trying to argue that we're not, you know, that, uh, that this is something
other than a religious or whatever it was.
So just that we, we didn't deserve to be called a, an actual religion or church.
And therefore our claim of religious discrimination had no merit.
And, uh, the court found in our favor then too and said, you know, they,
they very clearly are an actual religion by legal standards, but the court
also went on to say that we hadn't, uh, sufficiently proven that it was
a religious animus that drove the decision to rescind our invitation to
give the invocation at Scottsdale.
And that we had some, some further burden of proof to meet that it wasn't
just some kind of, um, administrative, administrative, uh, decision based on,
I don't know, it was a really bad decision in any case in that part.
And we're appealing it.
Um, but even in that case, they, they, they didn't care to hear arguments
that were not a legitimate religion.
Yeah.
I think that is some extreme bullshit.
Like I, I personally, in my feeling, like the Satanism feels like a real
religion, like genuine or whatever, but I also think that the, the, the religious
animus is kind of the whole point, right?
Like the, you are being discriminated against because of religious animus.
And the thing is like, they don't have that animus for things like Hinduism
or Buddhism.
And so they don't get like, there are people that have been genuinely harmed
by Christianity and that seeing those 10 commandments or having a Christian
prayer forced on you before a Senate, uh, meeting, like is infuriating.
And I wouldn't say like harmful because that's the bullshit term, but it's,
it's infuriating and it's damaging to democracy and it divides the population.
And I think like letting them see that from the other side, like, what's it
like when a religion that you have great distaste for is pushed by the government?
Oh, this is a bad thing.
We shouldn't do it in a democracy is, uh, it's an important message in my
opinion to, to get through to people.
And so like, I think you're doing great work in, in helping people see that and
helping to keep the separation of church and state strong by showing people why
it's important to keep them separate.
Well, I think it is, uh, it, from the perspective of the public
understanding of what it means to live in a pluralistic democracy,
it is harmful for them to be putting forward their religious message,
to the exclusion of other religious messages.
And you can see that harm, what that, what harm has been done in the mainstream
reactions to what the satanic temple does.
When people are outraged and say that it's ludicrous, that we should expect
to have the right to do the things we're doing.
When we're just asking for equal access, it shows that people have lost all sense
of what religious liberty means, of what the constitution is and, and, and those,
those kind of guiding ethics of pluralism and democratic ideals.
It shows that people really feel that we're a Christian nation and that they
do have some kind of exclusive licensing over the, the public domain.
And that I think is, that I think is dangerous.
And I think that's, that's contributed in part to some of the worst elements
we've seen of the past four years, you know, up to and including this
seizure of the capital, which was in no small part in, in, in effort of
theocratic militants.
Stephen, you had something?
Um, it goes back a bit, but, uh, like the idea of having this, this
bulwark to raise up as a, a legal and, um, it's symbolic and ideological.
Yeah.
Counterpoint to, you know, the, let's raise up our, our, this one religion.
Let's put this one above in, in whatever context, whether it's, uh, you know,
afterschool programs or public monuments or whatever.
It sort of brings to mind the, uh, the, the flying spaghetti monster, which
was, that might've come out right around when I was in high school.
I can't quite remember, but the, the, the satanic temple is, you said 2013,
2014 was when it was getting off the ground.
Yes, correct.
So in, in the last, I guess half decade or so has, has, has there been a move
to like, I mean, I don't know any high schoolers.
Is this, is this the kind of thing that is, as, uh, as, is this known about
like as well as I have no idea how popular the flying spaghetti monster was either.
But at least I still see it on card, like bumper stickers.
I see bumper stickers.
I wasn't the only kid in my school with the book.
Um, is there, I know that you guys do some, some community outreach, especially
with kids, is this, uh, being brought up like more and more now, or do you have
any feedback on from, from current young people?
Uh, the, when I first started speaking to undergrads, I was,
