like any time I was first doing public lectures or whatever, I expected a lot
of pushback in a lot of people to just think of satanism in terms of what they
learned during the satanic panic, you know, this idea that there's infant
sacrifice and blood orgies and that kind of thing.
And, uh, what I found from the undergraduate crowd is that they would hear
what I was saying and they would assimilate that.
And they would think, and they would just respond like, okay, now I know
something about this that sounds great.
You know, they, they didn't have, I don't think a lot of them, that background
understanding of the satanic panic, they didn't have generally those, those
prejudices about what satanism is supposed to be in their minds.
So they're hearing a satanist speak for the first time.
So they were just saying, okay, that sounds great.
That's what this is about.
Sign me up.
And I was, I was, uh, you know, kind of, uh, I was kind of shocked by that, you
know, people, the people who would just, uh, who would just understand what we
were on our own terms and be willing to accept that, that, that, that was, that
was an initial shock for me.
And I think, uh, uh, you know, in that crowd also, we didn't have a whole
lot of people saying, okay, I get the joke, which is sometimes something we get
to, you know, people coming to us and saying like, Hey, I get it.
This is hilarious because I think that misses the mark too.
You know, we, we, we genuinely view this as, as, uh, you know, a non-theistic
religion and people, you know, our membership of ours really identify with
this and it's not like once they get away from the, the cameras or the public
or something, they, they take off their horns and say, okay, now I can back get
back to who I really am or something like that, you know, and I feel like, uh,
the flying spaghetti monster in people's minds, you know, has that element to it
where it's like, okay, obviously these things are being done all in satire,
whatever, and not to say that that doesn't develop into a real genuine
community and that the values they're advocating for aren't things that
they're advocating for because they genuinely believe in those values, just
the symbolic structure and things like that genuinely do seem arbitrary, you
know, and in that way it's different.
I do think, uh, the flying spaghetti monster did have some legal rulings
against their authenticity, if I remember correctly.
That brings a bell.
I, I, you know, I don't remember any real value judgments or, or, uh,
proposals that they made.
I just remember it being the, uh, you know, anti-intelligent design in the
biology classroom argument.
Um, if they had a moral thesis, I mean, like you guys have seven
commandments are, are tight and like that, those are, those are rules to live by.
If the flying spaghetti monster, uh, monsterism or church of the flying
spaghetti monster, whatever, if they had any value statements like that, they
didn't hit my radar.
Um, but yeah, like the, uh, I know you had a couple of things on some of the,
the, um, the seven commandments, so I'll let you jump in.
You know, I should have felt like it, but I just, I like all of them.
I mean, this, this is, you know, there's, I don't, I don't want to, we can't
just read them, but anyone can go to the satanic temple.com and check them out.
But, um, I mean rule number one, if I, and then like, I'll, then I'll make my,
I won't, I won't let myself read all of them.
But I mean, if, if I was writing a list of rules for guiding humans, uh, through,
uh, you know, giving them a good moral foundation, you know, I think that the
first one makes perfect sense.
One shouldn't, one shouldn't strive to act with compassion and empathy towards
all creatures in accordance with reason.
Like that, if I could give one moral virtue to humanity, that, that sounds
like it in a nutshell, right?
That's awesome.
Yeah.
Uh, there's, to explore the philosophy of the subintendents deeper, it's, it's
interesting to, to look around and see some of the, uh, commentary about them.
Recently, there was a Catholic podcast that went through finding faults with,
uh, with his seven tenants and, uh, and I think they were doing that, you
know, trying to find like the hidden meaning, you know, and, and in
no, in a lot of ways they were, they were fairly fair, you know, um, but
still there's this notion that there's something deeper behind this here in
that, uh, you know, a certain reading of one or the other gives you license
to, uh, commit the worst kind of acts possible.
And you really kind of have to stretch to find that meaning.
But we don't ask at the first one, you know, oh, in accordance with reason,
you mean an exclusion to love?
That's bullshit, man.
And I, and I, I meant, I got apologized for something.
I said seven commandments.
These are different.
These are seven tenants and tenants are, are not, should not be
considered being commanded to do something.
This is the, I find it hilarious that a Catholic would go on.
Like they have the 10 commandments.
Like what better example of pull the rafter out of your own eye before you
go after the spec and someone else's do you need?
Well, it's, it's funny because in some ways they're not dishonest.
They'll, they'll openly talk about the, uh, how the lack of subservience
and in these tenants is indicative of a lack of moral foundation because to
their minds you have to be subservient to a divine power, which acts as the
ultimate moral authority, or else they're just floating free from any ethical
framework and you're going to run out and in rape and murder with mindless
abandon, unless you have, uh, some punishing supernatural entity to tell you
otherwise.
Yeah.
Make their own choices, develop their own ethical frameworks.
I want to, well, in a second, just a moment, I want to pivot to, uh, a next
thing, but before that, um, I kind of get the impression that like doing all this,
you sort of have to play like the bad guys and the public eye, but it also
kind of feels that with a name like Satanism, that's sort of your jam.
Is this like, uh, is this as fun and fulfilling as it looks?
Cause I think I would be having a blast if I was doing that, but I don't know.
I wanted your opinion.
Uh, it's, it's hard to say.
I mean, sometimes, sometimes it feels really good.
It's, it's great.
Now, you know, especially when you feel like, well, like with anything, it
feels like you're making progress or whatever.
But other times it's been really, uh, really stressful and really a nightmare.
And in some ways it's unnecessary what a, what a nightmare it's been.
It's just part of my character that, you know, especially early on, I had no
interest being on TV, having articles written, being an interview subject,
that kind of thing.
I'm a pretty private person and pretty introverted by nature as well.
So that whole part of it was a really hard adjustment for me.
And then when you, when you're just controversial, right?
I had a real, uh, I had a real background in investigating the
satanic panic of the eighties and nineties.
So I was well aware of how accusations of satanism leveled against people who
had nothing to do with satanism nonetheless ruin those people's lives.
So it felt like suicide to publicly be a face of satanism, you know, it felt
like any moment now, the bizarre accusations are going to roll in.
Somebody's going to try to find me and shoot me and stuff like that.
And that's never quite gone away either.
But, uh, but otherwise I feel like in a lot of ways this has kind of played
out to the best case scenario, you know, it would have been hard to imagine, uh,
back in 2013 that now we would have some like quarter of a million members in
this kind of general recognition that we have and that CNN would have
done a 45 minute documentary that fairly presented us in that a Sundance
documentary that did well in 2019 would, would, uh, you know, accurately
portray the satanic temple as well.
That's all, that's all very good stuff.
Where, where can we see that documentary, Hail Satan?
Damn, you know, at this point, I'm not sure.
I think it's still on Hulu, um, but it's also available for rent or purchase
on YouTube and other streaming sites.
It's, uh, it's distributed by Magnolia Films.
And I'm, I'm hoping we get it on, uh, TSTTV.
We have our own streaming platform.
Also, that's awesome.
Well, I know I'm watching tonight.
So the next thing that I wanted to move to was, um, long time listeners of the
podcast will know that I am like on the extreme, far fringe of pro-choice, um,
beyond most people.
And so this was something that like was of intense interest to me.
Uh, you recently, I think last year introduced a satanic, uh, rich satanic
abortion ritual, uh, in order to hopefully, um, help circumvent some of the
really restrictive state laws on getting abortions.
Uh, I believe that, what was it?
Uh, this is based on the Supreme court's hobby lobby decision that affirms an
individual's right to object to laws that violate the religious beliefs.
And, uh, the, the fact that the third of the seven tenants states that one's
body is inviolable and subject to one's will alone.
Uh, could you briefly explain the, uh, ritual and what, what this entails, what
it is?
Yeah, sure.
Uh, first and foremost, the ritual was meant to, uh, give a type of emotional
support to somebody seeking to terminate their pregnancy.
And to that end, we put together a formal ritual, which involves reciting the
relevant tenants and going over things with a, uh, with another participant,
uh, who's taking the ministerial role of putting the, the pregnant person through
this kind of counseling session and, uh, affirming that this was done with, you
know, the individual's best scientific understanding and, uh, and in no way
contradictory to our tenants and, uh, reaffirming that the body's inviolable
subject to one's own will alone.
And, you know, our perspective at the fetus, the non viable fetus is, is a part
of the woman and it's her choice to do as she will.
And part of that, uh, ritual, um, is having the procedure done itself.
Of course, the people performing the procedure, uh, aren't asked to change
any of their behavior, recite any lines that, uh, that coincide with, with the
ritual, it's just part of the process of the person who's terminating their
pregnancy, who's a member of the satanic temple.
And then there is a kind of exit counseling session after the procedure is done.
But because the process of, uh, terminating the fetus is part of the
ritual itself, it would be a violation of our religious liberty to ask us to
have any, uh, any roadblocks placed, uh, between the ritual being carried out as
it's supposed to be by our standards and, uh, and, and, and getting it done.
The, uh, uh, that's, that's really the, the core of the argument, right?
We think they can't tell us that we have to wait, you know, 72 hours or whatever
else, any of these, any of these weasel restrictions, they keep trying to, to force
in, uh, to make it more prohibitive to be able to get, uh, an abortion done.
Um, we feel like we have a really good legal argument here and we're, we're
willing to pursue that, of course.
I, I also see that again, model legislation being put forth by, uh, by
pawns to, uh, outside theocratic organizations, they're doing the, uh,
the burial bills like they passed it in Ohio recently where they're saying that
a fetus must be given a proper burial in, uh, these are, this adds, uh, another
prohibitive expense to getting the abortion done.
And that's the point, you know, they, they want to make it really difficult
for an abortion to happen.
They, they want to prevent as many abortions as they can from happening.
And to that end, they're doing things like insisting that a fetus be, uh, be,
be buried, um, be given a proper burial.
And that I think in, in Ohio, at least it says that if, uh, if the person
who terminate the pregnancy isn't willing to pay for the proper burial, then
the facility that performed the action needs to be willing to do that.
And I feel like we have a very strong legal argument here as a religion also
because I hard press to find a time where burial rights didn't fall in with
the purview of religious belief perspective and, and, and need.
And, you know, to our end, on our end, you know, being made to acknowledge
this Christian viewpoint that the fetus is, uh, unique individual human life,
