recognition. And there was a ruling that said something like, they weren't going to be recognized
as a church because, you know, they were just entirely based on a work of fiction, the irony,
you know, but I was considering, but consider further, like, what would it take for the church
of the Jedi to be legitimate? By those kinds of standards, we could assume that if a sects broke
off from the church of the Jedi and decided that George Lucas, you know, unbeknownst to George
Lucas himself, was channeling a higher truth and essentially made a reenacted documentary of things
that had actually happened a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away, that this kind of message
was beamed into his mind by some superior intelligence or by the force itself.
Then I guess maybe they would be willing to consider that this was an actual religion
when in actuality, you should just consider that those people are fucking insane.
Yeah, that's that's always bothered me that values reached through any sort of legitimate
rational process are not protected. You have to be a it's almost like it feels to me like the
government's felt held hostage by religions because people would get so irrationally angry
about their religious beliefs that they would commit violence to protect them. And so that's
why that got carved out. And I don't want to, you know, threaten any sort of violence because I hate
that shit. But on the other hand, I think if their rights get to be protected, there's no reason that
our values and rights shouldn't be protected as well.
Well, in a really, a really kind of disturbing dysfunction here is that sexual orientation,
you know, transgenderism, the LGBTQIA plus community, none of that, none of that falls
within a protected class. So you have on the one side, this protected class, intentionally
and constantly beating up on it on a non protected class, and trying to diminish their
rights, you should see a an interview I did with Tucker, Tucker Carlson, it was the second one I
did on his show, where he had me on to argue about a press release we had put out, where we
were saying that in regards to the, to the bakeries refusing to make gay wedding cakes or whatever,
we put our press release pointing out that, you know, bakeries can turn down gay couples, but
you know, they, religions are a protected class. So you can order always order a really,
a really bombastic type of design for a satanic cake, you know, and they'll have to make that for
you. And of course, that got that idea got Tucker Carlson all hot and bothered that we were going
to try to compel businesses to do things that they didn't want to do. So he had me on and I was
arguing, okay, fine, you know, I don't want to make businesses do something they don't want to do
either. So, you know, if you have the theocrat coming in to a gay business, you know, they,
they shouldn't, they should be denied service if the, if the proprietor wants to deny them
service as well, you know, some, some gay business owners should be able to say no Christians allowed,
whatever, you know, so I was saying that, you know, if you really wanted an equal playing field here,
we would either make sexual orientation and identity a protected class, or let's take away
the protected class status for religions. And Tucker Carlson, again, second time I was two for
two with him, really had no, no comeback argument for that and just, just melted down and fell to
pieces and cut the interview off.
I'm a braver man than I to go argue with Tucker Carlson and I mean, I, I, I can keep my cool,
but I think that I have a limit that way I would, I would quickly make a fool of myself
engaging with him for more than 60 seconds tops. I, yeah, I, there are links on the,
I was looking at the Wikipedia page for the satanic temple. And at the bottom, there's a link to
what is it, the, the Lucian Greaves archive or something? Oh yeah, yeah. Yeah. So on the top
of that was the Tucker Carlson interview and there's a transcript as well. And I, I haven't
read the whole thing, but yeah, I mean, it, all I could say is major props to you.
I was really gratifying because he likes to do that condescending arrogant laugh where, you know,
he, once he feels like he's back, somebody into a corner, he just laughs like a, like a moronic
idiot and assumes the whole world is laughing along with him. In my interviews, I was the one
laughing and he was the one getting beat red and pounding on the table. And it's like, yeah.
So are there anything that you think someone who is contemplating making the jump to filing for
religious status, anything that they should absolutely know beforehand, things to watch out for
whatever? I would say, I mean, people look at us and they feel like we played a really clever game
and that we've, you know, kept on, on message, but, but I think they still feel that we've just
manufactured it that way. You know what I mean? That we were meeting very kind of specific goals
and that in certain ways this all still is a prank. And we've, we've kind of massaged that
message to fit the, the need, the legal needs. That's not the case. And I don't think you'll
get very far if that is the case. You have to be exactly what you claim to be. If you're going
to do this and you're going to do it long term, you know, if you want to be a religion and you
want this to be a religion to the membership, you know, that's what it's got to be. And you've got
to be available to that. And you've got to be able to, to, to maintain those congregations,
that, that kind of internal structure. You've got to be willing to see a community genuinely
identify with that and not have a separate message, you know, in the background for membership
that's different from the one that you're putting out forward publicly, or it's all going to become
undone very soon. And if we were as disingenuous as, you know, a lot of people think we were,
we would have never lasted outside, you know, the first six months.
Okay. That is really good to know.
I'm about out of questions. I, I, this was enlightening and awesome. I don't, I don't
know what else to say. I mean, I, you know, I, I think I had, I definitely had some misconceptions.
I, I, having not, having done very little primary research or preliminary research before this
conversation, you know, I, I sort of got the vibe that this was a, a more sophisticated church,
the flying spaghetti monster. And this is, this is so much more, it seems just awesome.
And I don't know if this is an overdone joke, but you're doing the Lord's work. I mean,
like the, the, just, you know, going, going to the mat, I mean, you guys are, are, are fighting
legal battles that need to be fought and on the terrain that the, the, on the turf that has been
set for you and you have to play by those rules. It's like, all right, well, then fine.
Um, I mean, I, I look forward to seeing the, the progress and successes, eventual successes.
I'm confident it'll work out with, uh, you know, the, the protection of ones, uh, guiding one's
body as one wants and the abortion ritual. Um, I, it'll probably be, you know, it'll still be
a fight, but I, I can't imagine that, that won't eventually work out. Well, I can imagine. I hope
it does. I hope it works out. Yeah, we'll see. But it's been great being on and check in with
me anytime. Happy to chat. Awesome. Thank you. Yeah. Thanks a lot. It's, yeah. Uh, can't really
say anything better than Stephen has, but I also kind of came into this thinking that this was just
like sophisticated trolling and it's so much more than that. Yeah. This is great. Um, any
upcoming projects that the satanic temple is working on or, um, anything, uh, yeah. I encourage
everybody to check out gray affection. It's, it's one of our lesser known campaigns, but we keep
fighting back against people who propagate the satanic panic and that's, you know, that's really
grown in urgency now with the rise of QAnon and other conspiracies movements, but we're fighting
back against people who propagate satanic panic within the mental health profession by using
recovered memory therapies to come up with bizarre narratives of satanic ritual abuse,
similar to recovered memory narratives of alien abduction and past lives. It's a whole other
topic, but I really encourage people to check it out because I do think it's really important.
Having been barred from playing D&D as a child because of the satanic panic, because I'm old
enough that I was, I have some memory of the 80s. Like, holy crap, I can't believe that's actually
come back through the QAnon stuff. It's nutty. I've written quite a bit about it on my Patreon
and I'll let people know my Patreon is open and available to the public so you can read that
material for free. So, you know, generally it's good to just find me on Twitter at Lucian Grieves
and see whatever I have pinned there. It's usually my latest Patreon post and, you know,
find us on social media to find out what's going on. Awesome. Yeah, we'll definitely link to everything.
I don't have good graceful ways to end the conversations. Once again, thank you so much
for coming on. This was great and enlightening and I hope everyone learned something and does
check out your guys' website and checks out the Patreon, the Twitter and everything and
gets a good grasp on this. I feel like this is, you know, really important work and keep fighting
the good fight. This is great. Yeah, you guys rock. Yeah, thank you for coming on and for everything
you do. Thank you. All right, we are back. This episode, we are going to be doing the
Less Strong Sequences after rather than before just because that's how things worked out with Lucian.
But before we even get to that, I have a bit of feedback from, I think, two episodes ago. Okay,
I will read it. This was concerning the Less Strong Sequence post where we were talking about the
writing your bottom line when the salesman is trying to convince you that a box has a diamond
or not and you don't know what his algorithm for presenting evidence to you is. Does he
only tell you the stuff that's pro-diamonds in the box or is there, does he only tell you
points of evidence for seven and nine regardless of what they are? This was a piece of feedback
that said, actually, you can still take his feedback into consideration to adjust your
beliefs on how likely the box is to contain the diamond and it's, in theory, straightforward
what he says or what they say. I don't remember who exactly posted this. Damn it. I usually write
down the name of the person who posted this. Anyways, so he says that they say, God damn it,
I'm going to edit this. They say that if you know the salesman is trying to get you to believe
there's a diamond in the box, then the evidence they give you is evidence of how strong the evidence
that they have is. For example, if he tells you that it has a blue sticker on it as evidence
that there is a diamond in the box, that is evidence that he doesn't have any stronger evidence
than that. So before you see what you know is going to be a filtered argument, you should consider
how strong do I expect the argument they provide to be and then update on the difference between
what you expect and what you see, assuming that they want to give only really strong arguments
that you agree with. I like that. So I'm trying to think of other extraordinary claims that
require extraordinary evidence. I think one of the most common ones is belief about God.
That's what I was going to say. So if someone said, oh yeah, the universe is 10,000 years old
and God made it and you can tell because you can feel love. And it's like, oh, okay. So you have
no, that's your evidence. Okay, great. So I can fairly dismiss your claim basically because that
is not compelling whatsoever, right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. I like
that. Yeah. I watched my parents get hurt sold on like a timeshare. Did they fall for it? Yes.
That was actually the funny thing. I mean, like good sort of early lesson on making commitments
and then sticking to them or just be wary generally, I think was the main takeaway I got
because that was what like eight or nine or something. But my parents were like, oh,
we're going to get this free vacation basically. And we just have to listen to these pitches from
a timeshare. And they were like, but we're definitely not going to take it. We're just
going to go do this free vacation. And I remember having to sit in the like, was it hour or two hour
long session of sales pitch where the salesman was just like, this is going to improve your
quality of life. This is going to be so great. There's no downsides. And I'm like just watching
my parents kind of like, Oh, yeah. Oh, okay. Like looking at each other being like, huh.
And there was this idea that you could, it was in Orlando, but you could trade the timeshare
with other people that had the same timeshare. So like if somebody had one in Bali or something
and like, they're like, Hey, do you want to come to Orlando? And we will do Bali that you could
orchestrate that trade. But the person, yeah, they didn't like ask for more details about that. And
it turned out like, actually, it was like just really not worth the amount of effort you would
have to put in like you as the person. It wasn't like the timeshare company helped facilitate
those trades or anything. It was like, you would have to go find this other person. And
I don't know. It just seems like if they had a compelling reason, they wouldn't have to fall
back on these weird ones, right? Yeah. But like, I think that's kind of what I was trying to get
this is going to improve your quality of life. Well, why? And it's like, well, you could trade
this timeshare or you could like switch the time that you could come to the timeshare or like
just like things that sounded like if you're just sitting there nodding and going, Oh, that's cool.
But like, if you think about is this really like going to be, I don't know, is this the strongest
argument you have? Like, it was a lot of money. My parents didn't have a lot of money. And we
never went to the timeshare either. Like we that was the other funny thing was just, you know,
they both ran their own businesses and they had kids and we had school and it was, we never
actually like set aside the time to go take this free quote unquote vacation thing that we had
that we were just paying into. That's a bummer. That's a bummer. But it was also sort of like,
I remember being like, why did you say yes? I thought you said you're going to say no. And
they're like, well, you know, there's there's some cool things in there. And I was like,
hmm. I think the main thing that I learned is just don't talk to persuasive salespeople though.
Yes. Yeah, they're master manipulators. I read the account of somebody who went to one of these
and when they said no, because they're pre committed, like they brought them into like a
separate room and like, tried to explain how dumb they were for turning this down. And like,
they it was not as straightforward as, you know, come to our seminar, get free tickets to the show.
Like they really dig at home. Yeah. The other like thing that I learned, not really from that,
but like I had a couple of other experiences of people trying to hard sell me things and
or just like, I don't know, other like instances of people trying to like get something from you
like a beggar that keeps following you. And if you actually engage with them, it makes it a lot
harder. But if you just say no, no, thank you. No, no, I said no, no, regardless of what they say.
They can't argue with that. Right. And if they say why not, you just, you just keep going.
What about yes. Yeah. That's like the best I can say against no.
When I did the same kind of thing where they tried to pitch me on a, on a time share,
I actually just didn't go. There was like, here's your two hour block. I was like, great,
I'll see you there. And then I was like, I'm at the beach. Smart man. All right, should we get into
the sequence posts? All right. Our first one, excuse me. Our first one is a rational argument
where Eleazar considers the question, how can I construct an impeccable rational argument
that Mortimer Q. Snodgrass is the best candidate for mayor of Haleyburg. Shout out for Mortimer
Q. Snodgrass. That's a good name. And the answer is it can't be done. You defeated yourself the
instant you specified your argument's conclusion in advance. He then points out that Snodgrass did
really well on a questionnaire that unfortunately never got published, but you have access to.
And you're thinking, but yeah, maybe I should publish this questionnaire because
pulled really well with people. And you crossed the line. Eleazar says you crossed the line at
the point where you considered whether the questionnaire was favorable or unfavorable to
your candidate before deciding whether to publish it.
Wait, can I, I just, this is like an aside just to how much I love Eleazar's writing, but I love
his construction of these like examples. This year, the Haleyburg trumpet sent out a 16-item
questionnaire to all mayoral candidates with questions like, can you paint all the colors of
the wind? And did you inhale, alas, the trumpet's offices are destroyed by a meteorite before
publication? Oh, what was the one that he did badly on one of the questions? Do you remember
which one? I think it was a question 11. Are you now or have you ever been a supervillain?
Couldn't answer that one with a straight face, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. Eleazar says put yourself
in the shoes of a voter still trying to select a candidate. Why would you censor useful information?
You wouldn't if you were genuinely curious if you were flowing forward from the evidence
rather than flowing backwards from a fixed candidate. Yeah. It's, this is a just a good
illustration, I think with examples of what it's like to reason from the bottom line. Yeah. And
I think it's, it's indispensable and it's hard not to do this. You know, this is also confirmation
bias. This is everything, right? Knowing how to filter evidence that you're getting from other
people, like we were talking about with the time share and stuff. Like the person selling
you the time share isn't going to tell you all the reasons that you shouldn't get a time share,
right? So you need to do that research on your own because you want to know should I get a time
share? Maybe it's a good deal, but you're not going to hear that from, you're not going to know
