Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, I'm Jay Sticky,
and today we have a guest with us, Lucien Grieves from the Satanic Temple.
Yay.
Say hello, Lucien.
Hello, how are you?
I think we're doing all right.
Yeah.
Hanging in there.
Yeah.
It's shaping up to be a better, better year now for the past few days.
So far, so good.
Yes.
Fingers crossed.
Yeah.
It would be hard to be worse, but I don't want to attempt anything.
Oh, I mean, your wife got a vaccine, so.
Yep.
A little bit closer.
Frontline worker.
We're getting there.
Yeah.
Anyway, I don't really know where to start.
I think anything you want to tell us about yourself and how you came to be involved and
really if someone bumped into you and asked what do you do and what is the Satanic Temple?
I think a from the ground starting point would be really interesting.
Oh, yeah.
Well, sometimes I'm on flights or whatever and people will ask what I do and it's funny
how that one still catches me off guard.
Sometimes I tell them because that shuts them up more than anything else, but I also found
that if I tell people that I run a nonprofit, they tend not to ask what the nonprofit is
all about.
So, I guess that sounds sufficiently boring that people don't follow up with it.
But I'm co-founder of and spokesperson for the Satanic Temple.
I find that really interesting that people don't follow up because if someone was running
a nonprofit, my first question would be like, yeah.
I'd be so interested.
Like, oh, a kind like, you know.
I can't think of a time where somebody's asked what the nonprofit was all about.
I think it's good.
They must be just doing the thing of asking like, hey, how are you and they're not actually
they don't really care.
What do you do?
Oh, cool.
You know, maybe they think he just said a nonprofit.
He doesn't want to talk about it.
Oh, I suppose that could be.
Yeah, that's probably part of it.
So if I did follow up and say, well, what nonprofit do you run and what do you guys do?
Oh, I'd say the Satanic Temple and we fuck up theocrats.
So I'm assuming at least some portion of our listeners will already be familiar with this.
But for those who aren't, the Satanic Temple is, I'm a big fan, but you guys don't believe
in a literal Satan, which is so far the case.
I found in every sect of Satanism that I have had contact with none of them believe in a
literal Satan, but or or in your case, any supernatural powers at all.
My first question was going to be like, what, what do you like about the mythological Satan
so much that you named your organization after him?
Well, I think there's a real power in these fundamental myths, whether we believe in them
literally or not, we grow up steeped in this culture, where it kind of sets the framework,
I think, for some of our basic fundamental ideas, these, these archetypes stick with
us, you know, one way or the other, and it makes the imagery very powerful.
It makes the, the, the, the content of the mythological framework very powerful.
And it also has this kind of intuitive appeal because we have this kind of sense that
you know, the, the ultimate rebel against tyranny is Satan, you know, so people ask,
like, why, why Satan couldn't you pick something else?
And the answer just really is no, you know, nothing else could really take the place of
that for us, you know, it's, it's really entrenched in our consciousness.
And, you know, people either get that or they don't.
Some people never quite grasp why it would be important to us when we're non theistic.
And other people see it right away.
I guess it just comes from, it just depends on where you come from, you know, and how much
exposure one might have had with these things in their own lives.
But I think now currently seeing the overreach of Christian nationalists, at least in the United
States, a lot more people than otherwise would have, I think, do intuitively understand the
value in, in what we're doing and the, the, the, the power and the meaning behind the myth of Satan.
I think there's also probably like a lot of branding power there, too.
You know, if it was the, it was the church of Thor, like, I don't think it would make headlines
as much as the Satanic temple wants to put a statue in this courthouse or something, right?
Like,
That's true.
Yeah.
Yeah, the theocrats you're fighting are largely Christians.
So they, they already have to tacitly acknowledge the existence of Satan, right?
Right.
And I'm mystified about how many emails we get from people saying, wouldn't you get a lot further if it
wasn't Satan?
And I'm pretty sure we wouldn't.
You know, a lot of, a lot of the earlier attention we got was obviously because of the quick bait value
in saying, you know, Satanists are doing this or, you know, Satanists are objecting to, you know,
something some Christian Theocratic group was doing.
It's, it's something that people can read in like all of like five words.
Uh-oh.
I think we just lost him.
Oh, he'll be back probably, although we might have to start over.
Okay.
There we go.
I'm sorry.
I think the last thing you said was that you would, you don't think you would have had better
results for going with a different name?
No, you know, saying that Satanists are fighting for equal placement or whatever, you know, that's,
that's very given to click baity headlines that, that wouldn't be as effective if it were something else.
And, and of course, that, that's not to say that's the, the reason we're Satanists.
That's, that's not, it really has to do with that.
You know, fundamental basic, uh, power in these kinds of entrenched myths we have in our culture,
but also just, you know, people saying that we do better if, if we could just call ourselves
something else, I think is misguided as well.
I also think too, like the, um, there's, there's at least among some fringe, you know, in Theocratic
circles that, uh, like, oh yeah, you atheists are all Satan worshipers.
And it's like, all right, fine.
We'll fucking own it.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's funny.
I used to be accused of being, uh, being a Satanist before I, before I came out in the open as a
self-identified Satanist.
And now, uh, the detractors hardly say anything about that.
You know, they, they can't, they, they, they don't bother.
To, uh, to, to, uh, some of them don't bother anymore to try to tell people what Satanism
really means.
Um, it, uh, oddly, they'll, they'll claim that we're either not authentic Satanists or that
we're something else entirely.
We're working at the behest of George Soros or even at the computer, yeah, but there's also the
completely opposite end of the spectrum too, where it's like, we're secretly these crypto
fascist Nazis as well.
Oh, that's interesting.
If only one of those is true, you'd be getting bankrolled from somewhere, right?
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
So the, I'm kind of curious, is the name more like of an outward facing thing for the effect on
the public, or is it more of an internal identity sort of thing?
Or is it both?
I mean, I'm assuming it's both, but like which one, which one would be more important to you
personally?
Well, I think as a religious community, it's important.
Of course, that this has internal meaning to the people who are adherents of it.
And when you see our chapters, our membership, the events they do, and, you
know, journalists have noticed this and more academic authors who've explored new
religions and started growing interested in what's happening with the Satanic temple,
noticing that we actually do have this community that has these internal
activities, ceremonies, rituals and things like that, that aren't at all public
facing, and that this entire thing is acting as a religion should for anybody who
is a religious adherent.
It definitely takes the place of religion for the people who are practicing it
within the Satanic temple.
I have no reason why somebody would, you know, I have no reason to believe that
we're lacking anything as a religion, even though some people can't wrap their
head around non-theism.
So the, you know, the internal meaning it has for, for people who are adherents
of it, I think that's of primary importance.
But that being said, the outward appearance isn't something that troubles us
either.
And like I said before, you know, I feel like the fact that we're Satanists
really gives people this impression that they have some understanding of what
this is or makes them interested in where we're coming from.
So if, you know, the, if there's some motivation to draw eyes to news
stories or whatever, this certainly doesn't subtract from it either.
Did you have for?
I'm curious whether I guess any of your adherents or people that you've run
into on your saying, like on a flight have been genuine believers in Satan and
and what like that interaction was like?
Well, we don't, it doesn't take people long when they come to the
satanic temple to note that we're non-theistic and people are always really
quick to point that out if there's any, any mistake that anybody has there.
And we have sometimes gotten angry, theistic satanists getting, getting
outraged, saying we're, we're misrepresenting their beliefs or whatever,
which are based on nothing quite clear, you know, there, there, there isn't
really a, there isn't really a widely recognized theistic satanic Bible or,
or, or organization that I can really, really think of.
There is the, the temple of sat, which took a, took a theistic frame of mind on
things, not terribly large now, though, I don't know how, how active they are,
especially now that their, their founder is dead.
And that's the Egyptian set.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that, that was a spin off from the church of satan, which was
quasi non theistic.
They seem to have very confusing mixed messages when it comes to magic and
supernaturalism and, and, you know, they, they claim, they claim to be atheistic,
but they also claim that, you know, they do rituals at harness super normal
powers and things like that.
So they seem to kind of, uh, have constructed their message to whatever
audience they're speaking to at the time, but I don't think any of those
movements are terribly large and it's always hard to know who's just a random
person on social media and who is actually representative of a community.
Yeah.
I sort of love the idea of just like a disappointed, like heavy metal dude
leaving like, I was supposed to get awesome
axe shredding powers.
I brought my dead baby and everything.
Well, a lot of that, a lot of those messages come from, uh, countries infested
by Western missionaries.
And we've been fed this idea that they can sell their soul for wealth
in the real world, wealth and fame.
And they're willing to do it because they're in a desperate state.
So we, we do often get emails, say from people offering to sell their soul
to the Illuminati for money and things like that.
Oh, damn.
That's like upsetting, but like, I'm hoping that like, you can actually point
them towards like genuine resources.
Okay.
Here's like, you know, yeah, but it is alarming to see how we're exporting
the worst elements of our, of our culture to other places.
