destroying other people's religions and their religious beliefs to convert them to Jehovah's
Witnesses. And like the vast sounds like such a bad idea for their from like, right, their
own survivability. The crazy thing is like the vast majority of witnesses like stayed in the
religion anyway. But I like started using those tools on my own religion. I was like, hold up a
minute. Why doesn't this argument work against us as well? And that, that was part of the reason
I left. They taught me how to critically think about religions. And so yeah, I'm assuming that
people who really internalize this. Yeah. Well, I would, I would hope that people that really
internalize their lessons would leave the religion, but I guess either they don't internalize it or
they're really good at doing the same thing here. There's a lot of secular Jews. Yes. Yes, there are.
And the ones that are religious tend to be like smarter about it and for want of like better
words there. But like, I don't know, man, like the crazy Orthodox ones that you can find there.
Okay. Yeah. I think that I think that Judaism is a hard example there because there's there's a huge
cultural component to it that is is non. Yeah. I mean, we had a discussion with a very wide spread
of Judaism. Yeah, I mean, we, like we just talked with Lucian about like, does, you know,
does a religion mean spirit, you know, anything spiritual or supernatural, not necessarily,
right? So like, I think that when you say the Jewish religion, I think that there's,
there's definitely some equivocating there. And there's, there's plenty of, of room for
Martin Bailey. Like, there's the John Stuart Jew, who literally does not believe in the supernatural.
And then there's like the Orthodox deep, deep, God, I don't know where in New York they are yet,
deep entrenched ones, where like, the women aren't allowed to speak to the men when they're in synagogue,
because that would be against God's law. And just really, some of the crazy stuff that the
fanatics believe is nuts. You're like, wow, okay, that's like, like any other crazy hardcore religious
person. So the trick here then is to attack your beliefs that they're actual weak points. Yeah.
And this is, this is a painful exercise, right? Yeah.
And it's, it becomes easier. Well, it's easier to practice on, on targets that you're not super
attached to, you know, like, I, I bet we could reason you and unstressfully into like, why it
might be worthwhile to buy a good phone rather than the next generation shitty one. Right. But
like, that's not something that you are really attached to, right? Yeah. So like, those, maybe
practice on soft targets, but like, it shouldn't feel like a fun practice, you know, like, oh,
great, I had this, you know, engaging internal or external dialogue with somebody about this,
engaging with my, my doubt here. It's actually scary. There's a real chance that you could,
you could lose something important, you could feel like it loses something important to you.
He says, people don't think about the real weak points for their beliefs for the same reason
they don't touch a oven's red hot burners. It's painful to do better when you're doubting one
of your most cherished beliefs, close your eyes, empty your mind, grit your teeth, and deliberately
think about whatever hurts the most. And it's, I remember doing this early. No, not early. I was
like, I don't know, like halfway through the amount of time I'd been into rationality and
turned down against feminism and like, stopped self identifying as a feminist. And that sucked.
It still sucks. But like,
that was a big point of pride for me back in the day, which being a feminist.
Oh, yeah. Well, it was, yeah, I mean,
I mean, it's one of those things like that. That's why I just like a lot of labels in the
first place, like I vote blue on everything, but I don't, I'm a registered independent, right?
Like, because if the blue started saying something stupid, I don't have to fight my tribe on it.
So like, it's, yeah, just I avoid a lot of that by avoiding labels. Like I remember,
well, I'm, I don't, I want to avoid more digressions on it.
That's the like, keep your identities small. Yeah.
He says, continuing on what you were saying about the thinking what hurts the most,
he says, don't rehearse standard objections whose standard counters make you feel better.
Ask yourself what smart people who disagree would say to your first reply and your second reply.
Whenever you catch yourself flinching away from an objection you fleetingly thought of,
drag it out into the forefront of your mind. And I want to point out that the rationalist
community is where the term steelmaning first became a thing. And I think it was right around
the time of this post where he said things like, ask yourself what smart people who disagree with
you would say to your reply. And I think that's a wonderful thing that the rationalist community
has brought to the world. And I also love the fact that nowadays, like it's been 13 years since this,
it's a common term that I hear all over the place by people who, you know, some of them
aren't even aware of what the rationalist movement is. Yeah. And I hear dropped in,
in just random political podcasts now. Yeah, it's definitely common vernacular,
which I like. And, you know, it's like, I don't think that the rationalist community
invented steelmaning, but what they did was attach a handy label to something that was easily
identifiable. You know, like there's a long practice in like philosophy or even science,
you know, principle of charity, I think they called it. Yeah. And where you engage what you
think your enemy, your enemy, your opponent would say, like, in the origin of species, you know,
Darwin argued with people that he both don't want in the room about, you might think this, well,
here's my response to your, my, my anticipation of your objection. Like, that's just called
good thinking. But, but when you put a good handle on the specific thing that they're doing there,
and you can summarize it in a sentence, which is like, build up a strong version of the opponent's
argument and then see if you can stand up to that. Yeah. Steelman, opposite of strawman. Exactly.
But, but so that's what I'm saying. There's, there's tons of value in being able to shorthand it.
And now it's, like you said, common vernacular. I was just thinking,
Martin Bailey seems kind of be similar thing. Like Martin Bailey is almost like a modified
version of moving the goalposts, which has been, you know, a thing that's been around for
decades at least, I don't know, maybe the term is centuries old in other languages. But
like, it seems to capture more nuance than just moving the goalposts. And I heard it just a
couple of weeks ago on the skeptics guide to the universe, who I know they're familiar with the
Rationalist movement, but I'm not sure that the, I think atheists have been using Martin Bailey.
Since, you know, like a lot of atheism ended up being about like debating creationists and
finding logical fallacies. Yeah. But the term for it was always like moving goalposts or something
or some other fallacy. I think I remember the use of Martin Bailey. I don't know. I could be wrong.
In either case, the most recent time. It was coined by Scott Alexander. Yeah, I think you're
right. Yeah. In a Slate Star Code exposed a few years ago.
Okay. At the very least, the most recent time I read this was this morning in the wise words of
Enya's context aside, it said, that's the biggest Martin Bailey ratio I've seen since God is Love.
And I appreciated the succinctness of delivering that point.
Martin Bailey ratio. Right. Sorry. Yeah.
Let's see. This one ends, and I think that this also has its own page somewhere unless
wrong for sure. But the litany of Gendolin. Can we all say it at once?
Gendolin. Can we all say it at once? Would that be weird? Let's try.
Three, two, one. What is true is already so weird. Nope. Nope. Can't do it. It seems too cultish.
Yep. I'm out. I kind of loved it, but whatever. I'm glad you're having fun, but I couldn't.
All right. What is true is already so owning up to it doesn't make it worse. Not being open about
it doesn't make it go away because it's true and it is what's there to be interacted with.
Anything untrue isn't there to be lived. People can stand what is true for they're already enduring
it. Yes. First said by Gendolin. I didn't write down his first name here, but it's become one of
those litanies in the community similar to the litany against fear from Dune. I was actually
just going to bring up the litany against fear. I got to hear it. I didn't read Dune. Oh. I must
not fear. Fear is the mind killer. Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration.
I will face my fear. I will let it pass over me and through me. And when the fear is gone past,
I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear is gone, there will be nothing.
Only I will remain. Nice. Awesome. See, that's why I wanted to do that together. I feel like this is
okay. So I don't know. I actually recite the litany against fear kind of the way like
Catholics would recite Hail Mary's. And then there's even like a thing of like praying the
rosary where like it's this mantra. Yeah. I like just sort of the idea of having a
rationalist mantra is like this where... I do too. And we have several of them,
but the chanting them in unison thing was too far. Yeah, I didn't enjoy it. But I do see the
value. I mean, I think of the litany of Tarski frequently. It basically comes to mind without
intention, which is the whole point. The point of doing the, I mean, of articulating and practicing
rationality is that the techniques become flinch reactions, right? You want it to be,
like, we all have our shitty heuristics that are easy to trick people into believing or
saying stupid things. The idea is to build in groove as that catch those before you get there.
Yeah, like martial arts. Exactly. Making something muscle memory.
Yeah. Krav Maga style. If I find myself scared of a thought, I'm like, no, hold on.
If it's true, I want to believe it. And if it's, so like that's... I don't usually have to go
through the rest of it, but like, I just, because I already know, like, hold on, you just flinched
away from that. Let's pull that back in and say, look, is this true? If so, this is what you want
to believe. Is litany of Tarski the one that I want to believe snow is white if and only if snow is
white? Yeah, or insert whatever. Yeah. I want to believe that magic is going away from whatever,
yeah, methods of rationality. Yeah, that magic is seeping out of the world if and only if magic
is seeping out of the world. Right. Yeah. I kind of like to reframe it as, because
there's something that's weird about saying that, like, I want to believe this thing.
If it's a bad thing, I mean, like, I would say I want to believe it because
then I will, then I can point my efforts towards, like, doing something about it, right? Yeah,
but you have to believe that it's a problem before you can do something about it. Yeah,
I just like adding that there because, like, if you just say, I want to believe bad things,
it's a weird thing to convince yourself of. I have a good example, and I think it's a good
note to end on. But first, for next time, be sure to read Meditation on Curiosity and Single Think.
And my note to end on with the litany of Tarski is I think that it's an easy example for many
people to think of, especially people with, you know, raised on stupid ideas of masculinity is,
like, if you're sick, you know, a lot of people put off going to the doctor, oh, I'll be fine,
or maybe it's nothing, right? Instead, if you think this might be a problem,
instead of thinking, instead of being scared away from, like, oh, man, if it's something I don't
want to, people think, I've caught myself thinking, I don't want that to be true. And so, like,
if it's true, it already is. I don't want to face if this is, like, cancer. Exactly. And,
but if it is, you want to know, you want to believe it before, you know, well, you want to
believe it as soon as possible. If it's cancer, it is cancer, whether or not I believe it.
Exactly. I want to believe it. And you want to catch cancer early,
right, and do something about it before it becomes to size.
Yeah, to that effect. I have a friend who he's, so if you're, if you're pitching this, I've got
a request to everybody, I put this out in the Bayesian Conspiracy Discord yesterday or the day
before. And I figured, hey, let's hit a slightly larger audience. I have a friend who has a grade
four high grade glioma, which is a brain tumor, they went and operated about, operated out about
85% of it. But basically, a short version, the prognosis isn't good. This is not one of the
good cancers to get, even as far as brain cancers go. So I, if anyone works and, you know, we've
talked to a lot of interesting people on this show. You know, we talked with, you know, Robert
McIntyre, you know, who is like the only person in the world doing what he does. We hit some,
we hit some fringe audiences with, like, the edge of science. And while I realize that the odds of,
you know, anyone listening, knowing the cure for brain cancer is small, if anyone has any ideas or
knows anybody who's working on some cutting edge, you know, like, you know, fringe science almost
sounds like pseudo science. But I mean, like, you know, clinical trial stuff, anything that's
about to accept humans and isn't yet, because it's that early, anything at all, or knows anyone who
might, please shoot me an email at, is it Bayesian Conspiracy podcast at gmail.com?
Yeah. And I'll get back to you. I really appreciate it. And I can't think of a more succinct way to
put it. So anyway, yeah, indeed. All right. Well, on a happier note, we'll be back. Actually,
I've got a quick question before our next episode, because we both read the same article and came
to different conclusions on it. What, and this will be a teaser for people to think about going
into the next episode. How do you think about and define hate? Because I feel like that's really
important to our interpretations of this article. I define hate as an emotion that you feel that is
similar to anger, but with more loathing and impetus to do something mixed in.
Okay. All right. Do we want to tell people what we're reading for next week, what the post is
called? All right, let's not let them think about it until we tell them what to think about it.
That's exactly, this should be a one way channel of information from us to the listener.
Perfect. Oh, we've got a patron to thank. We do have a patron to thank. Our patron this week is
Daniel Nadal... Nadalni? Yeah. Okay, Daniel Nadalni. Thank you very much for supporting us,
for helping everybody bring the good news of Satan to our listeners.
We hope that we have spent your donation in a good way.
I hope he agrees too. Thanks, Daniel. You rock.
Thank you. All right. We'll be back in two weeks to talk about hate. I'm very excited.
Yeah, me too. All right. Okay, bye. Bye, bye, everybody.
