oh, no, I have these other good rational reasons for it, I think was necessarily...
Necessary? Yeah, not just necessary, but I think that would be somewhat dishonest. If you're like,
well, I'm actually voting for Biden because of all these other good reasons, and you don't need
those, and those probably aren't entirely true. They wouldn't end up changing your mind anyway.
You should have considered all that before you decided to vote for him, if that was going to
be the case. And I think that it's one of those things too. You want people to be able to say,
I've changed my mind, I feel like this... You can't say, well, no, you're just reasoning backwards
now in every case. Obviously, that's why this is an art that needs refinement and practice. Otherwise,
you're just throwing techniques around and doing it wrong. But you don't have to have been campaigning
for Biden since 2018 to say, I think I would have voted for him anyway. So you can update,
and yet if your honest reason is the simple, lame-sounding one, which is I like him more than
the current president, hey, own it, that's fine. I don't feel like in this case, you don't have
to defend yourself with better reasons. It's like, no, I have my reason, that's it. Is that
the best reason that I would use in every case? Not necessarily, no. But is that simple here?
Sure. Yeah. I think that's a similar reasoning for people who voted for Trump, that maybe they
have justifications for why they did it, but ultimately they decided before all those other
justifications. Yeah, and then they come up with things like, oh, but it's keeping the parties
balanced or trying to undermine the strength of the federal regulations or whatever.
Right. He's just joking or something. And this isn't the anti-Trump podcast, although we are
all feeling that way. But I was just thinking, I couldn't get this out of my head when,
so I saw that key and peel sketch with Obama inhaling marijuana. And that was the big thing
eight years ago. And it's like, no one gave a shit. Oh, God, yeah, 12. Fuck, we're old. In any
case, the Obama. Yeah. But there's that video of Rudy Giuliani dressing in drag and Trump
motorboating his tits. Why is this? Yeah. Did this happen IRL or? Yeah, this was a real thing.
They were doing some stupid thing in the 90s, whatever. But this wasn't the Obama
inhale moment, right? Nobody cared because there was no such thing as I just I needed to draw
attention to that hypocrisy. All right, I got to push past it. Otherwise, I can't
be dissuaded from talking about it more. Yeah. So I like the end of this post.
I'm sure you can think of at least one occasion in your life when you've changed your mind. We all
can. How about occasions in your life when you didn't change your mind? Like, that's obviously
harder because we don't keep a list of things that I still believe today that I believe yesterday.
But like the in brackets that you put, can each of us think of an occasion when we could have
changed our minds but didn't? I was going to say I wish I had time to think about it. So please,
go ahead. The first thing that jumped into my mind was the first time I did mushrooms. I remember,
I think this was because I had read Gorn's post about doing LSD. He did, I think, a
self-analysis or end-of-one study that said whether or not LSD microdosing had any positive
cognitive effects like people claimed. But back when, what was it? What was that dark web?
Silk Road? Yeah, he got it off Silk Road back when he was like, so I got two
LSD units from Silk Road. One did it do my experiments on and one to use for a
in-scare quotes trip, which was just adorable. And then beforehand, he wrote a bunch of predictions
and put percentages on them. And one of them was that he would become religious or believe in
supernatural things afterward. And so I sort of, and he did not actually, it sounded like the trip
was pretty uneventful, at least from his perspective. And I had never done any kind of psychedelic
smoke marijuana like once or twice. Later, I found that that can also be psychedelic.
Or I had had alcohol. And so I was pretty, I was like, okay, there are a bunch of people who
claim to have had these spiritual, that was the thing that worried me is that I would lose my
beliefs in science and rationality after taking this thing because there's quite a few people
who do take psychedelics and then change religions or say they'd been an atheist before and they
find religion or believe in aliens or something. But then, yeah, I remember actually while being
on mushrooms, I was like, oh my God, magic's real. Or not really that, but I sort of do remember
having a few moments of, oh man, maybe magic is real. Because my perception of reality was so
distorted that I saw things that seemed to defy physics. And then once I was sober again,
I thought back over those experiences. And then I was like, nope, that was drugs.
That's weird.
And it was this relief where I was like, okay, you go back to normal afterwards.
Unless you probably didn't have very solid foundations for your beliefs to begin with.
Maybe it's because I'm on SSRIs or something. But I've never, even while really high on acid,
I've never had anything like that. I've, on more than one occasion,
like, communed with God while on acid.
That sounds like something like that.
But even at the time, I knew it wasn't really God. I was like, I'm high, this is great,
hey, God. I knew it was the drugs.
Okay.
That's because your mind is mighty. Mine, I get thrown.
I might be the SSRIs.
Yeah, a little column A, a little column B. I get thrown to the ringer. I haven't had any of
those transcendent experiences where they're internally substantial and significant.
But I've never talked with something that wasn't in the room.
I didn't do talking.
Well, even in my head.
Yeah. I mean, it was more of an understanding than any sort of verbal.
I had those with different parts of myself, I think. But I don't know. That's describing drugs.
Sounds insane. People haven't tried it.
Yeah, I know. And it's probably really boring.
Probably. Yeah, I can't think.
That was really interesting.
Before I tried any drugs, when people talked about it, I was like,
there's no fucking way that anyone can experience anything like that. And yet, yeah, you can.
I'm trying to think of a good example of when I failed to update sooner.
And I know I was just thinking about this earlier this week or last week.
And I'm failing to pull stuff to mind. That's not because I've always been right,
it's because I'm doing a poor job retrieving it.
Maybe it was just because I'd already gone through the whole really,
truly believing in the supernatural and God when I was a kid and then rejected it.
Yeah, maybe if you haven't had that.
Yeah. No, I mean, like a small example, like I should have believed this sooner.
Oh, yeah.
I was going to say, for my example of an occasion when I could have changed my mind,
but didn't, like two or three days ago, I ordered a new phone.
And I kind of figured I was going to buy the cheapest one available for various reasons,
which I've mentioned already. But I went online, I looked at some,
looked at the phones that were available, and I clicked on one of the more expensive ones,
or just a step up, right? And I thought real quickly about it.
And then I was like, no, I'm going to go with the cheapest one.
So that's, that's a recent occasion where I could have changed my mind, but I didn't.
Yeah, I guess I'm trying to think of the only, the only way that I'll know that this actually
matters is if I could have changed my mind and didn't, and then subsequently changed it later.
Like, because I mean, I could have changed my mind, you know, I got,
was it not last night of the night before I got Q Doba?
Like I could have gotten something else. Like that's not interesting, right?
Well, I mean, I think that's part of what he's saying that a lot, most of times when you change
your mind, where you don't change your mind, it's not interesting. It's just something you
were going to do and you go and do it. I'm trying to think of interesting example where like,
I should have been faster to pick this up and then got to it later in life.
And I'm sure that there are examples, but I can't think of one.
I have an example for myself. It's going to sound bad for rationalists. But when I,
it took me a long time after getting into rationality to update in the direction or to
change my beliefs that a brain could be emulated. And that was from having just like
read PZ Myers blog for so long and being like really coming into like my first and like main love
in the scientific fields of biology. And it was, I had seen so many arguments against Ray
Kurzweil's claims that were like, that there were, you know, the typical like sort of transhuman
futurist like over excitement that was like in the next 50 years, we'll have a perfectly
emulated brain. And it was a biologist saying like that there's, there was actually, okay,
that the title of the post we could probably find it was Ray Kurzweil doesn't understand the brain.
I still remember that. And I remember reading all these things and being like, these make perfect
sense. And then I, when I went to my first rationalist meeting, and people were talking about
I think it was Robin Hansen talking about brain emulation, I was just like, oh, that's
bullshit. And they were like, why would that be bullshit? And I like, I felt completely embarrassed
because I was like, this was an argument that like it was from like five years ago. And I just
never re examined it and updated on it. And it was based on not even the claim of can you ever
emulate a brain? Is it possible? Is it going to be possible like for humans to do maybe?
But like, no, it's, it is possible. And like, actually, I've like updated much more towards
it being a thing to, I mean, I really hope it happens in my lifetime.
Like it's, it's, you know, assuming we don't like devolve into the Middle Ages, because of various
political things or destroy ourselves with nukes or whatever, it's gonna happen, I think.
I really like PZ's blog too. I, one of the posts that like has most stuck with me, which I think
most people don't even remember is the one where he said why it's okay to eat chickens.
Justifying it from a biological standpoint, I was like, cool, I'm gonna eat some chickens.
And then I did. And, you know, nowadays that is like the, the almost taboo food for
the EA side of the rationalist since that's the highest suffering to pound of meat ratio
animal. I've heard both ways. And I know we're, we're, this is probably the least interesting
part of the episode for people when we're not even talking about the posts. But so for me,
I feel like chickens are the better choice to eat because they can suffer less than cows.
Granted, you eat more chickens per year than you could cows per year, but cows are also
worse for the environment. So I don't know which side of the fence to come down on if you're
going to pick between one or the other. I mean, I still fall back on which animal is the, the most
conscious, most, you know, intelligent and chickens are really low on that scale. So that's why
I'm okay with chickens. And I try to, that's where I think that actually they're not as low on that
scale. They probably think, but they're lower than cows. Are they literally like 2000 times lower
or however many cows per chicken it takes to, you know, how many chickens are there per cow?
Right. It's not 2000, but it's got to be on the order of hundreds. Right. Well, I mean,
the PZ article that I'm referencing was specifically one that said,
that argued that chickens are basically little meat production robots that have,
you know, very little going on. I mean, if you zoom out and chicken biologists, so,
but if you zoom out and squint, so are people. Right. Yeah. We're just,
we're just vehicles for, for genes. We're, we're much better at defending ourselves from humans
in front of us than chickens are. All right. So this is insert segue,
avoiding your beliefs, real weak points. Yes. This might actually, if I were feeling more
creative, I could have thought of something about, you know, this, this might be a weak point
against, you know, someone who's just against eating animals entirely or something.
Well, I realized that eating meat is one of my weak points, but I also am not in a position to
not eat meat at all right now. So that's sort of where I'm at. Like I eat a lot less meat than I
used to. And I buy, as far as I can tell, ethically sourced eggs, like other than growing them or
whatever, harvesting them myself, I feel like I'm buying ethically sourced eggs. And so, like,
I, I feel like this is, and I know that I'm not even touching the post yet, but I don't like the,
like you're either doing it right or you're doing it wrong. I feel like you can be doing it
better and, or you can be doing it less wrong. And like, if you're, if you're doing better,
then it's like, that's still, that's still good. I think Scott Alexander made that great post about
like, if you, if you do vegan one day a week, you're still doing better than basically everybody.
And so, like, you know, if you're donating half of a percent of your income a year, you're still
doing better than basically everybody. Like, sure, could you, could you half a percent enough to do
better than basically everybody? Probably, because almost, almost everybody does nothing.
You just aren't doing it. A lot of people do some little bits, either around Christmas time or,
you know, giving to their church, which I think should count as an anti. I don't count tithing.
Yeah. So, I mean, I mean, whatever it is, like, you know, if, if you,
That cancels out a contribution. Right. But I do feel like, and so half a, what,
the number aside, like, you don't have to be living, you know, Will McCaskill style to be,
to be living an ethical life. You can be, you can still live very comfortably in a nice house
and say, yeah, I still give 10% of my income to charity and I am able to buy a new car or something.
As long as you do better than average, the average will slowly creep up and the human race
will keep getting better. Yeah. And that's not to say, like, you know,
give yourself a pass if you want to do better. But like, I guess, don't beat yourself up for
not doing perfect. Right. All right. Sorry. So avoiding your beliefs, real weak points. This
is fun. Yes. He uses it in the context of religious example at first. And it, but you can use this
everywhere. Like he talked about when his, what was it, his great grandmother died or something.
And his grand uncle attributed her, he attributed it to the, to the will of God. And that, like,
he says, even as a kid, it seems like I noticed that it violated the rules of self, of religious
self deception as I understood them. And if I'd noticed my confusion, I could have made a successful
surprising prediction. Not long afterward, my grand uncle left the Jewish religion.
Like the, I guess we can read more of the post before we talk about like other examples of it,
but the, you go ahead and summarize. I'm bad at it. Okay. In, I guess, in summary, it's that
the modern Orthodox Judaism encourages people to be doubtful and inspect the scriptures and,
you know, see where conflicts with science, but only in places where they're going to win.
That like, I think the example he gives is that it wouldn't be surprising to hear Rabbi in his
weekly sermon point out the conflict between the seven days of creation and the 13.7 billion
years since the Big Bang. But he has a clever explanation for it involving three other biblical
references, a midrash and a half understood article in Scientific American. In Orthodox
Judaism, you're allowed to notice inconsistencies and contradictions, but only for the purposes
of explaining them away. And whoever comes up with the most complicated explanation gets a prize.
It doesn't have an emphasis on the virtues of blind faith. You are allowed to doubt. You're
just not allowed to successfully doubt. I've heard people push back on that that successfully
doubting is supposed to be something that you're doing, but that's like, that's also
the Jesuits. It's the same thing where you're supposed to successfully doubt, but it's always to
ultimately show how God is smarter than humans. And just from like the memetic survivability
of that idea, it's like if one of the virtues of it was to disenfranchise yourself of it,
the memes wouldn't survive, right? Yeah, it's like its ultimate purpose is to
show that my religion is stronger than doubt. Yeah. I mean, the Jehovah's Witnesses had kind
of a thing just not nearly to this extent. It was like, maybe baby modern Orthodox Judaism,
and in a thousand years, maybe they'll get to there. But they also, they would teach critical
thought and debate in church every Thursday. One hour was devoted to that for the purposes of
