one that, uh, one deserving a proper burial rather than being disposed of as biological waste.
Uh, I feel like that's a real intrusion into our, into our own religious rights.
And I feel like that's a very strong lawsuit waiting to happen.
Yeah, is there even, is there a law that an adult needs to have a proper burial?
Like, where is this coming from?
Yeah, I don't, that, that is a, that is a good question.
I, I haven't looked at that, but I would think that if you were, you know,
if, uh, your grandfather died or something in the family was to say, can you just dispose
of them as you would dispose of any other biohazardous waste that they would shovel
them into a cream, you know, a crematorium, right?
I don't know.
It does seem like they're, they're making, uh, they're making standards up.
Just to, uh, fight this abortion battle.
I don't, I don't, I only have like a cursory understanding of the Hobby Lobby decision.
And I know you're not a lawyer, but do you, do you know, like how that, um, interacts here?
Well, the, the Hobby Lobby ruling, uh, did, did us some good, um, when it came to these
arguments, because previously we felt like, uh, you know, we, we could be going through some
very expensive litigation that came down to, uh, the court's understanding of, of science.
And that, that, that would mean that we would need to play this game in which we had to have
dueling expert witnesses, which would get very costly.
And in the case of Hobby Lobby, they did a couple of things.
For one thing, the court essentially, uh, abdicated any, uh, any reasoning on which they
would, uh, in which they would judge the authenticity of a religious claim.
You know, I mean, it's very questionable that a corporate entity can say that they hold religious
beliefs, you know, in, in that the, the, that the, uh, and that how they treat their employees
who might not subscribe to those beliefs need to somehow fall in line with that.
But the, the, the key thing that Hobby Lobby did was that it said that Hobby Lobby's claim
that certain drugs, certain contraceptive drugs that were not abortifacients, in fact,
were abortifacients because they believed them to be abortifacients was just,
was a matter of belief in that, uh, they, they were free to believe that and act upon those
beliefs. And the court wasn't going to, wasn't going to question that. So science didn't matter.
So even while we feel we have science on our side, it's a relief to know that we don't even
have to fight that battle at all, but can walk in and say it's a matter of belief on our part.
And that's the end of the story.
So I, I was following, um, the, uh, satanic abortion ritual because I'm really interested
in that. And it seems like the courts in general are treating this one different, like the, uh,
the other two cases, Scottsdale and the boffamette stuff and the, um, the, uh,
memorial for the, the, uh, war dead. Those were all like, seem to have good legal standing
like people argued over it. And, uh, and the abortion ritual seems to have been more or less
just denied out of hand. Like a lot of courts wouldn't even, uh, look at it. The Supreme Court
turned it down. I was wondering, it almost seems something you said earlier struck me that, uh,
that the state doesn't have any compelling interest to, uh, to promo one religion over another.
And I think maybe this is being treated differently because a lot of people do feel that
the state has a compelling interest in regulating abortion, even outside of a religious context.
But I don't know. That's just kind of like my gut feeling. Do you, do you have any
ideas as to why this seems to be being treated differently than the other, uh, movements?
Yeah. But first let me say we haven't litigated the, the abortion ritual. Um,
what we were litigating previously was in Missouri, they had a 72 hour waiting period.
Um, before somebody could get an abortion that, uh, required that the person wanting to get an
abortion would go into the clinic, receive materials that state that they, that, uh, they
understand that the act of getting an abortion is going to kill a unique individual human life.
And so somebody's supposed to get these materials and then ponder them for like 72 hours
before, uh, before going back and getting this, this done. And in Missouri, there was like one
clinic and sometimes people would travel like upward to six hours to get there, you know,
have to miss work, pay for the travel, get lodging or whatever. So that 72 hours was not,
was not a small burden, um, in certain cases. And you know, it turns out a lot of people getting
abortions already have kids. You know, I think that's something a lot of the conservators don't
understand is people generally aren't just using it as, as birth control as they like to think.
Um, so there's, so there's a lot of factors here that made the 72 hours a really prohibitive
weasel bill against abortion. So we put together an exemption form for members of
the satanic temple seeking an abortion saying that, you know, because the, this statement
in these materials regarding an individual and unique human life contradicts our own
religious viewpoints, that the, the non viable fetus is tissue and that it's up to the person
who is pregnant to decide the, the, the meaning of this tissue and whether they're going to bring
it to, uh, to term or whether it's, you know, whether it's going to be, whether it's going to
be expunged, that's, that's up to the person carrying it. That's our, our religious viewpoint
to try to push another one by state mandate upon us is just unconscionable. So we took that to the
court and through the first round of the court hearings, the dickhead judge waited over nine
months and then said, because she can't be pregnant anymore, this is a moot case. So I'm
dismissing it. Okay. So I mean, that, that's, that's the level of assholeism we're dealing with
here. And I feel like there's really no recourse, you know, I mean, there should be some process
by which a judge gets pulled off the bench for something like that. And then, uh, all the way
down the line, we had judges misruling on technicalities and it never got to the point in all of this,
you know, like, like he said, we took it to the Supreme court and the Supreme court didn't take
the case. We never got a judge to rule upon the actual merits of our legal claim. It was all quibbling
over technicalities. And it was all for the most part, radically off base quibbling over
technicalities. Like we can't say like, if only our lawyer had done a little better, no, they were
really stretching. And as to the reason they're doing this, it's because we're satanists. And
that's the really uncomfortable part here. You know, justice is supposed to be blind,
but we know fucking well, if it were any other religious group putting up with this kind of
open, blatant religious discrimination, the case would be treated a whole lot differently.
It just, I mean, what comes to mind is like, you know, if you're a Muslim and you want to pray
during work hours, you know, I think it's the five times a day towards Mecca,
like your employer is required to allocate you that time, right? Like, and that, that seems
super straightforward. And if they were to say, you know, no, wait till your lunch break, wait
till after work, they get in trouble for that shit. Like, I, man, I, I don't get angry that often,
but that judge waiting nine months and saying, Oh, you know what, moot point dismissed, like,
man, that, that, that grinds my gears. Yeah, it's even worse than that too, because,
you know, the courts have found before that, that if something is, I forget the terminology they,
they use, I believe it's capable of repetition yet evading review. And that's not something the
courts are supposed to do. They're not supposed to take something in isolation and say, well,
because in this instance, she can't be pregnant anymore, it's a moot case. She's capable of
repetition of this, they should review the case. And it's like, you would have, you'd be amazed to
know how astonishingly high our legal bills were just to get to that point, just to get a non-secretary
ruling from a judge who decided he didn't want to hear the case. So this is, this, this was the
response we were going to get. And it's, it's, it's disturbing that that, that, you know, that
we're in a, we're in a position now where we have judges willing to do that more, I think, than they
were in previous times. And that's, and that's an outgrowth of the incompetent presidencies we've
had in the past. You know, George W. Bush was, I thought, as bad as we were going to get back
at the time he was in office. We never thought we could dive as low as Donald Trump. And Donald
Trump put a lot of really stupid fucking judges on benches. Now, we're going to have to deal with
that for a long time. And they don't even care about looking like they're following the law anymore.
And that's the real dangerous part. You know, before there was some kind of decorum, you know,
there was some kind of, there was some kind of compelling need in the minds of the judges, it
seemed to act like they understood the law and that they were going to abide by it. And I don't,
I don't think we're going to have that kind of etiquette on the bench anymore.
I mean, even Bush had to pay lip service to the Constitution and to democracy.
And when Trump was able to wipe his ass with all that, of course, that it changed the norms
for the worse across the board. You had something, Chase?
I was going to reply to the abortion thing a while ago. Just like when I heard about like the
abortion ritual, I kind of thought that it was just a troll thing. But when you actually described
it as being largely this counseling and affirmation ritual, that sounds amazing because
like you mentioned the thing of like women getting abortions often already have children. I mean,
women getting abortions have like sometimes they are, you know, counseled that this is going to
be a nonviable pregnancy or like they're carrying an already dead fetus and like they've been forced
to like carry it to term knowing that it's dead without being a wanted child. And like just that
there's all these, you know, it's and then they make it like, okay, so imagine that there's like
this couple that's their first kid they've got. And then they're told that like this child's going
to be born with an encephaly, like what is it, micro encephaly or something and die within like
three weeks. And then so they're okay, like, do you carry this to term? And having to make that
decision then having to walk into an abortion clinic that's being like protested with people
with signs calling you horrible things and then like requiring that you have the waiting period.
There's other ones that require that you get an ultrasound and look at it, which like imagine
if you've been raped. Oh, right. That was the one victory we got in Missouri. Before in Missouri,
it seemed apparent that getting an ultrasound was required, a fetal ultrasound
when during that 72 hour period. But the state abdicated that immediately in oral arguments.
And when our lawyer brought up the requirement to the ultrasound, the state of Missouri,
right away chimed in and said that it's not a requirement that's voluntary. And it was like,
well, well, okay, so he gave that up. And, you know, the best we could do then is
propagandize the fact that it wasn't required in that, you know, if anybody felt it was,
they should be quite aware of this precedent that was set. But we knew it would cause controversy,
the idea of an abortion ritual. Right. But it's also important that we recognize
that there's a real effort to make people who are getting an abortion feel guilty about it and
to feel ashamed of it. And there's this mandatory counseling in some places that's
exclusive to just like guilting you. And again, we're not going to feel guilty or raped or something
like God. Right. And we wanted to, we wanted to address that and be very open to our membership
that, you know, this is, this is your decision. And it's not that we're glorifying abortion or
preferencing it over live birth, of course, but we're not going to think more or less of you
for doing this. And you made this decision. And, and, and that's, that's, that's yours,
you know, and we accept that as a community. And you can talk openly about it. And nobody's going
to give you any, any guilt or shame. And of course, we got pushback from people who are like, well,
imagine, imagine what, what they think the other side, you know, and they see you've gotten abortion
ritual. And I get sick of that. I mean, fuck them and what they think, you know, it's like,
the more hysterical they get, the more we're supposed to concede and back down and not mention
certain topics or whatever. And fuck that. It's, it's well past that point where we should stop
worrying about the feelings of these people who are crying that anything we do in our lives is in
a front to their values somehow. We have gone a little past the hour. I still wanted to pick
your brain on some things. Are you okay staying longer with us? Or should we wrap this up? Yeah,
no, go ahead. Okay. So this is going to be a slight gear, switch it. Any of you guys want
to say any more on this before we switched? No. Okay. So I personally think it's a really good
idea to protect one's rights and to use the tools available to protect them. And one of those tools
is to be a protected class, like a religion in the eyes of the government. And for a long time,
I felt like our personal little movement here, the rationalist group, I mean, we have sort of a
ideal, sort of a guiding ideology and ethos, we have our own community we're building,
and that it's been my opinion, maybe it would be good to look into, like, incorporating as a religion.
So I was wondering, like, do you think getting recognition, religious recognition was an effective
tool in defending your rights? And is I, let's start with that.
Well, I do see a disparity in how we're treated, as opposed to how other religions are treated. But
I mean, on the bright side, it's a disparity that people don't want to admit to, and they don't
want to know exists. So you can assume that the more we push this, and the more we expose it,
you know, the more headway we'll make in equaling out the playing field. But I think
a real mistake in atheist and secular communities has been to denigrate religion,
making it indistinguishable from supernaturalism. Because on a legal level, your values don't mean
anything unless they're attached to a religion. They're certainly not protected at all. And it's
a weird kind of backwards notion that somebody's values are only meaningful or worthy of protection
if they're not based upon any rational input whatsoever, but are based entirely upon
received wisdom and divine fiat. We reject that notion entirely, obviously. It's
premise of what we do. And we've been very clear about how we don't endorse supernaturalism. And
we value science as the arbiter of truth claims. But, you know, Satanism also does have that kind
of ceremonial aspect. And people push back on that too. They say, Well, how can you have
rituals and ceremonies without supernaturalism? And it's very easy. Think of, think of going to
a wedding, you know, there's atheistic weddings, funerals, these types of things. They're moments
anchored in time. They give you a memory to kind of mark an important occasion, you know,
or commemorate a new beginning or an end or whatever. It has some kind of emotional,
psychological closure or catharsis. You know, people like that. And there's a real sense of
community behind it. And I feel like you have that component too, that really goes a long way
into, you know, ticking the boxes that are required for having a religious organization.
But if you have your own affirmative values as well, I would think rationalist values
that try to look at some empirical evidence are far more meaningful than any superstitious values
that anybody might hold. And I really feel like, you know, if you look at this, you know, if you're
considering this for the rationalist movement, I would encourage you not to look at it as,
you know, trying to pull one over on the system, but considering maybe in which ways you really
are a religion and why you should assume that you're not, you know, and what are you yielding
to superstitious organizations when you say that you're not and that they are,
what makes them important and special and what gives their values higher value than yours.
I think you start contextualizing it that way, you'll see what an outrage it is
that, you know, that you have so many people claiming that only religions of superstition
should have these legal avenues available to them for protection.
Yeah, I really like that. I think that, I mean, you know, I'm less allergic to the idea of
religious incorporation than I once was. Like when you mentioned, you know, the ritual of a wedding,
for my wedding, my aunt was our officiant, and it was easiest in my state to officiate through
some vague church, and it could be anything, but we went with the church of the dude. And
like the idea that, I mean, it was doable without some sort of religious efficiency,
but it was more hoops to jump through. And when you mentioned, like, it does really put a fine
point on it when you can say, oh, no, my value was religious based, then the system
has to say, oh, sorry, okay, you bet. You know, like, if you were going to be drafted into Vietnam,
you could be a moral philosopher with a, you know, a PhD on nonviolence or non, you know,
aggression or something, and they would draft you anyway. But if your grandfather was a Quaker,
you were just, you could just say that and you'd be off the list. That blows my mind. And that, yeah.
Right. I think it was in the UK, where the church of the Jedi was trying to get official
