whether or not it's a good deal from the salesperson. I want to hear like, what are the
downsides? Like they're like, oh, you can, you know, you can trade with anybody all over the
world and you're like, okay, is that easy? So in here he says, a logical argument's one that
follows from its purposes, thus the following argument's illogical. All rectangles are quadrilaterals,
all squares are quadrilaterals. Therefore, all squares are rectangles. This syllogism is not
rescued from illogic by the truth of its premises or even the truth of its conclusion. So that's
a really good, yeah. Yeah, he said maybe this principle here. Maybe all squares are rectangles,
but if so, it's not because they are both quadrilaterals. So always refuse to accept
illogical deductions. Yeah, he also says there's just like, it was just a line from here where he
says, also, sloppiness is habit farming, where I sort of just wanted to pull that one out, where
it's like, just you don't accept bad arguments, even for positions you like. Well, I was also
just thinking of, I've had the most success with like, I'm thinking again about like,
failing to be hard sold, or to give somebody 20 bucks or whatever on the street. When I,
you know, I was just tired and forgot to like, use the principles of, okay, like, you know,
I'm getting into this kind of situation now, I need to pre-commit to saying no,
or I need to not get into the arguments, I need to not, you know, it's hard. But it is also sort
of important to remember, okay, sloppiness is habit farming. So the more you like, let your guard down,
or yeah. And this was, you know, both, this is pretty relevant considering the election we just
had. There are lots of reasons, you know, people gave to vote for Biden. But ultimately, I think
the main reason was he's not Trump. And really, you don't have to say anything else but that.
He ends- It's not Trump and he's not worse than Trump. It's hard to imagine a person who would
have been worse than Trump. But that was sort of earlier on in the interview, where he was saying
it was hard to imagine someone could be worse than George Bush. And it was just like, don't even say
that. We were so naive. I mean, over the last four years, I've looked back fondly on the Bush era
and be like, man, those were simpler times. Everyone, that was all we had to deal with.
I mean, just incompetence. And you mentioned like, that was one of the questionnaire items was, did
you inhale? Like, that was the, you know, the video from, well, Clinton and Obama, both had
both had videos from their college days of, well, like, yes, I held the joint, but I didn't inhale
or whatever. Well, no, I mean, Clinton literally said that under O. Oh, then I guess that's why
the joke became I didn't inhale. And then there's no way then Obama's Obama was riffing on it. Oh,
okay. Obama's like, I didn't know. Yeah, there was a key and peel sketch about that too. And
it was funny. But yeah, apparently when when Clinton was running for president, it was still a
big deal whether or not you had done marijuana as a kid. Yeah, can I just I as dumb as that was,
I yearn for those days when those were scandals. And those those were, you know, front page
headlines for a week. Yeah, I, you know, I'm confident. And we're not talking about the
election and stuff, but I'm confident about the Biden era. I think that he seems competent. He
seems like he's a chill dude who will put together a successful cabinet. He's promoting,
like, scientists to cabinet positions, people who are actually qualified to make decisions on
climate change, for example, being the ones in charge of making the decisions sounds pretty cool
to me. And you know, the push for unity and all that. Granted, it's going to be
politicking and all this nonsense. But damn, that sounds relaxing. I haven't heard
shit coming out of the White House in the last week. It's been great. He's been president for
four days, and I haven't heard anything. I am all confident he's going to be so much better than
Trump. Yep. I'll give you that. Yeah. My hopes are for just a boring few years. That would be
nice. Stuff happening. I no longer want to live in interesting times. Yes. Yeah.
When you're talking about, I remember when that made headlines or like,
I keep seeing this headline this last week, and it's this clickbait headline, it just says,
like, these cocaine hippos have got to go. And I don't, I've resisted clicking. I was like,
I can't, I can't click on that. I'm like, just don't do it. No, like, I don't even know why.
Have you clicked on it? No, I don't know. All I can see is from the sub headline that
it's something to do with Columbia and cocaine, and I guess they've got those.
They're smuggling their cocaine and hippos. The thing is that the world makes no sense anymore,
and it's going to be hard to come up with clickbait headlines that surprise you.
If I was a Colombian drunk lord, having coked out hippos as part of my defensive line would be,
I think, not the worst strategy. They're ferocious. They are. Yeah. Oh my God.
I think they sweat blood. No, that's not true. They have pink sweat.
That's weird that they have pink sweat. It's something to do with some enzyme.
Hey, there's a thing near the end of the post, which I find interesting. He says,
whatever actually decides your bottom line is the only thing you can honestly write on the lines
above it, which absolutely true. Definitely something we should keep in mind as rationalists.
But does this mean you cannot be an honest salesman? Because as a salesman,
your bottom, what actually is your bottom line is, if you buy this product, I will get some money.
I think that the way to shove that square peg into that circle, into that circular hole,
is if you actually believe in the product you're selling. And so, granted, you can't tell.
I mean, that's a thing. Your mom was my realtor when I bought my house,
and she was straight up, we did not buy the most expensive place because she didn't push for that
one. And she didn't really push for anything because she's dope and anyone who wants to buy a
place in the greater Denver area should contact Inyash. But she would come in and say, yeah,
no, this is no good. This would need work. You guys don't want to, if you're going to make an
offer, tell them to take off money for this. So, I mean, maybe she's not a perfect case for the
salesman, but if she talked to us to find that they're your representative, right?
In theory, yeah. In practice, not always. At the end of the day, she doesn't get paid unless
we buy something. So, it was in her personal self-interest to get us to buy a home and her
very self-impersonal interest, exactly, to get the most expensive one.
Yeah, but long-term, I'm not, you could also argue, long-term best interest is to get a
reputation as a realtor who is a genuine advocate for you, the buyer.
Exactly. I recommended her to my friends who are buying homes in the area because
she was great. And if she shoehorned us into buying some shithole, I would tell them to
avoid her like the plague. I think that if you believed in what you're selling,
I think you can get around that. Yes, your goal is to sell it, but if you believe you're
helping them, it's like, yeah, man, I actually have a solution to this problem you're presenting
and this is it. Every now and then we do recommend things on the podcast and we don't get paid for
it, but even if we did get paid for it, I don't know. The only time I've ever recommended
something on this podcast, anyway, is something that I really thought was awesome and that other
people would get value out of. What was that? I mean, the most recent thing I can remember
is when we talked about the video game slash, what's the girl with the voice?
I guess that's literally all of them, but no, Billie Eilish. Oh, yeah, the singer?
Yes, the human that can make noises with their throat.
We were trying to think of just positive things we've been doing lately. You weren't selling
your own book, right? When you do, you have solicited your stuff before. Speaking of which,
I have written a book everyone can buy called What Lies Dreaming, available at WhatLiesDreaming.com.
And the thing is, it's like you're pitching it because you actually think people have fun
reading it. Yes, you make a buck. I'm going to hawk right now. This is the first time we've
hung out together since the beginning of December, maybe earlier. You guys haven't seen the phone
case. I got to show it off today. We have a merch line with phone cases. Even if you don't get ours,
go to whatisitredbubble.com or something. I think that's it. Yeah. And pick a pattern you like.
The snap case, like the thin one, is like just, I don't know, a millimeter thick and it is big
enough to cover the screen. I'm selling this thing, whether it goes in our pocket or not.
This case is tight. If you like the picture, go for it. If you don't get... There's everything
on there. There's Marvel stuff. There's like trippy-dippy space stuff. There's Marvel stuff
at Redbubble. Yeah, like fan art. Oh, okay. Yeah. Well, that's okay. They're probably pushing the
line. Yeah, yeah. That's Marvel, if they wanted to. Well, Disney, I guess, if they wanted to,
I guess could crack down on them. But that would get them some bad press. Yeah. Well,
I mean, they don't mind the bad press. I remember there was the thing, and then it were far afield,
but they gave some dad who was burying his dead son that wouldn't let him use a Spider-Man
headstone. Really? Oh, no. And so, yes, bad press. They're clearly not afraid of it.
I think it was just... It was not just about on-license use of our stuff. It's just like,
we don't want gravestones of our things. So, I get where they're coming from. I disagree with it.
There's also a legal precedent. If you don't defend your copyright, you lose your copyright.
That's US law. So, anything that got enough newsworthiness that a lot of people
knew about it, they'd probably have to say something about it. That's wild. The fan art
probably goes under the radar because there isn't anything in the news like, oh, you can get this
phone case that someone made up, drew their own picture of Thor on. But if it went into the news,
then they probably... You have to pursue that. Or the US government says, well,
obviously, you don't care about your copyright. Now you don't have copyright on Spider-Man anymore.
It's a fucked up system. That sounds insane. Yeah. Love it. All right. So,
I can't think of a segue into... We change our minds less often than we think.
That's a de facto. Yeah, I mean, you don't need a segue.
Next post on? By the way, next post. There's not much. I mean, I think... Go ahead.
Okay. He started with a quote from a study where a number of people over a few years
discreetly approached colleagues faced with the choice of different job offers and asked them to
estimate the probability that they will choose one job over the other. The average confidence in
the predicted choice was 66%, but only one out of the 24 respondents chose the option which he
initially assigned a lower probability to, yielding an overall accuracy rate of 96%,
meaning that people were wildly underconfident in how likely they were to choose their more
attractive option and that people, even when they only thought it was 60% likely,
were much less likely to change their minds than they actually thought.
What's cool about that is... And I guess I should keep this in mind because I've
recently assigned a probability to whether or not I'll change jobs. And I need more data
before I can put a pin in it for sure. But if I say 85, it means 100 basically.
And that's a nice shortcut. Once I'm pretty sure I'm leaning this way, I can just stop
thinking about it. Now, granted, you shouldn't, if it's important, you should realize that you're
making that error and actually try and reassess, make sure you're weighing the cost and benefits
and stuff. But I guess I wouldn't... You shouldn't kick yourself for saying, well, I was only 60%
sure. It's like, yeah, but you were leaning that way. There's a couple brands of appliances,
which I've heard you just should avoid. And last time I went out shopping for an appliance,
like I looked at them briefly, but then I thought, why am I even looking at them? I've heard I
should avoid them. I'm not even going to bother. So that's how I went forward, even though they
were the cheaper ones. Smart. Eliezer says, once I could guess what my answer would be,
once I could assign a higher probability deciding one way than the other,
then I had an all probability already decided. And realizing that can really save a lot of
time and stress in your life. I saw Robin Hansen once post something similar where he said,
whenever you are really, really torn between two decisions, it's often the case that they
aren't very different. That's the reason you're torn. Like if one was obviously superior than the
other, you wouldn't be torn. You'd be like, I'm obviously going for the much better option.
But if they're really close, then which one you go with doesn't make that much a difference,
because there isn't that much difference between them anyway. So don't stress about it so much.
That's a clear stick. I think it's cool to see this formalized. I had just this
very weird epistemology as a kid. I used to write what I thought were these deep truth
things in my journals. I go back and laugh at them occasionally. But I do remember
kind of starting from really black and white thinking as a kid where I was kind of watching
the behavior of people around me and tried to decide what I thought was good or ethical or
whatever. And for a while, I had this sense that you should be stubborn and stick to your...
I noticed though that people respect people who stick to their guns or make a choice and then
defend it. And then I remember I think I was in... It's probably middle school. We were doing some
fake debate thing. And I had been thinking before about... I guess about... Well, but it actually
seems like regardless of whether people respect you more, you might make a better decision if
you're willing to change your mind about things. And it's obvious. If the other side makes a better
argument, it makes you look stupid if you just stand there going, well, yeah, but that's the one
I picked. So I remember just playing with this in this debate by arguing my hardest for the one side
and then halfway through getting up and then walking over to the other side and being like,
you know what? I've changed my mind and I'm going to join this side. And no one else did that. And
it was just like... I don't know. Teachers were always like, they found me really weird because
a lot of this was stuff I'd been chewing on and writing in my journals and in my own head and
the actual behavioral outcome would be something that was like, why... I wouldn't talk to anybody
about it. I was just like, haha, I did that. They're just like, okay, you're weird.
Writing stuff down really helps you process it. I've come through many, I don't know,
insights, decisions, whatever by writing a blog post or just chatting with people on Discord.
Just getting it out in a physical format helps. Sometimes I just write something up and I find
that things have changed while I was writing it in my mind. And so I delete it. Just having your
thoughts... Writing it in your mind? No, no, no, writing it like a blog post.
Oh, you're saying the thing in your mind changed? Yeah, yeah, the thing in my mind
changed and then I delete the post. No, no. That's the thing. It doesn't work if you don't have it
on a paper or on a screen or something. You actually need to get it out there in words,
which is interesting. Yeah, and then I've seen interesting studies about... I think it's more
about committing things to memory, but I wonder if processing might work that way as well, but
manually writing things on paper with a pen or pencil. Yeah, at least, yeah.
You retain it better. Yeah, it makes you retain it better. I think there's something about...
I gotta look into that again, but I have noticed just... I used to journal obsessively. I do it
less obsessively now, but I still get a lot of value out of it in an introspective sense.
I, largely for a while, just went away from paper because it's inconvenient. If you have a
laptop or a phone, you just have infinite paper sort of and then there's the... You can backspace
things and you can... But yeah, they have a different feeling in a way that's hard to
describe and it is kind of interesting where... I think I remember when I was journaling by hand
in a notebook, there was something about the... I was much less... Just because it's difficult or
like a mild inconvenience to cross things out or erase things, I didn't edit.
I would write a thought and then I would see my thought sort of, like you were saying,
change as I was writing it rather than... But if I was journaling and just text edit,
I could write a thought, be like, and then delete it. So if I go back and reread my journals
about... I don't know, that we're in text edit, they sound more coherent, but you're
recording less of your own thought process, which is just random thoughts.
I think one of the interesting things that Eliezer comes to with this post is he says,
you might think that you can arrive at a belief or a decision by non-rational means
and then try to justify it. And if you found you couldn't justify it, you reject it.
But we change our minds less often, much less often than we think. So kind of a...
What is it when you tell someone to be... A warning, there we go. A warning, maybe not
to do that kind of thing. Maybe not to make up your mind too fast. Well, not even... Not just
make up your mind, but even arrive at a decision before you've really looked into things. Like,
again, deciding to vote for Biden, I still think was probably the best thing for society,
because we got rid of Trump, which is great. But then trying to justify it and saying like,
