Yeah.
Uh, what about like running into theists, you believe in Satan?
Like, have, has anyone ever like run away from you or like tried to pray at
you or anything strange like that?
Yeah, I've, you know, people recognize me.
Um, and that hasn't happened in some 10 months now because I've stayed in
through the course of the entire pandemic, but, uh, you know, people recognize
me and they're going to say anything that's typically because they approve
of what I'm doing and, you know, uh, are happy that they saw me.
So I probably don't notice, you know, the negative responses as much
because they're, they're quiet, but I, I went to the gym one time and Salem
and some guy really was insistent at, at praying for me and asking my
permission to pray for me.
And, and I was telling him like, you can do what you want to do, but I'm
not, I'm not having any, any part of this, you know, but he, but he was, he
was really pushy about it to the point where I had to tell him to fuck off.
And I, I feel like it was, uh, I feel like it was a case of him recognizing
who I was and things like that happened.
And I, you know, and I'm not clear as to whether it was because they
recognized me or just because they're deranged people.
That's the thing.
That's the thing about being somebody who could be recognized now.
Now, if somebody's staring at me really weird, I'm not just sure if they're
just a weird person or if they have some ideas that came to them from
having seen me in some other context.
So the thing, um, to, to move forward, this is the thing that got me
really interested in the, uh, satanic temple was when you funded the
boffamette statue, which I don't even remember how many years ago now that was.
But, uh, I jumped in on that Kickstarter and that was, I'm still like
really happy about that and sometimes talk about it, but the, the
boffamette statue, like really briefly is sort of a goat headed aspect of
Satan sitting on a throne with two kids on either side of him.
Kids is an adult, I mean, human children, not goat children.
Um, and, and, uh, it's, it's just kind of like a religious monument, right?
It's not overly evil or anything.
The kids look to be looking up to him.
He's, you know, got this wise sort of wise look on his face as far as you
can tell with a goat, but a very sage looking goat.
Yes.
But, uh, it was originally a response to the, I forget which city it was that
was allowing religious monuments in one of their, uh, public parks.
And it was all getting Christian monuments.
Is that correct?
Well, it was Oklahoma and Oklahoma had some of those, uh, spineless lackeys
in their, uh, in the house who, uh, were pushing through model legislation
penned by the congressional prayer caucus or some other arm of, uh, project blitz
where, you know, you have these, these well financed, well networked
theocratic groups throughout the United States and they'll pen model legislation.
And, uh, they'll, they'll give this model legislation to their mindless
pawns and other states who just, uh, fill in the blanks, sign off on it and
pass these laws.
So we saw a 10 commandments bill passed in Oklahoma where they made the argument
that, uh, putting a privately donated and financed 10 commandments monument on
the capital grounds wouldn't be a breach of the establishment clause because it's
privately financed and privately donated.
And it's not, uh, government speech at that point, but of course that means
they've opened those capital grounds to other private donations.
So we said, well, we'll, we'll donate a satanic monument on the capital
grounds and they can't engage in viewpoint discrimination and say, we're
not putting this up because it's satanic.
And the other one is, is Christian.
And the, this was very early on like 2013, um, when the satanic temple was
just getting started and at that point we're mostly just a couple of guys
trying to let people know the vision we have for this.
So when we jumped into the fray in Oklahoma, we weren't really ready.
We just sent a letter, uh, to the secretary of state's office, I think
it was in Oklahoma and said, we wanted to donate a monument.
And I think we were, it was an exploratory letter, I think, asking
for more information or the proper forms that we would, uh, fill out to do this.
And we didn't expect that just sending that letter was going to bring us media
attention, but the very idea struck people at the time.
You know, now I think more people do these kinds of things because we've
done them and we're expected to do these things now.
So it might not be as big of a news story, but just having sent that
letter drew this media attention.
So we had to hurry up and put together crowdfunding because we had no idea
how much this would cost when we sent that letter.
We didn't even have a monument design idea yet.
So we set up crowdfunding for like $20,000, which was, you know, ridiculously
lowballing it just because we didn't know at the time.
But we also were really desperate to raise that money because we, we
didn't have financing and, uh, you know, we, we didn't want to, we didn't
want to bluff with anything when we were, when we originally formed the
Satanic Temple, we wanted to be clear that we weren't going to send out
demand letters and things like that unless we intended on following through.
And we wanted to make it clear, uh, with everything we did that we, we
would follow through.
We wanted to gain that reputation because it was, we knew it would be way too
easy to think that this was just a prank and that we would, we would let
things stand at a letter itself, you know?
So we're desperately scrambling to get the, uh, the monument together.
And of course that included coming up with the monument design.
And really we wanted the design to address all the claims behind the
Ten Commandments Monument.
They were saying the Ten Commandments Monument served a secular purpose that
it, uh, it somehow, um, uh, stood for American values, judicial values,
because, uh, based on this erroneous idea that constitutional law was somehow
based on the, these biblical laws, the Ten Commandments.
Um, and you know,
no other gods before me just screams secularism.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and thou shall not speak the Lord's name in vain.
That's, that's, uh, that in no way contradicts the First Amendment, I guess.
You know, there's a, yeah, there, there was a lot of bad arguments there, but
we feel like we made a monument that actually could use those arguments.
You know, we said that this stands as homage to those who have been unjustly
persecuted and witch hunts that have helped inform the, the fundamental
basis of, uh, secular law, innocence, until proven guilty material evidence,
that kind of thing.
And also, you know, the binary elements of the Baphomet, Baphomet Monument,
the, uh, part animal, part human pointing above and below the inverted
pentagram and the, you know, in the pentacle straight up there, uh,
they were indicative of the reconciliation of opposites, pluralism, viewpoint,
neutrality, and diversity, these kinds of First Amendment values.
And, uh,
depicted as hermaphroditic and like, I guess the more not safer work, I like
you see on tarot, et cetera.
So the binary, uh, gender thing as well.
Oh, well, we, yeah, it would be hard to pull off on the statue.
Well, right.
And that was the subject of a lot of debate.
We knew people would, we knew we would get pushback and complaints
about taking off the breasts, but also working with the artists, working
with a covered chest, look terrible artistically.
And we just knew the baird breasts would have changed the entire argument.
They would have said it had nothing to do with religious discrimination.
They just weren't going to allow, you know, this pornography on the, on the
grounds.
And I feel like, you know, it is worth arguing that that's, there's
nothing pornographic about that, but we weren't going to allow that to become
the extra step into getting to the basic, the core argument that this was
a viewpoint discrimination.
They didn't want the monument there because of Satanism.
So we went with the Iggy Pop torso or the artist went, you know, molding
based on, based on Iggy Pop, the torso of this bathroom at Monument.
We also made it very clear that we did not want our monument there in isolation.
The money, our monument was meant to be there on grounds where the Ten Commandments
Monument was standing or other religious, uh, or other religious monuments
because we wanted it to be a monument to pluralism and to complete that picture.
There needed to be other viewpoints, right?
So at the point where the Supreme Court of Oklahoma decided that the Ten
Commandments Monument was in fact, uh, illegal and needed to come down.
Uh, we, and they took down the Ten Commandments Monument.
We withdrew our, uh, our demand to have the bathroom at Monument placed on those
grounds, and then we moved the fight directly over to Arkansas, where another
mindless clone of a, of a senator, uh, just signed off on model legislation.
Uh, Jason Rapert in Arkansas, uh, just acting as a tool for larger
theocratic organizations pushed through the same, the same model legislation
that was used in Oklahoma, same arguments, except in, uh, in the, in the case of
Oklahoma, they didn't deny our, our requests.
They just ignored them and Arkansas, they straight up, uh, they straight up
denied us any placement on the public grounds.
Uh, the senator there, Rapert has gone on these tirades about how it'll be a
cold day in hell before there's a satanic monument on the Capitol grounds.
Failing to mention now that we did a, uh, we, we did a rally and, and this is
kind of the climactic scene in the documentary Hail Satan, where we brought
the bathroom at Monument on the, on the Capitol grounds for a day and we had
a rally, we gave our speeches, um, we confronted, uh, people with Confederate
flags and, and, and shitheaded, uh, uh, neo-Nazis who called upon all white
Christians to show up and, and protest our events and that kind of thing.
And, uh, you know, it just, it's funny because when we did that, you had, uh,
these politicians in Arkansas saying that, yeah, we have a right to assemble.
We have a right to do this rally.
There's nothing we can do about it, but it'll be a cold day in hell before our
monument is on the Capitol grounds.
And it's like, what do they think is the legal distinction there between us
having the access to the Capitol grounds for a rally in us having, uh, access
to the Capitol grounds for that kind of free expression that they're allowing
for other private groups?
Is it, uh, I guess they just, to me, it kind of invalidates their claim that
they have a right at all to say that we don't have a right to put the monument
on the public grounds, but it just seems like they feel that they have some
kind of right to put limits where they feel appropriate.
And I just feel it's indicative of having people in public office who have
absolutely no understanding of either the letter or the spirit of the law.
I loved how it really pointed out the hypocrisy behind those sorts of movements
because this was still during the time of, you know, the atheism religious
conflicts and, and people would just say, look, no, it's just, it's privately funded.
We're just allowing people to exercise their free speech on, on the Capitol grounds,
you know, this, the government isn't getting involved at all.
And obviously they have tons of people with lots of money that want to put
up their Christian bullshit.
But then the second that someone comes over with a religion that they find,
you know, distasteful is like, oh, no, you can't do that.
And it just, it shows it was always about promoting their religion on the Capitol,
on the government property and nothing at all to do with just giving people
the freedom to speak.
Yeah.
And there's, there's so, so much, so many disingenuous arguments that came
through the course of this whole thing from Arkansas's side, side of this,
that the Senator, Raper, kept saying that because it was privately
donated and privately funded, that none of this was coming at any cost
to the taxpayers of Arkansas, and he knew he was full of shit from the start.
He knew that this was going to provoke various lawsuits, right?
And I kind of feel like there should be a smell test on these little individual
crusades put forth by senators and Congress people, lawmakers of any type,
where they want to push through something that gives exclusive preference
to their religious voice.
