should be a prerequisite for entering the career. If you're going to be like doing CSS, it's like
you don't need to know, you know, about the little life of Alan Turing, it's not applicable.
Or even just like the, you know, how our card computers,
yeah, like, I mean, knowing how to like to design a register machine and see sounds super
valuable. Well, like literally one of my classes was about the various search algorithms and the
theory behind which ones were more effective for what kind of searches and why. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
So that's like more applicable to your actual life as if you were going to be a programmer.
Almost today, you would just Google like, Hey, this is the kind of did I'm looking to try and
grab. Right. And you would find the optimal solution on your second click on stack overflow.
And so like, and this was like, if you want to sort your database, here's your various options.
And here's the theory behind why you want to use these options for larger databases. And yeah.
To be clear, that sort of knowledge is what separates like seniors from entry level people.
Okay. And so when you come out of a bootcamp, unless your bootcamp has like a specific section
for that, you tend to that I should have mentioned this, if you're curious for computer science.
Some breakdown I saw years ago showed that bootcamp grads came out, they tend to be tended
to be stronger in like their ability to build applications right away. Like just sit down at
their desk and start coding on day on week one. But they're weaker in algorithm design and data
structures. So like sense the the sort of stuff that, you know, like, I don't particularly know,
even though I should this point, know exactly what's going on under the hood with like, our
giant Postgres monolith database that we have, because I don't really need to. But if I wanted
to optimize it, like we had one of our seniors do this year, I definitely need to know what's
going on there. And so he was able to come in and clean up a bunch of shit and save us actually
many thousands of dollars a month, because now we require that much less computing power for it.
With the bootcamp model, you could come out of your bootcamp and start coding immediately in
your entry level position. And if you want to become a senior programmer, you could learn that
stuff later. That kind of degree is overkill for most of the jobs that people actually want.
Yeah, I think a lot of jobs like you could skip college, you don't need to have as much background
knowledge in that, like, if you're gonna, I guess, like, probably people that read less wrong
that are listening to this podcast, at least, are the kind of people that are gonna like,
learn that stuff anyway. Like, if you find a thing interesting, and if you're motivated, like,
this is a group of people that at least like, you know, can read long things and absorb like,
complex ideas. So yeah, I would feel, you know, I guess, I guess I could see from an employer's
perspective that are like, yeah, I want my employees to have a degree, like so they can have this,
like, depth of knowledge. You're a lot more valuable to the employer, but also that takes a
lot of time and money. And so you're probably going to want more money as well, which, you know,
that's the point of the bootcamps, the employer can hire you for $60,000 instead of $90,000.
Yeah, it can be beneficial. But yeah, I dropped out and I went to work as a basically just a
kind of a secretary, really, I would crunch some not even crunch numbers, I would add up lists of
numbers for someone else and put them into a database, I would call like a clerk.
Yes, I was a desk clerk. I wanted to think a secretary usually handles communications,
or something scheduling and stuff. I would sometimes man the phones when the actual,
you know, front person was out. I mean, it was it was a small company and all the really low
level shit I would get to do. Was this like the accounting job that you got to later? Or was this
like this car dealership? Yeah, no, okay, this was a company that mailed things out to people.
Basically, if someone would say like, Hey, we have these 10,000 people that we want to mail
this thing. Can you do it for us? And we were like, sir, yes, sir, we will put these umbrellas
into this weird package and send them to your people for you. Cool. Yeah, it was it was the
the actual it was pretty much menial labor on the floor. Anyways, I started out there. And
basically, I just was bright enough that when other things needed doing my boss was like,
Hey, can you do this? And I said, Sure. And eventually, a guy above me retired and my boss
was like, You learned things on the job. You're gonna go to college for them. No, I got I mean,
I got paid basically shit like 925 an hour. But like, what's doing saying? I mean, if you,
you know, got your masters and probably wouldn't get your masters in shipping weird objects, but
like, you wouldn't be able to even get that entry level job. Yeah, no, and that was the thing.
Like, I knew I meant, I got to know the people on my job. They knew me saw that I was, you know,
enthusiastic and energetic and bright and I could do stuff really my my main piece of career hacking
advice would be whenever anyone asks you if you can do something you say yes. And then you go and
you learn how to do it. Yeah, or like, I've done the thing of just asking like, Hey, you know,
pretty on top of all my job duties now is there are there more things that would be helpful,
like for me to learn? Yeah, like, can I pick up more skills? Yeah, that works too. I was not
that ambitious. I actually when they offered me the job of the guy, I was like,
let me think about it for a day, because that's a bunch more work and responsibility and I don't
know if I want that. But eventually I was like, Yeah, fuck it. Why not? And it, you know, from
there I took on some of his duties, which included bookkeeping and accounting stuff. And so my next
job was exactly one from there. But yeah, the it really feels to me like being at a place and
knowing people that work there is a huge big move. So getting into someplace just getting in the door
is is a great idea, even if it's a really low level thing. Pretty much every job that I found
this this would be my other big piece of advice. Pretty much every job I found was from a temp
agency or a placement agency. I was going to mention that, which I was replacing someone who
either had been fired or, you know, was paternity leave or something. Yeah, exactly. And every
single time that I was placed somewhere, within the first week I was there, the my boss was like,
Oh my God, you are so much better than the last person. Because oftentimes when you're getting
hired from a temp or placement agency, it's because the person behind you sucked really hard,
had to be canned, and they need someone on super short notice. They don't have time to go out and
interview people. And so, so my piece of advice is take over for someone who sucked at their job,
and you will look awesome. I was going to mention temp agencies as a way to go to because it's
it's one of those that's like, I think off the beaten path, it was under it was off my radar
until I until it wasn't. And it paid, I don't know, three bucks more an hour than my previous job.
And it's like, it was shit work. But like, if all I needed was money, it got the job done.
Job was that Stephen? I worked for four, six weeks or something at Otterbox, the phone case
company, they would order all then the components, the phone case from China, and then you would
assemble them in the order that they came in, then you put them in the box, a little instruction
insert, and it was an assembly line. It was terrible. It was like 12 hour shifts that started
at, I think it was, I think it started at noon, and it usually ran until midnight or two in the
morning. And it was it was like that. I remember it was, I think 15 days with no days off. And like,
you're supposed to be allowed to take days off if you want it or whatever. And the overtime
was supposed to be optional, but it was it was discouraged the point where you just were let
go because it would find somebody who would be willing to stick around for those hours. But
one of those cases where it's like, oh, you can take days off, but you have to like ask all your
coworkers, could someone cover for me on this day? No, it was all 50, like they brought in like
50 people at once. And it was everybody's first thing. And there was none of that stuff when
you started a regular job or like the first week is like onboarding. And here's the HR stuff,
because you didn't get any of that. You just came on, you immediately started working. But it was
the only perk of working that many hours was, and for those like that shift was that I had no
time to spend any of the money. And like, my check was about twice as big as it should have been,
because there was like 30 hours of overtime on it. So yeah, that that sucked. I hated that job.
That's right. When my back started going, I'll fuck you too, probably from standing for 14 hours
a day. You should go see them. Well, yeah, actually, it was when I started when I asked,
actually, I got a couple days off, because I went to the physical therapist and they said, you need
you need to rest. And the week I came back, I was let go. So shit, but they don't need a
reason to let you go. They just said, Oh, performance. I'm like, okay, great, fuck you guys. Bye.
So I guess, yeah, it's really hard. Yeah, it's really hard to shine in those sort of mass
production easily replaceable jobs. Oh, yeah, this one wasn't one where they were where they
were staffing for a real job. Well, maybe, sorry, you're still talking. Oh, no, this one, there
was no way to shine to grow. This wasn't that kind of job. This was a, we just got in a gigantic
order. You know, we got a product order of some 10s or hundreds of thousands of these we need to
get done by the end of the summer. Like so it wasn't like this was never going to be a job with
people. Yeah, but I was like, thinking about I have a friend who actually moved with me from New
Jersey. And he got like, I let's see, my partner at the time went to the Tampa agency, I went to
the bootcamp. And this kid was like, Hey, you know, someone at the Walmart told me that basically,
they'll hire you on the spot if you go work at FedEx. And I was like, you sure you could go to the
Tampa agent, like I could help you look and he's just like, nah, he paints. So he like was selling
his oil paintings for a few hundred bucks, but like just needed a job on the side. And so they
start you out as like just like a packet chandelier and you like just unloading hundreds and hundreds
of boxes from trucks and putting them on assembly line. And it was just like brainless work. But
just because the people doing that job were people that were just hired on the spot, like
there are a bunch of people just coming to work drunk, drinking throughout the day,
smoking weed in their cars, doing harder drugs, getting in like bar fights and like so like,
just by being a reliable, normal human who would just show up to work and move the boxes,
my friend like was able to get promoted to being a scanner. And then they got promoted to
driving a forklift and like, so they did manage to like work their way up the chain at that job
just by like, you know, not being the normal grade of person who would work at a throwaway job
like that. I mean, most jobs kind of suck. And so most people have crappy attitudes for them. And
just I mean, as someone who has now had to hire people to, you know, like help renovate houses
and things like that, just having someone show up when they said they're going to show up and do
the job is automatically a win in my books. I'm like, nice. I love that I can actually know,
I know someone who I can rely on to actually show up and do the thing. Because like, you know,
you set aside the day, you're like, okay, this day, the person's going to come in and put the
carpet in for me or whatever. And then they don't show up. And you're like, well, fuck,
now what do I do? So that yeah, just being, being reliable is good. And, you know, people like to
work with people that they like to be around, which, you know, it's going to be much harder in
the era of COVID to be around people, obviously, but that's not going to last that much longer.
And just like, in general, being personable, not always being a grump, I don't know, I hate to,
I hate to give this sort of advice, like, hey, be nice. And, you know,
big, nice to be around you, lecture night, younger, but you really struggle to get along with people
that is a skill you need to work on. Yeah, that I mean, people aren't going to want to work with
you unless they absolutely need you because of your skills, which that's great if you have that.
But I mean, just being personable is such a life hack for everything in life, generally.
And being minimally personal, personable, for most people, isn't that hard.
And win friends and influence people. Yeah, exactly. One book you need to know about that.
And if it is hard, like, that is, that is something that's worth putting some XP,
you know, time into, right? Like, it's worth spending some points to figure out, all right,
how do I actually get along with people? So much of human power is about groups of people
working together. And so being able to do social hacking is huge. That's a different subject.
Yeah, we could do a social hacking one to that would probably be really interesting.
I don't know if I have much to offer there other than like, just be nice to people.
It's almost always free. And it gets you, it can get you all the way. Plus, it just feels good.
I'm not sure, like, you absolutely are just really nice and awesome. And I love being around you.
And I've been told by others that I'm fun to be around as well. So I don't think we would
have much to offer because we naturally just like to be around people and like to be nice.
We're already awesome at being nice to people. We need to find an asshole. We need to find a
reformed asshole and ask them what their path to success was. Exactly. That's what I was saying.
I mean, like, I don't think I was an asshole, but I was the autistic kid that couldn't make eye
contact or speak above a whisper and didn't know how to do any social interactions. And I had to
learn it all from like reading books and practice. That's actually valuable though.
Yeah. Like, so would you, would you, and this is supposed to be a leading question even though it
is, was that, was the effort and no doubt it was like a struggle to get through the beginning
of that effort at the very least. Was that worth the time and energy to get there?
Yeah, it's very much what Anish was saying about it being sort of a life propeller. Like,
we are the social species and we need to do social things really to get ahead. It's actually
quite hard to be a hermit and to succeed, I think. In my industry, once you get to the top,
like once you're really good, you can then afford to be a complete asshole because then
you're irreplaceable. It's in your doctor house of computer science. Exactly. It's like, sure,
you guys can fire me because I'm a dick and I don't come to work, but once you do and something
breaks, you guys are fucked. So, you know, when, when I'm 60, if I feel like caring that little,
I will. But for the next 30 years, or God, yeah, 30, that sounds about right. I'll enjoy
being nice and collaborating with my team. But yeah, just use that as your motivation, you know,
put a smile on your face, walk through the door, be nice, and then like just think about when you're
old, you're going to get to do all kinds of shit, apparently. Keep a list of people to get revenge
on. No, actually, when I was in that period before school, before starting a real career,
and just like, you know, working at various kid jobs, I changed jobs every year just because I
was like, I mean, whatever, these are throwaway jobs anyway. So there's not really much point to
me staying at the boardwalk Disney store. I was like, I'm going to become a model employee.
Like when someone pissed me off, in particular, most of these jobs have some like, you know,
asshole boss or it's a toxic environment. But I was like, I'm going to become the best fucking
person here at selling Disney toys. And then I'm going to leave. I'm going to give my two weeks
notice and be gone. And I'm going to time it for right when the season's about to pick up. And
then they're going to, they're going to beg me to stay and I'm going to leave. And then they're
going to get a temp. They'll look up and beg for help. And I'll get to whisper no. Yeah. That was
part of like my motivation that kept me going through the high school jobs. But anyway, I wasn't,
I'm not sure if you were done your story. Yeah, I guess the last thing I would say. So I got lucky
I managed to get on the job training and I got paid shit for years. But you know, I also didn't
have any debt. So that was fine. The the thing we were talking, you know, pooping on degrees earlier.
It has put a hard ceiling on how far I can advance at this point. If I wanted to get
any higher, I would literally need to have a degree because they're like,
we just cannot promote you above this position. It would look too bad to, you know, the people
above us. It's a hard requirement. And that, you know, I personally don't give a fuck. I knew that
would be an issue when about 10 years ago, they were offering me college, like, you know, we'll
pay for 50, 60% of your college go take night classes. I was like, no, I'm done with schooling.
I am so over it. And I decided not to. And that is fine with my life goals for other people,
they may want to jump on that if it's offered. And other people in general may just want to
keep in mind that you might have a hard ceiling like that as well. But I know that's not the case
for all industries like programming, for example, programming is just sort of a lot of jobs are
just prove you can code a thing. Yeah, all right, you're hired. They don't care where you went to
school or whether you have a degree or if you're living in your mom's basement is like, can you do
the job? Yeah, all right. Cool. It does depend a bit on politics, but it's like harder to test some
careers. Like, can you social work, social work at this person? Okay, you're like, you can't really
most jobs when you're not producing a product, you're more like in the business side of things.
The how it looks to others is important. The signaling is a big part of the game. Well, and
that's where they want the degree to signal. Yeah, and I'm glad you mentioned social work. I don't
