kills the first person she sees that teams up with three strangers to kill again.
There was this like, it's the only thing where it was the explain your job badly challenge.
Yeah. Uh, I'm trying to look for some examples. It's good to find good ones because like people
will link that on Facebook and then everyone tries to explain. Yeah, like I'm looking at it now.
These are funny. Yeah. Got to find an actual like comedian, good, good, smart thinking brain person.
We try to make the brains work and we put them on air.
I like this one, badly explain your job. I put different mixtures of liquids and, and give them
to people. They give me money when my drinks make them feel funny. That's, that one's pretty good.
See, and then you know, they mean bartender and that's awesome. Yeah. All right. Our posts for
next episode are going to be Einstein's arrogance and Occam's racer. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Occam's racer.
Yes. I mean, two, two posts in a row that have a person's name and then a noun after it.
Yep. Okay. Shall we go on to our main topic for today? Yes. And our main topic for today was
Jace's idea career hacking. Like kind of didn't want to call it career hacking, but now I kind of,
I don't know. I feel like it's, it's one of those like catchy things that explains.
So it is, it is career hacking or does not career hacking?
Yeah, let's, let's call it career hacking. I just, I don't know. I get a little bit like cringe,
cringe reaction. Whenever the word is hacking. But like, it's memorable. So yeah, I don't know.
We haven't really talked about careers, jobs. And I kind of like, wasn't sure going into it
this time where I was, I was like a lot more excited about it when I was like actively
doing cool job stuff. And like, like right now I'm just unemployed and I'm doing a
coding bootcamp though. So was that started already? Yeah. Hell yes. But like, kind of want to talk
about it, see if I could get excited, re excited about it, or maybe get some other people excited.
All right, we'll just talk about sort of alternative, like alternatives to the like
classic sort of patterns people have about getting jobs. And just sort of the idea of
like rationalists and careers in general. I'm also curious what the average career,
like the average path that people take is to get job that people take to get jobs is,
because that was part of what kept me from finding a real job for four years after graduating
college was like, or how many years it was. I had no idea what people did to get real jobs.
So tell us about your experience. You graduated college and then
my then girlfriend who was already driving to and from Denver, I went to CSU. And so she was
driving to and from for her job. Actually, this is a great story on her part too. Undergrad and
social work at CSU, master's of social work at Columbia University, and an advanced standing
program that took 10 months. She comes back with a master's degree from an Ivy League school,
took her 10 months to find a job. And mainly that's because everywhere within 30 miles of
Fort Collins is saturated, like every entry level job is saturated by interns and people who are
going to school for the undergrad stuff. And someone wants to hire anybody who seems like
overeducated, but you know, for an entry level position. Yeah. So she ended up finally getting
a job in Denver, was driving round trip for six weeks. I graduated on a Saturday, we moved
that Monday, which was awesome. So she had like a 90 minute drive to work on her five minute drive
home that day. And what did I do? I floated for a few weeks, got a job as a teller for six months
that I hated. I remember how much you despised that. And this was after you graduated? Yeah.
What was your major? Psychology. I wouldn't recommend it if you're not doing anything more with your
degree. I got into it initially with this like, I don't know, long term, long term ish plan,
and realized two months in that was never going to do anything. So I was like, well, I might as
well finish because what are you doing with your life, Steven? Oh, I'm in school is a much better
answer than nothing. And that was actually the majority of the reason I went to school.
I got an associate's degree for cheap because I went to a community college. And then after that,
I wasn't doing anything. So yeah, it was seriously bumping into somebody I knew from high school.
And they're like, Oh, I thought you'd be doing something like more exciting. And I'm like,
that's a good point. I need to pretend like I'm doing something. And so I'm back to school.
I get the feeling that's a lot of people kind of, I mean, that's how why I ended up in college too.
It's just like, this is what everyone's supposed to do, right? Yeah. And I like, that is the opposite
of hacking when you are just doing the exact same thing everyone else is doing, because you're
supposed to and you don't actually have any sort of plan. Yeah, I totally agree. Yeah, there isn't
really, I mean, I think that I'm glad to see that I think it is becoming a lot more like
people are becoming more aware of the fact that the standard idea of, you know, you go to school,
you go to college, then you get a job and then you'll get promotions and eventually you retire
at the same company with your, you know. Oh God, that hasn't been a thing since the 50s. Yeah,
that's how our, I mean, that's, I mean, that's kind of how maybe our parents generation did it.
Like my dad has been at his job for 40 years. And like, I think that that's what people think of
now. And that's just not how jobs work anymore. I think across most industries, my industry is
particularly weird there where like, if you've been there two years, you're like, Oh my God,
you've been here for ages. But a lot of jobs are getting to be like that where, I mean,
one of the things you brought up is that it is more profitable for companies to hire,
or not even hire, maybe they're not even paying them, but to have a bunch of interns,
rather than, you know, having to hire some employees. Yeah, based on,
based on Rachel's experience, like, it seems like it is better to have the experience working
for a company than to have a degree, right? Probably. It depends. It depends. I think that
the degree, the degree got through the door and probably kept bigger doors open for further job
jumps. But she's been at four or five places since 2014. Right. So like, she's, she's doing,
she's moving at a rate like I'm moving at. The people that were interning had a much easier job
getting in, even though they didn't have Ivy League master's degrees. Yeah, I bet. I mean,
she had no trouble getting a work study experience, although I think the school helped set that up.
Okay. But they might even just say, go find an internship. And she had two of those across
her education. So like, if you're willing to work for free or next to free, people will
are happy to open the door for you. But that sucks. But yeah, if you want to try to pay your rent off
what you're making to do very important work, then yeah, people are much less inclined to open
the door for you. But just to finish off my career thing, I can skip a couple of years because it
was just random jobs. And then a friend asked me, like, why aren't you a programmer? And I said,
well, I don't think I can do that. Isn't that the kind of weird magic knowledge you need to be
like coding your own game since you're in diapers to do? And he's like, hell no. And he sent me a
book that I've talked about before called automate the boring stuff, which isn't like the best Python
introduction that I've come across. But it is a great like introduction to programming. If you
have no idea what anything is. And you're like, Oh, like, I mean, I can show anybody a simple Python
function. And it reads like English. And like, Oh, you're not writing in machine code, like I've
seen in the movies, this doesn't look like matrix code. You're you're writing basically words. And
like this is so it's really, it was this this light switch moment for me that like, Oh, this is
learnable by any adult who wants to put in some effort. Like this, this isn't some arcane magic
knowledge. And the only thing that's remotely career hacking there is that at the time of
considering, All right, well, now I want to do this. Do I want to go to a university and go back
to school probably spend at least two years because I've already got all my, you know, what do you
call them core credits or something out of the way? Or do I want to do this faster and more
cost effectively? And I mean, when you put it that way, the answer was obvious. So I did a bootcamp
instead. It was also the majority opinion across the programmers that I knew that I asked. The
there's always trade offs, right? So like, on the plus side, I was able to concentrate, I think
about three years worth of hours that you would get out of school into 19 weeks. Because it was
10 hours or yeah, about nine hours a day, five days a week, rather than I mean, how many hours
do you do if you're doing 18 credits? It's like 12. It's hard to say because you have, you know,
the what two classes a week at two to three hours per class for the lecture, but then they give you
so much fucking homework, right? But this also had homework stuff in it too. Like this was a full
time commitment that was 50 something hours a week. Yeah. And so I mean, yeah, there's a trade
off. But like, if I'm going to be just doing homework for 30, you know, two thirds of the time,
why am I paying a university $15,000 a semester to do it? You're paying for the name. Right. So
fuck that. I paid a bootcamp $15,000 to do it 19 weeks. And the other main perk there was that
like your let's see, I talked about the contact hours, I guess the cost was way less to the main
downside is that it was an intensely full time. And so like holding down another job at the same
time would have been impossible, not merely hard. If you had another job, there was no way to make
you could make this particular program work. There are tons of bootcamps that are part time,
but you need enough money to live for 19 weeks on your savings or have like parents or someone be
able to house and feed you for that time. Yeah, I borrowed money. And the other thing with that is,
I mean, a lot of them will do lending and stuff too. So I mean, it, I mean, taking out a loan
would be a dragon. It's scary. But the cool thing is that at the end of it, you know, for me, I was
cheaper than like college degree though. You're taking out a loan for a college degree too.
That's true. And look, but I think the like the loan, the track to getting a loan there is more
intuitive for people because that that road is laid out with giant signs over it to for
everyone can find it. Please take it, take it alone with us. It's so weird that the student loan
feels different from just a regular loan that you would get for a bootcamp.
Like it's this, this isn't a real debt, you know, it's a student loan. Everyone gets this one.
Isn't it insane to think about, it's like, oh yeah, sure, I'm taking out $60,000 in debt,
but you know, everyone's doing that. And yeah, and you know, sure, this is the only kind of debt
that won't be absolved if I say, I don't know, lose my house and go bankrupt. But in any case,
all that nonsense aside, like, I don't know, I'm trying to remember exact numbers. But without
exact numbers, the point is it doesn't making about exactly twice as much when I got my first
job out of bootcamp than I was at my job before bootcamp. And so like paying off that money was
super easy, barely an inconvenience, because I was subsisting previously on half that amount of money.
And so now that I had twice that amount, paying that back was quick and easy.
Yeah, you still had, I mean, you had all the money you had before to live off of plus all this
extra money now. It's like you had two Stevens working, but only the expenses of one Steven.
Exactly. So that was my, I mean, it was hardly like an original track to make my own kind of,
you know, to carve up my own path, because this was an existing program and all that sort of stuff.
But it was off the beaten path of like, I don't know, I think our parents would have done, right?
And I think that this is going to be more and more the way the future, especially when I learned
that Jace did one for... Oh, clinical research. Clinical research. I knew it was, I was going to
say clinic or like, I don't know, medical data or something. I knew I had it wrong. The fact that
there's boot camps for clinical research tell me that there's probably these things for all kinds
of careers. I mean, there aren't actually like, well, there will be in 10 years. I would be really
happy if there were. I bet in 10 years will be these things for everything just because
it feels like the university system is kind of breaking down. Yeah, because why would I pay $60,000
to learn how to work on cars? If I have to also spend $30,000 reading a bunch of books, I don't
want to read. And I don't know, trying to think of the other pointless classes I took. I don't know,
all this random bullshit, right? Why do I need to take three English classes if I'm going to be
working on cars? Why can't I just go somewhere and learn how to work on cars? Like, that's what I
want to do. And if you go like, get a job as a mechanic, a lot of places have entry-level jobs
with paid training. So, I mean, I think that that's sort of optional for lots of career paths.
I mean, I think that they do things like this. I mean, I think trades are already kind of maybe in
that domain. Or more like that. But they're also kind of opaque in the sense that like, I remember
when I was a kid, I kind of occasionally would think about, maybe like, what do you do to get
into trades? Do you go to like, technical school? Do you have to know somebody? Like, dude,
how do you become an apprentice? I had no idea. I was like, it would have been, you know, I've
always sort of been attracted to some of the craft skills. But yeah, like, I, you know,
because I was assigned female, my dad didn't want to take me on as a carpentry apprentice.
Really? What a douchebag. It was kind of douchey. I don't know. I have issues about that. I keep
thinking about going into carpentry just to like, piss him off, or not piss him off to get back at him
or something. I don't know. It's like a sort of a petty thing, because there's this big billboard
by my, right by my apartment that I pass all the time that's like, home builders school, like,
oh, it was, and I think it was one of those like, paid training, like, come learn to become a,
to build homes with our company. And I just like, keep looking at it. And I'm like,
oh, not yet. Maybe someday. You could do that. Or you could just go to like,
one of those woodworking shops where you pay for like, a monthly membership and get really good
at making like, intricate ornate tables. And like, so like, sometimes you'll come over for whatever
Christmas or Thanksgiving or something. And it'd be like the most decadent looking,
like piece of furniture he's ever seen and be like, Oh yeah, I made that. And just like,
just flex the awesome table and that way you don't have to make a whole job out of it.
I could do woodworking because I did it with him when I was a kid. I like,
but as you know, you can do woodworking better than him. That's the real wind.
Well, that's also, that's also more of creating art than it is, you know,
regular carpentry labor. Yeah, but eat off of it. You've also made something. Yeah.
Yeah. So I don't know if we all want to just go down the line and tell our career histories.
Sure. Well, you started this, so you go now. Okay. I feel like you know, this would be shorter.
If I, if I might just make a motion to guide this a little bit, I think you should go in
the ocean and then Jay, as you can go, because then you're going to jump off into all the cool
ways to do stuff. Oh, yeah, that's true. And that way we won't have to ping pong. Plus,
I think yours will be very short. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Like, so I'm not even sure how applicable
mine is anymore since I entered the job market in the year 2000. Oh my gosh. Yeah, I know.
Oh wait, I did too, because I started working at 14. Wait, you started working at 20? Well,
you entered your career at 20. You were working probably before that.
Oh yeah. Well, I've been working for many years, but that was when I dropped out of
college and actually needed to get a job to pay for my own rent. I don't count anything.
Like anything before you have to pay for your own shelter and food doesn't really count yet,
in my opinion. I lived for pizza part-time through college and paid for my shelter and food through
that on like three days a week. It was great because I lived in the second cheapest apartment
complex in the city. So nice. And it showed. Couldn't have been like that bad though,
if you were willing to live there in terms of like crime and shit. I mean, yeah, it was livable.
Yeah, that's why it shows the second cheapest one. Yeah. Like if I think about the cheapest
place in Denver, I'm like, I would probably get stabbed there and I don't know if I want to live
there. I think I'm in one of the cheapest places in Denver. You're not going to get stabbed there,
though. It's like all Vietnamese. Oh, okay. What's your rent, if you don't mind? It's like,
you know, I'll tell you after, because it's terrible. I would have to look it up.
But yeah, I think there's just a drastic change in how you understand the world
once you're responsible for your own continued survival. But no, I joined the workforce just
a little bit before I turned 20. And I, like I said, I dropped out of college. What were you
studying? Computer science. Because back then there wasn't real boot camps or anything. If you
got a, if you want to go into programming, you either started your own computer science course,
right? Like it wasn't even like you could take a JavaScript class. Like you had to like, okay,
well, the first computer was this. And you know, here's just like computing theory, test
questions are like, when was Alan Turing born? No, no, they didn't bother with like the history
of that stuff. But it was like computing theory and how, you know, the theory behind various
algorithms and stuff that I didn't get too much into because like I said, I dropped out.
Okay. It was definitely interesting though, like it got into deep level shit.
I was going to say like, it's cool stuff to know, but I think it's not things that like
