Music
Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Imyash Brotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber. I'm Jay Sticky.
And we are going to have, well, I am going to make a real quick feedback thing before
we jump into the post, the sequence post today, if that's okay. Make a feedback thing. Okay.
Apparently, I did not know this. So this is good information found out for on our discord.
Last episode, we were talking about various supplements. And one of the big ones that
we like is God, how do you present all things nicotinamide ribosin? Yep, ribosin.
Ribosin. Thank you. And R for short, which is just what I always think of it as and call it.
It turns out that's not a shelf stable at room temperature.
It degrades like slowly over a month's time. It apparently will lose like 20, 25% potency.
Oh, so you've learned that you've been tossing a lot of this basically in the toilet.
It sounds like possibly yes. So as a note, keep it probably in the refrigerator if you keep it
because that'll that'll be fine. And you know, it's not terrible if you only buy a one month
supply. But if you bought like a three month supply, then by the time you get to the near the
end of your third month, it's it's mostly degraded. Yeah, apparently. That's annoying. I know that
like dry pills that like, you know, you get a bottle of Tylenol or, I don't know, acetone or
hydrocodone or like all the ones that are dry packed pills, like not the liquid gels,
not the ones with capsules on them or whatever. They always say they expire in two years. They're
good, like 98% for like 15 years. As long as you keep it dry. Yeah. Yeah. And they usually,
I don't know, they package in those little silica gel or there's a crap. One of the brands of pills
that I got recently had like a actual little like dehydrator mechanism in there. And that was cool
because it was like krill oil and those like get they kind of turn into jelly every time.
I like stopped taking, even though like, you know, doctors still recommend fish oil, but like,
yeah, that's another thing about like the shelf stability thing where fish oil can go rancid.
And apparently a lot of the fish oil capsules you buy are rancid. I buy 180 at a time. And that
means I buy it once or twice. You can buy it rancid because it might have been sitting on the shelf
in the store in stock somewhere. Yeah, that could be a two, whatever it is when it arrives,
because it's been a hundred degrees out in the shipping truck that arrived in, you open it and
just hits you in the face like, you know, fish smell. And so like, then some of them are like
melted to the bottom. So I ended up usually putting the freezer and then shaking them apart when I
get them. I mean, if they cost more than eight bucks for 150, then, you know, I wouldn't bother
wasting money on it. So I've just been eating fish or but like, that's the smart way to consume
fish parts. Yeah, but I don't know. Apparently, the new new trope, newotropics depot.
I just say no tropics. But like, apparently, the correct pronunciation is nootropics. Like,
they got to like, pronounce both O's and that just nobody does that gifts and get out of here. Yeah.
Oh, wait, GIFs. Fuck. Fuck GIFs. Yeah. But the the place that would link newotropics depot
does keep them refrigerated in their warehouse from what I heard anyway, I didn't look into it
personally. So yeah, and they test all their stuff too. Like, that's just so just keep it refrigerated
once you get it at home. Really shouldn't degrade much if at all on the shipping trip over. You
know, there's like, you guys, you did do episode before on the tropics, right? We did. Was I on
that? I don't think I was on the podcast yet. It was enough years ago that it's completely faded
Maybe do another one at some point after Katrina left, but before you joined. Okay,
could be. Yeah, we had like a nine, 10 month period like that. I remember the period I couldn't
tell you one episode we did during that time. I believe newotropics was one of them. Fair enough.
Yeah, I, oh, we had to do another one at some point or somebody we had a guest on for that one. I
think you had a guest on. Well, I know we had a guest. And I think it was biohacking, not not
no tropics, but like as the topic, but you talked a lot about no tropics. Okay. I think it was like
under the umbrella of biohacking. Oh, if it was biohacking, then it was that guy from Russia that
we had. Oh yeah, he was on the live episode too, right? Or was it a different guy? I don't know.
I remember that we had a guy from Russia do an episode with us. There's only two, right? And he
was talking about, there's only two dudes in all of Russia. And it was lucky dudes. He was talking
about how he had been taking like 100 or 200 milligrams of edafinil every day for the last
several years that was doing great and that sort of stuff. Okay, that rings a bell. Okay. So first
of all, I feel like I want to re-listen to that now. But he turns out Russian.
We talked to a Russian guy about edafinil at some point. Okay. If you know who are this
Russian guy, let us know in the comments. I don't know what my issue is. It's, you know,
for posterity, if anyone's listening to this, you know, years down the road and COVID's not,
or COVID has been over at that, by that point, everyone's brain is mush at this point in 2020.
Brain is so mush. We're recording near the end of. I need some no tropics. End of November. And
I was just thinking about that this morning. Like, I thought it was October still,
even though things didn't just happen. And it's almost, yeah, it's gonna be December and like
every day, like what, two days, three days? It's been such a fucking waste of a year. Like,
I mean, I've done stuff, but it just like the whole year has just been like this weird haze.
I know. Yeah, I'm bright enough. But like, at least it's been like, I don't know if this is
comforting, but like, I kind of keep thinking, well, at least it's been a shit year for everyone.
So like, we're all kind of, we're all kind of right here,
in depression land. Oh, what were we talking about? We're talking about these like sequences.
Yes, we should get into them so that we can get down to the main topic. So our sequences for today
are the first one is the lens that sees its flaws, which is an old favorite of mine. And
I confess that I missed reading these this week. So who would like to start?
I'll start us off. You have read them before, though. I have, yes. Yeah. And this one is that,
I mean, it's two minutes, it says it's two minute read at the top. I would like just to read the
whole thing because this is one of the ones where you know, I actually think you're phrasing at some
point was Eleazar has like a great word count to information ratio. And this is one of those that
just comes through super heavy. There's so much to think about in a two minute read. And this is
one of my most memorable and favorite ones. The overall, if I had to summarize in a couple of
sentences, then we'll get into the more in depth bit is that like, the human brain is capable
of analyzing itself in a way that other brains on earth aren't like mice. And that's the example
he uses are aware, like their world consists of like cheese and cats and holes and mouse traps.
But it doesn't consist of having mouse eyes and mouse brains, right? That's not part of what you
need to be a mouse. That line is my seat, but they don't know they have visual cortexes so
they can't correct for optical illusions. I kind of wanted to like, call out the fact that like,
man, like, take it easy on mice mice have contributed so much to science. I mean, this is
putting them down. It's just, it would be kind of a ethical nightmare. It's just a thing that
jumped into my head where I was like, man, like, give mice a break. You know, many like mice have
their brains dissected. So we have cool drugs and whatever. Yeah, squirrels, because squirrels are
a lot of the same thing. Or like, if we're going to go a different route with it, like small bugs,
their world is very different in ours. And that like to them, the surface tension of water counts
as a surface to move across, right? But for us, it's not because we're too big.
Yeah, bugs probably don't really have very much in the way of even thinking about like,
this is a pond and I need to go over that. It's probably like a lot of just acting on instinct.
Yeah, I don't think if then bugs even know that they exist, possibly like mantids and spiders,
because they're they're pretty intelligent. But anyway, I assume pretty much all mammals
are aware of their own existence at some level, even if they aren't aware of, you know,
the fact that they have brains. That kind of picture is just like an impulse to keep doing
things if you're a fly. Yeah, like, it's not even so much that like, I want to have kids.
Of course not that complicated, but it's more just like, it's not even like a thought of like,
reproduce. It's probably just a thought of like, do this thing. Yeah. And I see this. Now here's the
response that it triggers. That's sort of what I imagine being a small bug is like. But that's
not the point. The point is, is that humans aren't like that. Yes, we have, we have eyes, we have
brains, but we also know that we have eyes and brains and visual cortices. Exactly. And this
gives us the ability to not just be aware of things, but to be aware of the mechanics involved
of being aware of those things. And that gives you the power to, like in the easiest form,
like adjust for optical illusions. But also if you're, if you're thinking about whatever brain
issues or something, or cognitive issues, you can see the optical illusions there too. You
can see cognitive biases, I think is more like the metaphor that he's using is the sort of the
camera that is just sort of recording what's in front of it versus the camera that knows it's a
camera. And it knows like, okay, I have this lens. I could see this far. Yeah. But like camera cannot
take pictures of its own lens. Yeah, we are aware of our lens. We can see the thing that we're
seeing the world. We can take an MRI. Well, not just that, but we're like, we're aware of our own
thought processes. Yeah, but it's sort of like, I guess like sees its flaws. I like that as a
metaphor, because it's like, well, imagine, I don't know, you have a lens that's cracked and you
don't know or cracked. Wow. You can sort of, first of all, know if like, huh, like I need glasses,
you know, because like, you can compare your own experience with someone else's and be like,
oh, everybody else can see the chalkboard, but I can't. But like, you could also see the flaws
in your reasoning, as well as like, you know, the physical flaws, but also the fact that like,
you can, it's like the study with the gorilla. There's a lot of those you got to be more specific.
The one where it was, you're supposed to, there's some basketball players and like,
the study tells you to like count how many times they pass the ball back and forth and you're
counting that and then like, there's a dude in a gorilla suit walks by and like beats his chest
like a gorilla then walks away. But the people that are that are doing this for the first time,
just don't even see the gorilla, like, you know, they get to the end, they show it to a class,
I think it's a standard thing. They're like, okay, how many you saw the gorilla? And they're like,
what? I got to be in one of these, like as it was done live, having not known about the experiment
first, not live, it was a video, I got to see the video of it. And at the end of the teacher asks,
all right, how many, how many balls or how many times did they throw the ball, you know, raising
anything that goes 17 or whatever. And how many of you saw the gorilla? It's like, I don't know if
any hands went up, but it's like, what do you mean? And then they play the video and everybody's
like, what the fuck? No, you just put that in there. That's just like, don't count the balls
this time. Then you watch the gorilla come out and it's like, how the hell did I miss? He walked
between them. Yeah. Yeah, it's not subtle. It's great because I love every time like new time I
see this, because it's really fun to be in the group of people, like sitting next to the person
who's watching the same thing as you, but it doesn't see the gorilla. There's another great
version of this. If you Google over YouTube, Richard Weissman color changing card trick,
and I won't spoil the surprise in that one, but it's another sort of attention thing there.
I saw that one as well. Yeah. I think it was the same time I saw the gorilla video. I was going
through a kick of these sort of things. And you're just like, I'm fucking blind. Yeah. Dude,
the craziest one is when they swap out the person that someone is talking to. Yeah. Like they have
people carrying a big piece of plywood or something, interrupt the two people and so it blocks the
line of sight for a second. And they have the person that they were talking with swapped out
with something else. Like a totally different person, different height, different clothes,
and the person like doesn't really notice. They just keep going. I was helping this person with
directions. This person is still asking for directions. That's all I need to know. Yeah,
exactly. Yeah. I heard that the brain caches a lot of information in the environment because
you don't need to keep track of the person you're talking to because that's information that's there
in the environment. It's not going to change. Yeah, you put a lot of your processing power into
whatever like, you know, okay, what am I going to say next and respond? Oh, that's a good question.
Let me think about that. How do you get to the supermarket? Yeah, like, you know, when you have
like artwork in your house or something and like you just get to the point where like you don't see
it anymore. Or like, you know, when you've sort of memorized the floor plan of your house so you
can get up in the middle of the night, it's pitch dark and like you're like, I know where the bathroom
is and I'm going to go get a fridge, get a snack. But if you were in a hotel, you'd be totally like
lost. Yeah. So, yeah, we do like store a lot of things, have a lot of heuristics built in,
and that's cool that we can know that and correct for it sometimes.
That means since we are aware of the flaws in our lens, we can correct for those using
second order thinking. And here, everybody is the secret of deliberate rationality. This whole
process is not magic. And you can understand it. You can understand how you're how you see your
shoelaces, you can think about the sort of thought thinking processes, which create beliefs that are
which ruined it. You're going you're going really well. Which sort of think processes will create
beliefs which mirror reality and which thinking processes will not mice can see but they cannot
understand seeing you can understand seeing because of that you can do things that mice cannot do.
Take a moment to marvel at this for it is indeed marvelous. Yeah, it's awesome. And like this post
to me, it sums up what the whole point of this Bayesian rationality thing is. It's to be able to
not only see your own flaws, but correct them as well. And that is, I mean, the name of the site
is less wrong, right? That's that's kind of the whole point. This is like the post I would point
people to to explain what we're trying to do if I could. This is the point. This is the post that
I have pointed people to to explain what we're doing. Yeah, cool. And like the main thing that's,
you know, because every, everyone in their friend has a, you know, self help thing that they've
heard about, right? Or like this will make your life better and five easy steps. And all of them
are like, you know, just trust this process or, you know, some of them have whatever empirical
stuff behind it. But like, very little of it is, and you can understand everything along the way
if you put in the homework. And it's not like we don't charge you for the homework, right? This
isn't a, you know, you get to level six by giving us $16,000. This is a an understandable process
that people can actually do. That's great. Yeah. And then there was this bit about where he says,
one time I went to EFnit's hashtag philosophy chat room to ask, do you believe a nuclear war will
occur in the next 20 years? If no, why not? One person answered and said he didn't expect a nuclear
war for 100 years because all the players involved in decisions regarding nuclear war are not interested
right now. But why extend that for 100 years? Pure hope. Reflecting on the whole thought process,
we can see why the thought of nuclear war makes the person unhappy. And we can see how his brain
therefore rejects the belief. But if you imagine a billion worlds, Everett branches or Tegmark
duplicates, this thought process will not systematically correlate optimists to branches
in which no nuclear war occurs. To ask which beliefs make you happy is to turn inward, not outward.
It tells you something about yourself, but it's not evidence entangled with the environment.
And the last couple of sequences we did talk about this idea of entanglement with reality.
I like them a lot. I have nothing against happiness, but it should follow from your
picture of the world rather than tampering with the mental paint brushes. And so that's another
example of not just sort of seeing the flaws in terms of these physical things, but also you
can see where your thought processes can be altered by things like emotions about the thing.
I mean, if everybody had the mental process of, oh man, nuclear war sure is scary to think about.
So let's not do that.
So we're probably not going to have another nuclear war for a long time that like, you know,
you want to be able to, that's another like point in favor of truth seeking and rationality.
In my opinion, I've always been, I don't know, I remember like there was I was in like a philosophy
class or it was a literature class in college. And I remember there's this thing that came up about,
I think it was it was like vaguely related to the book we were reading, but the teacher started
talking about like my religious grandmother, you know, I'm not going to like go to her deathbed
and like tell her that I'm an atheist because like that would, you know, what would the point
of that be? And I'm just like, that's why you got to tell her now. I was kind of like, but like,
I, I feel like I value the truth. And I had to like, like, like explain to the class then what
because we started having this debate about that, like, well, why would you, you know,
