think that's the kind of thing you could bootcamp. I think that so much of it is soft skills and
like, it's also a very variable career path, even if you're doing kind of like,
a similar thing the whole time, she's worked with this, basically the same population, the elderly,
her whole career. But her job requirements have been so diverse, that it's, I don't know if you
could crunch that into a 15 week program. So some things maybe like, but also that's not so much of
like the, you know, the kind of trade we were talking about, right? I think you, I think it's
possible to pick up electricity, electrician work, plumbing, mechanics, or mechanical engineering,
like, you know, cars or computer programming. I think you can pick all that up in 12, 15 weeks,
enough to get started. Right. You know, to get in the door and not kill yourself or your co-workers,
if you're paying attention. I think I have a friend, I have a friend who's an electrical engineer.
I don't think he went to school for it. He did some sort of outside of school program for it.
Yeah, I think a lot of, well, I don't know about electrical engineer, but like an electrician
or a plumber, they usually just apprentice. Maybe it was electrician. I'm not trying to
talk about you know, knowing somebody like your, your dad was a plumber or your, you know, next
door neighbor needs, needs and needs some help. There used to be trade schools. Are they not
still trade schools? They are. I think the friend I'm thinking of went to a trade school. Yeah.
But in any case, yeah. I mean, trade schools are kind of like boot camps for the trades.
Exactly. Yeah, no, that's why I raised them. I think that that's the point. Like,
you know, if, if you want to work on a particular thing, you should be able to just
study that one thing. I get the idea if you're getting a liberal arts degree to have a very
diverse and not necessarily focused core of curriculum that you need to get out of the
way just to expose you to everything. Right. But it's a good idea to know like basic philosophy.
Totally. But liberal arts degree doesn't teach you how to do anything. That's the
point is like those core credits don't get you anywhere. They're there to make sure that
school lasts four years. Now I got a liberal arts degree and I like graduated basically like
not really knowing how to do anything practical. I knew lots of theories. It's like,
I mean, I'd you know, anyway, I'm getting ahead of myself. But yeah, that is me. I have other
stuff I'll add later. But for now, let's go on to Jayce. Oh, okay. I thought you were going to
talk about your writing. Oh, your podcasting. I mean, so okay, I suppose I could. Neither of those
pay enough to live off of. But like what you like doing, right? Yeah, exactly. For those things,
it's just a matter of, you know, this is the thing I like to do and I want to do. So I'm going to do
it. And then after I do it, I look up resources on how to on the online. God, I don't even know. I
guess back in the before times, people had books, yeah, and libraries and stuff. Libraries were
like the internet before electricity. No wonder people loved librarians and libraries so much.
But yeah, if I just did the thing and then I was like, Oh, that thing was kind of crappy. Let's
see if I can learn how to do it better. And I would search on how to do it better for the
writing specifically. What really helped me is I found an in person writing group here in Denver
that met once a month. And we critique each other stuff. My first year there, I learned so fucking
much. There were critique groups for more things. It would have been cool to have a like, I have no
idea how that would have worked, like a clinical research critique group. Like it won't make you
a genius or anything. But the things you learn the basic core stuff you learn in the first year is
just honest feedback from people. I had a hard time with that with art, like, where people will
be like, Oh, man, that looks great. And like, I don't know, like, I feel like there's maybe
something I could improve about. No, man, I can't even draw a stick figure. It's awesome. Like,
because people are so used to, I guess, like art being, well, it's like creative expression. So
it could look like whatever you want. It doesn't matter. There's no rules. And I'm just like, no,
there's good art and bad art. Like, yeah, there's, I mean, there's the problem that people, you know,
don't want to hurt your feelings. So they won't say bad things. And also just people who aren't
doing art don't necessarily know what's good or what's bad. I couldn't join a critique group of
regular people because, well, sorry, of non writers. Yeah, like, if you're in like a dance
critique group or something. Yeah, like, I don't know what to say to anyone. I don't know. They're
dancing looks good to me. Not casting spells very well. Do more finger flailing. Yeah. So
trying to think. So you've had like, I did a lot of jobs. Yeah. Um, I am constantly when I hear
what you've been doing with your life. I'm like, Holy crap, which is like three or four different
people. I feel like I'm like, yeah, because you did game design, you did house renovation, you did
art, you did soap making soap making bio research. Yeah. So I've always had the problem of being
person with lots of interests. And probably, I think a lot of people in this community can relate
to that. And for anyone who doesn't know, Jace is the person that created our basic conspiracy
logo, which we have an announcement about at the end of episode. Oh, yeah. Gotta remember to say that.
That's your spoiler. Yes. So that. So yeah, I guess I started working when I was 14, which like,
the legal age was 16. But it was just, you know, my parents being like, we started working when we
were young, like kicking out a gut, go get a job. And I don't think there's any lower limit to when
your parents can put you to work. Well, they I wasn't working for them. So they like actually
since I lived near the Ocean City Boardwalk in New Jersey, turns out that you can get lots
of jobs under the table. In fact, I think a lot of the economy is based on questionably legal
immigrants and like underage kids. That's a great combination. You were helping to steal the jobs
of hardworking Americans, Jace. I probably was. I were the endeavor for anybody. Yes.
So I sort of might like introduction to jobs was that sort of getting a different job every year
and not feeling super attached to it. So I think that actually helped me learn. Well, the lesson
my dad wanted to teach. And I think this is funny, because I almost feel like I hated it at the time.
But now I'm kind of like, would I do that to my kid? Like maybe it was kind of valuable was
my dad's like, okay, you're going to go work at like, you know, as a cashier, or like as a
busboy, as like a, you know, whatever, like, and and then you're what that's going to teach you is
that like, you should stay at school because you don't want to do that for the rest of your life.
And like, I think that that's kind of an elitist point of view, like, for from the perspective
of the person who does work forever at the deli. But like, and like, I don't know, maybe they love
it there. But like, at the same time, I think it was helpful to kind of see behind the scenes of
just like, here's what this job looks like, you know, being a busboy, you see what it looks like,
you'd learn what goes on in a restaurant. I think that's valuable. Someone like needs perspective,
which I think most people do. Like if you ever work to service industry job, you have to be a
special kind of asshole to ever be mean to people in the service industry again. Like, if you've
ever, I don't know, ordered fast food. And you're like, Oh, I worked actually, I worked at McDonald's
for some weeks when I was a teenager, too. You know, you ever wonder why your thing that yes,
without pickles comes the pickles on it? It's because the person making it made a thousand of
them with pickles already today. That's how they usually come. And they're not, they're not engaged
cognitively enough to to raise to come to leave your pickles off as like a conscious attack on
you specifically, right? They're just that's just they they're just on autopilot because it's exactly
what these kinds of minutia jobs require out of the better place. I think you know how they have
like mandatory years of military service in some countries, like I feel like mandatory, like just
working in like basic retail like service jobs for kids would probably like just help people be a
lot kind of, you know, more appreciative. But um, but it was like also, like working at the Disney
store with that was my, my next door neighbor's mom's store, which was how I, you know,
screwed up for your next door neighbor's mom. No, she wasn't, she was younger than me.
And she didn't start working. Anyway, I don't know what's going on there.
But did you actually quit the Disney store at the height of their season? Yep. Okay.
Oh, nice. It wasn't actually, okay, this is like, it wasn't actually even a Disney store. It was
um, called boardwalk characters. And there was no licensing for any of the stuff. So it was like,
like, I think actual Disney stores only sell Disney like branded character products and no other
stores can sell them unless they get the Disney licensed merch. But like, this was so this was
basically a store that sold like bootleg Disney stuff. And the boardwalk does that. There's like
all these, you know, people selling buildings shaped like Spongebob or ice creams that are like
very super here at none of them got the license. And it's kind of this unspoken agreement, I guess
that none of the businesses rat each other out about that. The result is that you get to see some
really janky like costumed character that like looks like a really cheap Chinese knockoff Spongebob
that's just like a little off. It's so terrifying. There's a great subwriter called Crappy Off Brands
where I see these things all the time. That's one of the, if you ever end up in New Jersey and you
go to the Ocean City Boardwalk, that's like kind of one of the fun things to do is to just keep an
eye out for all the like weird janky bootleg things. I also, I had no idea what I wanted to do.
My experience was I had a I have a sister who's one year younger than me and she was always like
super conscientious, super moralistic, and always seemed to be on top of like she knew like when
she was a little kid like she was like I'm gonna be a pediatric nurse because I love babies and
taking care of them. And what are you gonna be? And I was like astronaut, ballerina, race car
driver? You know like I don't know. The first ballerina on the moon. Yeah. I think that that like
but so they don't really expose you to many careers in high school or at least I wasn't like
really exposed to careers at all like that we did have like a shop class and we had home ec but it
was really I don't know they tried to do stuff with it too much and I think they got rid of it
like the year after I graduated but like I think the the idea behind the liberal arts degree and
it's an idea that like I can kind of get behind and understand like it is that exposure to different
things but you can get the same exposure to like different jobs by working at different jobs. I think
I'm just like as we're having this like discussion on the podcast I'm realizing that I think of my
proponent of like sort of propelling like I do think you probably could boot camp everything
if you're clever about it. I was thinking about like social work it's like. Were you a librarian for
a while? Yeah. How did you get into that? That's actually like one of the main examples of career
hacking that I like the first time I kind of did it I guess. Because I hear that you need like all
sorts of degrees to be a librarian. It's very competitive it's like a really it's a highly
desired job um it starts to pay pretty well like a librarian pays pretty well about like head
librarian or director like they start getting pretty good salaries um I could just jump to that I guess
I don't have to I don't have to tell my story no matter I could tarotino it um yeah uh no it
doesn't it doesn't make as much sense to go out of the way right now that I'm thinking about it
yeah like a bunch of you know kid jobs uh went to college because that's what you do
and it was kind of it's kind of funny um there were like the reasons that I had for going to
college were okay I don't know what I want to do with my life so that it was just sort of extending
the period that I was in school for one there was the feeling of um it's it felt like morally superior
oh I don't know like um more not morally superior but like more uh high status
well not even high status like I guess ambitious like you know um meh it felt like the right thing
to do that like people would be proud of me and like if I went to college and disappointed if I
didn't my neither my parents had college degrees and I was the oldest kid so it was like sort of
I do think that going to college because you don't know what else to do is probably the worst reason
like if you have a plan like you want to be a psychiatrist so you're going into med school
that's good then do that but like I mean I did the same thing like I don't know I guess I'll
program computers and go into college is what you do and that was just yeah I mean like I I mean
I'm really glad I dropped out to be honest I had some interests I had a lot of interest but like I
didn't have any like you know my sister always had her I know exactly like you know where I'm
gonna go what my plan is she like super organized about taking the SATs and looking for like these
colleges that are good I did not do any of that I just uh found school really easy and I was like
I don't know I was a shitty student in the sense like not in the sense that I got bad grades but
that I like didn't really try hard I had uh I was putting all of my like energy into like playing
MMOs or doing doing whatever interest I had on the side and kind of just like doing enough school to
uh pass and not make my parents angry but then like I remember I had a guidance everybody had to
like schedule time with the guidance counselor at some point to talk about where you like what
you were gonna do and receive some counseling and I remember like the guidance counselor like
looked at you know my I guess like scholastic history whatever they have and was like yeah it
seems like you should probably go to uh community college like and I just I took personal offense
to that because I was and I think she was like actually saying like I don't like I don't know
you don't seem like focused or disciplined enough or like get like getting good enough grades to get
into like a university like you should go to this and I wish I hadn't had that reaction because
if I could go back and do it over it would have made a lot more sense to go to a community college
um and just sort of continue doing the thing of exploring and seeing what I wanted to do
I remember some kids did that and they're like yeah you know you just transfer your credits over
to the school that you end up going to and some other kids were like I'm gonna take a year off
travel the world and or like I'm gonna take a year off and just work and try to like think about it
and for some reason none of those like options felt like I was allowed to take them like I I
guess like um sort of grew up or like the culture around me was very much about like yeah like you
know being decisive doing the right things following the path then I was like I don't have a
path like I'm good at my thing was like I'm good at drawing and I like biology um and like nature
and stuff and I was like so I'm probably gonna do something like that and that was the thing I
would tell people after like you know I was done saying like paleontologists whatever so how did
you get a job once you were out um well I continued I went to college for five years um and took
classes more slowly so I could work on the side and my dad uh my dad and I had an agreement where he
would I'd pay half he'd pay half so between the two of us I did not have debt um and I was also just
still working through college and working like that was when I did the soap company um and that
that was pretty cool because that has like the the crafty thing that I like so hold on you can't
just say that was when I did the soap company you you like started your own soap I did not start it
now I was uh it was a local business um kind of like lush if you're familiar with it where it's all
handmade bath and body products made of coconut oil and stuff instead of scary chemicals with
names like propylene glycol I am familiar with lush but I'm still gonna picture you making soap
like they didn't fight club yes it was um there was a large tank of lard or not of lie involved
human fat not lard that's although you can use look but um so did you like show up at the front
door and say hey are you hiring or oh okay I just applied there and I were like yeah I mean um
that was how I got all my other jobs they're like I didn't have that they didn't yeah like
indeed and stuff like didn't really exist then because this would have been in 2010 so I really
want to know how you got the librarian job because that is I've heard very hard yeah that that go in
and like in the front door and apply makes you think of all that boomer advice like just go in
ask the ask the manager and just give him a firm handshake and hand them your paper resume and
I'm like they would they would yell you out of the store if you did that to understand how the
ship works yeah and it's all well-meaning advice but it was really funny when I was looking for uh
um my second maybe my first job too in the computer programming industry but my dad was just saying
you know tell him you're you know looking to get married and start a family and I'm like they would
be pissed if they heard that because all they hear is this guy wants to take time off like you don't
understand how things you haven't been looking for a job since 1970 dad or 1980 something I guess
at this point you don't know how the ship works my parents did that like they'd drive me to a place
and then they just just dropped me off like I remember uh one time uh my dad's like oh I think
like Dino's diner is hiring it was just this like local diner you like drove me over there
he's like I'll come like pick you up in a bit and use your wages today so I had to like walk in this
place like talk to like the you know the hostess I'm like hey like I'm here to apply for a job as
like as the manager and like oh yeah he's the kid so I have to like walk back in the kitchen as a
civilian not in uniform or anything be like hey where's the manager like uh that probably still
works in some industries and that's probably what you have to do but like a lot of people I think get
jobs through networking where yeah you do have like your dad's or whatever or your your next
door neighbor who has this store um your cousin works at this place can probably get you a job
