proportions of people, of areas, whatever. Once you digest what it's saying, it's actually
kind of obvious. Both sides tell you to look at the cases where the evidence is true, and then to
consider the proportion of those cases where the hypothesis is also true. That's it. That's all
it's saying. The right hand side just spells out how to compute it. What's noteworthy is that such
a straightforward fact about proportions can become hugely significant for science, for artificial
intelligence, and really any situation where you want to quantify belief. As I mentioned,
some psychologists debate Kahneman and Tversky's conclusion that the rational thing to do is to
bring to mind the ratio of farmers to librarians. They complain that the context is ambiguous.
I mean, who is Steve, exactly? Should you expect that he's a randomly sampled American?
Or would you be better to assume that he's a friend of the two psychologists interrogating you?
Or maybe that he's someone that you're personally likely to know? This assumption
determines the prior. I, for one, run into way more librarians in a given month than I do farmers.
And needless to say, the probability of a librarian or a farmer fitting this description
is highly open to interpretation. For our purposes, understanding the math,
what I want to emphasize is that any question worth debating here can be pictured in the context
of the diagram, questions about the context shift around the prior, and questions about the personalities
and stereotypes shift around the relevant likelihoods. All that said, whether or not you buy
this particular experiment, the ultimate point that evidence should not determine beliefs,
but update them, is worth tattooing in your brain. I am in no position to say whether this does or
does not run against natural human instinct. We'll leave that to the psychologists. What's more
interesting to me is how we can reprogram our intuition to authentically reflect the implications
of math, and bringing to mind the right image can often do just that. And that, of course,
is why we're looking at these different visualizations of Bayes' theorem. Okay,
so that's the first one by Three Blue One Brown. Next up on the list are two videos produced by
philosopher Ben Page. These videos are actually based on a paper that he has on academia.edu.
I'll put a link to this in the description. And what he's using is a Bayesian bar. So this is
basically, basically, I'm terrible, this is basically the exact same thing as the square
that we just saw in the Three Blue One Brown video. But instead of a square, you're just using a bar,
a rectangle. Still, though, Ben Page uses this in the context of philosophy and gives some
philosophical examples. So I think it's really important to go through it. And also, it just
allows you a panoply of different ways to represent Bayes' theorem and probabilistic reasoning. If
you like the bar, you can go with that. If you like the boxes, you can go with that. What matters
is that we have a visual way of accurately depicting how we should reason probabilistically.
If you're anything like me, you'll have the experience of reading a philosophy essay,
one you enjoy, one you actually understand. But then all of a sudden, a section appears with
a load of mathematical formulae, you've reached the Bayesian probability section,
and your eyes glaze over, and you think, oh, I dropped maths for a reason.
Well, in this video, I want to talk about how we can do Bayesian probability visually
using a method that I learned from John Hawthorne. Before I let you in on the secret
as to how to think about Bayesian probability visually, I've got four preliminaries to run
through. The first is that the argument I will use, which is the problem of evil,
is meant as an illustration only. And so I won't be going into it in any detail here.
The second is that I won't really spend any time justifying the numbers or probability assignments
that I give in the argument, as that would take us into the details of it. These are somewhat
arbitrary values that are used for the sake of illustration. So try not to get too hung up on
whether you think they are accurate. Third, I'm not going to discuss different interpretations
of probability, such as frequency, propensity, and degrees of belief interpretations. And finally,
we're going to think that something is evidence for a theory if it raises the probability of that
theory being true, and something is evidence against a theory if it lowers the probability of
that theory being true. Now if you want to learn more about these preliminaries, then I will be
doing some future video on probability visually, remember to subscribe. So in order to think about
Bayesian probability visually, we're going to introduce something called the Bayesian bar
after the Reverend Thomas Bayes, who came up with Bayes theorem. And the Bayesian bar is just a
rectangle. What's important about the rectangle is its surface area, as this is our total probability
space and has the value one. This is because it contains all our different probabilities,
and we're certain that at least one of them is going to be true. We can now split the bar up
into further probabilities. So let's imagine someone who is what we'll call a perfect agnostic
about God's existence, since they're 50-50 as to whether God exists. So for this perfect agnostic,
we can designate half the bar to represent how likely they think it is that God exists,
which we'll call theism, and the other half to how likely they think it is that God doesn't exist,
which we'll call atheism. Now imagine our agnostic has never considered any evidence for
theism or atheism. There are a number of different types of evidences that he could consider,
but suppose he starts by thinking how likely or not the existence of God would be if there's evil
in the world. Imagine he starts with the theistic half of the bar and asks himself,
suppose God exists, how likely would it be that there is evil in the world? Maybe he thinks that
because God is all-powerful, all-knowing, and holy good, the existence of evil doesn't seem very
likely at all. But perhaps he also thinks it's not impossible that God and evil exist together,
and so he gives three quarters of the theistic portion of the bar, the theism and no evil,
and a quarter of it, the theism and evil. Importantly, keep in mind that this is three fourths
of the theistic bar, right? We're not saying that this is three fourths probable, like all things
considered, right? Remember, the total probability space is the bar as a whole, right? So when we
say three fourths, notice that he said three fourths of the theistic bar. And a quarter of it,
the theism and evil. Now he starts to think about the atheist portion of the bar and thinks,
suppose God doesn't exist, how likely is it that there would be evil? This time he thinks it's
pretty likely that there would be evil if there's no God, because there's no being like God trying
to prevent it. And he thinks it would be pretty unlikely that there would be no evil in an atheist
world. So he gives three quarters of the atheistic portion, the atheism and evil, and a quarter to
atheism and no evil. The next step is to think about these different probabilities in terms of the
whole bar, rather than just the theistic and atheistic portions. So the probability of theism
and no evil in terms of the whole bar is three eighths. A theism and evil is one eighth.
Of atheism and evil is also three eighths. And of atheism and no evil is also one eighth.
And of course, just to cross our T's and dot our I's, that's because this was originally three
fourths of the theistic bar. The theistic bar was one half of the total bar. So three fourths times
one half is going to be three eighths. And you do similar calculations for the rest of them.
And if we add up all these individual probabilities, we get the value one.
Suppose now our agnostic comes across some evil for the first time.
This gives him some evidence, namely that evil exists. And as a result, the bar is going to change.
What he now needs to do is remove two portions of the bar, where it says there is no evil,
since he has found out that there is evil. So both the theism and no evil and atheism and
no evil sections must go. Because of this, here's a bar which is smaller than the one before.
But the probabilities of this bar must also add up to one, since it now contains the whole
probability space. And at present, they don't add up to one. So he's going to have to perform
a process called renormalization. This sounds more complicated than it is. And it's just the
process of changing the values of the remaining probability segments, whilst preserving their
ratios. So this means that because atheism and evil section is currently three times the size
of the theism and evil section, it must also be three times the size after this process.
So the probability of theism and evil changes from one eighth to one quarter.
And the probability of atheism and evil changes from three eighths to three quarters.
So this gives our perfect agnostic his final probabilities.
And just to give you a way to calculate that, remember this was three eighths, and this was
one eighth. Now what you want to do if you want to renormalize that is to find the ratio between
the surface area of this bar and the surface area of this bar. Remember this one was three eighths
as the whole bar, this one was one eighth of the whole bar. So the ratio between those is three eighths
divided by one eighth. Three eighths divided by one eighth is just three over one. So what that means
is the ratio of this surface area of this bar here to this is three to one. And of course, when you
have a ratio of three to one, and you want to renormalize that so that it takes up the whole
of the probability space, you do the same calculation that we did in the case of the males and females
in the class of the kindergartners, right? Remember that one was three to two. So if you wanted to
find the absolute proportion of males in the class as a whole, you'd do three divided by three plus
two, or three out of five, which is three fifths. Similarly, when we have a three to one ratio here,
if you want to find out the proportion that the surface area of this bar takes up,
among the whole bar here, you do three divided by three plus one. And that's three fourths.
And of course, the remaining bit of the bar is going to be one fourth, because again, we're
renormalizing. Given that we've learned that there's evil, we're crossing off the spaces in which
there's no evil. And so this is our total probability space here. And it's got to add up to one. So
you have three fourths and one fourth. You've ruled out the cases in which evil doesn't exist,
because we know that evil exists. Okay, so anyway, that's basically a step by step guide as to how
you can renormalize. Given the existence of evil, he now thinks the existence of God, theism,
has the probability of a quarter or 25%. As only a quarter of his final bar is taken up by theism.
On the other hand, he now thinks that atheism has the probability of three quarters or 75%.
In other words, whilst there might still be a God who has chosen to allow evil,
it's more likely that God doesn't exist, given the existence of evil.
The overall result is therefore that evil is evidence for atheism. And the reason for this is
that evil raised the probability of atheism from a half, represented in our initial bar,
to three quarters, which is represented in our final bar. And evil decreased the probability
of theism from a half, again represented in our initial bar, to a quarter, as we can see in our
final bar. So before I end this video, let's go through one more example. And this time,
we're not going to put any values on the bar. So you can see that the Bayesian bar works just
visually on its own. So let's again think about the problem of evil. But this time,
the person we are going to be thinking about is someone who thinks that theism is really likely
and atheism is not that likely. So now we're going to have to split up the theistic portion of the
bar further, remembering that we're assuming this person is assigning probabilities in a vacuum.
So before they have any evidence that evil does or doesn't exist. Again, we're going to think a lot
of the theistic portion is going to be for God and no evil, because we think that God wouldn't
want there to be evil in the world, and we're trying to prevent it. And then the remaining part
of the theistic portion of the bar is going to be for God and evil. And then on the atheist side,
maybe this time we're 50 50, as we think that atheism and evil is kind of just as likely as
atheism and no evil. So now we add in our evidence that there is evil in the world. And so we remove
the portions of our bar, where it says there is no evil. So theism and no evil and atheism and no
evil. So we're just left with a bar that has just theism and evil and atheism and evil. And you can
see our final probabilities just by looking at the bar. So the question now is, is evil evidence
for theism or atheism? The answer to this is going to be atheism again. And that's because
atheism is now more probable than it was to begin with. And theism is less probable than it was to
begin with. And remember, we're thinking about evidence as probability raising. And so evil
raises the probability of atheism. And this is the case, even though in our example, theism is
still more probable overall, since it takes up the biggest portion of our bar. So that's how
to think about probability visually. In a future video, I'll talk about how the Bayesian bar relates
to Bayes Theorem, and how the actual formula maps onto this visual bar. In a previous video,
I explained how to think about probabilistic reasoning visually by using the Bayesian bar.
If you haven't already seen that video, I'd recommend that you watch it before continuing
with this one, as I'm now going to explain how the Bayesian bar relates to Bayes Theorem.
As a result of this, the content in this video is going to get a bit more technical. But by using
the bar, you'll see that it is simpler than it initially looks. In order to show you how the
Bayesian bar relates to Bayes Theorem, we're going to need an example. For this video, we're going
to use the example of fine tuning arguments for theism. And just as with the previous video,
I'm not really going to say anything about this type of argument, or justify the probability
assignments that I give. All you need to know for our purposes here, is that our universe has very
finely tuned values that allow for life. And that if these values had been different,
then it's very likely that life wouldn't exist. So let's draw a bar of a perfect agnostic,
who is 5050 that God exists. So half of the bar is for theism, and the other half for atheism.
Now, although you could do all of what I'm about to do on one bar, it's easier to show you how it
relates to Bayes Theorem, if I draw additional bars with extra content on them. So let's now draw
another bar, just the same as the previous one. But this time, we're going to add in how likely
we think fine tuning is on theism and on atheism. Firstly, then theism. We might think fine tuning
is not that surprising on theism, since we think it's likely that God would want a world with
living beings in it, perhaps so that he could have a relationship with them, and the goods that come
from that. As a result, we give three eighths of the whole bar to theism and fine tuning,
and one eighth to theism and no fine tuning. We then think about the atheist portion of the bar.
This time, we're going to think that fine tuning is really unlikely on atheism,
as there's no being that wants life, and it seems extraordinarily unlikely that the universe
happened to have the life permitting finely tuned values by chance. So we give one eighth of the
whole bar to atheism and fine tuning, and three eighths of the whole bar to atheism and no fine
tuning. We now get some evidence, namely that there's fine tuning in the world. And so we
delete the portions of the bar where it says that there is no fine tuning. Again, to show this,
I'm just going to draw another bar with these sections deleted. Notice also that I've renormalised
the probabilistic values of the portions of the bar so that they add up to one. As I said in the
previous video, this is just the process of changing the values of the remaining probability segments
whilst preserving their ratios. So because the theism and fine tuning portion
is three times the size of the atheism and fine tuning section, it must be three times the size
after this process. So the final probability of theism and fine tuning is three quarters,
and the probability of atheism and fine tuning is a quarter. The overall result then is that fine
tuning is evidence for theism, as it raised the probability of theism and lowered the probability
of atheism. Now before I explain to you how the bar relates to Bayes Theorem, it'll be helpful to
introduce you to some jargon. So take a look at the first bar and the half probability assignments
we've given to theism and atheism. These are called our prior probabilities, and they're the
probabilities we give to set out the degree of certainty we have or ought to have in certain
hypotheses before we've taken this bit of evidence into account. How we determine what these values
should be is subject to debate, but exploring that will have to wait for another time.
That's where you get into the distinction between subjective and objective Bayesians
that we talked about earlier on in this video. Remember the subjective Bayesians think that
so long as you are obeying the five core normative rules, you're going to count as rational. But as
we saw it, that might allow for a lot of subjectivity, and many people think that it's too
subjective. So the objective Bayesians put further constraints, and they're going to be focusing
largely on constraints imposed on the assignment of prior probabilities. Anyway, that's the debate
that he's alluding to. Just wanted to make that connection with earlier on in my video.
Now look at the second bar, and the probability assignments we see there of 1-8, 3-8, 1-8,
and 3-8. These are what's called conditional probabilities, since they're in the conditional
form. This means that they say, given some x, y has probability of dot dot dot. So in our example,
given theism, fine-tuning has the probability of dot dot dot, or given atheism, fine-tuning has
the probability of dot dot dot. And just a note here, 3-8 is not that conditional probability
