Here is me scheming my plan.
You accuse me of cheating.
I say the shuffling is fair.
You go on to explain how the probability of five royal flushes,
given the cheating hypothesis, is much, much, much greater
than the probability of five royal flushes given fair shuffling.
And that the probability of me cheating is only mildly more improbable
than the probability of fair shuffling.
And hence we should conclude, assuming the only relevant evidence here
is the five flushes, that I probably cheated.
And the reason why you think, you know, probability of cheating
is only mildly more improbable than the probability of fair shuffling.
Maybe you've been with me in the past.
On occasion I cheat on card games.
This is not actually true.
Again, this is just part of the imaginative situation.
I don't cheat in card games. I'm fun, I swear.
But part of the imaginative situation, you know, you've been with me for a few years.
You know, occasionally I cheat.
You know that generally I don't.
Generally I am a person of integrity.
But it's certainly not totally out of character for me to do it.
So although it's improbable, it's not like vastly, vastly improbable.
At the very least, the contrast between these two probabilities
is nowhere near as large as the contrast between these two.
So you've got a fairly convincing argument here
for the fact that I cheated in light of this evidence.
But alas, I'm not convinced.
Here's what I'm going to say.
Let's make my hypothesis that the shuffling was fair
and that this fair shuffling gave me five royal flushes.
Now I predict the data just as well.
Indeed, better than the cheating hypothesis.
Right, my hypothesis just entails the data.
By contrast, under the cheating hypothesis,
okay, one way I might have cheated is giving myself five royal flushes
and that's not super-duper improbable under that hypothesis.
But also I might have cheated in other ways.
I could have given myself only like four royal flushes
or maybe three or something like that.
Or maybe hands that were slightly worse than royal flushes.
So actually my new hypothesis that the shuffling was fair
and that this fair shuffling gave me five royal flushes,
I actually predict the data better than the cheating hypothesis.
So you don't actually have evidence for the cheating hypothesis
and against my newly modified fair shuffling hypothesis.
So take that.
Now, I hope at least intuitively,
you see that my reasoning here is just absurd.
Yes, it's true that you no longer have evidence here.
This is true, right?
Keep this firmly in mind.
It is true here that you no longer have evidence
against my newly modified shuffling hypothesis
since the data is actually more expected
on my newly modified fair shuffling hypothesis
as it is on the cheating hypothesis.
But the problem is that I've only purchased this increase
in predictive power at the price of drastically decreasing
the prior probability of my hypothesis.
In fact, the factor by which my prior probability decreased
is the same as the factor by which the original fairness hypothesis
was disconfirmed by the evidence.
Since the probability that the shuffling was fair
and that this fair shuffling gave me five royal flushes
is just equal to the probability that the shuffling
gave me five royal flushes, conditional on the claim
that the shuffling was fair, multiplied by the probability
that the shuffling was fair, right?
This is an instance of the ratio formula
that we covered earlier on in the video.
So when we look at the posterior ratio equals
the likelihood ratio times the priors,
what I've done in modifying the hypothesis
from the fair shuffling to the hypothesis
that the shuffling was fair and that that shuffling
gave me five royal flushes.
What I've done is I've merely shifted the improbability
from the numerator of the second term here, right?
The improbability that I get five royal flushes
given that the shuffling was fair.
I've shifted the improbability from this term here,
right, the likelihood of the fair shuffling hypothesis.
I've shifted the improbability from there to the prior, right?
Now my prior that fair shuffling gave me five royal flushes
is just correspondingly lowered improbability.
You can actually mathematically show in the example that I gave
that the ratio of the posteriors,
when the hypotheses in question were fair shuffling and cheating,
that's exactly the same as the ratio of the posteriors
when the hypotheses are my newly modified hypothesis
that fair shuffling gives me five royal flushes
and the cheating hypothesis.
And so by modifying my hypothesis to purchase that predictive power
and by correspondingly diminishing my prior probability,
I actually didn't do anything to boost the epistemic credentials
of my hypothesis.
It's in the same sucky situation as before.
The posterior probability is going to be exactly the same.
And this point quite easily generalizes.
Again, you can always bake into your hypothesis
something which renders the data very probable
or even entails the data.
But be careful when you do that,
since that may very well just correspondingly lower
the prior probability of your hypothesis.
If so, then you haven't actually made any probabilistic headway.
The posterior probability of H,
that is, the probability of H given E
is going to be the same before and after
modifying your hypothesis in this way.
Again, this isn't always the case
when someone's hypothesis entails some data.
I mean, sometimes it's a very natural consequence of a view
and you know, someone just isn't like artificially
baking into some core hypothesis
and auxiliary which entails the data.
So this mistake isn't always present
whenever someone's hypothesis entails the data.
Okay, just keep that in mind.
This is again just something that you need to be very wary of.
So, at last, we've finally reached the end of the video.
It's time for me to break down into yours
and give an inspirational speech.
No, Bayes' theorem is really important.
It offers us a precise, mathematical way
to rationally update our credences
and beliefs in light of new evidence.
My goal in this video has been to give you a solid foundation
not only for understanding Bayes' theorem
but also for applying it
and seeing its profound significance.
Before leaving, though, I want to put some resources on your radar.
Two very important books in this area
that you should definitely check out if you're interested
are by Michael Tidalbaum.
It's called The Fundamentals of Bayesian Epistemology.
It's like a two-volume series or whatever.
The first one is Introducing Credences.
The second one is Arguments, Challenges, and Alternatives.
I've drawn heavily on these in making this video.
Two more books that I've drawn on in making this video
are David Papineau's Philosophical Devices,
Proofs, Probabilities, Possibilities, and Sets,
as well as Eric Steinhardt's More Precisely,
the Math You Need to Do Philosophy.
And two other relevant books are Ian Hackings'
Introduction to Probability and Inductive Logic,
as well as DH Mel or his Probability,
a Philosophical Introduction with Rutledge.
As for websites that you can go to
to learn about these things more,
you can check out various SEP entries,
like the Stanford Cyclopedia of Philosophy.
Alan Hayek has one on interpretations of probability.
There's an SEP entry on Bayes Theorem itself,
although that one's going to be far more technical
than my video here, so beware.
Anyway, I always recommend the Stanford Cyclopedia of Philosophy.
And you can look at the references therein as well
to follow things and pursue things in more detail.
As for videos, you can check out my newly created
Bayesianism and Probability playlist.
It only has one video of mine,
but lots of other videos that will help you through these topics.
And if I make videos in the future on Probability
or Bayesianism or things like that,
they will go in that playlist.
And of course, more generally, right?
Check out my playlist.
I've got a playlist on the Kalam cosmological argument,
teleological arguments, ontological arguments,
contingency arguments, discussions with philosophers,
and everything in between.
So definitely check out my playlists.
Oh, I even put a slide for them.
So yeah, that's how much I cared about this.
Now, if you've made it this far in the video,
I extend my sincere congratulations.
This video was not easy to get through,
but it showed commitment, intellectual curiosity,
and intellectual perseverance.
So I heartily praise you for that.
And I hope my literal dozens of hours of working on this
have helped you gain a greater understanding of reality.
If you enjoyed it, please hit that like button,
subscribe, turn on that little bell for notifications,
consider supporting me on Patreon
or tipping me through a one-time donation.
Right? If you tip waiters who get paid for what they do,
consider tipping me who made this video for free
who spent way longer than waiters do in helping you
and who's helping you try to get to the fundamental nature
of reality and not just helping you get some more breadsticks.
So you can do that one-time donation via PayPal.
Link is in the description. Any amount helps.
Truly any amount.
And as always, what better way to end this there than,
I'm Josh Mid. This is The Majesty of Reason.
And peace out.
