including how credences ought to change in response to a varying body of evidence.
And at least generally speaking,
Bayesian epistemology addresses epistemological problems
with the help of the mathematical theory of probability.
It turns out that the probability calculus,
that is the mathematical theory of probability,
is especially suited to represent credences or degrees of belief,
and to deal with questions of belief change,
confirmation, evidence, justification, coherence, and more besides.
Compared to the informal discussions in traditional epistemology,
Bayesian epistemology allows for a more precise and fine-grained analysis
of these epistemological problems and issues.
Bayesian epistemology therefore complements traditional epistemology.
It doesn't replace it or even aim at replacing it.
Now, although I've been talking here about Bayesian epistemology and Bayesian epistemologists,
unfortunately, there's really no single Bayesian epistemology.
Instead, there are many Bayesian epistemologies.
Nevertheless, any Bayesian epistemology characteristically endorses
the following two principles that you can see on screen here.
Firstly, agents have certain doxastic attitudes, namely credences,
that can be usefully represented by assigning real numbers to propositions.
Secondly, rational requirements on those credences can be represented by mathematical constraints
on the real number assignments given by the probability calculus.
Now, again, the probability calculus, that's just the mathematical theory of probability.
It includes the axioms of probability, the formal language within the theory,
what logically follows from those axioms, etc.
So these are two characteristic principles that Bayesian epistemologies endorse.
Firstly, agents have credences and we can represent those by assigning real numbers to propositions.
And secondly, there are certain rational requirements on those credences
and we can represent those rational requirements with the help of the mathematical constraints
provided to us by probability theory.
We've already touched on the first principle and so we can now consider the second principle.
On the second principle, credences are subject to various rational constraints or requirements.
And these constraints are given to us by various elements of probability theory.
These rational constraints or requirements are also known as normative rules
in that they're standards for how we should reason.
So we're not necessarily talking about how we in fact reason,
but instead how we should reason, how we ought to reason.
These are normative rules, normative standards that we should live up to.
Now, there are five core normative rules of Bayesian epistemology.
Kolmogorov's three probability axioms, the ratio formula, and the conditionalization principle.
Also sometimes called the principle of conditionalization.
This isn't to say that these are the only normative rules that Bayesians accept,
but you can't understand any additional rules without understanding these five first.
They also serve as the basis for understanding Bayes' theorem,
which of course is what we're building up to, right?
This is a video about Bayes' theorem, but we've got to build up to that first.
We need to have certain foundational knowledge so we can have a deeper understanding of Bayes' theorem
and its use and its significance and its applications.
So what we're going to do going forward is basically just going through these core normative rules
and explaining them.
Before doing that, though, we should at least get three important notes on the table.
First, it should be noted that these normative constraints are sometimes articulated
in terms of rational credence,
which in turn means that they'll be articulated using CRP, CR not Q, CRP or Q, etc.
Other times, however, they're articulated in terms of probability,
which means that they'll instead be articulated using P of P, P of not Q, etc.
Going forward, I'll articulate the normative rules in terms of probability.
I think this is more illuminating because it emphasizes that the rules are not merely descriptions of actual credences.
Our actual credences are often inconsistent.
They often flout or violate the normative rules of Bayesian epistemology.
And CRP, right? This little formalism here, CRP,
that can easily mislead you into thinking that we're talking about someone's actual credence in P
rather than what credence it's rational to have in P.
And in fact, in some contexts, CRP is used to refer to someone's actual credence.
So expressing the normative rules in terms of probabilities
allows us to more clearly see that these are rational constraints on agents' credences.
They are not mere descriptions of actual credences, but instead constrain what credences are rational.
They set bounds around what credences one rationally ought to have.
If you're in the rationality business, in other words, you need to respect these rules.
So going forward here, when I speak of probabilities in articulating these five-core normative rules,
you can, hopefully, think of them as rational credences.
Not actual credences, but rational credences.
But I mean, again, for clarity, I'm going to be using probability talk.
I'm just going to be talking about the probability of P, probability of not Q, and so on.
All right, so that's the first note, the second note.
The second note is that we need some very basic background in propositional logic
before introducing the normative rules.
In propositional logic, we have a propositional language.
And this propositional language contains atomic propositions
that are usually represented using the letters P, Q, R, and so on.
Atomic propositions, by the way, are just propositions that don't embed any larger constructions within them.
They're basically like simple.
They're the building blocks of larger constructions.
So an atomic proposition might be grass is green,
and a non-atomic proposition might be the conjunction of grass is green and the sky is blue.
It's a construction out of the atomic propositions, grass is green, and the sky is blue.
Atomic propositions are the atoms from which those constructions are built up.
Okay, so our propositional language includes atomic propositions, and it also includes various connectives.
These are called connectives because very often they connect different atomic propositions together to form larger constructions.
So once we have our atomic propositions, the rest of the propositions in our language are constructed
from the atomic propositions using these five propositional connectives.
This little sign for negation, this ampersand for conjunction,
or for disjunction, a single arrow for material conditional,
and a double arrow for material biconditional.
Don't worry, this background and propositional logic is not going to get too convoluted, too complicated.
Again, I'm going to try to make this as accessible as I can.
But anyway, here's how these connectives work.
A negation, not P, so that's how we're going to read that,
a negation not P is true just in case P is false.
So if not P is true, then P is false, and moreover if P is false, then not P is true.
Not P, in other words, is just equivalent to the falsity of P.
A conjunction P and Q is true just in case both of its conjuncts, namely P and Q, are true.
So if the conjunction is true, then each of P and Q is true,
and moreover if each of P and Q is true, then the conjunction P and Q is true.
It's false otherwise.
So if at least one of these is false, then the whole conjunction is false.
A disjunction P or Q is true just in case either P is true or Q is true, or both P and Q are true.
In other words, the disjunction is true just in case at least one of its disjuncts is true,
and the disjuncts, of course, are just the individual atomic propositions within the disjunction.
And so the disjunction is therefore false exactly when both of its disjuncts are false.
So in order for P or Q to be false, both P and Q need to be false.
Otherwise, this disjunction as a whole is true.
A material conditional, also called material implication,
and usually we're going to read this as if P then Q or P implies Q.
A material conditional like this is false just in case P is true while Q is false,
and the conditional is true otherwise.
So a material conditional as a whole is going to be false exactly when its antecedent,
the if part, the part before the arrow, exactly when its antecedent is true,
and yet its consequent is false.
Its consequent is the then part.
It's the atomic proposition after the arrow.
But the material conditional is true in every other case.
So if at least one of these conditions aren't met, if either P is false or Q is true,
well then the material conditional as a whole is going to be true.
The reason I put this in terms of falsity is because I think that's the easiest way to get your mind around it.
Like imagine that I say if you get a 90 or above on this test, you get an A.
Well like under what condition is what I just said false?
Well, it's exactly under the condition in which you get something above a 90% on the test,
and yet you don't get an A, right?
So it's the condition where the antecedent is true, you did get above a 90% on the test,
and yet the consequent is false, where I don't give you an A, right?
That's exactly when what I said is false.
And think of the material conditional as true in all other cases.
Okay, so that's the material conditional.
And then finally a material biconditional, P if and only if Q,
or P just in case Q, or P exactly when Q.
That material biconditional is going to be true just in case P and Q have the same truth value.
That is just in case either both are true or both are false.
So if these two differ in their truth value, if one's true while the other is false,
well then the material biconditional as a whole is going to be false.
But the material biconditional is going to be true so long as these two agree in their truth value,
as long as they're both true or they're both false.
Okay, so that's some background on atomic propositions and the various truth functional connectives.
So we also need to know going forward what a tautology is and what a contradiction is.
A tautology, T, is a construction that's guaranteed to be true by its logical form.
Any way of assigning truth values to T's propositional symbols results in T itself being true.
So whenever you have a construction and you look at its propositional symbols,
this one only has one propositional symbol P, of course it recurs,
but it's still the same propositional symbol, it's P rather than Q or R or S.
Any way that you assign truth values to P, so whether you assign true to P or whether you assign false to P,
the construction as a whole is guaranteed to be true. That's what a tautology is.
And so T is in that sense logically necessary, right?
It's necessary that T is true because of its logical structure.
And examples here of tautologies are going to be things like it's not the case that both P and not P.
What do you mean think about that? It's not the case that P is true and P is false.
Yeah, I mean that's guaranteed to be true by its logical form.
Like whether P is true or false, whether, for instance, I exist or not,
it's still going to be true that it's not the case that I both exist and don't exist.
So whatever way you assign truth values to the propositional symbols here,
the construction as a whole is going to be true.
It is logically necessary. There's no way for it to be false.
It just logically cannot be false.
You could also think of it as saying denying a tautology is going to be a contradiction,
but I haven't even defined contradiction yet.
So another example of a tautology is P or not P.
That's guaranteed to be true by its logical form.
It's logically necessary that either I exist or I don't exist.
P implies P is also a tautology.
If I exist, then I exist.
Or if I don't exist, then I don't exist.
Both of those constructions are true.
Any construction like that is guaranteed to be true by its logical form.
A contradiction by contrast is a construction that's guaranteed to be false by its logical form.
In other words, any way of assigning truth values to its propositional symbols results in it being false.
And so a contradiction is in that sense logically impossible.
Its truth is impossible because of its logical structure.
Examples of contradictions include P and not P.
So it's just a contradiction to say I exist and I don't exist.
Another example of a contradiction is P if and only if not P.
Because remember, given how the bi-conditional is defined,
the bi-conditional as a whole is only ever going to be true if these two share their truth value.
And yet P and not P can never share the same truth value because then P would be both true and false.
So yeah, a contradiction is a construction that's guaranteed to be false by its logical form.
Alright, we just have two more small pieces of background and propositional logic
before we get onto the five core normative rules of Bayesian epistemology.
The first is about mutual exclusivity.
So the propositions in a set are mutually exclusive just in case the truth of any one member of that set
logically entails the falsity of all the other members of the set.
Thus no logically possible world makes more than one of the propositions in the set true.
To put it differently, each proposition in the set is incompatible with all the rest.
So for example, the set containing P and not P, like that set is mutually exclusive
because the truth of any one member of the set logically entails the falsity of the rest of the members of the set.
The truth of any one of the members of the set precludes the truth of all the others.
If one of them is true, the rest of them can't be true.
And so they mutually exclude one another from truth, as it were.
And then the second piece of conceptual machinery that we need to get on the plate is logical entailment.
So a proposition P logically entails a proposition Q just in case it's logically impossible for P to be true while Q is false.
So the conjunction P and not Q is a contradiction.
It is literally contradictory to say that P is true while Q is false.
