some of which are entirely mind-dependent, and others of which have some aspects which are mind-independent,
and other aspects which are mind-dependent.
And speaking of a panoply of different notions of probability,
that brings us to different interpretations of probability, different interpretations of probability talk,
and different interpretations of probability itself, like what is a probability?
What is this feature that we're picking out?
Now, before I go through these and explain them,
note that some people argue that all probability claims are captured by just one of these understandings of probability,
or one of these interpretations of probability.
But I don't think that's plausible.
I think that in different contexts we use different notions of probability.
Sometimes we're talking about frequencies, sometimes we're talking about propensities or tendencies,
sometimes we're talking about what credences someone actually has,
sometimes we're talking about what credences are rational or what credences someone should have, and so on down the list.
I doubt that any of these is quote-unquote the notion of probability.
Instead, they're all different ways of using probability talk in different contexts.
As a result, I'll simply treat each of these interpretations of probability as a distinct way of understanding probability talk,
and which understanding is at play when certain parties are engaged to a debate or engaged to a discussion,
or when you're reading a paper or book or listening to a video,
which understanding is at play will largely depend on context.
But anyway, here are some of the major interpretations of probability on offer.
Oh, and I should note that I left off this list the so-called classical interpretation of probability
because it totally fell out of favor like a long while back,
but according to that view, probability is basically counting the number of favorable outcomes
out of the total number of possible outcomes.
So if you're asking about the probability of rolling six on a die to say that the probability is one-sixth,
is to say that there's one way of rolling a six out of the total number of possible rolls.
So it's one way out of six ways, so one-sixth.
So anyway, that's the quote-unquote classical interpretation of probability.
I left that one off the list.
Okay, anyway, we're moving on to the list now.
One understanding treats probabilities as objective tendencies or propensities for certain outcomes.
Propensities are, roughly, degrees of causal influence.
Different sets of causal factors have stronger or weaker tendencies to produce certain outcomes,
and probabilities measure the strength of those tendencies or propensities.
This is arguably the notion of probability at play in quantum indeterminism.
If that's so, well, then when we say that a radioactive atom has a 50% probability of decaying
in a given time period, we're attributing to the atom, perhaps together with its environmental conditions,
a certain quantitative propensity or tendency or inclination or disposition to decay.
These tendencies would still have existed even if agents with credences had never existed.
So this is an objective understanding of probability.
Another understanding treats probabilities as the frequencies of certain outcomes or events under such and such conditions,
where those frequencies can be understood as either actual frequencies or hypothetical frequencies.
For example, the frequency with which the outcomes would occur if those conditions were repeated many times,
perhaps even infinitely many times.
Again, this is quite clearly an objective understanding of probability.
There's a fact of the matter independently of us with what frequency a certain outcome or event would occur or obtain
under certain conditions if those conditions were repeated.
A further understanding treats probabilities as an agent's actual credences or degrees of belief.
On this understanding, probability is always relative to an agent.
You can only ever talk about an agent's probability for a given proposition,
and it's also talking about their actual credences.
So probabilities on this view are thoroughly mind-dependent,
and this is therefore a subjective understanding of probability.
In fact, as we've seen, many people simply identify actual credences with subjective probabilities.
Like, to say that someone has a credence of 0.5 in something is to say that their subjective probability is 0.5.
But anyway, what matters for present purposes is that this is one way of talking about probability.
This is one interpretation of probability.
A related understanding treats probability as rational credences or rational degrees of belief.
That is, the credence an agent should have in a proposition in light of their evidence,
or perhaps in light of a restricted set of facts in the case of unconditional probabilities.
Don't worry, I'll talk about unconditional probabilities later.
Now, there's a question.
Is this an objective or subjective understanding of probability?
Well, there are elements of both here, I think.
Once you fix the evidence you're taking as input, there's arguably a perfectly objective fact of the matter
about what the rationally appropriate credence in a proposition is in light of that body of evidence,
which bears on the truth of that proposition.
So there's an element of mind independence here.
But there's also a clear element of mind dependence here,
since that input body of evidence is always an agent's body of evidence, right?
And that's going to vary by agent, and it's going to depend on various facts about the agent.
So again, probabilities here are rational credences in light of evidence.
So you have a kind of output, which is the rational credence,
and then you have the input, which is the evidence,
and the probability is like the function which takes that input and spits out the output,
takes the input of the evidence, spits out the output of the rational credences.
So with that in mind, another element of subjectivity within this account
is that the output of the probability function,
that is the rational credence one should take in light of the input evidence,
is still a credence, right?
Albeit a credence that an agent should have.
Still, because it's a credence, there's a sense in which it's a property of agents.
And so this is another element of mind dependence in this account.
But anyway, that's another interpretation of probability.
Viewing probabilities as rational credences,
what credences agents should have in light of their evidence.
A still further understanding treats probabilities as mind independent
degreed relations of support between propositions.
And these degreed relations of support between propositions
in turn determine which degrees of belief are rational.
Importantly though, these mind independent degreed relations of support
between propositions are not themselves degrees of belief.
They determine which degrees of belief are rational,
they determine which credences are rational,
but they are not themselves credences.
This view is defended by Nevin Kleinman-Haga and others.
Also note that under this account, the unconditional probability of a proposition
is the degree to which the proposition is supported by a priori truths or tautologies.
And I'll define tautologies soon, so don't worry about that.
This view is easy to categorize.
It's a thoroughly objective understanding of probability.
And then a final interpretation of probability that we're going to talk about here
is one that's pretty closely related to the rational credence account,
but it treats probability as a measure of the degree of justification
that a proposition has in light of one's current evidence.
It differs from the rational credence one because it's not saying that
probabilities are rational degrees of belief,
but instead, it's saying that probabilities are degrees of justification,
and one might think that those can come apart in principle.
So a proposition has probability of one in this understanding of probability,
just in case we have conclusive justification
that is the strongest justification possible for believing it.
And that applies to at most very few propositions,
like perhaps the proposition that something exists or that two is less than three.
And a proposition has probability zero for us on this understanding of probability,
just in case we have conclusive justification for denying it.
And so the proposition that I do not exist has, for me, right now,
a probability of zero, as does the proposition that one equals four.
Generally speaking, on this account, the only propositions with probability zero
are going to be those that are contradictory or otherwise absurd.
Now, like the rational credence account, this account has both objective and subjective elements.
Probability, under this view, is in principle relative to an individual.
A proposition may have different probabilities for different individuals
if those individuals have different evidence.
So this is an element of mind dependence within this account.
But there's also an element of mind independence,
since it's an objective matter to what extent your evidence justifies a given proposition.
Now, note that there are other interpretations of probability besides these.
I just want to give you a flavor of some of the main ones on the table that philosophers discuss.
Now, you may have heard of epistemic probability.
This is a term that's used differently by different philosophers.
Sometimes it's used interchangeably with subjective probability, that is, credence.
But I would strongly caution against that usage.
Instead, I think epistemic probabilities are best understood minimally,
as the probabilities we reason about in epistemic contexts,
where an epistemic context is a context in which we reason about things like
how probable a scientific theory is,
or how strongly a theory, whether scientific or not, predicts some evidence,
or to what degree some evidence confirms a theory or hypothesis, etc.
It's then an open question which of the above understandings of probability,
if any, epistemic probability should be identified with.
It's also then an open question whether epistemic probability admits
of different precisifications in different contexts.
And that's a good result,
because there's disagreement among philosophers on that very question.
Now, to give you a glimpse into different usages or different understandings
of epistemic probability,
Tyler Hildebrand and Thomas Metcalf, in their news article on the Nomological
Argument for God's Existence,
they seem to use epistemic probability to refer to a probability pertaining
to your credences, and then they divide up epistemic probability
into subjective and objective epistemic probabilities.
So, subjective epistemic probabilities describe your personal credences
and the relevant propositions, that is, they describe what your credences are,
whereas objective epistemic probabilities describe how strongly you ought
to believe the propositions given your total evidence,
that is, what your credences ought to be.
And know that that's not a moral sense of ought,
like no one is saying here that you're a bad person,
you're an immoral person, etc.
This is an epistemic sense of ought.
It's basically what's rational or justified or something like that,
what's rationally appropriate.
And those of you who are paying attention will notice that this objective
epistemic probability, the way that Hildebrand and Meck have articulated,
is just the rational credence account that I talked about
under the interpretations of probability.
But other people view epistemic probability quite differently.
For instance, my humor understands epistemic probability as degrees of justification,
and Nevin Klimenhege argues that epistemic probability is best understood as degrees of support.
So, the degree of support view, Nevin Klimenhege argues that that's the best understanding
of epistemic probability, my humor argues that the degree of justification account is the best,
and still others go for different interpretations.
So, as you can see, there are a number of different accounts of probability on offer,
and there are also different ways of spelling out what epistemic probability is.
In light of that, I'd suggest that if you're going to use a term for a view,
if you're going to use the term epistemic probability,
or even probability for that matter,
I just recommend explicitly defining how you understand the view
as you introduce the term for it.
And that way we don't have to engage in linguistic squabbles.
So, for instance, you could just say,
well, okay, listen, by epistemic probability, I mean this.
Or you might say, by epistemic probability, we should mean this
because it's the best way of interpreting what we do in epistemic contexts, etc.
Anyway, you get my point.
So, all of this is meant to serve as tools for your conceptual toolkit.
Going forward, we'll mainly just talk in terms of probability,
since that's all we really need to talk about in order to understand the basics of Bayes' theorem.
Which precise notion of probability is at play will largely be determined by context or stipulation.
Just a note that going forward, I'm mainly going to be talking in terms of just probability.
It's important, though, to have these tools in your conceptual toolkit.
It helps you weed out confusion about probability.
It helps you identify distinct notions of probability
and potentially disambiguate them when they come up in your thinking and the thinking of others.
And ultimately, it's a path toward a greater understanding of reality
and a greater understanding of probability and Bayes' theorem itself.
We can turn to Bayesian epistemology.
So, Bayesian epistemologists study norms governing credences,
