by the denominator it's greater than one let's just say the probability of e given h is x and
then the probability of e given not h is x minus n so n is just going to be some positive non-zero
real number of course less than one this is just a way to mathematically represent how
this is greater than one right because x is going to be greater than x minus n
given that n is a positive real number greater than zero and less than one so we got the probability
of e given h being x and we've got the probability of e given not h being x minus n but notice
that the probability of e given h plus the probability of not e given h is equal to one
i actually prove this mathematically for patrons in the script but i hope you can see that it's
just like intuitively obvious so for instance if it's 40 likely that it rains given that it's cloudy
then clearly it's going to be 60 likely that it doesn't rain given that it's cloudy or if it's one
sixth likely that the die rolls a one given that the die is fair then clearly it's going to be
five sixths likely that the die rolls something other than one given that the die is fair these
things have to add up to one if a hypothesis predicts the truth of some data with 20 probability
then clearly the hypothesis will then predict the falsity of that data with 80 probability
so it makes sense if you think about it it's self-evident you might say rearranging this so
we're just subtracting probability of e given h from both sides we get that the probability of not
e given h is equal to one minus the probability of e given h and notice that the exact same sort of
reasoning here can be applied when the hypothesis is not h instead of h right it's the same idea if
the hypothesis not h predicts the truth of some data with 30 probability then that hypothesis
not h will also predict the falsity of that data with 70 probability so this will equally be true
if we plug in not h for h and hence we can plug in not h for here and here because this
just followed from the preceding step and that of course just gives us this but we're called
that the probability of e given h we let that equal x and the probability of e given not h we let
equal x minus n so we have the probability of e given h here and here we have the probability
of e given h here and here and so and so from all the preceding we get this notice here that
that probability of not e given H shows up right here.
The probability of not e given not h shows up here.
Remember that the probability of not e given H
is equal to one minus the probability of e given h,
which just equals x.
So, we do one minus x up here.
And then the probability of not e Given not each
is equal to one minus the probability
of e given not h, and remember the probability
of e giving not h is just x minus n,
so we have down here one minus x minus n.
And of course, this here equals 1 minus x over 1 minus x plus n.
And that, of course, equals 1 minus x over 1 minus x in parentheses plus n.
And notice that that has to be less than 1, right?
You have a number here, and that number in the parentheses is the same number as this,
and then you add a non-zero positive real number to that.
And so the numerator has to be less than the denominator,
in which case this fraction as a whole is less than 1.
And so look what we've just concluded.
This is the likelihood ratio for the hypotheses h and not h with respect to the negation of e.
This is that likelihood ratio here and here.
So this has to be less than 1.
That is what we just concluded.
And so look what we just proved.
We just proved that if the ratio between the likelihoods of h and not h
with respect to the evidence e is greater than 1,
then the ratio between the likelihoods of h and not h
with respect to the negation of e is less than 1.
In other words, we just proved that if e is evidence for h,
then the negation of e is evidence against h, right?
Because here e is more expected under h than it is under not h,
because this fraction is top-heavy, and so e is evidence for h.
But in this case, because this fraction is less than 1, it's bottom-heavy.
So that means the negation of e is more expected under the negation of the hypothesis
than it is under the hypothesis.
And so the negation of e counts as evidence against the hypothesis
and for the negation of that hypothesis.
So anyway, that vindicates our goal.
Our goal was to show that if e is evidence for h, then not e is evidence against h.
And we just showed that.
Also, again, the patrons have access to the script,
which actually, because I just recently added this additional proof.
The script went up to 40 pages. I could do not.
But there's an additional proof for patrons, which goes through a different route.
So again, that is what I call evidential symmetry.
And it's pretty significant.
Consider the meagre-moral-fruits argument or whatever against Christianity.
One very simple way that you could put that argument is
imagine if all and only professing Christians were like noticeably morally superior
to literally everyone else.
Like, despite the fact that, you know, they have very similar social structures to other churches.
They have similar support groups to other churches.
They eat roughly the same things, etc.
Suppose that really the only thing that differentiates them from other groups
is that they are professing Christians.
And of course, that also they are noticeably morally superior to everyone else.
I think it's obvious that if we were to see that,
that would be significant evidence for Christianity.
This is the fruit of the Spirit.
It's God's grace working through people.
It's the transformative power of Christ or the Holy Spirit or something.
I don't know.
The point is just that I think it's obvious that this would be some evidence for Christianity.
But then it just deductively, strictly, logically follows from that,
that if we don't observe that, and of course we don't,
then that is at least some evidence against Christianity.
So it's relevant, for instance, to the meagre-moral fruits argument.
It's also relevant to lots of other arguments and just a reasoning more generally.
So that's why it's important to keep in mind.
So anyway, that's evidential symmetry.
Importantly, though, something that isn't necessarily symmetric
is how strong the evidential confirmation or disconfirmation is.
So even if, in my imagined scenario, we had super strong evidence for Christianity,
it doesn't necessarily follow that we thereby have super strong evidence against Christianity
in the fact that we don't witness that.
It does follow that we have evidence against Christianity,
but it doesn't necessarily follow that we thereby have super strong evidence against Christianity,
despite the fact that observing the data would be super strong evidence for Christianity.
So this is an asymmetry in the strength of evidence.
Just because evidence or data E would be very strong evidence for H,
it doesn't thereby follow that the negation of E would be very strong evidence against H.
Again, it would be evidence against H.
Don't get me wrong, we just proved that earlier.
But it doesn't necessarily follow that it would be very strong evidence.
So to illustrate this, imagine that our data is that the stars in the night sky
spell out the first 14 verses of the book of John in perfect Koine Greek,
and let T be theism and not T be atheism.
Now, this data would be astronomically improbable under atheism,
but it's also very improbable under theism,
right, like out of all of the ways that God could have designed the universe to be like,
only a very tiny fraction of those have this precise manifestation of divine power.
So let's just get some toy numbers on the table to illustrate the asymmetry of the strength of evidential support.
Again, this is just an illustration. Don't split hairs over the numbers.
I don't care if they're realistic. This is just an illustration.
So again, we've got E, T, and not T.
Let's say that the probability of the evidence given atheism is one in a billion.
So that's that really tiny number here.
And what follows from that, of course, is that the probability that we wouldn't see the evidence,
given atheism, is 99.999, et cetera, percent.
By contrast, the probability of the evidence given theism is still pretty small, right?
It's one in a million, and so the probability is 0.00001.
And what that means, of course, is then that the probability that we wouldn't see the evidence given theism
is 99.999% likely.
So if we observe E, if we observe that evidence, here's the likelihood ratio,
or Bayes factor, indicating the strength of evidential confirmation of theism, right?
It's going to be the probability of the evidence given theism
divided by the probability of the evidence, and that is, of course, one in a million
divided by one in a billion, which amounts to 1,000 to one, or 1,000.
That's the Bayes factor. That's the likelihood ratio.
Now that is very powerful evidence.
By contrast, if we observe not E, that is, if we observe that is not the case that the stars
spell out the first 14 verses of John, the likelihood ratio, or Bayes factor,
indicating the strength of the evidential confirmation of the negation of T, right?
So here we're putting the negation of T on top because we're looking at the strength
of the evidential confirmation of not E for that, so I'd like to put it on the top.
I think it's just easier. The likelihood ratio, or the Bayes factor in that case,
is 1 minus 1 in a billion divided by 1 minus 1 in a million,
and that gives us 1.0000999.
So it's greater than 1. This is evidence for atheism, the fact that we don't observe
the stars spelling out the first 14 verses of John, given these probability assignments.
It does count as evidence for atheism, but obviously it's nowhere near as strong evidence
for atheism as observing that data would be for theism, right?
So E is very powerful evidence for theism, but the negation of E is only very, very weak
evidence for atheism. What this tells us is that even though E would be evidence for T,
while the negation of E would be evidence against T, the strengths of these evidential
confirmations are not guaranteed to be the same.
The reasoning that we just went through also indicates the importance of falsifiability,
or better, disconfirmability, as a theoretical virtue.
If there's nothing in principle that could disconfirm or count as evidence against a hypothesis,
then there's also nothing in principle that could confirm or count as evidence for that hypothesis,
right? This just follows from the previous section that we went through, right?
Remember, we just saw that if E is evidence for H, then not E is evidence against H.
And so if there's nothing that could count as evidence against hypothesis,
then nothing could count as evidence for that hypothesis either.
And this is why, in general, unfalsifiable or better, non-disconfirmable theories are quite bad.
There can't be any evidence for them, at least assuming the positive relevance account of evidence.
That is, construing evidence as probability raising.
The final mistake I'll cover here, and believe me, there are more mistakes besides,
is a mistake I call likelihood ratio rigging.
And I'm going to give an example of this from one of my earlier videos.
It's the most popular video on my channel.
It is 12 hours long, and it is called Over 100 Arguments for God, answered.
This is a purported argument for God's existence.
From what one says, given that God intervenes to produce life on Earth,
there is no chance at all that there will be no life on Earth.
From what this two says, if God does not intervene to produce life on Earth,
the probability that life will occur here is very low.
So look, these are conditional probabilities.
We're establishing a likelihood ratio.
This is saying, given the hypothesis that God intervenes to produce life on Earth,
it is guaranteed that there will be life on Earth.
So the probability of life on Earth, given that God intervenes to produce life on Earth, is one.
But by contrast, the probability that there's life on Earth,
given that God does not intervene to produce life on Earth, is very low.
So look, we have a likelihood ratio that very strongly favors the hypothesis
that God intervenes to produce life on Earth.
You could find the same likelihood ratio,
given that Zeus intervenes to produce life on Earth.
The next premise, it is just as reasonable to bet
that God will intervene to produce life on Earth as that he won't.
So there's a 50-50% chance of that.
And so that's talking about the ratio of the priors.
That premise is certainly false.
So yeah, the basic idea behind likelihood ratio rigging
is that you can always artificially bake something into your hypothesis
that entails or strongly probabilifies the data.
But when you do this, you're very often purchasing predictive power
at the cost of correspondingly lowering the prior probability of your hypothesis.
You're decreasing the ratio of the priors by the same proportion
in which you increase the likelihood ratio.
And so there's no overall effect on the posterior ratio.
And hence no overall effect on the posterior probability of your hypothesis.
So yes, I forgot to show this slide when I was saying that.
Take the example of playing poker.
I'm the dealer, and of course I give myself five royal flushes in the row.
