And so P logically entails Q.
The point of this is that in any logically possible world in which P is true, Q is also true.
P, just in virtue of its logical form, implies Q, or P implies Q is a tautology.
All of these are basically the same way of conveying logical entailment.
Alright, so that's all the background that we need in propositional logic.
I hope you stuck through it.
If so, congratulations.
I hope we didn't lose any arms or legs or souls.
So the third and final note going forward is really just anticipating a question you might have.
In particular, you might be wondering like, Joe, why haven't we gotten to Bayes theorem yet?
Give me the Bayes!
Now listen, I understand your eagerness for Bayes theorem truly.
I understand it.
And I applaud you for your eagerness to cover the almighty equation.
But I have an answer for you, okay?
The reason why we haven't gotten to Bayes theorem yet is that to truly understand Bayes theorem,
to have a deep grasp of what it is, what it's saying, and why it's true,
you need to know a sizable chunk of background information.
Bayes theorem follows from the axioms of probability theory.
That's how we know that it's true.
And these axioms are the ones that we're about to cover.
To understand Bayes theorem then, it's important to understand those axioms.
And to understand those axioms, you need to know some important facts about propositional logic
and about probability and about how these various axioms are not about actual credences,
but instead represent rational constraints on credences, etc.
That is why we have taken the facially circuitous route that we have.
It is only facially circuitous.
It's not in fact circuitous.
I think this is a really good way to teach Bayes theorem.
But okay, having covered all that, we can now proceed to the five core normative rules of Bayesian epistemology.
Beginning with the first three, and these three are of course Kolmogorov's axioms.
The first such axiom is called non-negativity.
It says that for any proposition P, the probability of P is greater than or equal to zero.
And you can see why it's called non-negativity.
It's saying that the probability of any proposition is not negative.
The second Kolmogorov axiom is called normality.
It says that for any tautology T, the probability of T is one.
And that makes sense.
A tautology is guaranteed to be true by its logical structure.
And so there's a 100% probability that it's true.
The probability that it's true is one.
There's literally no logically possible way for a tautology to be false.
The third axiom is finite additivity.
It says that for any mutually exclusive propositions P and Q,
the probability of P or Q is equal to the probability of P plus the probability of Q.
And remember, P and Q are mutually exclusive just in case they're incompatible with one another.
The truth of one logically entails the falsity of the other.
Now Kolmogorov's axioms are often referred to as the probability axioms.
The great 20th century Russian mathematician Andrey Kolmogorov was the first to articulate these axioms
as the foundation of mathematical probability theory, or the probability calculus.
But yeah, that's it for the first three normative rules of Bayesian epistemology.
Pretty simple.
Now actually things get a little more complex since these axioms have lots of very important consequences.
One immediate consequence of them is that the probability of not P is equal to one minus the probability of P.
So for instance, if the probability that it will rain is 0.3,
well then the probability that it won't rain is 0.7, right?
It's just one minus 0.3, which is 0.7.
I mean that makes intuitive sense, but to see why this follows from the axioms,
note that P and not P are incompatible and so they're mutually exclusive.
And so by finite additivity, right, which says that for any mutually exclusive propositions P and Q,
the probability of P or Q is just equal to the sum of the probabilities of P and Q,
we can get that the probability of P or not Q is equal to the probability of P plus the probability of not Q.
Right, but P or not Q, that's just a tautology, right?
That is guaranteed to be true by its logical form.
That is logically necessarily true.
Any way of assigning truth values to its propositional symbols results in the construction as a whole being true.
And so since that's a tautology, we can conclude by normality that its probability is 1, right?
So the probability of P or not P is 1.
But now look what we have, right?
We have the probability of P or not P. We got the probability of P or not P here.
So because this is equal to this and because these two are equal with one another,
we can say that 1 is equal to this, right?
So we get 1 is equal to the probability of P plus the probability of not P.
And by doing some handy-dandy rearranging, we can conclude that the probability of not P is equal to 1 minus the probability of P.
Here's another useful consequence of Kolmogorov's axioms.
In general, whether or not P and Q are incompatible or mutually exclusive, the following holds.
The probability of P or Q is equal to the probability of P plus the probability of Q minus the probability of P and Q.
The proof of this from the axioms is slightly involved, so we're not going to cover it here.
It's actually much easier to see why it must be true by inspecting a Venn diagram.
So in a Venn diagram like this, we take the points in a circumscribed plane to represent all logically possible worlds.
And then we use sets of points to represent sets of possible worlds.
And in particular, to represent all those possible worlds where some proposition P is true, or where some proposition Q is true.
The areas of these spaces can then be used to represent the probabilities of the relevant propositions.
In this diagram here, the proposition P or Q corresponds to the points which are either in the area labeled P or in the area labeled Q or in both.
And the proposition P and Q corresponds to the points which are in both the area labeled P and the area labeled Q.
So that's going to be this cross-hatched area here.
It's pretty easy to see that if we tried to work out the area corresponding to P or Q by simply adding the area for P to the area for Q,
well then we would count the cross-hatched area twice, right?
If we add this whole circle to this whole circle, we will have counted this cross-hatched area twice.
We'll have double counted it.
So to get the right answer for the probability of P or Q, we need to correct that double counting by subtracting the cross-hatched area.
And of course, that cross-hatched area is just the probability of P and Q.
And so we get that the probability of P or Q is equal to the probability of P plus the probability of Q minus the probability of P and Q.
Because again, when we look at the diagram, we see that simply adding the probability of P to the probability of Q would count the probability of P and Q twice.
And so to get the probability of P or Q, we need to correct that by subtracting out the probability of P and Q.
In some cases, the probability of P and Q will be zero, namely when P and Q are incompatible, and so then there won't be a cross-hatched area.
Their Venn diagrams won't overlap at all.
And in that case, the probability of P or Q will be the simple sum of the probability of P and the probability of Q, as in Kolmogorov's third axiom.
And general additivity applies in that case, right?
It's just that the probability of P and Q in that case is zero, because if P and Q are incompatible, then obviously it cannot be the case that P and Q.
That's a contradiction.
And so it has a probability of zero.
And so when P and Q are mutually exclusive, we get that the probability of P or Q is equal to the probability of P plus the probability of Q.
And if you remember, that's just finite additivity.
So here are some other pretty important consequences of Kolmogorov's axioms.
We won't derive them here, but they're important to note nonetheless, and I just want to say something to their intuitiveness.
So one is maximality, which says that for any proposition P, the probability of P is less than or equal to one.
Together, non-negativity and maximality establish the bounds of our probability scale, right?
Remember, non-negativity just says that probabilities are non-negative.
They're going to be greater than or equal to zero.
Maximality, by contrast, says that probabilities are less than or equal to one.
So now we have bounds for our probability scale.
Probabilities, which again, you can helpfully think of them for present purposes as rational credences.
Probabilities always fall between zero and one, inclusive.
Now, this upper bound is kind of arbitrary, of course, but using zero and one lines up nicely with everyday talk of being 0% confident or 100% confident in particular propositions.
And also with various considerations of frequency and chance.
So it's useful.
Another consequence of Kolmogorov's axioms is contradiction.
For any contradiction F, the probability of F is zero.
One way to see that just intuitively is that a contradiction is just the negation of a tautology.
And a tautology has a probability of one.
And we already saw that the probability of not P equals one minus the probability of P.
Which means that the probability of a contradiction is going to be one minus the probability of a tautology, which is just one minus one.
Which is just zero, goose egg, nada, zilch.
But anyway, it also makes sense.
A contradiction is logically guaranteed to be false.
There's literally no way it could be true.
So its probability is zero.
Another consequence is entailment.
This says that for any propositions P and Q, if P logically entails Q, then the probability of P is less than or equal to the probability of Q.
So think about this one.
If P logically entails Q, well then any world in which P is true is also a world in which Q is true.
So Q occupies at least as much of the possibility space as P.
And Q must therefore be at least as probable as P.
Q would be more probable, of course, if there are worlds in which Q is true while P is false.
For then, the worlds in which P is true will be a proper subset of the worlds in which Q is true.
So anyway, I hope this is kind of intuitive on its face.
But you can also think about it in Venn diagram terms.
So you can imagine little boxes around these that represent the total space of possible worlds, but I was kind of lazy, I didn't want to put those in.
You can just imagine the boxes there.
And these are three separate Venn diagrams.
And these Venn diagrams are representing the relationship between P and Q.
In this first diagram, the set of logically possible worlds in which Q is true is a subset of the set of possible worlds in which P is true.
Editing Joe here now.
More precisely, the set of possible worlds in which Q is true is a proper subset of the set of possible worlds in which P is true.
I think I also go on to say that P in this third Venn diagram is a subset of the set of possible worlds in which Q is true.
But I should have clarified that more precisely, it's a proper subset.
Alright, back to the video.
In this case, P and Q are logically equivalent.
They're true in exactly the same worlds.
In this case, the worlds in which P is true are a subset of the worlds in which Q is true.
If P logically entails Q, well then this one cannot be the case.
This cannot be a representation of the situation that we have, right?
Because remember, if P logically entails Q, then any world in which P is true is also a world in which Q is true.
But that's not the case on this diagram, right?
Like, pick a world that's like right here, where my cursor is.
Well, that's a world in which P is true, but in which Q isn't true, because this is outside the circle for Q.
And so this represents a case where P does not logically entail Q.
By contrast, in both of these cases, any world in which P is true is indeed also a world in which Q is true.
And so these are the only two candidate representations of the case that we have when P logically entails Q.
But notice that in both of these cases, the probability of P is less than or equal to the probability of Q.
In this case, the probability of P is equal to the probability of Q.
They take up the exact same amount of the possibility space.
And in this case, the probability of P is less than the probability of Q.
And so look, we've just shown it visually that if P logically entails Q, then the probability of P must be either less than or equal to Q.
Finally, think about this one in everyday terms, right?
Compare the proposition that John has a dog with the proposition that John has a female dog with white fur for brown spots,
a curly tail, floppy ears, and brown eyes.
Which of these is more probable?
Clearly, the first is more probable, right?
The reason is that the second entails the first, but the first doesn't entail the second.
The first is, in that sense, more modest.
It could be true even while the second is false.
It doesn't demand as much of reality.
So the first is going to be more probable than the second.
Alternatively, you can think of this in terms of ways of being false.
Any way for this first claim to be false is also a way for this second claim to be false.
But there are indeed ways for the second to be false while the first is true.
So for instance, John could have a dog, even though his dog is male, or even though it has brown fur,
even though it has five brown spots, even though it doesn't have a curly tail, etc.
So there are more ways, in principle, for the second claim here to be false than for the first to be false.
And so the second is going to be less probable than the first.
There are more ways, in principle, for the second to be false.
And so it's going to be less probable.
Now again, in this example, the first claim entails the second while the second claim does not entail the first.
If you have mutual entailment between the propositions,
well then we get the next consequence of Kolmogorov's axioms, which is equivalence.
This says that for any propositions, p and q, if p logically entails q and q logically entails p,
well then the probability of p equals the probability of q.
And this makes perfect sense, right?
Any way for one of the propositions to be false is also a way for the other to be false,
and moreover, any way for that one to be false is also a way for the first one to be false.
You can't find any world in which one is true while the other is false.
So they're true in exactly the same worlds.
They're equi-probable.
It's literally impossible for there to be a case in which one of them is true while the other is false.
And if you think about this in Venn diagram terms,
their Venn diagrams are going to perfectly overlap one another.
And also just notice that equivalence is a consequence of entailment.
If p logically entails q, then the probability of p is less than or equal to the probability of q.
