I'll give a thought and Ali or Terry, feel free to give a follow up or a thought.
I don't think in principle, it's contentious or dissentious. However, there might be an explicit
or implicit belief, of course, ironically, that we can simply take some of these parameters coming
into our experimental setup, and even the selection of experimental stimuli, we can take those as
simply given, which is a very frequentist perspective. And then on the observed behavior,
we can simply use descriptive statistics. We'll characterize the predefined groups according
to the one experiment we ran, we'll do the t test, we'll do the ANOVA, we'll come up with a p value,
it's going to be frequentism all the way forward. So even if we're doing frequentism about a
generative model, there's a sense that if we just clamp down on our experiment and treat it as
handed down without error, instead of being actually drawn from distributions of possible
experiments we could have done, if we clamp down upstream of the experiment, we'll just be able to
describe and ultimately publish without needing to look at what else could have happened.
And I think this diagram and also the very subtle dashed line around even the bigger box
suggests that just like the active clinician engaging with a conversation or the active
experimenter also engaging iteratively over their system of interest, that itself is an adaptive
epistemic process where, yes, you could simplify it by treating the parameters and the stimuli
sequences as simply given, but then you don't have access to the generative model that actually
is the generative process for the subjective model. So summarize in principle,
uncontentious, however, sometimes discordant with the ways that behavioral experiments are
conceptualized, planned, and analyzed.
One reason why it's helpful, because during the book we try to stay on the road, on the high road
and the low road, but when we're in discussions, it's almost like there's a whole road map and
people have their own backgrounds and questions, and it kind of comes together with all these
different topics that people are curious about ultimately that bring them to active inference.
So going to this metabasian figure helps in some way situate how the authors are seeing this entire
process of experimental design, observation, and cognitive modeling, and that was unpacked also
in the recent map territory fallacy fallacy work.
Ali or Terry, any thoughts or questions in our last 10 minutes?
Is there a figure you want to look at, or we can go to some other places?
Maybe we can ask the missing figure in, I think it was in figure 7.2 in the lower left.
So then this was actually corrected by, I don't know quite how it ended up
vanishing, but it was corrected in one of the later print versions. I'll see if it's in the
version I've got in front of me now, and I can show you what it would have looked like,
but apologies for that. Which figure is it? 7.2 on page 128.
Unfortunately I picked up a copy of the book, it doesn't have it.
So there have already been one and a half fractal dimensions of printing?
Yeah, I think unfortunately I don't think that one's corrected yet in the online
copy. Essentially what would have appeared in that figure, or what did in some of the later
printing versions, is the errors that are driving the updates of the states in the plot above.
So the errors here are effectively the free energy gradients, or the negative free energy
gradients. So essentially as you go down the free energy gradient, you're effectively minimizing
your error. So what that means in practice is that the errors would effectively be the rates of
change of the states in the plot above. So if you take the states in the plot above and you imagine
what the rates of change of each of those lines are, that's what you would get in the plot below.
Well, on this same kind of topic, in Chapter 7 we're in the discrete time generative models,
and a little bit less so here, but in the latter models here in 7.13, and in what we just looked
at in 7.2, where are these continuous interpolations coming from if it's a discrete time model?
That's a good point. So I suppose there's an important distinction to make here. There's the
distinction between the things that are being inferred, which are happening over discrete steps
in time, and then there's the inference process itself, which deals in probabilities, which are
themselves continuous. They can vary in this case anywhere between 0 and 1, and the time over which
that inference happens. So to give you an example, if you imagine that the way you're
analyzing this figure at the moment is by making a series of saccadic eye movements,
you're not sort of continuously moving your eyes from one plot to the next. You're making a series
of rapid ballistic movements that then take you from one to the next, and effectively every time
your eyes stand still, you have a new data point that you're now trying to analyze.
You can imagine that between that or every time your eyes stay still, everything else in your
brain doesn't just stop. So once you've got that new data point, your brain now has some time to
assimilate that data point to draw inferences about what it's seeing there, and those inferences
happen through the continuous dynamics of what's happening in your neurons and various networks
across your brain. So you can think of the continuous changes that are happening for each
state as not being changes in the world that we're trying to infer, not being changes in the
data point I'm currently looking at, but the changes in my beliefs about it before I then
sample the next data point. Interesting. I have a few more figure-based quick questions, but
Terry, do you want to bring up anything, or just give any remarks? No worries if not.
I am very much just trying to understand these concepts, so I don't make any pretence
at having any deep understanding, but the key thing that interests me is how you jump from
this sense of how we update our predictions into the clinical realm. I'm interested in pain medicine,
and I see neuroplastic pain as very much a mistaken prediction based on often
misinterpretation by medical professionals and the information that they give to patients,
and I'm really intrigued by the potential for
using these concepts to give patients an architecture in which they can start to understand
that they have some agency in altering their future predictions and really changing their
experience of their pain. And as your clinician, I'd be really intrigued to get your sense of
where this is going in that type of clinical realm. I think that's a really nice example as
well, thinking about attitudes towards pain and particular kinds of pain, particularly when there
isn't a sort of obvious tissue damage that can be identified that's causing that pain,
but that still is obviously a very real sensation to the people who are experiencing it.
And I think it generalizes to a number of other conditions, and probably there's an overlap with
things like functional neurological disorders, probably a number of medically unexplained symptoms
and things where there is a huge amount of overlap in these sorts of processes where you
can't necessarily directly identify a big structural lesion of any sort, but clearly the
way the nervous system is working something isn't quite right. Pain I think is an interesting
example particularly because pain is never a real thing out there in the world, is it? I mean it's
always an inference, and so I think that's one of the first things to say to anybody, you know,
regardless of whether you've got pain because you've lost a leg or whatever else, there's no
such thing as pain as an external state, it is just your inference, your explanation for
these signals that are coming in from your body. Now one of the important concepts that I think
comes into all of these sorts of syndromes, and probably many others as well, is the idea of
precision, the idea that the data I predict, sensory data coming in, I can in addition to
estimating what those data are going to look like, I also have to estimate how confident I am
in what they're going to look like. If I'm not very confident or I think I'm dealing in something
that's very noisy, then I can actually discount a lot of that signal, whereas if I believe that
it's all extremely reliable, very clean data that's coming in, then I want to put a lot of
weight on that. And another way of saying that is that there are some things I pay attention to,
and some things I don't. And you know, just saying it's reliable data is just a matter of saying I'm
going to attempt it. Now it might be that in a number of these different syndromes, what's going
on is that our bodies have overestimated the precision, overestimated how clean the data
are coming in from a particular body part. And that's why we then overinterpret any signals
that are coming in as if they are painful. And the inferences we draw from those signals are just
too confident and too driven by something that they shouldn't be. An example I often like to use
in clinical discussions is that I told you to pay attention now to the feeling that your left
sock was having on your left big toe, you can probably feel it, but you were completely unaware
of it before. But now if I say continue to pay attention to that and carry on paying attention
to that, and you're unable to pay attention away from it anymore, if you felt that all the time,
it would feel unusual, it would feel wrong, and maybe a misestimation of precision in that way
may be what's going on in a lot of these sorts of conditions. Partly, I think it's often interesting
that in some of these people there was at some stage an injury or something that affected that
body part. And you can imagine that if you went through a period of illness where you did have
tissue damage and were in pain for that reason, it might direct your attention to that and you may
have a learned deployment of attention towards that area that might persist even after the
insult and the damage was resolved. And again, maybe it's that sort of persistent
mislearning of how precise things are that leads to the continued experience of pain,
even when there's nothing sort of externally causing it anymore. So I think just having a sense
of inference and of the idea that all our perceptions of the world around us are ultimately
inferences says that if we change our model in some way, if we're able to adapt and change and
if our plasticity in our brains and spinal cords can be exploited, then we can also correct those
mislearned models and hopefully resolve those sorts of symptoms and syndromes.
Awesome. Thank you. Well, we are at the very close. Really appreciative, Thomas,
of how much we were able to cover. What are your closing words or thoughts, potentially to someone
who has listened to this one hour discussion as their appetizer before joining the part at all
restaurant service? Well, now I've enjoyed the discussion. Thank you for having me here.
I'll reiterate what I said earlier. I think one of the key things in making this field more
accessible to more people are these sort of regroups, the ideas of trying to create these
educational resources and to unpack and discuss these things. And I'm impressed by all the
infrastructure you've put together and by everything you've managed to achieve by doing this.
So I'd certainly encourage anyone who's interested to join up to your reading groups
and I hope they get something out of it and out of the book. Thanks, Ali.
Well, yes. Actually, since the beginning of the first cohort, this book has practically become
part of our life that we love and cherish. And it's amazing to see how with each iteration
of our reading group, it gives rise to a whole different set of questions and discussions.
And actually, I'm a firm believer in this famous quote, I don't know by whom, which says that
the sign of a great book is not how many answers it provides, but rather how many
thought provoking questions it engenders. So based on that criterion and judging by the
variety of questions brought up during our live discussions as a kind of empirical evidence for
that, I think it's probably safe to say that this is truly a great book. So congratulations on that
and thank you. Thank you very much. Great closing thoughts. So Thomas, thank you again.
You're welcome back anytime. Thanks Ali and Terry for all the great participation. And until next time.
Bye.
you
you
