I think it's deposition.
Deposition, okay.
Of organic matter, coupled with a certain rate of erosional
deposition from landmasses.
And for that to happen, you pretty much need a certain level of weather,
enough that they're steady erosion, but not so much that you have
repeated massive erosional events that destroy your basins.
You need a certain level of geological activity and a pretty specific
temperature gradient on your planet, such that the typical burial process
results in heating up and cooking the organic matter into oil.
You need the right amount of oxygen so that your oil isn't oxidized in
place and made useless.
If all of these parameters are off, your planet has no oil or coal for the
same reasons.
Which, holy shit.
Yeah, it makes a very compelling case, and I like it a lot, because
I mean, people I remember counted with like, well, we could use this.
It's like, yeah, we could, but that's a lot harder.
And that came a lot later after we'd already boost up our civilization.
Right.
Someone brought up whale oil, but there's not that many whales.
There's not a lot of whales.
Not enough to pull out on our planet.
It'd be really hard to farm them enough to harvest their oil to power a civilization.
Yeah.
I just don't think you could get enough from any sort of animal to
run our civilization.
The fact that we happen to be on a planet that's full of basins,
full of just like really easy energy, certainly helps.
So there might be like hundreds or hundreds of thousands of pre-industrial
civilizations out there just kind of stuck with nowhere.
Banging rocks together trying to make fire, yeah.
Yeah.
Poor bastards.
How far could we have gotten?
Well, I mean, before we had oil, we had water wheels, like with the,
we could probably get up to a late medieval level of technology.
Yeah, and like you're assuming that like if they had everything that we have,
the exact conditions, but with no oil, it's again, like another,
here's a weird like coincidence thing, and like you kind of trace it back and be like,
how unusual is this, but.
Oh man, are you taking away all our fun again?
I'm sorry, I have to just do the no fun thing.
No, no, it's like.
I think that it can be, I think that can be, I think that's still fun.
Like for every planet that has all the pre, all the conditions that lead up to like,
say medieval technology, oil is probably, basins of oil enough to power the planet
for a few centuries is probably a smaller percentage of those planets.
Just because of the things that have to be lined up for it, right?
Right.
So yeah, you could get to the comfortable level, or even, you know,
maybe everyone has, you know, I don't know how easy it would be to make,
you know, and distribute batteries or something that could store charge
energy from wheel, from water wheels or something.
But like, even if you got that far, still a lot harder to get to space
without just kickstarting technology that way, right?
Yeah, maybe they do it eventually, but we'll get there first because we got oil.
Yeah, maybe there's some other like really readily available source of energy that's
really common throughout the rest of the universe.
And people think this about us.
Look at those four assholes just burning dinosaur fossils.
They have to dig up dead animals to burn.
Like we just use whatever.
Mostly plant matter.
Huh?
Mostly plant matter.
People always say dinosaurs, but I'm like, it was mostly plant matter.
It's more fun to think of dinosaurs.
All right, fine.
But yeah.
No, your point.
I had no idea that the Sinclair dinosaur was there because oil is quote,
unquote made from dinosaurs.
I literally didn't.
I'm just, my mind's being blown right now too.
Yeah, I was like, oh, that is so morbid.
That's kind of funny.
Yeah, I never, I never made that connection either.
We're burning his family.
Delicious dinosaurs.
Okay.
And the last feedback that we're going to hit today is from quite a bit before this.
MQP says, I'm kind of baffled that none of the people there seem to take the personal
positive part of marriage.
So as I think when we were talking about marriage on,
I don't know if that was a direct topic or if it came up in an episode or something.
We did an anti-marriage episode.
Well, you tried to make an anti-marriage episode.
Yeah, I'm not.
I played middleman and Naveen.
Okay, yeah.
I think it came up again since then.
Yeah.
Anyways, MQ says, the part where you establish common knowledge about the importance of your
relationship by sending a costly signal about it and doing a ritual, which I'm actually now that I,
he mentions it is a really good point, creating common knowledge is both important and difficult
and you can't often just say things.
You have to signal them and signals got to be costly.
MQ says, Enya, I seem to think that it was just society telling you what to think
and thereby worthless.
Damn your doughnut.
Doughnut in my lung.
It's not coronavirus.
I will let him choke and I'll respond to the first part of that, which is,
if I was smart, who commented this?
MQP.
If I was smart, like MQP, I might have put that in my pitch for marriage as to why I'm for it.
Like, if it works for you, it's one of those things, but I'm married.
I love it.
I don't, people keep, like the common question we've been married for less than a year is like,
how's things different?
You guys looking and then leading up to it, you guys looking forward to like,
post marriage and all that.
I'm like, no, it's going to be exactly the same as it is now.
Like, we've had the life that we have now for the last eight years.
What it was, it was like, it was a fun celebration and ritual is not a bad word for it.
We picked and chose the parts of the ritual, like the common tropes of it that we like
and disregarded the parts that we didn't like.
But yeah, I'm on board so far.
MQP.
Within reason responded that a prenup establishes common knowledge between the two people being
married, which usually a wedding doesn't.
And MQP replied point taken, but the common knowledge that I care about is stuff like,
this couple makes most decisions, most decisions together and shares values.
So if you're doing something that impacts one of them,
you should take the other into account.
Not things like what would happen to the house if they divorce.
You know, it says you don't need any legal stuff to accomplish that and I disagree.
I think having real material consequences associated with being married is a reason
why the tradition became powerful and remains powerful.
And if you try to replace it with something that had no consequences,
people would not take it seriously.
And I think that's a good point.
I, whenever I know that someone is coupled, I assume that anything I say to one of them
will be common knowledge between the two of them by the end of the day.
What if you have like a nine person polycule?
That is, um,
Not coupled.
Depends.
I mean, that depends on how close those individual relationships are.
What if you have a business partner who you are much more financially invested with than
your spouse and you're both financially independent from each other?
I would not expect that of a business partner.
If I told something to Stephen and he was in business with someone else that I told him in
confidence, I would be, you know, hurt and think it's a really shitty thing for him to do
to tell it to his business partner.
But I would expect that Rachel would know before the end of the day.
For the record, I've said this before.
Like most things we talk about, I feel like you'll say to the podcast.
So like I, you know, I'm fine talking about it with close people.
But if you're like, Hey, can you keep this between us?
I always do.
That's not between us and Rachel.
Okay.
Well, I literally do not want, if I'm coupled with someone,
I do not want anyone to tell me something that they don't want the coupled person to know.
Because then I either have to keep a secret from the coupled person
or I have to betray their trust.
Yeah.
And so don't put me in a weird spot where like,
I don't know, I can't imagine the kind of knowledge you could have or want to share
that would be, you know, that you wouldn't also share with Rachel.
But, um, I,
Turns out only males have souls.
For the record, like I, I, uh, I had something and now I don't know what's on the record.
So anyway, that's my general thing is like, I, we, we don't really go home and talk about,
like, tell me everything that, you know, was going on with all your friends.
Like, that's even like a common joke among, you know, men, right?
Yeah.
It's like, oh man, Jeff's getting divorced.
It's like, oh my God, why?
It's like, I don't know.
He said he's getting divorced and he didn't want to talk about it.
So we didn't.
It's like, but how do you not know?
It's like, well, we didn't talk about it.
Like I, there are people that I've known forever and I don't know what the least
bit what's going on in their lives.
It just doesn't come up.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, so it, it, we, we don't follow the TV trope of going home and like gossiping
about everyone we know.
So my former boss and his wife gossiped about everybody and like,
it was their favorite hobby, the two of them.
It was kind of bizarre to me because I just don't understand that kind of
gossip culture.
Like there's a difference between a, you know, I prefer radical honesty, but I
don't like the like layers of secrets that gossiping causes.
Yeah.
Where like, one of them would be like, oh man, do you want to hear about this
thing that's happening with your coworker and, and his friend?
And I'm just like, no, the way you're saying it, he's weirding me out right now.
Makes me think that I'd be safe for saying no.
The, your nine-person-polycule comment is really interesting.
I mean, it has me thinking now, like this is the thing that I'm responding to.
There's the couple privilege thing or the like, yeah, yeah.
No, but I think this is like MQP's point.
Like it's, it's easier, I think, to, to establish common knowledge of, of a
couple of pairing because you're often seen together.
