landing happened, but the flag moved a little bit, I think.
So of course it moved a little bit, they were planting it.
Well, but I mean, that's that's one of the things that they say it's like
flags don't wave in space. How did it? How did it blow in the wind? And it's
like it didn't. There was a supporting pole. Yeah. Or like the dust.
This, this would be like a good counterpoint to that. So like you say,
like, well, yeah, but if you watch them jump, and then you watch the dust
move at like one, six, like one sixth G, like, what do they got string to all
that dust was this early CGI? Like,
Yeah, that's another thing. Like, I remember people would say that the
lighting looks like stage lighting. And they're like, yeah, the shadows are
weird. The lighting's like, you know, shit, it's weird. The atmosphere is
different. Like, yeah, the lighting looks weird. It's on the, it's on the
fucking moon. Yeah, we don't have lights like that on earth.
I think someone looked into how much it would cost Kubrick to, because they
say Kubrick directed the moon landing, how much it would cost Kubrick to do
those kind of special effects. And basically it would be impossible.
But if it had been possible, it would be cheaper to go to the moon.
It would be to fake the moon landing.
Yeah. You know, well, they brought rocks back. It's like, yeah, but you know,
we've had meteorite strikes in Antarctica, and that could be moon rocks.
And they're like, yeah, come on.
That's, that's, that's actually something.
Yeah. But like, if I go there, take pictures and then bring back the one
that I took pictures of. And it's like, oh, you just brought those to the set
in LA. And it's like, no, come on. I don't know. I, I lost the, I, I don't
know if I ever had fun. Well, no, I must have for a couple of years had fun
debating with like conspiracy theorists. But then you, it's just like arguing
with create, you know, with religious creationists or something. You hear
the same arguments over and over.
They're not arguing in good faith.
That's always so frustrating.
Yeah. It's more just like a spectacle sport. I think even for them, like, I,
I probably know people who are 9-11 truthers, but I don't know anyone that
I have had that discussion with in like the last 10 years. But like, if they
really believed it, they seem to have like way too much fun with it.
Then it's like, if you, if you thought like, oh yeah, the things are really
actually scary and nefarious like that.
Now, I distinctly remember my sister at one point hearing some moon hoax
arguments and deciding, oh, I'm going to be a moon hoax here now too.
Because this is, this is funny. Like she'd like just decided to say that
she didn't believe the moon landing was real as a quirky part of her identity
now that she could like argue with people about, but like, not because she
thought that any of the evidence was compelling, but more just because it
like seemed like, oh, I could be a wacky eccentric moon person. And that's,
that's appealing to me.
I read a great article how it's a lot more about the community and the
identity than about the belief itself.
Well, I mean, I mean, the belief is a starting off point, but
people can say the same thing about us and like AI.
Suppose
the difference we're all perfectly saying.
All right.
Do we have more to say about that one?
No, he just ended it with saying the right kind of wrong reasoning, a
handful of support, or even a single argument can stand off an army of
contradictions. And that's the name of the post.
Yeah.
All right. So for next time, we will be talking about how hindsight by
yes, and hindsight to the values science, the names of the two posts.
I wonder if that was the thing I was talking about earlier about
pre-registering your hypothesis.
No, this is something different.
I've read these before, but it was a long time ago.
I've been doing this like, you know, doing the sequences, uh, cause I have
not read these in years. And some of these I just kind of like was trying to
get through. I had rationality AI to zombies and I was kind of just blowing
through them. So actually taking the time to look at each one and being like, oh,
I see how these connect to these other ones now. Or, oh, and now I have all
this new context where it's been brought up in these like newer slate
star codex articles about this thing. And yeah, that's been cool.
Awesome. I remember when we had Eleazar on the podcast, back in the wheel
days of the show.
Episode six, I think.
Yeah. And he liked the, the new format of rationality for me, I just
zombies, cause it's like more cohesive. And, and he's like, yeah, the other,
you know, I started kind of turning this big spaghetti mess of a wiki and
you're like, yeah, but I loved that part of it.
Yeah.
And it is kind of fun.
It's a different experience.
It is, but it's nice to have, you know, one of like, yep, I can find this here
because I know it's in this section. And another one where it's just like, I'm
going to kind of just like go through these as they were in the train of thought
that they were released and that has its own sort of.
Or click around.
Yeah.
I did a lot of like, I'd start off wanting to read one and then there's a
bunch of links, like in the text to other posts and then I'd click those and
then I'd click those and the next, like, you know, I always like right click
and open things in new tabs so I can keep track of my history.
That's exactly what I did.
And then you just get like four or five deep, you know, like now I can finish
the one I started.
Exactly.
Or sometimes you never finish it.
Right.
But that's also kind of fun because, uh, I don't know, I also enjoy Wikipedia
for that reason where you can kind of just get lost down this rabbit hole of
that thing's cool.
Look at that shiny thing.
Wait, what about this?
I think I lost on four separate occasions an entire day to TV tropes.
I blame you, man, I used to have the hardest time when I was trying to write
fiction.
If I'd end up on TV tropes or Wikipedia, like doing some research, you're
trying to look at it's like, Oh yeah, what was I doing?
I was trying to be productive.
Whoops.
Even though the SARS, I got lost in the SARS.
I'm the worst.
And now I don't agree with the worst.
Yeah.
All right.
But you know, you're, you're filling your brain with things which can later be
stewed and turned into creative output.
So.
Yeah.
One thing I do have to say is, uh, I really am in strongly like, it's weird.
I feel like this contradicts things I've said before about like, I guess
education or whatever, but the, the weird, like random skills that I have learned
throughout my life have always come back and been useful or like random trivia
knowledge really often comes back.
So enjoy learning.
Yeah.
You know, if learning random stuff is fun for you, then it's a win-win.
So at the very least you've just learned something and that's just fun.
So at the end of the day, at least you can look back and say, at least I had fun.
All right.
Um, I wanted to talk about Malcolm Gladwell's new book, talking to strangers.
Heck, yes, let's do this.
Sounds like a lot of fun.
I was trying to think of a segue between coronavirus and talking to strangers.
And I just couldn't like, as people probably know, Malcolm Gladwell is a popular
nonfiction writer who, um, I think that's pretty good work.
Uh, it tends not to be like, I don't know.
So sometimes it's a bit more surface level than you might want if you're
somebody in this community, but I really enjoyed, uh, talking to strangers.
It was not what I expected.
So I think there's nothing wrong with the equivalent of like popular science books.
Yeah.
No, I mean, uh, what I find frustrating about them is often like, Hey, here's
a book about a subject that I care about, um, say it's genetic engineering and it's
made for like a layperson crowd and then I'll get excited about it, but I'll
start reading it and it'll do this like thing that feels like it's talking down
to the audience the whole time where it's like, you won't believe this.
And like, you're not going to believe what I'm about to say, but trust me, when
you get to chapter three, and I'm like, no, I know, I know, I know, I know.
I'm flipping, like get to the good shit.
I am going to believe you.
It's fine.
After about six chapters, sometimes I'll just put a book down where it's like,
I'm clearly not going to learn anything from this book.
But as long as I'm derailing you there, the good way to do that is more like
how Richard Dawkins wrote The Greatest Show on Earth, which, which really was
my first like, uh, decent dive into evolution.
Um, and it wasn't so much more like, trust me, this, you know, you're going to
believe this, it's going to be crazy.
It's more just like, no, we're going to believe what happens on page 13.
It's like clickbait for your own book.
It just takes it in a really like nice order that will walk anybody from any
perspective as long as they can read and understanding the basics of evolution.
Yeah.
And it does it, uh, you know, and I thought a fun way, I haven't read the
book in like 10 years, but definitely writing style has a lot to do with it.
We're like, I did know a lot of the stuff about evolution already when I was
reading Dawkins books, but his writing style was so enjoyable that I was
enjoying reading stuff I already knew because it was kind of poetic.
He's clearly having fun.
And I was going to say poetic too.
He's big into poetry.
His sites a lot of, or uses lots of verses and stuff, but he
helps you look at things that you already know from different angles, which
is really useful as well.
Another big shout out from my favorite book of his, Unweaving the Rainbow,
which is all about the poetry of science.
You like re consuming things, right?
Yes.
I'm not currently doing a podcast on a book that I've read five times.
Right.
Okay.
So, uh, how would you feel about maybe someday in the medium future rereading
this book and then doing a episode, business experience, see episode on it?
I can just reread it and tell you guys if I think it's worth talking about.
Um, or sounds like it's worth talking about.
I mean, if anyone knows evolution, it's like, you're not going to get much from it.
I, maybe you will.
I mean, it sounds like you already knew evolution and you got a lot from it.
I knew less than I did before I started it.
Okay.
I was like 18 and public school in the US, even a blue state or blue city,
especially like Fort Collins.
I mean, we wasn't very heavily taught.
Well, we can maybe put on a, uh, a, what do you call them?
Surveys on our Patreon, have people vote.
Or I mean, at the very least I'll, I'll read it for fun.
It's been a while.
All right.
As long as I'm talking about the book, I got Richard Dawkins to sign that book
when I met him at a, at a conference once.
