Like as non-scary as possible, especially if you're already traumatized.
I mean, like it takes a lot of, uh, they were talking about like this, this, uh,
poet who apparently struggled with suicidal ideation or whole life.
And then finally killed herself with carbon monoxide.
But talking about like praising, I think it was Hemingway for having the courage
to shoot himself being like a ticket, like a, I don't have that kind of bravery.
And you know, yeah, but it's like, yeah.
So they're talking about bridges too, where I forget which bridge, but they
built a bridge and there were people committing suicide, jumping off of it.
And they tried to propose that they build a safety net and people were really
opposed to it, even though like they had spent way more money doing like other
kinds of safety precautions for people accidentally hurting themselves around
this bridge, but when it came to, here's like, we're going to put a suicide net.
What do you think?
People voted against it and they were replying people who want to kill
themselves are going to find a way to do it because they're just so distressed.
Like it doesn't matter that, you know, they don't like the idea that
behaviors coupled or I guess the idea that what, what it turns out is that
suicide is often this kind of, uh,
it's a crime of opportunity.
Yeah.
Crime of opportunity.
And then also like, if you get the time to actually really think about it or like,
you can be talked down, like people, it's not really a rational act a lot of the
time, even if you do have suicidal ideation your whole life, like that poet,
like you don't really want to die.
You want to not feel terrible.
I hear when they replaced the gas in, uh, England, the suicide rates went down,
plunged, just stayed down permanently.
It's not like people found some other way to kill themselves.
They just stopped doing it.
Yeah.
There are other ways that are harder and scarier and yeah, the more you limit
access to ways to kill yourself, the less people kill themselves.
And, uh, so yes, Andrew Bland committing suicide was a lot of people not
recognizing a bunch of the warning signs and they talk about the Kansas city
policing as well, which, um,
So what were the warning signs that they missed?
She, uh, had a blog or a, um, a video, a vlog, I guess, a V-log, um, her personal
history was she'd had a really rough time and she had been struggling with
suicide, I think actually attempted it.
Um, and it was in that particular context of the kind of thing that ended
up happening to her, like triggering feelings of loss of control.
Um, is it so, I mean, I'm not trying to defend the cops cause what they did
was awful, but is it also the responsibility of every police department to
go through everyone's blogs and vlogs when they're brought into jail to make
sure they're not going to, that they aren't, they have that suicidal risk?
If I'm arrested, I demand the offending, the, the persecuting officers listen
to every episode of this podcast.
I agree.
This is why we always make them two hours including the patreon exclusive ones.
Sorry.
That wasn't super funny.
Like just us getting attacked by dogs and, um, where's that dog upstairs?
Being a good girl.
No, okay.
Um, so what does that have to do with talking to strangers though?
The, the suicide coupling, I think is that they failed to anticipate what is
actually going on in this person's head.
Yeah.
Well, they, they both failed to understand each other's contexts.
Um, they talk about the Kansas city policing where it makes perfect sense.
Why like, or not perfect sense.
It was actually pretty fucked up, but why the cop behaved the way he did,
because the way they were training cops was this very specific, uh, algorithm
of looking for any small example, like any small deviance in order to pull
somebody over to look for hard drugs, uh, weapons trafficking.
It's like, this was the way that cops, like we're catching up many more
of the larger criminals, but unfortunately what it ends up doing like the side effects
when you take it outside of the context of Kansas city is cops will react
to their biases.
So they're told things like look for suspicious people.
So a white cop finds a black person, uh, you know, failing to signal a turn.
Uh, he noticed that her license plate was out of state.
Like there's a bunch of things that apparently, um, a cop will notice that's
just a little bit weird and it'll be an excuse to pull somebody over and to
like scan for drugs or, um, weapons.
And Sandra Bland just happened to have a bunch of things that looked weird
from the outside, but then if you actually knew her life story, it was like,
she had just moved.
She was like about to start a new job.
Um, and the other thing was that, uh, they, they said that she reacted in a
way that was, or she was mismatched, I think was the word they were talking
about, uh, a couple of chapters about people who were mismatched.
That was one of the major points of the book where the way people behave doesn't,
uh, trigger the right like, oh, that's a, that's a, this kind of person or like,
that's a, that's the way that this kind of person acts.
Sandra looked, um, belligerent and angry, but she was incredibly depressed.
But, uh, it's just that like, culturally, we have an idea of what a depressed
person looks like and it looks like someone who looks very sad and is very
submissive, not somebody who's freaking out.
So it was the main thesis of the book that we're just really bad at talking to
people we don't already know?
Yeah, I mean, um, we're bad at knowing people.
It's, so going back a bit, like when I heard the title of the book, what I thought
talking to strangers was going to be about was more of a how to guide.
Um, does he not have any how to advice?
No, it's, that's, that's not what it's about.
It's about, um, the ways that we consistently fail to read others.
And that's cool because, uh, I've read a bunch of how to talk to strangers books.
It's a topic that I'm interested in because social things never like came naturally to
me, so I've had to learn this and I'm always trying to find more advice.
But there's also a bunch of books like that out there.
There's not really a lot of books like this where this is a book saying,
hey, your intuition is really bad actually.
It's, um, you know, talking about the, uh, mind reading fallacy and, uh, the typical
minding fallacy and then some others that are much more specific that I think are,
we're useful to have learned because it's one of those books that like once you,
almost every chapter gives you a new kind of mental framework that you can look around
and now you're just seeing it everywhere.
You know what I'm talking about?
Yeah.
Um, and there's more than I've brought up to some of them were specifically, uh,
things that you can, you know, point back in retrospect to the Sandra Bland case and
realize what the cop did wrong and, uh, how people, the way people talked about it after
the fact was wrong.
And so is this a book that I want to avoid because it's really depressing?
I think not.
Um, because it sounds like it's all about just how it's very hard to connect with anyone,
which is kind of a, no, that's not the, uh, these like thesis or the premise.
It's not about connecting, being hard.
It's more about, um, people making snap judgments and especially us having these
cultural ideas of what like a liar looks like, for example, that are wrong.
Okay.
But, um,
Well, we're starting to run low on time, but did you want to come back again in next episode
and like summarize some of the ones for us so we can know better what, uh, what to,
what our biases are and what to look out for when we're talking to strangers?
Oh, sure.
I can do a quicker sort of just, uh, here's this term and it means this.
If we want to do that, I just, uh, kind of,
I mean, if you think that would be interesting.
Well, I definitely think it's interesting.
But, uh,
because it sounds like there's many chapters in this book and I'm like,
it sounds almost like every chapter has like one, another cool thing that like,
I guess,
if we knew about it would, would it reveal something about society and how we're doing
things incorrectly?
Yeah, I guess, um, I more wanted to kind of just make a teaser trailer for this book
because I do think that it's a worthwhile book for reading,
especially that might be interesting to rationalists who care about cognitive biases
and psychology.
But, um, sure, I could definitely do a much quicker summary of like,
you know, just a bare bones kind of point by point.
Cool.
I think that sounds really interesting too.
Yeah.
So if you guys would be interested in it,
it's just a side, let's plan for that then.
Cause yeah, that would be awesome.
Cool.
Well, I'll start out with a, um, I don't know,
I think maybe an easy one, an interesting one.
This one came up on the anthropic principle episode,
but it's not about the anthropic principle itself.
So even our listeners get into rabbit holes on the discord,
Koi said, uh, uh, Koi quoted just saying,
even if I believe that a Christian God exists,
I still wouldn't go to church.
And he replied, and Koi replied with,
have you heard about hell?
And why weaker, uh, jumped on that saying,
yeah, that claim sounded extremely irrational to me.
I understand that God is evil,
but we are talking about eternal suffering and bliss here.
I would 100% make it my life's goal
to convert as many people as possible.
Uh, did you have any sort of comment about that?
Um, well, first of all, you're assuming context of,
like the thing is, I didn't say anything about hell.
Yeah.
All I was saying was if like a supernatural being who
had the traits of the Christian God existed,
I wouldn't want to worship him.
And like by talking about how I would feel about it
and what I would want to do about it,
I'm not necessarily saying that like,
I guess this is something like, yes,
under like threat of literal torture,
probably I would like, you know,
fuck up on the trolley problem or shoot my best friend, you know,
but like it's more, I was trying to make a point about
the fact that I think that it's a terrible idea.
Like I wouldn't be the kind of person that's like,
man, I wish, you know, it sucks that God doesn't exist.
I don't believe him, but I wish he did.
Like, no, I don't.
And my response to Koi would be like,
yes, I have heard about hell,
and that's exactly why I think that God should be overthrown.
I mean, yeah, like the thing I'd really want to do would be go kill him.
Yeah.
Get together, you know, there's more of us than him and hell.
But like, I don't know.
I kind of think it's a moral duty to fight God at that point.
This is something that makes really fun fiction.
Yeah.
But also like, still know that this has been defined again,
like when you're talking about eternal suffering versus eternal bliss,
