what I do to my appearance?
Like it's just such a bizarre response.
This very well might be a thing that that way to try to police you too.
Yeah, I think this is definitely a thing that maybe impacts women and people who present
as women more than I was starting to get out even though.
Yeah, I think it's shitty on both sides though.
There's there's certain shitty stereotypes from both sides.
Yeah, but as far as like, I don't know as many of them personally since I've, you know.
Yeah, I was asked once, like when is like my brother-in-law asked like,
Hey, when is your cousin going to have or your niece going to have a cousin to play with?
And I was like, not for me.
Like, but I mean, he he's just kind of a bro.
I feel like he's just he was reading from a script.
I think when he asked that, right?
Like, I don't think that he and like, I really didn't care that he asked that said,
if I was asked every time I went out and someone saw my new wedding ring,
like, Oh my God, when are you guys having kids?
I might eventually get annoyed at the repetitive question,
but not at the judge, the assumption on the person asking it.
That said, I know, I know Rachel will get asked once in a while,
like when are you guys having kids?
And that's because she's the woman, I guess.
She's the one that cares about babies.
And then she gets to say never.
And then like, Oh my God, you'll change your mind or Oh, how come?
Or, you know, all that annoying stuff that again, part of my like social filters that I
interact with people who are, you know, I go to I do the people like people like you guys,
or people like my co-workers, which are, you know, programmer rows for the most part,
or like programmer nerds rows.
There's a bro type version.
And they're not really that either.
Programmers.
Yeah, exactly.
So like, there's there's not a lot of like me running around to like the average
person who reads, who gets their life cues from the, the, the life version of TV tropes
and tries to ask you when are you going to do this trope.
So I'm subjected to it a lot less than I think many people would be.
And so I can't say I wouldn't find it annoying if I was hit with it more often.
But as it happens, I'm not and my relationship is fucking dope.
So, you know, that, that should be how it is.
Like if the person I, I, I, I've sold on this before, but like, yeah, I don't know.
Find the right person that makes you happy the right way all the time.
And that's how your relationship should be.
So yeah.
All right.
All right.
All right.
Let's thank our patron.
And while we're, while we're finding the list, I want to point out that, uh,
because we read one of Matt's comments, I bought, uh, my wife and I, which is fun to say,
it catitlated when I say wife.
I bought us each copies of the Gunslinger by Stephen King.
Because they started a new podcast recently called Kingslingers,
where they're doing a, uh, kind of like a, we want more.
We've got worm read through of it.
And this time Scott is playing the Matt and Matt is playing Scott.
To make that less confusing, Scott has read the books before and Matt hasn't.
So Matt's doing the blind read this time.
How far, you know, are they so far?
They're, I think past the first book.
Oh, whoa, that was fast.
Those guys podcast too much.
Yeah, they do an episode a week.
And like the first book's only a couple hundred pages.
So they can keep up.
So like it goes by pretty fast.
I think they did three episodes for the first book, which is,
uh, I mean, not a great strategy.
No, I've only listened to the, uh, inter-episode
because I'm only part way through the first book.
So, uh, yeah, it's interesting.
I've never read any Stephen King before.
And I think it'll be a lot of fun.
I thought it was, I didn't know anything what to expect.
And it's a fantasy series.
Have you read Gunslinger?
No, I haven't.
I know of it.
It's, it's interesting so far.
I don't know what is going on yet.
So I don't have a lot of thoughts on it.
Okay.
But I can't say that it's weird,
but I think it might be in a fun kind of weird.
So.
I think Scott and Mack make anything sound interesting.
I know.
I was listening to their actual like Doofcast podcast
where they were talking about like, it was some, uh, series
of movies that I like definitely don't want to watch,
but I was really enjoying hearing their analysis of it.
I remember when they talked about the Meet the Feebles,
that crazy Muppet movie with a cult following.
And after I heard that episode, I was like, this sounds awesome.
I kind of want to see this.
And then when Matt was over at my place,
or maybe it was the meetup or something,
I was like, so that Meet the Feebles was pretty good, huh?
And he was like, if you're watching it at two X speed.
I was like, oh, okay.
I think, uh, you know, we don't know if the person that paid
them to watch that is listening to our show too.
Probably not.
But that's why I didn't point out the specific movie.
Oh, it doesn't matter.
I mean, so this is just going to be a fact that,
you enjoyed it enough.
Exactly.
They didn't say no.
And it's just a fact that if like they have a platform
where it's like, you can pay us to watch stuff,
they can't guarantee they'll like everything.
What they can do is they'll guarantee that they'll watch it
and that they will discuss it for an hour in change.
And that they will say the things they did like about it.
Yes.
Which I think is really like an asset.
Yeah, it is.
I think they mostly shit on Madoka Magica,
which I found really funny, even though I like Madoka Magica.
I love it.
Oh, okay.
But was that because Scott had to hate tell anime?
Yeah, but I mean, there was also a bunch of things
that they pointed out, like even on not like coming from
as much of maybe an anime background, like
Matt found it to be really creepy how like they were,
you're supposed to be, I guess, like,
to find these like prepubescent girls,
sexualized, like being kind of attractive or like, okay.
Where he having young daughters was kind of like,
On the one hand, I sort of agree with him.
On the other hand, there's a whole cultural thing.
Yeah.
So the thing is like watching that, I didn't even like,
I was like, yeah, you know, Sayaka's Bay or whatever.
But it's just like, when you actually like,
Oh, they're just supposed to represent like actual prepubescent humans.
I don't even think of that anime characters are just fantasy characters.
Like they're not real.
I think I need to keep making that shift.
Like most anime I consume doesn't really have a lot of minors in it.
So that's fine.
Or if they do, they're not doing sex stuff.
But like there's literally watching a show right now
an anime show that is about minors doing sex stuff.
Weird.
Yeah.
So you got to push through like how gross that aspect of it is.
Well, no, no, no, no, because that is like the focus of the show.
So I'm only on episode three.
I was just sold on it at our last meetup by two people we know.
I don't know if it's okay to say their names,
but it's called Darling in the Franks.
Oh, okay.
I've seen that whole thing.
I enjoy that one a lot.
Yeah.
I'm only on episode three and I was like,
Oh, so when they were telling me about it,
they were like, Oh, yeah, the girls are bent over
in their type body suits.
Haha, anime.
And I'm like, Oh, this is literally about sexual trauma being inflicted on minors.
Holy fuck.
Yeah.
Well, Gainex does a good job with that kind of thing though.
Yeah.
Is this, this isn't Gainex, is it?
Uh, or Trigger.
It's, it's, uh, it's either Gainex or it's Trigger,
which is an offshoot of Gainex.
Oh, oh, I didn't know that.
But, um, yeah.
I mean, they're all about deconstructing the tropes of anime anyway.
So like the fact that like they do pose them
in these weird provocative and they have these weird outfit,
they keep making a bunch of jokes about it,
but then eventually like the story gets darker.
And like you realize that like.
Episode two, that's, I mean, I guess it's going to get even darker.
It gets even darker.
Okay.
I'm curious to hear how you react to some things now
that I know you're watching that.
Yeah.
No, I saw episode two and at first I was like,
this is fucked up.
And then I saw episode three and I was like,
it's more fucked up than I thought.
It keeps getting fucked up.
Okay.
And this was recommended by somebody
who didn't watch Game of Thrones
because they didn't like the incest.
No, I watched it.
No, this was recommended by somebody.
Oh, that's a good point.
That's weird.
I, maybe they were tricked into it
