You often talk about each other, but when there's nine people, it's much harder.
And I can see it like how having a big costly ritual that you invite everyone in
the community to, I'd be like, oh, okay.
So these nine people are together or like maybe these four and then they're
linked between these two and then these three, like having a big establishment
like that would probably help.
I like rituals.
I almost think like, yeah, maybe having, maybe having big marriage rituals for
more complicated situations would be a better use of those resources.
I like don't hate marriage on like the principle.
It's more that there, there's a bunch of things about it.
First of all, like the, it's powerful and that's why it remains powerful.
And I'm like, well, yeah, but there's a lot of shitty things about it that did
make it powerful and a good strategy, I guess.
If you're like the, you know, claiming a human as property thing or buying a human
with a dowry and then like the whole like, I don't know, there's stuff that made
sense in the context back then that doesn't anymore and still maybe wasn't
super great for all parties involved, women cough back then.
But like, what if I wanted to, why, why is it that like it has to be a couple?
And why does it have to be like in the context of a romantic or sexual
relationship with somebody that you, like I couldn't make this kind of costly
signal with my best friend.
There's no marriage for your best friend ritual.
I think there should be.
But what if I had a best friend who I had, like I was much closer to than
anybody else in my life, you know, like, so that there's some things about
marriage that still bug me and I like being able to point those out.
And it's not saying that like, because I've complained about marriage,
doesn't mean that I hate it and I want to get rid of it and I don't think
anybody else should do it, you know.
And I do think the reason that I'm not bringing up the like obvious benefits
of marriage is because that's not relevant too.
Yeah, that the downsides outweigh the benefits.
If you're Inyash.
Yeah, it depends on what you mean.
I mean, I've been talking about maybe marrying Phoenix, but it would not be
the traditional, there's not going to be a diamond involved.
I don't want my family nearby or a bunch of the assumptions to be made about
like what this means.
Or even the gender roles thing around marriage too is just like,
there's this like, you know, oh, when are you going to have a baby or whatever?
And it's like, Phoenix doesn't want kids.
I kind of want kids, but I don't want to have a kid because dysphoria,
but my other partner wants to have a kid with their body because they like that
idea.
And it would be cool if, you know, we all just co-parented this kid and
I just want to be able to make these kinds of rituals work for me.
And my circumstances and my people, I think marriage is very limiting.
And I, you know, my sales pitch on it for what it worked for me is like,
we don't have the trophy style relationship anyway.
So, you know, we don't fall into the norms of like, well, this, you know,
everything you saw on TV in the 90s and 2000s or whenever you grew up, I guess,
right?
Like we don't do that stuff.
And I wouldn't suggest anyone marry a partner that they're doing that stuff
with unless they really want to have that sort of relationship.
I'd never merge finances with somebody.
That's bizarre to me.
We don't have our finances merged.
Like, why would we?
Beagle that you do.
Well, I suppose they aren't.
But yeah, if things, if things got hairy and she turned into a psychopath,
we might, but like my, uh, like, like right now I, the mortgage is in my name
and I have the payment auto drafted from my account and I've been nowhere every
month.
Like there's, there's no sense and we both have jobs.
Like she spends her money, I spend my money.
Like that, that seems like the easiest circumstance and that's what we have
planned.
If in the future I happen to like earn three times as much as she does or
something, there, it would be weird for us to, you know, I would, I would be fine
adjusting things a bit, but like it, I don't know, all the, all the stuff that
like people like, oh, well, you know, marriage sucks.
Cause, you know, you know, what, you know, I insert trope or whatever.
I'm like, yeah, but just don't do that part.
Yeah.
Like there's, there's nothing that says you have to.
Or like marriage has these benefits.
Well, like, sure, I'm going to, I want to claim some of those benefits for me,
but I just don't want it to come along with the like, and then you are forced
into this weird arrangement that took place in early agrarian societies where
the expectation is like the man works and the woman stays home and takes care of
the kids.
So she's dependent on his finances and that's why we do that.
It doesn't make sense anymore.
Yeah.
So we don't do that part either.
Like I, we didn't do our, or our marriage isn't reading from a script.
Like I think a lot of the, the, there, I think there are legitimate things to
poke at like this is, these are some troubles with marriage, but like
they're not universal, right?
You could say that of, of, you know, well, the problem with any, I don't know,
I think you could pick apart a lot of things in society that everyone approves
of and be like, well, it used to mean this 2000 years ago.
And it's like, so fucking what?
This reminds me of, I think it's the thing that is bugging me about and I'm
sorry about like the, if this is coming off as.
No, you're good.
My swearing, my swearing made it sound like I was annoyed, but I'm just.
No, I mean more like, I'm kind of, I realized I'm bristling at the way that
the commenter wrote the comment.
And it's the same thing about the other comment about a, about hell.
Haven't you ever heard of hell?
Like some of these sound like, I don't know, like this, the analogy that I'm
thinking of is if I were like, oh, I don't want to get a dog because these
reasons and then somebody's like, why do you hate dogs and starts telling me
all the good like, like things that could happen if I had a pet dog.
And it's more like, whoa.
Well, to be fair, I didn't say that I hate dogs.
I'm just saying that a dog wouldn't work for me for these reasons.
And like, I think MQP was replying specifically to me.
And I had said that marriage is stupid and no one should ever get one.
So I was saying no one should get dogs.
I don't know, I don't even.
Yeah, that was probably phrasing it too strongly.
And I think that like probably what you weren't trying to do was tell other
people how to live their lives, but more of just like based on the bad
experiences you have and like the fact that a lot of people don't think
about these things or know that these are the drawbacks that you're taking
on.
Yeah.
Well, because previously I had said there's basically no benefits at all.
And now I have to walk that back a little bit and say, okay, there is the
very costly social signal and common knowledge created in the community
that these people are interlinked in certain ways.
I don't know that it should mean that though.
Well, if it doesn't mean that, then you probably shouldn't have the wedding,
right?
I don't know.
I mean, like, hmm, maybe that.
Yeah, I guess another, sorry, go on.
No, no, go ahead.
Another, yeah, like one of the things that is keeping me from doing a marriage is
that like I worry about all the assumptions that people are going to
make about being married and what it means.
Well, that's kind of the point.
You're supposed to get those assumptions with the marriage.
Even with like dating somebody, everyone assumes that like me and
Phoenix, if they like see us together, an exclusive couple and that we have a
particular style of relationship, but I'm just like,
I don't know if you're ready to hear about how our relationship actually
works or any of this, but like just the fact that people immediately assume
that like, oh, these people are dating and then that means that X, Y, and Z is also
true.
I was like, no, actually.
People assume that a fair bit less nowadays about people that are dating.
Certainly not so close.
Dating market has changed a lot.
I'm just not out meeting a lot of people who tell me what they think.
And if I, they're not telling me there's a great chance I don't give a
like, if they assume that I live in some trophy marriage where, you know,
I have to watch my step or I'm in the doghouse and, you know, I have to do all
the man chores and whatever.
And she's at home, you know, barefoot and pregnant doing the dishes.
Like, all right, cool.
I don't really care what you think.
Right.
It's like, you don't find it annoying if people do like, I don't know.
Like, what if you were like out of the bar and you got a text from Rachel and
then somebody's like, oh, I was your wife texting you to come home.
I've had moments like that.
Doesn't that annoy you?
No, I, I, really?
Or is it more that you just kind of laugh and you're like, oh, you poor fool.
It's more that.
And, and it maybe sounds condescending.
And maybe it's my, you know, the, I would say it's something to do with, you know,
there's certainly fewer filters I have to go through with people because my,
my relationship is more traditional on its face, I guess.
But like, I do have a gentler version of like, oh, you fool.
You think that's what this means.
I'm, I feel so bad for you.
And, you know, Rachel will tell me if she'd be out with her friends,
they'll go out after work or something.
And, you know, she, like one, one of them has to like lie to her husband and say that they're
working late because they, he likes that she comes home after work and whatever.
And it's like, that's insane.
Like if Rachel wants to go out and do whatever the hell she wants, she can do whatever the
hell she wants.
Like, you know, what we do is to keep each other in the loop.
You know, just because it's polite, you know, if she didn't come out after work one day,
I'd be really worried.
But if she said, I'm going to go out with my friends and be drunk all night and get a lift
home, like go nuts, have fun, be safe.
Um, it's, I, so yeah, in the, in the context where people do say those things, I have, I
have more of the like, I'm sorry, your relationship sucks response rather than like,
I'm annoyed that you're making assumptions about me.
Um, I don't know.
I'll keep my eyes peeled for any time where I feel any annoyance at these judgments,
but it probably doesn't help that I rarely, like, I don't get out that much.
So maybe it's more that like, when I have been in relationships where it was like more
I don't know where I didn't look as queer as I do now.
Um, one thing that I remember kept coming up was like, when I will change my hair, because I
frequently do, or at least used to an hour could a hospital have to be more boring.
But I would have like, I don't know, if I could blew my hawk or whatever it's somebody be like,
Oh man, what does your boyfriend think of that?
Or like, I can't believe your boyfriend let you do that or something like that.
Like I would get that kind of comment all the time.
And I was just like, why do you think that my dating partner has anything to do with
