approach, you know, for this thing at work and like, rather than say, I thought
it would work best, I would be like, well, I really it was this and I thought
that because this and it's like, no, man, just like just started when I was born.
And from there it was just all down.
Mistakes ever set.
Um, now I think it's, there was a valuable anecdote that I read once, uh, where
somebody missed a job interview because they slept through it.
It was like a phone interview and they emailed back and they were going to
like try and explain, but like, I'm really sorry, this never happens, whatever.
Instead, they just wrote back and said, I'm sorry, I missed the interview.
Can we reschedule?
And they'd said, yeah, of course, uh, I think it was an error on our end.
Anyway, our scheduling thing has been weird, no problem.
And it's like, if I'd opened up with the sorry, I slept through the interview,
which obviously signals that I don't give a shit about this job or whatever.
They probably wouldn't have gotten the second, the second try, right?
Yeah.
Um, but I think there's definitely a lesson in just like saying as little as possible.
And maybe because I'm, or like the right amount, maybe.
Yeah.
Which, uh, yeah, which is often less than I think it is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think you can definitely say too little as well.
Yeah.
Just so they're clamped up when they ask you, you know, while you're late and
just be like, reasons.
You don't need to know my business.
Yeah.
So there's so many other interesting stories like this that, um,
so if I, unless you're going to Malcolm Gladwell us through this, I'm curious, uh,
is this going to come back to that woman who got pulled over?
Yeah.
Okay.
So you, so don't rush there.
Just then I just want to make sure that wasn't left because I was compelled to
have those ties.
Yeah.
I also don't want to like summarize the book word for word or anything because
then I recommend people read it and me summarizing.
It's not really going to do it justice entirely.
I do think I want to write a review of it, like, so I was going to more detail that
way, but, um,
I think it would be good to at least have people get the major arguments out of it.
So they don't have to read it.
Uh, well, like the thing is that, um,
like with most of, most of the reviews, like I read on Slate Star Codex, I get the
gist of what the book is saying afterwards.
And I know I can read it and I would get a lot more out of it if I did, but I also
know like the central thrust.
Yeah, that was more what I wanted to try to write.
I just don't think that like trying to talk about it off the cuff, I'm going to
do a very good job of that.
But, um, I did want to talk about a few of the insights that I got from it that
were surprising, not all of them are entirely related to like the main point
of the book, but just like in particular, there was one thing that really surprised
me, um, where there's a chapter about alcohol and it started out with, um, they're
talking about these two anthropologists, husband and wife, who went to somewhere
in Bolivia that was this poor farming community, um, still kind of living the
way like, like with the old traditions, they didn't have a lot of technology.
They hadn't like really been very connected to the modern world.
And they had this social ritual where they would have these big parties on the
weekends, every weekend, somebody would, uh, throw a huge party.
They'd slaughter a cow and throw the hide in front of their house.
So people know that's where the party is and have a big barbecue.
And they had this, uh, sort of ritual around toasting where you're like the
head of the community would toast the guests, so say like the anthropologist
and his wife, and then they would have to toast their hosts and the wife has to
toast the husband, the husband has to toast the wife.
Then you have to, everybody goes around and you take shots of this, uh,
traditional liquor that they had.
And this liquor tastes terrible.
Apparently even the Bolivians hate it, but I guess it was the alcohol they had.
And, uh, this husband and wife, they came back, uh, to the US and they were
talking about their experiences and the wife was like, Hey, doesn't it seem funny
that I think we were drunk every single weekend?
Like, huh.
Yeah.
Like there was a few strange things that they noticed.
So they brought some of this traditional liquor back to a lab and had it analyzed
and found out that it was 180 proof.
Holy crap.
So that that's laboratory alcohol.
Um, the, the guy said that, uh, his friends didn't believe he'd actually
drink this stuff.
So in order to prove it, he like sat there with a doctor and took shots of this stuff.
And then, uh, seemed fine was holding a conversation.
Like, as though everything were normal, uh, declined to ride home because it was
nice and he wanted to walk home.
So they followed him, I think in an ambulance back to his house that he's
just walking down the street and his wife sees him coming with an ambulance
behind him and was like, what's going on?
And at that point, apparently he was like, uh, I'm drunk.
And then just passed out on the floor, just dead.
And they're like, like dead passed out.
I mean, and just stayed passed out for like 16 hours and didn't remember any of it.
And, uh, then they talk about alcohol and what we think alcohol does and what it
actually does.
And this was really cool because I'd never heard this and it makes perfect sense
for me, um, alcohol is traditionally thought of or conventionally thought of
as this agent of the disinhibition.
That's what I've always heard.
Yeah.
Everyone said alcohol lowers your inhibitions, but actually the, um,
Gladwell argues that it is more useful to think about it as an agent of myopia
because what it actually does, um, neurologically is narrows your like
mind's eye, your ability to focus on the present and the past, other things that
are going on in the background of your brain, um, attunes you to the moment and
the context that you're in.
So this is why some people can drink and alcohol makes them happy because these
are the kinds of people that tend to drink at parties or like, you know, when
hanging out with friends in a context for relaxing and partying and then some
other people can drink and it makes them more depressed because they're probably
drinking alone at a bar, maybe staring at some stains on the floor, thinking
about their marriage going badly and the taxes that are due.
And that's all you're focusing on.
You can't even think about good things anymore because you're just so sucked
into this moment of despair.
And this makes a lot of sense for me because I've experienced this thing
with alcohol too, where like, I'm always one, I'm like, does alcohol make me
happy or not?
What does it mean when like, cause when I was going through my, uh, well, just
after my first divorce, I drank, I'm famously, I guess now, uh, for many years,
but I did it because like I did feel happy when I was drunk, uh, even though
I was going through like this horrible thing.
Uh, probably because you were, I mean, uh, I also drank to deal with anxiety,
social anxiety in particular.
Uh, there was a while where I like couldn't go to social events without
being drunk because I thought it was because it's like, oh, disinhibition,
but I, I guess it's just,
you stopped thinking about how bad consequences.
Yeah, exactly.
Like I'm not thinking about all the ways this can go wrong.
I'm looking at the people around me and being like, Hey, this is, this is good.
This is a party.
There's music.
People are having fun.
And probably you're doing the same thing where you're drinking in context
that let you focus on other things.
Um, and yeah, so I'm trying to think I, I, at some point, I, I didn't, I think
I had my first alcoholic drink when I was like 17 that didn't touch it again
for like two or three or probably until I was 21.
Cause I'm a, I was, well, am a complete square.
Um, my, I, I had a rule, especially at a point where I was stressed.
I would drink to alleviate stress for, there was a few months where I was doing
that, not every day, but do a couple shots a night or something.
Few nights a week or something, you know, whatever.
But I had at one point where I was like, man, I'm really bummed.
I should go get drunk.
I'm like, no wait, I should never do that.
And I don't think I have, I've, I've done it where like I'm tired and stressed
and, you know, that puts in a bad mood or whatever, but I've kind of just
already set up a rule for myself.
I don't drink to make myself like not sad.
Um, I tend to not drink that much anyway, but like my, my experience with
alcohol that is almost entirely positive for, you know, you're, you're
drinking at a place where already having a good time.
Well, that was exactly the point that he was trying to make about this
Bolivian tribe where, uh, when you look at their culture more deeply, um, these
were apparently, uh, uh, primarily farmers and, uh, like,
ignorant farmers are migratory.
I forget what the term is, but they didn't really have much of a community
because so many of the, like in scare quotes community, um, a lot of people
that live in this, uh, village, I guess, were gone a lot of the time.
They didn't actually get to have these like kinds of social gatherings, uh, as
much interaction with each other.
So they compensated by doing this ritual on the weekends when everybody would
come home and they intentionally would, they would drink in this context.
And it was this like, you know, ridiculously high-proof alcohol.
But the thing that like the anthropologists were confused about was
the fact that they didn't have pathological drinking in this culture.
You would think that some of our people are drunk every week and having
these kinds of parties, drinking laboratory alcohol, like there would
be violent fist fights and like all kinds of, you know, really bad social
consequences, but there weren't.
And that was what really confused them.
And it's because they only ever drank in this specific context of we are a community.
We're gathering to celebrate like togetherness and we're toasting the
people that are important in our lives right now, like showing hospitality.
Um, and that's kind of interesting.
It's really common in Europe from what my parents tell me.
Yeah.
I, you can think of other examples too.
Like cultures where they have these kinds of, like I, maybe it's a cultural
evolution sort of thing where you probably survive a mechanism.
I hear most cultures when they first discover alcohol do absolutely nothing
for about a century until the culture evolves enough.
Well, I don't know.
I mean, I think that, uh, again, this might just be a thing that I've been
told a bunch of times by authority figures and haven't questioned, but I
think that a lot of times it was people used alcohol in order to avoid like
contaminated drinking water for the most part.
I think, uh, I heard that like, was it medieval Europe where people were mostly
drinking diluted beer all the time instead of water, even children, like
the elderly, because that it was the safe drinking water, basically, but
everybody was a little bit buzzed all the time.
As long as we're looking at, uh, urban legends about the history of the world,
is it, is it actually true that the propagation of coffee coincided with the
enlightenment?
I'd also heard that.
