We lived in a utopia where currency was just being nice to people and you just say nice
things about people.
Well, I guess you can't buy, yeah, you can buy a certain amount, I was about to say you
can't buy enough to make yourself the president, but you know what, at that point, you don't
fucking need to, right?
That's how you become president, right?
Well, no, I guess you have to be rich first.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, oh, that's a whole complicated, confusing thing.
Being Bloomberg rich didn't make him president, but it did stop the guy who was going to
attack some heavily from probably from being president, so we'll see how that all works
out.
You think Bernie doesn't have a shot now?
I desperately hope he does, I'm voting for him, but I mean, and I'll vote for Biden
very unenthusiastically.
Surprised by how well Bernie did actually, like I, for some reason.
I was not surprised that he did well.
I think that the- I think I just got really pessimistic after, you know, the events of
yesteryear.
Yeah.
Well, and how poorly he did in 2016, but- Yeah, no, that's what I'm trying to do.
Poorly in 2016.
Well, he didn't do good enough.
Right, yeah.
That's when I thought that he was going to be, like, hands down the one, him or Warren.
I just figured the world was, like, the country was ready for that sort of reform, but, you
know, and I get where people are like, how does it work?
It's, you know, be hard to implement, whatever.
Those are valid points.
I read a fairly compelling thing about how, like, you know, Jeff Bezos is worth $140 billion
or whatever, but it's not like he has that sitting in his savings account.
No.
That's the value of Amazon.
Exactly.
So how do you- well, that's the value of his 12% of Amazon.
Right.
So, like, how do you tax somebody on their, like, their appraisal value?
Literally, what he would have to do is sell off what he owns in Amazon every year to pay
the taxes.
Is that the actual policy, or is that, like, what people are saying would be their conclusion?
Well, that's- Where else is he going to get the money?
If they're taxing him, you know, at 1% of his net value, both of that is-
And now we've segmented into politics.
Yeah.
Well, no, I'm like- And at that point, you know, maybe some people want him to stop
owning that much of Amazon.
I think that's dumb, but whatever.
Well, like, your net worth is pretty high because you own property.
So, like, at some point- I also have a lot of debt on that property.
That's true.
But, like, say if you, you know, in 15 years you own four different places and they're
all yours.
Right.
Like, are you going to have to sell a house to pay your taxes one year?
If the wealth tax applied to me, then yes.
I don't think that that- I don't think the wealth tax will ever apply to you, though.
That's true.
I mean, I hope it does.
But, like, the thing is- Oh, even you hope I get that much money.
The wealth tax is for people who never, like, don't have to ever worry about being poor,
or, like, okay, if they- Not just being poor, like, ever having to be normal again.
Yeah.
I mean, I guess it's possible to blow through $200 million, but, like, at that point, then
like, you just fucked up.
There's a certain amount of money that I feel like is just too much money for, like, a person
to have, and maybe that's- I don't think this is very, uh-
I think of it- This is much more of an emotional response than I haven't really thought deeply
about it, I mean.
But, like, yeah, from my, like, emotional, you know, reactive part of me is just, like,
okay, like, nobody who has the wealth tax applied to them, no one has that much money
really gets to complain about.
So I mean, yes, basically, I agree in terms of how we think of money in the day-to-day
scale, but I don't- Once you get a certain level of money, money doesn't mean that anymore.
Money is not a thing that is how your life changes.
Money is now, like, a resource for how you want to affect the world.
So once you have that level of money, you start using it in ways to shape the world
in ways that you think are better.
And basically, what we're doing is saying to people, we don't want you to shape, uh,
the way of the world, we want the government to shape it instead, so we're taking that
power from you.
I don't know.
I kind of am 100% behind that, like, if I had a trillion dollars, I shouldn't be allowed
to buy all the politicians I want and just protect all of my own personal interests at
the expense of everybody else.
You don't have to buy politicians, but, like, I would much rather-
But people do.
Like, that's what's going on, right?
The really shitty part is how cheap they fucking are.
Yeah.
That's the weird thing.
You see some of the, like, the campaign donations, it's like, what, 75,000 dollars?
I know.
Like, what the hell is going on?
Nuts.
But, you know, what I mean is, like, I would much rather that Elon Musk have 100 billion
dollars to shape the future of the world than for Donald Trump to have 100 billion dollars
for it.
Right.
Yeah.
Unless you can-
Let's pick your politicians, either.
Well, you sort of get to pick them.
Do you?
You get more control.
I put any politician-
I put sorta in quotes.
Are you happy about any politician that is running the country right now?
I mean, running the country, we've got the one.
If I'm picturing, like, my congresspeople-
The whole group of all of congresspeople, yeah.
Oh.
I like Alexandria Cortez.
Okay.
I think she's fantastic.
I think she's, like, the, the, uh, Bizarro Trump.
And how much say did you have in getting her into her position?
Nothing.
She's-
Yeah, she's in New York.
There is, I think, maybe two, two congresspeople that I think are mostly okay.
And I just, I really trust, uh, I really trust some, I don't want to say that we're
trust, but I would rather that money be in the hands of someone who has, uh, some experience
using the money and who is not beholden to the interests that politicians are beholden
to.
If I got to push my power to Elon Musk and not just whoever happened to have more money
than him, who got to shape the world instead, I feel like if we were just to, like, hey,
let's let the people with the most, uh, financial power around the world, we're probably setting
ourselves up for a disaster because there's more bad people with big, big money than good
people.
Is there?
You tend to get money by defecting, I think.
Like, to get, like, large amounts of money.
I don't think that's true anymore.
Uh, I mean, I think it's still definitely true.
I don't think it's always the case, but I don't think that it's...
Under capitalism, for the most part, people get really rich by creating great deals of
wealth for society.
Yeah, you're talking about the US, though.
Yeah, in the US, it's mostly when the government interferes and starts using force and violence
that you, you know, expropriate money in bad ways.
Did you see the SMBC about, like, becoming part of the system?
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
Because you first thought like that to me, like, a year ago, and it was kind of spot
on.
Um, all right.
We had a, well, I guess I was gonna, like, try and segue us into the podcast, but I
can't remember what.
Like, how we're gonna...
I'll let someone else do that.
Insert segue here.
Insert segue.
Uh, hey, welcome to the podcast.
We've already started, but this is the Basing Conspiracy, and you've been listening for
a few minutes now.
I'm Inyash Brodsky.
I'm Steven Zuber.
I'm Jess Dickey.
I hope you're still here.
We promise we're done talking about politics.
I had a moment last night recording with Brian.
I was like, okay, we don't promise.
Sorry.
I was like, I can hear people unsubscribing, dude.
Shut the hell up.
Nice.
What kind of sound does that make?
It's like a slamming door noise.
Yeah.
I was thinking like, just go whoosh.
Did you actually say that to him?
Yeah.
Nice.
Just stay in the show too.
I can't remember what he said.
It was, it was something funny.
Cool.
I like Brian.
Yeah, no, he's great.
I appreciate having somebody there that like is pointing out the, like, I know that I'm
a fanboy.
You know what?
We're not doing the podcast.
No.
We're going to talk about Malcolm Gladwell's talking to strangers.
Yes.
Yes.
Although we wanted to maybe this time get the sequences and a few feedbacks out of
the way first.
So we don't run out of time.
Do we want to try doing that this week?
Yeah.
That's something we could try.
Let's experiment.
Okay.
Everything's crazy this week.
There was no official intro.
Now we're doing things backwards.
But before we jump into that, we are quickly going to talk about the coronavirus because
