My general thought.
That's another thing that this is going back to the story real quick.
There's a chapter about torture and talking to strangers and about how you can break anybody.
Does it say you should torture strangers?
Really want to know a person torturing.
Yeah, but the thing is, I'm kidding.
Well, yeah, it was very much the whole torture doesn't work because you can
torture any human enough that they'll tell you whatever you want to hear.
But they're going to tell you whatever you want to hear.
They're not going to tell you the truth.
They won't even know what the truth is anymore after you break them far enough.
And because I know that my pre-commitment to torture is like,
I will cave at the threat of torture.
I love that in Deadpool 2 when T.J. Miller's cables sitting there threatening him.
Like, I'm going to break your fingers the way they shouldn't bend.
And then I'm going to get some nails or whatever.
And he's just like, okay, I'll tell you everything.
It's like, let's just skip that whole part.
I mean, obviously, I'm going to eventually tell you everything.
Yeah, I'm going to tell you everything.
Why don't I just have all my fingers after I'm done telling you everything?
Perfect.
My, what was I going to say?
Something torture?
Maybe you could make it harder for them, buy your allies an extra day or two,
if that is a thing that might be valuable?
I suppose.
In Deadpool 2, he didn't do that.
But he, you know, it's...
It's also a comedy.
Yeah, it's also a comedy.
Well, one of the things that was a, yeah, we probably should wrap up.
One more thing that was kind of cool, though, or kind of interesting.
Apparently, when, you know, they were capturing various people in various wars.
Oh my God, I can't remember words or things.
But the female soldiers would not cave anywhere easily, like near as easily as the male soldiers,
where it was this like this, probably they said the psychology is if you
are a female soldier, you've had to deal with a lot of shit already.
And you've like kind of internalized this hard ass perspective.
But what they kept doing was when they're trying to get a male soldier to
to spill the beans about something, they would pull a female soldier out and threaten to torture her.
And then they would always cave.
And the women would be screaming at them like, I wouldn't have told, I did my job.
You know, why wouldn't you do your job?
And they would tell you that it was really hard to break the female soldiers.
They would just be like, I'm going to torture your male karma.
And they'd be like, well, he signed up for it.
I mean, I generally always prefer my my like fantasy and heroes and my action heroes and
stuff like that to be women, because like for a dude to be in the fantasy army,
taking up swords or whatever is just like every guy is expected to do that.
Right.
You're not special at all.
But for a woman to be in that position, like there's something unique and interesting
about her that she ended up in that spot or anybody who I guess is marginalized or not going
to be the typical soldier, like it's just an interesting like, but then I also dislike the
fact that it kind of keeps pointing out the fact that this is unusual.
It's not as unusual anymore.
It still is like it's still the norm for I guess most militaries are largely comprised of men,
but it's it's becoming more less of like, especially since so many military jobs nowadays
don't involve direct combat.
Yeah, actually, I think a lot of people that are piloting drones are women.
Oh, they found that they're psychologically better at it.
That's distressing.
Are women more psychopathic?
Um, I forget what the reason was.
I feel like looking this up again, because now I'm not sure if I remember correctly.
I think it was more about a conscientiousness or possibly it was a you know what, I don't even
want to say things like I don't know if I'm saying true things or not or just misremembering.
To put a little on the whole hell thing, I took it at face value.
I think what you just said correctly or I interpreted what you said correctly is like,
this is you're making a value statement, not like what you would do in real life.
Like I thought that was clear.
I feel like it's too absurd to be gentle.
It just seems like the argument of have you heard of you will be, you know,
threatened and hurt if you don't do the things someone says.
I don't think that's a good argument.
That's that's a reason to fight against that person.
It's not a reason to be like, oh, okay, says the guy who still pays his taxes.
Because you don't have a rebellion big enough to do the things that you say you like to do.
I need to secretly start a counter government conspiracy.
This is a conspiracy.
There's the names right in the show.
That's true.
Damn it.
I gave it away.
So Globy over at the subreddit, which actually still exists.
For Globy.
Globy?
I don't know.
Okay.
The discord is where most of the interaction happens, but there is still a subreddit and
some people do still use it.
So you can check that out at r slash the Bayesian conspiracy.
Anyways, Globy pointed out that squirrels breaking things is actually quite common.
This was in response to my saying like how crazy it was that the LHC was
delayed like three or four times.
And one of those times was like a random squirrel getting in some place.
They chew on wires, store acorns in antennas.
Engineers seeing specific squirrels in specific tube might say that it's surprising,
but the LHC is so huge.
It's actually not that weird that something went wrong.
Yeah, isn't it like 16 miles?
So that's a lot of areas for squirrels to poke into.
I am significantly reducing my confidence that that was that unusual of a thing,
but there were like three or four pretty coincidental coincidences.
I like squirrels.
That's my reply.
I like squirrels too.
And also I can confirm that they're really good at, like they're just mischievous.
Actually, I'm a big fan of mischievous animals.
Like I kind of like the asshole animals that my friend has this cat that
expresses affection by coming over and just biting you.
Or like like a gentle biting.
Well, yeah, it doesn't break the skin, but it's also like a lot of people like think
this cat is like a sociopath and actually more like there's a bunch of stuff I already
knew about cat psychology.
But more recently, I was looking up the specific thing where cats have this kind of bro culture
like amongst themselves where they do actually like kind of express affection or intimacy by
like fucking with each other, like gently biting each other, like smacking each other around.
That's also how kittens play, like doing like kind of like a fake wrestling thing,
you know, like grab your friend, give him a noggy, like punch him in the early year,
but like a cat does that to a human.
People are like always like, what did I do wrong?
I knew it.
So when I'm petting my cat, she will occasionally like she'll flop like really heavily and like
just like roll over and like expose her tummy and then you're scratching her tummy and she
enjoys it.
And then she'll grab my hand at the front paws and then just like kick with her back
once and she's doing it without her claws.
She's just doing little kicks and it's really cute.
Then she'll like, she'll do little nibbles too, but she's clearly having a good time.
Yeah.
And like, I think she can get over simulated and then when she's bored, she'll leave or when
she's done with it, she'll leave.
But yeah, she's, she's, she, if you want to, she's kicking to get rid of me,
she wouldn't grab my hand first.
She's just like, kick, kick, kick, kick, she's playing.
My cat does that too.
I love it.
I'm trying to get it on video, but she's very uh, conscientious about cameras.
Yeah.
Really?
I mean, she just knows like, all right, Rachel, she's doing it, pull the camera out,
then Rachel will move and she'll like, oh, I'm being filmed.
Okay.
I'm a good kitty.
I'm a good kitty on camera.
I've noticed that with a lot of animals, they don't like being filmed and like,
I don't think they know what being filmed means.
I think they just don't like having a strange object pointed at them.
Oh, okay.
And also the owners start to get weird.
You're not paying attention to the cat anymore.
You're paying attention to the object.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
This is over on the Discord.
More dino mail.
The doof.
Called a Discord.
I noticed that too.
I wasn't going to find it out, but now it's pretty great.
From now on, the Basing Conspiracy Discord is called the Discord.
Perfect.
I read this to Matt's comment.
Yeah.
And I thought it was a lot of fun.
Yeah.
To me, the great filter, the biggest one, and just my,
before we dive in, is awesome one.
Mine's super boring.
I'm going to say eukaryotic life is the biggest filter as far as I'm concerned.
There's probably planets out there covered in slime,
but they're all, you know, single-celled and boring.
Or just one big chain of amino acids, right?
Just one big goop pile.
What, the cube from D&D?
Oh, the gelatinous cube.
The gelatinous cube.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Anyway.
So Matt brings up...
Sorry, Matt.
We're Denimale.
It's a public name.
Okay, cool.
Matt Denimale.
Yeah, there we go.
I wouldn't have outed his username.
Yeah.
Wants to bring out his favorite candidate for the great filter,
because we talked about the great filter briefly in that episode as well.
Oil.
It'd be incredibly difficult to bootstrap a technological civilization without oil.
Maybe impossible.
The only way oil happens is if a very specific set of geological
circumstances are met.
You need a certain rate of deposition, deposition?
