So that was fun.
I think I got him to sign a book both times I met him.
One time was Unleaving the Rainbow.
And then one time what was this one?
Cause it was a hard, hard back cover.
Um, maybe actually he didn't, no, I don't think he signed Unleaving the Rainbow
cause I gave that to somebody never got it back.
And I would have chased that down if I, uh, I really wanted it.
So anyway, yeah, anyway, our docs was cool in real life.
That's what you get to call them if you know them really well.
Nice.
Does he know you get to call him that?
No, I'm sure he'd hate it.
I had a chemistry teacher in high school who he called Charles law, uh, Chuck's law.
He's like, yeah, when you're friends, you call them Chuck.
All right.
Yeah.
All right.
Welcome.
Glad.
Well, sorry, popular science.
I got, see rabbit holes.
Yeah.
It's less fun when you're listening to them than when you're reading them.
Cause you don't get to go pet, you know, know when it's over.
Huh.
Yeah.
So actually that kind of segues into the first thing I want to say about this book
is that it is written in a way that is kind of unconventional in a way that I
enjoyed, um, it starts out with the story of Sandra Bland who, I believe, um, that
was a popular, popular, that was a, I don't know, it was in the media.
It was this case of a woman who was pulled over for failing to signal at a
turn and it ended up with her being arrested and then committing suicide in
jail.
Oh, I remember hearing about this.
So it was just like three, four years ago, right?
Yeah.
During, you know, um, the height of the black lives matter and a lot of
attention being paid to police, uh, violence, particularly racially.
So what was her name again?
Sandra Bland.
And what this book does, but it doesn't tell you this is what it's going to do,
which I enjoyed, uh, is describes, here's what happened in, in this case.
And then it goes on.
The next chapter is about a different story.
But let me take you back to Bolivia and the next chapter is, but then there's this
one thing and it slowly starts to, like at first I was a bit like, okay, where's
this going?
I mean, that these were like a bunch of cool, interesting stories from a
psychological perspective, but, um, it tells you these disparate stories about
things that like you're like, I'm not sure how this is connecting exactly, but
each of them illustrates a different, um, point that Glauble wants to make about
why we are bad at talking to strangers.
So that the book is about, um, basically like cognitive bias sort of, but it's,
it's more about, uh, there's this particular bias of like it's, I'm trying
to think of it's mind reading fallacy or typical minding, or maybe it's a few of
them together, but people think that they understand strangers.
They think that there's, people have much more confidence in their ability to
understand other people's motives or to be able to read things about people than
like actually plays out.
And this book brings up a bunch of things that I hadn't heard about before,
which was cool because, uh, kind of talking about the thing that I was, you
know, complaining about earlier, where a lot of science books for the layperson
spends a million words talking about something that like, I feel like I
learned in middle school.
Whereas this was a new take on social, why socialization is hard.
Can you tell us one of the major themes from the first few chapters?
Yeah.
So one of the major themes that kept coming back up was default truth.
And he brought this up when he was talking about, uh, it was the, the
person that investigated, uh, made off and, uh, the Ponzi scheme.
So there was this like incredibly paranoid person and they talked about
like his entire life about how this person became this incredibly paranoid
person and his bizarre habits about like just not trusting anybody, always
expecting everybody was going to try to screw him over.
And that was like, he had seen, um, through made off like way early, but
he couldn't get anyone to listen to him.
When actually like a lot of this stuff was really obvious.
Like if anybody had actually paid attention to the fact that like nobody
knows where this money is coming from, but it was just, uh, the fact that
nobody was suspicious, like nobody else is suspicious about this guy.
Oh, he's walking around like talking about like the way he makes money.
Just totally openly.
He doesn't look like he's lying.
Like surely the government or the police are like, you know, is that one of
the investigative investigative bureaus would know if something was wrong here.
Just the social proof of like, well, people seem to not just touch this guy.
So like, but like this guy couldn't get anyone to pay attention to him.
So what is the default truth thing?
And, uh, he talks about a bunch of psychological studies where they've
shown that we're really bad at like the majority of people are really bad at
telling who is lying.
So they did this one study where you would have, um, students from a college
come in and take a test and then like, if you got a certain number of answers,
right, then I think it would give you credit or something.
Like there was some reward for it and, uh, they paired you up with another
random student and you're supposed to work together.
And then, uh, at one point the test giver gets a phone call and has to leave the room.
The second, uh, student is a plant.
So the second student turns to the first one and says, I think the answer sheet
is over there on the desk.
We could just look at it like, come on, like I need these college credit or
this money or whatever I forget what the reward was.
And like, so they try to convince the other person to go look at the test.
And then whether or not they do, there's an interview afterwards where they
ask a few, you know, benign questions about how hard do you think the test was?
How well do you think you did?
How well did you get along with your partner?
And then did you cheat?
And then they, uh, showed the videos of the interviewers of the people being
interviewed and when they started asking the more like potent, like uncomfortable
questions, like, did any cheating go on while that was gone?
Are you sure?
If, if I asked your partner if any cheating happened, what do you think they would
say?
And so they would show people these interviews and then say, do you think
this person's lying or not?
And people are really bad at telling whether someone's lying or not.
And, uh, because we have this idea of what a lying person looks like that is
not correct.
So lying people get shifty, right?
They get really anxious.
They, you know, they don't make eye contact, but they brought up the point
that like there was this one person who absolutely was telling the truth.
So what happened was, uh, her, the plant was like, come on, let's look at the answers.
And she was like, no, no, no, no, no, that's not me.
No, I like got incredibly anxious about it.
And then when being interviewed, got so anxious about it.
She was like shifting, apparently like, I don't know, just like twitching.
She, she went on this long rambling, like, no, I didn't cheat.
I would never, that's not me.
I just actually, my partner tried to get me to cheat.
I didn't want to say this, but they were, they were really trying to get me to do
it.
And I just, I just kept saying, no, and just the most offensive, like awkward
looking, she was, she hadn't cheated.
She was just a nervous person, whereas there were other people who, uh,
looked so trustworthy, but they were just very good at lying.
But like, it's just the, it's this funny thing where people think that they can,
they, there's kind of roles or there's stereotypes about what like different
kinds of people look like.
Bernie Madoff didn't look like a liar.
It's one of the reasons that they, uh, don't allow, um, lie detector tests in court
because all they measure is how stressed you are, which has no correlation to
whether you're lying or not, or not for most people.
It has weak core, so weak of correlation.
Right.
Yeah.
And I mean, I think famously, I'm not, I haven't had the chance to test this yet.
I would love to.
I am told, uh, from Penn and Teller's bullshit TV series that they did for those
three years.
Oh, the clenching your butthole thing?
Clenching your butthole or doing Kegels while answering correct, while answering
truthfully, and then not doing that while lying.
Yeah.
You give, you give spikes of physical stress whilst, uh, clenching.
Um, I've also been in a situation where I've been accused of doing something
that I was innocent to, but my protestations weren't believed because I,
like, uh, you know, I protested too much or something.
Never anything serious, but he thinks the lady doth protest too much.
Exactly.
At some point in high school or right after high school, someone made like a
Facebook page for my brother's dog and was posting things that like really
only the dog might know.
And so people thought it was me.
I happen to know who it was, but I knew it wasn't me.
And so maybe that, maybe that's a, give me away another friend.
Okay.
Um, but it's like, you know, man, will you stop doing this?
This is, you know, and I'm like, it's really not me.
It's like, I don't fucking believe you.
It's like, cause I, maybe cause I have a smiling or something.
Cause like, I knew, you know, I don't know if they ever asked, do you know
who it, know who did it?
Cause I might have said yes.
Um, but, uh, yeah.
I, I also did this thing that's speaking of, well, tangentially related.
I annoyingly to myself over excuse everything.
Um, and I'm really just trying to practice now the art of like just
shutting the fuck up all the time where it's like, don't say stuff.
So like, unless it's funny, like there was a, I was like an hour late
for work a couple months ago because the train was delayed and they ended up
like, or like stopped the whole South line.
So they bust everybody and the bus driver didn't know where we were going.
So that took us like 30 minutes to get a mile and a half.
I think I've done the same thing you're talking about.
Like your boss is like, why are you late?
And you'd give them a 30 minute explanation, making you even later.
Yeah.
And you're like, no, I swear to God, this is real.
So let me tell you every detail.
And with, with this one, I took pictures because it was funny, not because
no one cares about I was late.
If I just showed up an hour late and be like, sorry, they'd be fine with it.
But this one was like, there are like 250 people out this platform.
And like, we're on the train packed in like sardine cans and it fit like
half people trying to wait for a train.
So I mean, that was more funny.
But I do that, you know, if like, Hey, hey, Zuber, why did you do this
