what does those words mean?
Are you talking about eternal wireheading?
I don't think that eternal suffering could even be a thing that exists,
because just the way that we work, people get used to anything.
Yeah, but if God's all powerful, we can find a way.
I think Bart Simpson made it.
What if God's all powerful?
I mean, like, sorry, what?
Bart Simpson made that joke,
like when you just get used to the pain, like easing into a hot bath.
I've got two quick thoughts on the like,
have you heard about hell response?
Like, one of them, that's why it's my sort of go-to,
well, not go-to, that's one of my things when I consider the,
I just had to work for it.
What's that thing where you should believe because it might be true?
Oh, um, Pascal's wager?
Thank you.
Yeah, Pascal's wager.
Like, going to church and saying all the right words isn't enough.
Like, and it's also not just enough to like, choose like,
oh yeah, well, I'll just choose to vaguely believe and, you know,
try and be a good Christian.
It's like, no, no, no, like, you got to pick the most evil,
hardcore, like, devil God, because that's the most addictive one
who won't reward your nice thoughts and trying.
You've really got to go like, gung-ho with it.
So like, it's not going to be enough to go to church and, you know,
tithe 20%.
You got to go like, full jihad.
And there was a, I plug a movie that's from 2010
that I just saw last week called The Invention of Lying.
It was, the premise is somehow society is almost exactly like it is now,
but people can't lie.
Like, it just, that they just don't say things that aren't true.
It never occurs to them.
And it's, it's...
Until Ricky Gervais figures out how, right?
He just, it occurs to him to ask for more money out of his account
than he had before.
And they're like, oh, there must be a glitch with our system.
It says you only have 300 bucks.
But yeah, here's the 800 you wanted.
And so he can, he can tell anyone anything and they just believe him.
So he's at the bar with his friends trying to convince them,
like, because he doesn't have a word for lying or what he's doing.
So he, he's like, okay, well, I'm black.
Oh, well, I guess I can kind of see it.
I'm an Eskimo.
Oh, cool.
Yeah, you know, that's awesome.
I invented the bicycle.
No way.
Like, so it, he's doing, he's doing that.
And then there's this really sweet moment in the movie
that actually made both me and Rachel emote, which was his mom's dying.
And she's like, I just don't want to, you know, lie in oblivion forever.
And he's, and recounting is actually emotional.
He's holding her hand and he's telling her, you won't,
all your friends will be there.
He'll be young again.
You can dance, you know, you'll have a nice house.
It's, it's going to be fine.
And because lying doesn't exist, she believes him.
She dies very warmly and peacefully.
But the doctors and nurses over here and he's like,
how do you know these things?
So then he's like a prophet.
And then he goes off and he's trying, like, then there's like,
you know, a group of people around his house, like a hundreds trying to,
you know, learn about this, what he knows about the afterlife.
And he doesn't handle it in the most rational, savvy way,
but he does it kind of funny.
He, for some reason, invents from whole cloth that there's an invisible
man in the sky who causes things to happen.
And if you're nice and you don't try and screw up and you, you know,
don't kill anyone on purpose, then you get to die and have a nice mansion
and all the flavors of ice cream and all this and that.
But the, when he's pitching the idea and explaining about the man in the sky,
which just, you know, my, my rationalist's tearing this apart is like,
you don't actually need that.
They'll believe whatever you say.
You can leave the man in the sky out of it.
Right.
But when this is relevant to the Koi's reply here, they're explaining,
yes, he's responsible for everything that happens.
Wait, so when my mom got cancer, that was his fault.
And when my, you know, when I hit that dog or whatever, that was his fault.
And it's like, yes.
And it's like, we got to kill this bastard before we've got,
we've got to stop this bastard before he kills us all.
Yeah.
And someone from the crowd shouts that.
And I think that's a completely reasonable response.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
Like from, from, from the ground up, it's an insane idea.
Right.
And yeah.
So the, the response is, yes, let's, let's overthrow this terrible thing.
But if you can't, then yeah, I guess knuckle under.
I'm again, that reality would be the worst thing ever.
And it was never clear to me why Satan punished people.
Right.
Because Satan hates God too.
Yeah.
Right.
I'm sure there's some vague interpretation of that in theology, but like,
is it just because he's super, super evil?
Like, I don't even know where the fuck that came from actually.
Like that's not in the Bible.
Satan wasn't even Satan in the Bible when he's first introduced.
They just, he's just the other that comes and talks to God and is like, oh yeah.
Well, I don't, I think that the fuck was it?
Job.
Job.
Yeah.
I think Job would curse your name if you, you know, killed his family and all of his
animals and covered him in boils.
And God thought like, you know, bet on, let's fuck this dude up.
Yeah.
I feel like I've probably complained about this before, but the thing that I find the most,
like just, or the most, maybe not the most disturbing part of it, but like the one that
just really tweaks me the most is he kills his whole family, his wife, his kids.
And then it gives him a new wife and kids.
The better life and kids.
I should be glad, Job.
The most annoying part of that is that if you know everything, you know what's going to happen.
And you just, you don't need to do the horrible thing where you, where you torture the person
and say that it'll work out afterwards.
Like this was, this was pre New Testament where he didn't know everything yet.
That really makes me wonder about like whether the people writing the Bible think that
like, is that what they thought people care about?
Like, or did people, I don't know.
It's just like, there's a wife and kids.
People were very different back then.
Here's a generic wife and kids.
Well, already a new one from Amazon Prime will be here in two days and your life will be just
the same as it was.
It's like, you don't, you don't, that seems very inhuman.
And I think that people weren't that different back in the day.
Like people formed attachments with their children and spouse, right?
Or like.
Also, I believe there is some, some controversy as to whether the original ending of Job existed.
That it just clashes so much with the rest of the book.
It seems like the.
Like he gave everything back.
Yeah, it seems like the message of Job is just, you know what, God can do what he wants.
And that's all there is to it.
You don't get to question or wonder.
And then at the later point, someone put in, but because he was so faithful to God,
he got everything back.
He was rewarded.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Now that definitely sounds like a retcon.
A lot of the Bible is very much in line with the, because God is an anthropomorphized force of
nature.
I mean, if, if you are a bronze age, Israelite, wondering why like, huh, I'm the only survivor
from this flood that wiped out my whole village.
And like, what, why did that happen?
I guess God just does whatever the fuck he wants.
So I, the thing is, I'm a little torn on this because I like to talk a big game, right?
I absolutely like my fiction to be, we have to murder this God.
And I want to say I would be on that side too.
But on the other hand, like, if I was actually living in Nazi Germany, I don't know if I would
like run out in the streets, guns blazing first time I saw a Nazi patrol to take him down.
I, I.
You would engrace yourself with Hitler personally so you could take him down yourself.
Right.
That was actually the analogy I was going to bring up too, where I'm like, because this is
God in hell and whatever, like it's easy to abstract about it.
But it's like, what if it was the same thing about like, oh, you're going to go kill Hitler?
Have you heard of gas chambers?
Yeah.
I'm like, it almost seems like a non sequitur to me.
I'm like, but what if a bad thing happens?
Yeah.
I'm like, no, that's the point.
I'm trying to stop the bad thing.
I think it would be, I would probably be at the very least you should say, you know,
I'm going to pretend to be a believer and secretly work against God in the best way I
can to hope to someday take him down in the future.
But I certainly don't think anyone should be out there like, you know,
I'm 100% making my life's goal to convert as many people as possible.
You know, it would be my life's goal to convert people to the cause of sub, you know,
secretly taking God down.
God would be wise to that.
I mean, if he knows everything, God's OP.
It's just not fair.
I mean, at this point, we're talking about fantasy worlds.
Exactly.
I mean, I'm more like, I was trying to assert that my values
totally are more like the this is terrible and shouldn't exist.
Yeah.
Like I'm not saying that I wouldn't cave to torture because I'm amazing.
I don't know.
I've never been tortured.
I probably would.
I probably would crack like anybody else.
