I don't know.
It's possible.
It's another thing that might be worth looking up, but that makes sense to me
because coffee is actually an ootropic.
Well, that's my, that's my thing is like, so, you know, you sub out beer for coffee
and suddenly you've got a class of people that are just feeling way more
productive and intelligent all the time, rather than just kind of sluggish and lazy.
Staying up late and hear a lot more sober and, uh, importantly to prepare coffee
and you have to boil water, which is also a way to, uh, make the water drinkable.
I don't know.
Well, maybe.
Yeah.
I mean, I guess you could cold brew, but like, I don't know how they did it.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's fun.
Anyway, my coffee is my go-to if I want to be productive, usually.
That's like the dumbest thing to say.
Sorry.
I think this is, we're recording on Sunday, the seventh.
Yes.
Eighth.
So the daylight savings was last night.
I think my cat didn't know what time it was either.
She came in and woke us up a few times, which is cute and lovely, but then she
doesn't even really want pets.
She just wants us to wake up, wants to wake us up.
She has food and everything.
She just wants to say hi.
So I hate daylight savings so much.
I had a time machine.
Second thing I would do is go back in time and kill Hitler.
First thing would be go back and kill Ben Franklin when he proposed this, or just
before he proposed the daylight savings.
Oh, don't kill Ben Franklin.
I, you know, mother fucker has to come in.
Still have to do that.
What, what if you just slapped the other guy?
He was a sensible guy.
You could explain to him, I'm from the future.
Here's what happens as a result of this.
Yeah, like, by the way, can you clarify the second amendment before you
put, before you write that shit down?
Few other things.
I'm just saying, like, settle that, like, because that's to me, like the dumbest
constitutional argument is like, well, they said this and it's like, yeah, they
didn't know what germs were.
They didn't know about, you know, what kind of guns we'd have.
Like, let's, let's be real.
But yes, obviously there's a lot of other failures in there too that we could
have pointed out, but the gun one might have been the easiest sell.
You know, saying, hey, can you put a slave thing in there?
They're like, well, no, that's actually people wouldn't sign it if we had a slave
thing in there and wasn't the whole point of the gun thing, though, because
they were being, they were, they were currently revolutionaries.
Yeah, yeah, they were occupied by the British.
Yeah.
Well, so they would want people in the modern day to have the weapons.
They need to fight off the British as well.
Right.
I think about able to explain what a bad idea that is.
And I mean, you got to think too, what's the third amendment?
Can you name it right off?
No, is that freedom of the press?
You don't have to house soldiers.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah.
So like, that was also a big problem for them back then, but like, that's
not like, no one today is like, thank God for the third amendment, right?
I mean, it kind of reminds me of the Bible where, especially if you look
at the first group of, uh, Commandments, yeah, that like Moses brought down and
then got angry when people were worshiping the golden calf and threw them.
Seven out of eight of them were about how to worship God, right?
Right.
Well, like a bunch of them were weird specific things that only made sense
in the context of Bronze Age, like Middle East.
No fucking sculptures.
No fucking sculptures.
When they're, when they're worshiping the bronze calf, I think they're also fucking it.
Wait, what?
You're more of a Bible scholar than I am.
Am I missing it?
I have not heard this.
I wouldn't be surprised.
A lot of the Bible talks about people doing sex in bad ways and why they're bad.
Let's see, uh, how many of these are about how do you, whoops, how to worship God?
First one, second one, third one, not fourth, fifth or sixth or seventh or eighth
or ninth or tenth.
Okay.
So only the first three are about how to worship God, right?
Are there's the, the first or second draft of the commandments?
Actually, the first draft was like 30 commandments or something too.
Yeah.
I mean, no one knows what the first draft was, right?
No, they had it.
Like, uh, wait, maybe I'm misremembering, but I'm pretty sure.
Cause he came down off the mountain and saw them worshiping the calf and smashed them.
I mean, as I'm assuming they were the same commandments.
He just had to go up there and chisel them out again.
There was a second group of commandments at one point.
I forget if those were the ones he broke or, but like, definitely there's
30 laws that God wrote that are actually written down in the Bible that like nobody
focuses on.
Yeah.
Anyway, so how does the motif of our, um, the layers of biases that keep us from
understanding strangers properly?
How does that tie into that case with that woman being pulled over a few years ago?
Um, or is that spoiled book?
It, well, it does a little bit, but, uh, I don't think, I don't know.
I, I have a hard time with spoilers where I don't really tend to care about them that much.
I, this is also nonfiction.
So I said, yeah.
I don't think that this will spoil anything.
So there were a bunch of things going on, uh, in this particular case that Gladwell
explains with like side stories or explains the history behind and, uh, coins,
terms for new cognitive biases.
And that was what I found really fun, like the default to truth.
Um, wait, so what is the default to truth?
That was, uh, the people being bad.
Oh, right.
I'd never even finished that one.
That one.
So like back to the Bernie Madoff guy, that guy's an outlier.
Um, as a cooperative species, the theory anyway is that the reason that we tend to,
we tend to believe people.
That was it.
Um, when they've done a bunch of these psychological studies and keep finding, uh,
in historical examples that people are more trusting than they actually should be.
Huh.
When, uh, which is not like, you know, the, the general,
where are these studies done?
Cause I know a lot of Eastern European countries have very low trusting of other people.
Well, yeah.
I mean, it's probably also, um, cultural and whatever, but like, it's more about,
um, they talked about like court cases, for example, or like, if someone tells you
something, uh, you tend to believe them.
God, I wish I hadn't believed my surgeon.
You defaulted to truth that I did.
Well, like, yeah, that's, that's kind of interesting cause something I've noticed
about rationalist cultures that we're also a really high trust culture as well.
But, um,
cause we all cooperate in prisoners, dilemmas.
Yeah.
Well, the thing is in your particular case, I don't think your doctor was defecting
in a prisoner's dilemma here.
I think that either they had misread it before they walked back into the room to
give you the number.
Oh, I'm sure he knew he was lying.
I would lie.
Well, I think because this is my assumption too.
Having now had to interact with people that are, um, a lot of times.
A doctor or someone will know what is for someone's greater good.
Like when you have a kid and they don't want to get a shot or whatever, you tell
the kid, Oh, don't worry.
It'll only hurt a tiny bit.
It'll be fine.
Oh, and it turns out it's going to be a little pinch.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it turns out, you know, sometimes the kid really gets hurt pretty bad, but it
is for their benefit.
It is you lie to the kid in order to get them to do the thing that is better for
them and that if they were as smart and knowledgeable as you, they would want to
do as well.
Uh, and so I think he saw the stuff and was like, yeah, this guy obviously is going
to be a lot better off after he has the surgery.
But if I actually tell him what the recovery is going to be like, he might not
go through with it.
So, you know, I'll just lie to push him to go towards the right direction is the way
I see it.
My parents are just like, yeah, he's just a, you know, money grubbing scum sucker.
Just wanted to get you under the knife to collect his paycheck.
And I'm like, yeah, well, you come from Eastern Europe.
So I find their hypothesis is more likely than the fact that he was thinking that I
should lie to my patients to get them for the greater good, for the greater
good, because that's where I go with, because I don't want to, because you're
not, you know, some stupid kid.
And like with, like in the, in the event of a vaccine hurting more than you
thought it would, you know, if it bruises your arm for a couple of days or
something, as opposed to being a light pinch for a second, like kids need surgery
or sure, but like, and to run with that easy example, like you still get all the
benefit, right?
If he lies to you, but your recovery time and you subsequently injure yourself,
then he's, then he's just hurting his patients.
That's the problem.
Yeah.
Right.
So like that, that is so obvious that I can't believe that that wouldn't have
occurred to him if he's been doing this for a long time.
And like, when you're, when you're lying to a kid to get a vaccine, you might
have to bend the truth or whatever to get them to do the thing that's actually
for the greater good.
Whereas if you're an adult, you can make a fully informed decision with her, you
know, like that's up to you.
And if he had said, if he had said the recovery time was going to be a year, you
would have said yes.
Yeah, I know.
Like, so I completely agree with you.
It's just that I now have met a number of people who are like, yeah, people are
children, you can't always trust people as rational, uh, actors.
And that has been my experience experience as well to some degree.
