So I am, I am more treating people now like they are irresponsible children than
I used to.
And so that is why I see where the doctor is coming from.
I got, I'm my, my top hypothesis on this is what is, uh, there's a, there's a word
for it, never attribute to malice that, which is explained by stupidity or which
can't be, yeah.
Well, that's, I mean, I also, so like, he might have just been hung over that
morning when he was telling you, yeah, a couple of weeks, he'll be fine.
You know, like, I mean, it, that, that strikes me likely, more likely than him.
Like, yes, I've got this elaborate lie.
I spend all my patience.
I've been, I've been practicing for 25 years.
He probably just tells all patients the same thing.
Yeah, two weeks, you'll be fine.
Right.
And no one's gotten mad at him yet.
Uh, I don't know.
The problem is, what am I going to do?
Like I'm considering a malpractice suit, but it's just his word against mine.
There's nothing in writing.
And is it even malpractice to lie about recovery time?
Uh, well, that's, that's up to a lawyer.
I would say, yeah, especially if you're doing it regularly.
If like, if he actually, you know, if you have proof that he intentionally lied
to you in order to try to, yeah, well, if you could talk to other patients of
his been a surgeon for a long time and he knows what recovery times are actually
like, especially because, you know, when I went in after six weeks and told him
like, yeah, it's been three times longer than it should be.
I'm still not great.
And he was like, oh yeah, it's usually takes 12 weeks, sometimes six months.
I was like, you motherfucker, maybe he, you goddamn piece of shit.
I mean, I, again, I wasn't there for the conversation.
Is it possible that like, what he meant was that like it, the actual wound will
heal in that amount of time, but like the amount of time that the pain will go away
will be much longer.
That's possible.
It's just two weeks, but you'll be, you'll be delicate for six months.
Could be.
I at the very least, and that's, I mean, I wish I would have gotten it in writing.
I've never had some very serious surgery, but I've had minor surgery.
The packet, like he literally told me, yeah, I got a packet and the packet said
almost nothing in it.
Certainly didn't have any time frames or anything.
It says, uh, listen to what your doctor told you in it.
So that's useful, but no, he like, I asked him, I like to work out.
It keeps me like mentally healthy as well as physically healthy.
This is important to me.
When can I start lifting weights again?
He was like, you could probably start, you know, lifting some lighter weights
around week two or three, which is when the PA went in, uh, to take my stitches
out three weeks later, he was like, are you fucking kidding me?
You're, are you lifting weights?
You shouldn't lift anything over 10 pounds under any circumstances.
That is a lightweight.
Yeah.
That's, you know, that's a gallon of milk.
Yeah.
That's, that's disappointing.
Less than the gallon, more than a gallon of milk.
No, but gallon milk is surprisingly heavy.
Yeah.
And some people like, I can't lift anything over five pounds.
It's like, I watched you lift that jug here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, that's like, I'm sorry, we are way off track.
We are, but keep us surprised of that.
Cause if you feel like it, it's your personal medical shit, but, um,
it was related to default to truth.
It's true.
I, I am a, like, as long as we're anecdotally giving examples, I think I
mentioned this before, I am stupidly gullible.
And I'm, I think less so now, but like in the, in this, I think it's maybe another
just truth of how our brains are wired for me in the context of understanding a
sentence, like just to parse it correctly in my brain for the time it takes me to
do that, I believe the sentence and then I analyze it a second later.
But for the time it takes me to hear it and process it, I'm, I'm just taking
it in as like, this is true.
And, uh, I mean, someone could say something completely outlandish.
I'm trying to think of an example.
Just there's, I mean, it's not in the last couple of weeks, you know,
someone say something insane and I'd be like, wait a minute, you had me there
for a second and they're like, they were clearly making a joke.
And I wish that happens to me a lot too.
This would be better if I could think of an example.
It's just bad.
I'm just bad at like telling when people are joking.
I was kind of depressing when I was with Melissa, she was always this kind of
personally like everyone's lying to you.
Everyone's trying to screw you.
It's like, no, everything's fine.
People are good.
Even if that's true, I think I'd rather believe that it's not because you're
happier.
Yeah.
And also I don't think it's true.
She wasn't a very happy person overall, but kept proving herself right and me
wrong.
I was like, God damn it.
Well, I don't know.
We eventually had the saying, I got to the saying, we're like, what went wrong?
I expected anything more than nothing from someone.
That was my error.
Well, and it seems like if you take that lesson to heart, you end up the kind of
person that she is.
Yeah, there's a kind of like self-fulfilling prophecy, like it's true.
Yeah, your asshole, you can tell yourself that it's okay.
Cause everyone else is an asshole too.
Yeah.
And that's how society spiraled downward.
Right.
But, but I think that they're factually incorrect.
Like a lot of people are genuine and cool.
Yeah.
Like what?
Is she going to say like, oh yeah, Mr.
Rogers, he was totally raping people and, you know, and had a body full of or had
a basement full of bodies.
Well, I also noticed at the time that my surgeon was wearing a gold crucifix, like
underneath his scrubs and all that.
And I was like, that's kind of weird, but whatever.
He's got a Eastern European name.
They're very big Catholics over there.
Maybe, and now I'm like, not going to trust any fucking doctor who's wearing
crucifix under their scrubs.
Cause if you're that into Jesus, I don't know if I can trust you.
How big was this thing?
Average sized?
I don't know.
Like that's two and a half inches.
That's a super common trinket.
Something I'd like you to trust.
I mean, as opposed to over your scrubs where it's hitting patients in
the face when you bend over.
Something I've learned to trust is people's ability to compartmentalize.
Like you can be a very good doctor and then also be religious.
And because you just don't, like those are non-overlapping magisteria.
I know.
And I agree.
It's something that I struggle with too.
I like, I do work with some, you know, I work in cancer research and there's
people that know about like way more than I do about like the mechanisms of tiny
cells and how you treat very complicated cancer.
And then also like believe in supernatural shit when they go home.
I guess I kind of reminded myself of that quote from Vonnegut where he says, I
think it was Vonnegut, if you don't want people to be racist, don't send them
as children to areas where people of a different race are trying to kill them.
Which was his commentary on war.
But, um, you know, you have one bad experience and right away you latch
on to something that you already had sort of a, uh, a predisposition against.
But so you're acknowledging that cognitive failure.
And then you're saying right up, I'm not going to work with a surgeon with a crucifix again.
Yes.
I'm, I'm leaning into it, but hopefully I will find counter veiling evidence
that will bring my, my risk assessments back down to where they should be.
I hope so too.
I mean, I, I would, I will update myself incrementally.
Very well.
There's something to be said, at least for being self aware about when you know
you're being irrational, um, back to Sandra blind.
Um, there's a section talking about suicide in this book where, what did they call it?
I'm trying to remember the, the phrases that he coined or the, yeah, the idea
about suicide being, uh, coupled.
That was it.
So I think, I don't think he actually coined that.
I think this is a psychological term, but coupling is where certain behaviors or, uh,
yeah, certain behaviors are coupled to certain environments, certain contexts.
Uh, they talk about a bunch of other cases in which behaviors are coupled.
Um, and suicide is coupled and it is really difficult for people to wrap their
heads around it though, because especially, unfortunately, like social workers,
uh, and like mental health, uh, people that are in the mental health profession
as caretakers get to know these people and they don't want to think of this person
as, well, nobody wants to think about a person as an automaton, I guess.
But, um,
So what is suicide coupled to?
Well, the, the history that, um, Gladwell first brought up was town gas, where there
was a, like the type of gas that they used to use in, I think it was Burton
in particular, England.
Yeah.
Um, was it had a high propensity for creating carbon monoxide.
And what the, the like unfortunate, you know, side effect of this was that
everybody had a gas powered oven and they also had these, uh, cars that were made
with, uh, that also produced a lot of carbon monoxide.
So there's a point where every middle class family has a very convenient,
cheap, easy way to commit suicide.
And the thing that they don't think, you know, sorry, you were going to say,
No, it's, it's a tangent.
Go ahead.
Okay.
So the thing that like people don't think about is, well, there's a lot.
It's, it's complicated.
People are complicated.
Uh, women in particular, they pointed out often don't want to leave a mess because
they don't want to inconvenience others.
So you don't shoot yourself or do anything that's going to, you know, you don't
burn the house down.
Um, they also don't want to like, you don't want to just figure your body either.
You want to, a lot of people were like, well, you know, I won't, if I, if I'm
going to die, I want it to be painless.
It's possible.
