that is the thing that everybody is talking about right now.
As usual, rationalists are one step ahead of everything.
So there were a couple of weeks.
So none of us got sick, right?
Oh wow.
It's going to still happen.
But you know, a couple of weeks ago, people were already talking about, hey, this, this
COVID-19 thing looks like it's going to be a big deal and start asking what would this
do to the markets if, if this turned into an epidemic because it doesn't seem like people
are panicking correctly.
And several people in the community who have a lot of money in the markets sold some percentage
in preparation.
A lot of people started stocking up on basic necessities.
And then yeah, lo and behold, the things that start spreading less than one week ago, literally
less than seven days ago, I was talking with my boss.
And I was, you know, just saying like, yeah, I'm kind of canceling all my going out being
with people plans.
And he said, yeah, but you know, we're not on the coast.
Fine.
We're safe here.
And I looked at him and I said, Denver international airport is a major hub.
It's going to be here.
Like I didn't say any of the rest of this, but what the fuck was he thinking?
Yeah, anywhere where there's an international airport.
Yeah.
There's people coming here from all over all the time in this giant tubes where they're
breathing the same air as other people for six plus hours.
And then they stay in the hotels here.
It's, it's going to get into every major city.
I tried to get Brian to, to commit to a bet with me at the meetup on Tuesday that like
we'd have a case in Denver by the end of the month because I was being super like gentle
with my guests.
And then we had a case like what?
We had four days later.
We had two cases on three days later on Friday.
How did you get money?
No, we didn't actually place a bet because he was like, oh, we'll have a case in a month.
And I'm like, yeah, we will.
So you know what would be cool is if at airports, like the TSA cared at least as much about spreading
pandemics as they did about stopping terrorists.
Like what if we screened people for infectious diseases, they don't even care about stopping
terrorists.
They just care about security theater.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But like my, it would be, it'd be one thing to like stop somebody who clearly has a cold,
but then it like, I mean, Rachel sneezes six or seven times a day.
Actually it would be six to eight because she always double sneezes.
And it's just allergies.
She's, she's done that every day for the last 25 years, right?
So like in the same sense that we don't want our airport security personnel profiling people
that look like terrorists.
We don't want them profiling people who look sick.
Like we want them to be clearly.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
So like, yeah, another like sort of tangent.
Another thing that airport security loves to do is stop trans people.
Really?
It's like Phoenix and I have made a joke about it now.
Like.
Why do you guys look like terrorists or something?
No, because they have a gender button that they push before you go through the scanner
thing that if it notices something is off, then you get flagged and then you have to
get the pat down and you have to awkwardly like now explain to an airport security person.
It's like, yep, I've got a dick.
Can you?
I'm trans.
Hello, airport.
Hi.
Is that the just trans flying protocol?
Just like declaring what presenting tentacles you have so that they aren't surprised on
the scan?
Because that sounds like the easiest way around it.
Even if it's not a question to answer, you know, have to answer it the way that they
want to hear it.
I guess like for me, I just find it to be funny and exasperating, but some people find it
to be incredibly invasive and triggering.
So why do they, they have to pat down all trans people?
No, I think it's like, if you go in there and you say, I'm a woman and they go in there.
They don't ask you.
They look at you.
They make a judgment call.
They push a button.
And so if you look like a woman, but then there's like something weird on the scanner
or this is like, this looks wrong and then they've got to go like, oh, why does this
woman have this?
They're packing something at waist level and they're like, hold on a second or like me
with binder.
Explosives.
Right.
Okay.
I wonder if anyone's ever tried to be a terrorist and like stick a bomb in their underwear.
You know what?
If you are really committed to it, you can have your testicles removed and put some explosives
up there instead.
I don't know how big the explosives could be.
Stop helping the terrorists.
It's true.
You might have to be like in a vulnerable location on the plane.
I feel like there are easier ways to get things on board.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
There's much easier ways people walk through with explosives all the time.
Not real explosives, but fake explosives.
They walk through with scissors like every goddamn time.
Like I always, especially when I was still a heart student.
I brought an ace on my last two flights on accident because it's my backpack.
Yeah.
I mean, if I can take down a plane with a pair of fingernail clippers, I can take down a
plane with a can of maize.
Yeah.
I didn't mean to cut you off, though.
No, I would like feel like we should get back on whatever topic.
Right.
The whole coronavirus thing or COVID-19, but coronavirus is just cooler.
So I think that's sticking.
Basically avoid any large gatherings, definitely anything where there's more than 10 people
in close proximity.
I am basically not going out dancing or to any theaters for the next two to three months,
which sucks, but whatever.
Like, do you think it'll be blown over in two to three months?
I bring that up because my manager, I think, takes his cues from
idiot politicians and not scientists on the level of what, how do we concern here?
And it's like, this isn't going to go away in April.
So two months is my minimum lower bound right now.
And as we get further on, if it needs to be extended, I'll extend it.
I think there's a great chance those will just be with us for the next few years.
I think that there will be people with coronavirus running around on earth for,
I mean, like through, through the deck around.
Yeah. Like, but will it still be, will it still be rampant?
Is maybe the question or the concern?
Well, it's more a matter of whether we find a way to treat it and contain it
effectively to maybe vaccinate against it.
There's a lot of clinical trials right now.
It's just pandemics.
One of the scary things about them is just that you're new.
You don't really know, like how to fight them yet.
And learning that is like the key to, you know, finding the antigen and then
like finding ways to treat it, keep it under control versus having it spread,
having it, um, losing your herd immunity.
Yeah. So key things is, uh, don't panic, obviously.
It's not, it's not going to kill most people that are listening to this podcast,
although I'm sure there are some immunosuppressed people listening to us.
So they'll be at high risk.
We want to get past the initial outbreak hump.
It's not going to be like one of those post-apocalypse movies,
but the economy will likely take a hit for a little while.
I'm refinancing my house.
Okay. Yeah.
That's cool.
Down 1.1%.
Oh, holy shit.
Yeah.
Nice.
Okay.
Kind of cool.
Yeah.
Uh, lower my mortgage by like 180 bucks a month.
Yeah, maybe take advantage of it.
If you see a opportunity.
If you're in a major metropolitan area, there's a good chance that sometime in
the coming months, the government is going to ask you to stay indoors as much as
possible for a few weeks.
So when you get a chance, go out and stock up on some food.
Like seriously, rice doesn't take a lot of space and is a lot of calories.
So you can, you can just grab some rice and maybe some frozen chicken.
Get enough food to last you for two weeks if you need to.
My thing, like, I don't know.
I, I have a number of thoughts on, ah, man.
All right.
I'll try and make this quick because this isn't the crux of the episode.
So like I am not super concerned about dying because I'm in the age demographic
where very, very few people have died, which is great.
I'm like, I never got to clubs anyway, so I'm not losing that part of my life.
But like this morning I went to Einstein and got a bagel.
Like, so like killed us all.
But who knows what they've been up to, right?
So like, unless I completely shut myself off, it's not just about not going to
crowded, disgusting places.
It's like, don't go anywhere.
Right.
So like, am I supposed to do that?
That is the thing that you might need to do for a few weeks.
Am I supposed to do that now, starting for like for the next 90 days?
No, I don't think right now.
Yeah.
So it's needed.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Like my, I already see people like, you know, the touch screens of King
Supers for yourself.
Check out.
They either use something wrapped around their finger or they like use
back of their hand to touch it, stuff like that.
Also, I've been in the back of my knuckles for those touch screens for years.
So something frustrating is the Clorox and Lysol wipes are sold out everywhere.
Like you can't get them on Amazon.
Yeah, I can't find Purell.
