Yeah, it's really hard to get the masks now.
Let's get the N95 masks.
And it like, and this is the next thing that people always say.
So just to rehearse the cashed thought, leave those for the professionals,
the environments where they're actually useful.
You're not going to be able to use the same mask every day all day.
And if you steal 90 of them from, you know, your local doctor's office,
then they, then the people who are sick won't be able to have them.
They're more useful for keeping other people from getting it if you are sick.
Yes.
My main concern is like both my parents have been smoking for 40 years.
My grandma's in her late 80s.
They're both, both all three of them aren't very high risk demographics.
And that stresses me out.
Are they people that go out a lot and interact with other people from like various,
you know, not really like, but I mean, all my
grandma's friends are in her age demographic, they go to the doctor's
office because they're all old.
And so, you know, sick people with coronavirus go to the doctor's office
and, you know, coughing all the doorknobs because they're a bunch of fucking heathens.
The best thing about like me is I'm not changing really any of my daily
habits because I've been politely germophobic for, you know, several years.
So like, I'm always cautious about doorknobs.
I always have Purell on me.
Like I'm not over the top.
I don't think it doesn't impact my daily life in a negative way, but like,
I'm conscientious about these things.
And it's like, yes.
Now, finally, everyone's being told to do the right thing.
Stop fucking coughing in your hands like a bunch of goddamn animals.
I'm not a prepper.
I think someday maybe we should have a quick episode on just basic stuff that
everyone should have.
But unless you are completely strapped for space, I think everyone should have
at least a week's worth of calories in their house at all times.
Like if you start dipping below a week, go out, get more.
And I, there's almost no one in America who can't go one week without eating
and they're going to die.
But yeah, you don't want to be starving for, you know, a number of days.
If you can help it, it's not healthy.
It makes it harder to fight off viruses.
Yeah.
Like I said, my main concern is people that I know getting sick.
And so like I said, my grandma, her social group, they all go to the doctor
all the time. I mean, they don't go clubbing.
But my mom works in a position where she interacts with dozens of
strangers a day at a dentist's office.
So all them other mouths open all day right when they're in the office.
It's, I don't know, my dad probably thinks he's too cool to wash his hands
properly. So like they're, you know, so, you know, my, my concern is all of
the people in high risk groups that I don't want to get sick.
But yeah, aren't you going to visit your parents after this?
I am.
Sounds like a risky thing to do, sir.
Yeah, I'll explain later.
You can't.
OK, yeah, can't completely alter life for something like this, plus
they're in Fort Collins, so they're in a lower risk area.
Yeah, it sucks, because like I'd like to visit my grandma.
It would be silly for me to like, I don't know, I'm torn on that.
What do you guys think I should do?
Because I don't like appearing like if you, you know, really
really for your loved ones, don't visit them, especially the people
that are on their knees, call them.
You cannot transmit coronavirus over the phone yet.
Wait till it's fine.
Yeah, COVID 20 will be over the phone.
COVID 21 over text and three days.
I'm a little bit worried about working in a hospital.
Yeah, that's worrisome.
The hospital is doing a really good job of, I mean, they were way prepared.
And is it a general hospital or just for cancer?
Well, I work in the Cancer Center, but it's a general hospital.
It's got like a bunch of buildings together for there's the yeah,
the research department.
There's a for some reason, what is it?
Physical therapy office, Children's Hospital.
It's not some complaining about the government.
The juicy how the CDC fucked up the test.
Making it illegal to administer any testing kits that weren't from them directly.
The CDC, the FDA, right?
Or maybe it was the FDA.
Yes. Yeah.
Yeah, I think that might have actually been overturned.
I'm getting the two of them confused.
Yeah, I mean, after two, three weeks of delays, yeah, turns out also
you cannot sell a number of things on eBay like filter masks anymore
because apparently the prices were like quadrupling
and that may run afoul of government anti-gouging laws.
So now you just can't buy them at all, which is, you know, even better.
It's like the government doesn't understand that prices a signal
to suppliers to supply more of this thing.
That's right. I mean, it's it's both funny and and or it's both funny and not funny.
Yeah, I think most of my thoughts these are not the people I want to have extra money.
Yeah, I mean, it's I don't like I as far as prepping for things,
you know, I probably have a week's worth of calories in the house.
I never buy bottled water, but I was at Costco a couple of days ago
and I saw people coughing, which is great.
And it was like five seventy five for 40 bottles of water.
So I bought 40 bottles of water and they're now going to hang out
in my pantry for, you know, ages.
It's also like this one, you know, under the stairs cabinet thing.
So it's not taking up valuable space.
But I was like, this is like cheaper than like this is almost like as cheap as tap water.
Yeah, like six bucks.
So I mean, actual tap water is as cheap as tap water.
And you can get a 15 gallon water containers.
Super fucking cheap of Amazon or anywhere.
Yeah. And then, you know, a little bit of just fill them up.
Just disinfectant, whatever to keep it from getting stagnant.
The disinfectant is like twenty dollars for 50 tabs.
I have like no concern about the water turning off. Me neither.
I just figured, like, hey, now I've got bottled water.
You know, it was the kind of thing that people are, you know,
I saw people walking out with pallet fulls of bottled water.
Oh, really? Yeah. Damn.
I think Scott Alexander pointed out that they're Amazon is still delivering in Wuhan.
Like, I don't think civilization is going to collapse.
It's just going to be like, you know, there's some precautions that you could
still take while not also freaking the fuck out and thinking that's the end of the world.
Amazon is a service you can trust.
Although they were saying, probably disinfect your packages and open them outside.
Yeah, with gloves.
Oh, man, I'm on this clinical research memes Facebook group
and somebody posted a picture of a bunch of
flu masks that they had gotten that were from Wuhan.
Like, ah, should we open these?
Like, look, we just go where they're from.
I don't know. All right.
Should we go on to the the strong post?
Yeah. Or was there more current stuff to say?
I'll just say that basically, I think all the fun stuff,
all of you, I guess I take it in this order.
I read the Slate Star Code X post.
Yeah, we'll link that, which is fun.
I put a note on that already.
And then there was a last week tonight episode on this, too.
So if you want the comic relief version, that one's also valuable.
Cool. Basically, his his thing is find the find the the golden mean
between like licking posts in the subway and chugging bleach.
So, you know, between those two extremes, find find a happy spot.
Yeah, you can actually drink a little bit of bleach, like.
Take that with a grain of salt.
Rather, don't take your bleach with anything.
Sorry, how much bleach should you drink?
You can look it up.
But like, if you dilute it a certain amount, it's one of the like things
that you can use as a survivalist tactic.
Oh, to clean your water.
And bleach tablets.
If you're if you're drinking bathtub water, maybe throw a bleach,
throw a cap full of bleach in it or something, right?
Well, make sure you know what the dosage is first.
Yeah, so find that out.
But don't don't take a don't take a little mini shot of bleach
in the morning to try to keep yourself from getting sick.
That's that's what John Oliver was getting at.
Of course, it was a picture of a guy with an upside down
bottle of bleach just chug pouring into his face.
So yeah.
Yeah.
And then there is a discord group called Social Distancing
created in the Berkeley Rationalist Area because they've got some cases there.
People are worried about it.
People who are socially distancing themselves can join this for tips on
proper stuff and then also just updates and socialization
if you're just going to be stuck in your house.
Um, I'll see if maybe there's a shareable link that I can get.
Or if not, I'll see about how you can get involved in that.
I happen to just be added one day because I have people that I know
in the Berkeley area and they just I think we're just mass inviting people.
Excellent. Cool.
All right.
So jumping along to the less wrong posts.
First one we have today is update yourself incrementally.
Does anyone want to launch into this?
Um, it's OK if your cherished belief isn't perfectly defended.
If the hypothesis is that the coin comes up heads 95 percent of the time,
then one time in 20, you'll expect to see what looks like country evidence.
Yet it is widely believed, especially in the court of public opinion,
that a true theory can have no failures and a false theory, no successes.
Yes. So.
You find people holding up a single piece of what they think of an evidence
and claiming that their theory can explain it as though this was all the support
they needed and apparently a false theory can have no supporting evidence.
So I guess we run into this a lot with, um, not a lot anymore,
but we ran into it a lot with nine 11 truthers, right?
Oh yeah, like, uh, I mean, a lot of conspiracy theories
are people just anomaly hunting.
Well, what about this? What about this?
How do you explain that?
Well, my theory can explain it, so it can't be a false theory.
It's just people are very uncomfortable with saying that that's a coincidence.
That's also a coincidence.
And it's like kind of, you know, linking back to the anthropic principle
episode we had last time where hardwired to look for causality as a species.
And I think the important thing to like rationalist technique to apply to in the
case of especially anomaly hunting and conspiracy theories is like,
if you didn't predict it in advance that, um, I don't know what all
the coincidences that they point to in the nine 11 stuff.
