up on it.
Uh, the mind of a horror writer.
Well, I'm not a horror writer, but yet your last mindset.
Your last one was kind of scary.
Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Shall we move on to listen to your feedback?
Let's do that.
Let's do it.
We got a, a write in, which reminds me, if you're okay with us using your name
or if you have a preferred pronoun, go ahead and put that in an email.
Our general rule of thumb is we don't read the names of people who write in
stuff since it's private, but we'll read Reddit handles and email or comment names.
Anyway, so we did have a, an email write in and they said that they enjoyed the show.
Thank you very much.
But their biggest complaint was that, uh, the sound quality varied wildly and
especially my voice.
And a lot of that is stuff that, uh, would take wizardry post-production to fix.
I talk fast.
I talk low.
I tend not to look at where I'm talking.
So I'm often not facing the microphone.
Uh, hopefully this episode, you noticed a big jump in our sound quality.
We're working with a new sound tech or with a sound tech.
That's not one of us.
And, uh, some of our older better equipment that has more flexibility.
So let us know if this episode sounds better than the others and we'll keep
doing more of what we're doing.
So I have, uh, these, we've skipped a few weeks of listening, listening feedback.
So this goes back for a fair bit, but Westward 101 wrote on the children episode
that I, we, Stephen and me talked a fair bit about how we don't like the idea of
having our values changed by having this child pop up.
And all of a sudden we are emotionally invested in it and we are different people.
And Westward 101 says, obviously women are subject to major hormonal shifts in
the course of pregnancy and birth that men are not.
And he, they're not saying that men don't undergo changes in value, but it's not
as dramatic as puberty that plenty of people have their value shift significantly
during their lifetime, not just due to four hormones and that fear of value shifting
seems really weird.
Like at the same time he says he's not going to shoot heroin, even if he knew
that once he was a junkie, he wouldn't care about being a junkie and would just
be happy.
So he does sort of understand the value shift thing, but on the other hand,
plenty of people have children and it doesn't seem to turn them into radically
different doppelganger pod people, which I think is a fair point.
Yeah.
I mean, my thinking on that is, I guess, pre puberty.
I wasn't, you know, sentient enough to know that I really liked my current
utility function and looking back, I prefer the one I have now.
And it's completely plausible that I could update into a better version of myself
that looking back at me now, I would just be like, man, why was he content?
But I don't know.
You don't know that going in, right?
And if you're just throwing dice, you don't, uh, I think I talked about this
in episode, I thought I, I guess I see where they're coming from, but I thought
I might, my case, that doesn't really come back to the, the case that I made
that like, you know, if I currently find something very, you know, like if I
was working at an EA charity or something, if I was doing something really
important, and then all of a sudden, the most important thing I could think
of to do with my life was push my child on the swing.
Well, I would, I would feel like I lost something.
If I knew beforehand, that's where I was going to be.
Yeah.
I think it may affect different people differently.
Like I've talked to some parents who said, yes, it is a radical life change.
And you cannot even explain it to people who don't have children.
It's just a thing you have to experience.
And then I've talked to some other parents who were like, eh, didn't really
change me that much.
Basically the same kind of person I was before.
So maybe varies on the person.
You're in a relationship with a parent right now, Inyash.
What about that person?
I would have to ask her.
Okay.
I should have thought to do that.
Come to think of it, I know a lot of parents in my life.
I should just go and ask them.
And you're very, you're very close to them.
Yeah.
So they seem to be pretty good people, even though they've popped out some babies.
I didn't know any of them before they had the babies though.
And I certainly, I don't want to disparage parents.
I think that there's a, there's a great thing to loving your children,
obviously for, for all kinds of, I mean, like obvious evolutionary reasons, but
also like personal reasons, like it feels really good.
And like, you don't feel like you're wasting your time pushing your kid on
the swing or putting a puzzle together with them or something.
You find it extremely valuable.
And I think that it's, it's a different kind of valuable than like other
values that you might have, right?
But it's, it, that doesn't make it less important to you, right?
Westward did have a follow up question since you brought up the puberty
thing specifically, if you could go back in time and stop yourself from
undergoing puberty, would you?
And I think you already said no, but you like the person you are now better.
Yeah, I can't make that comparison very fairly.
Cause like I said, pre-teenager Steven was, I think barely sentient.
I think, I mean, I was like, I was aware I had a thousand feelings more
of an it than I am now, but I don't, I wouldn't want to go back to pre-puberty.
I think a lot of that is that you don't remember who you were then.
You don't remember your feelings.
You don't remember your thoughts.
You don't remember how you mold over things.
That's true, but I also just have distinct memories of like not really
molding things the way that I do now.
Like I was just genuinely less thoughtful.
I was more acting than I was thinking.
Maybe that's not everyone's childhood and my memories are very hazy, but.
No, you know, it's really interesting.
I have had that exact same thing happening in reverse over the past few years.
It's weird.
I used to be much more of a person who would just sit and read and think
about philosophy and stuff.
And over the past few years, I've done a lot more of like making things
in the world like I bought the house that was a wreck and renovated it.
And that felt good.
And I'm working on a novel now and I've got the methods of rationality
podcast and more I make those sorts of things, the more I find myself more
interested in making things and less interested in like talking about stuff,
which it feels really weird.
I just came to that realization a few weeks ago that I am not nearly as
much the same kind of person who would just get off talking about crazy ideas
for hours that I used to be.
And I still like doing that.
I mean, I go to the less wrong meetups.
I'm on this podcast for those reasons, but not nearly as much as I used to.
Things have changed and it's weird.
I think that's a third thing.
You're not more like my child itself.
You're more like a different person because childhood Steven just like ran
around, got candy and played outside.
Like there wasn't it was a lot like what I imagine it's like being a dog.
You know, like you're just you're just you're responding to things in the world.
You're you're not but you're not sitting there weighing consequences, right?
I suspect that you're not being fair to childhood Steven.
That's my suspicion.
That said, though, I do know that childhood Steven would be OK with this
with this assessment, I think I was a very weird kid in that.
Like I remember I had some habits and I would be like, you know,
somewhere between 10 and 13 years old, let's say, you know what?
I know I'm not going to be doing this in 10 years, but I'm OK doing it now.
Like I know this is just something that I'm doing and it'll it'll wear off.
I was I was I just knew that future Steven would be different and I was OK with that already.
Huh. See, I never I always thought that I would be the same forever.
I will love video games for my entire life.
And and, you know, that changed eventually.
And I never thought it would.
Maybe I just don't share a lot of core values.
Just I just still like candy.
I just like video games.
So it is interesting, though, when I was I think when I was 12,
I calculated what my age would be in the year 2000.
And I was like, oh, man, I'm going to be 19 years old then.
I'm not going to be old enough to really party and enjoy it
because I'm going to be a responsible adult. That's hilarious.
Yeah. So wait, so were you saying you're too old to party and enjoy it or too young?
No, I would be too old because at 19, I mean, when you're when you haven't
hit puberty yet, anyone who's gone past puberty is like an adult, right?
And so my my model for adults was my parents.
So I was like, oh, I'll be responsible then.
That's really funny.
Probably be married. Yeah, exactly.
Definitely have a house.
Oh, no, I got engaged to my first wife at 19.
So. Oh, I see.
Sorry. No, no, it's cool.
I was stupid.
I've been stupid most of my life.
In your defense, you overcame a lot.
I think I think the job was witness upbringing really started you out in a hole, right?
I it's possible.
So I wouldn't I wouldn't hate on yourself on your younger self too much.
My younger self was OK.
I think it's sort of an unfair question to ask.
Would you want to go through puberty knowing what you know?
Because you can't ask the person who's alive.
Would you rather that the dead person be alive instead?
It's like, no, I'd rather be alive.
So, no, obviously, I'd rather be me than than the kid.
But I'm not sure if the kid would have the same answer.
I had one here.
This was in our debate and conspiracy email.
So without the value judgment on the aggregate, you might not be maximizing
happiness or minimizing suffering.
Take the self-flagellator or the house self.
He has a desire to serve.
And if he fails, he punishes himself at the point before the self-inflicted pain.
There is one, a natural desire to not feel pain.
And two, a culturally desire, a culturally imposed desire to feel pain.
Obviously, if the result is to whip himself, then the balance of desires
is fulfilled and desirism is satisfied.
It's fine leaving the self-flagellator at one degree above breaking even
on the scale from suffering to thriving.
A more moral action might be to intervene, even against the self-flagellator's will,
to modify the culture to remove the desire to cause self-harm.
The only motivation and desirism to fix the situation is some vague notion
of having a desire to create a world where other people don't feel bad
for failing to serve something they care about, or maybe a desire to not
