Yes.
If there's no other way to stop people from getting on drugs, then the amount of pain
that punishment causes is worth the less drug addiction that you have.
But once we have a greater level of technology where we can give someone a drug to break
their addiction, there are people who would say, that's cheating.
It is a moral failing that they were addicted in the first place and they should break the
addiction the true way, you know?
There are drugs to help people get off of heroin and painkillers.
Right.
Those are the drugs you're talking about.
And that's one of the reasons why CRATM, I believe, is one of those drugs that's kind
of a painkiller, drug herb, and that's one of the reasons why the Department of Drug
Enforcement, or the DEA, hasn't listed it, hasn't scheduled it yet.
They put it off, possibly for good, because people are actually using it to successfully,
apparently to successfully get off of addictions, harmful addictions.
That's fantastic.
But there are people who say that that is a moral failing to use drugs when you should
be shaming people into not taking drugs.
Which is probably one of the arguments of the other side.
Right.
He mentioned specifically that he's talked to doctors in his real life that did not
want to recommend gastric bypass surgery for people, even though they were good candidates
for it, because they were like, well, am I encouraging social laxness that these people
should just watch what they're eating and exercise like good virtuous humans do?
Maybe they're afraid of weakening the signal in general.
Right.
I think, well, that's kind of the point, that you can weaken the signal completely if you
can take care of this problem another way.
And then it falls down to, well, are we doing something wrong?
Are we weakening society?
Are we doing some, is there some failing by having a medical intervention to fix these
problems?
Yeah.
And it's hard for me to see, he does lay out like the moral theories behind it, you know,
the deontologist says, well, no, it's all about character and stuff.
And he's like, yeah, I'm the utilitarian or I'm the consequentialist, right?
So I just care about, well, this person's not going to die at 35 of a heart attack if
I give them gastric bypass or a lap band or something, you know, whatever it takes to
keep them healthy.
But not everybody is a candidate for a lap band.
Right.
So if you're weakening the signal that helps people who aren't candidates for that, increase
mortality overall, not, not that I'm arguing that, yeah, but that is the argument that
can be made.
That's a good point.
I don't have a great response to that other than I guess to say these are hard questions
on that.
Right.
Yeah.
So it is the kind of thing that like a doctor would have to actually analyze and not me.
And that a good utilitarian would take into account.
And the fact is shaming people and scorning them does cause harm to cause a psychological
harm.
So then you got to ask, is that harm worth the benefits that some people will not gain
weight because they will feel so shamed that they will, you know, not eat even though they're
hungry when, when there are other possible alternatives that don't include quite so much
psychological pain.
Yep.
Leave that to the professionals.
Yeah.
Because you know, I'm really sorry I interrupted when you were talking about Star Trek.
I jumped on the replicator and I couldn't not see if that was something that they talked
about and I interrupted.
I was just happy that somebody else envisioned a beautiful future, you know, back in when
was TNG the 90s?
TNG was started in 88, I think, so late 80s and early 90s.
Okay.
It was seven seasons.
So that long ago, somebody was envisioning a beautiful future where there was only fake
meat and and that humans no longer, I liked how they said, enslaved animals.
That's a good show.
It's a good thought experiment to just imagine like, what will we be doing, you know, 5,000
years from now?
Well, can you, can you really imagine what we're doing?
Some of these things, like the kinds of experiments we've done on chimps in the 50s, right?
We're already doing less and less of those.
And so it'd be weird to imagine that we'd come up, bring those back so like it seems
like moral progress to not be doing that.
TNG certainly isn't rational fake, like you said.
They didn't use their teleporters when they could have, but, but it's still utopic and
nice.
Which one was well-wheaten in?
That was TNG.
TNG is short for Trek Next Generation for the hardcore fans.
I've been watching a lot of tabletop games, which is a YouTube show that well-wheaten
hosts and it's a lot of fun.
Excellent.
And, and therefore TNG must be the best Star Trek.
Which one, which one has Patrick Stewart?
That is also TNG.
Oh, then yeah, that's the best one.
Yeah.
TNG is the best one.
Like just objectively.
Anyone who thinks otherwise is wrong.
And the hate mail comes flowing in.
I actually don't think I will get very much hate mail at all.
Oh, challenge accepted.
Yeah.
You heard that.
TNG is a different, at least two of the different seasons.
The original series and TNG, I've been watching them one, you know, switching off each episode.
TNG is really not that good so far.
Are you in season two yet?
Nope.
Okay.
Season one is known to be bad.
It has its moments that are good, but it really doesn't hit its stride until season
two.
Okay, good to know.
Yeah.
Which is not a thing series can do anymore nowadays.
Consider yourself.
You have to be good at season one or you get canceled.
Consider yourselves forewarned.
Yes.
So I did want to jump back to talking about this in the context of gender issues about
the idea of concept networks.
There are people who choose not to identify it with gendered pronouns, which I'm sure
most people are aware of, that there are people out there that do that.
And that seems to me like a step to draw attention to this disparate and pointless label attachment,
right?
Neil DeGrasse Tyson, you know, he doesn't jump on board with like the atheist train
or anything.
He's the only kind ofist I am as a scientist because he doesn't, he specifically doesn't
like the labels that carry, because everything carries more baggage.
And I think it's for that, for similar reasons that people would say, you know what, if there's
40 nodes that come along with the label boy or the label man, and I'm maybe hitting on
15 of them, I don't really want to have all the extra baggage come along with it.
So I'm going to not, I'm going to try and encourage people that know me to not use those,
those pronouns with me.
So I think, I mean, Katrina knows more about this than I do, but it's, it was something
that I didn't even know about until like two years ago.
So I have had the, for me, it's fun.
Like coming across something that I haven't, I'm not familiar with being confused and then
realizing stuff and then updating.
I, some people find that painful, I find it exhilarating.
That was my jumping off point.
Did you have anything you wanted to add to that?
No, we've discussed this a number of times because for a while I was trying not to use
gender pronouns for myself.
It turns out it's difficult because I live in a gendered world.
People see me as a woman and it's hard enough to get people not to refer to you as a girl.
So I respect the hell out of people who use the neutral pronouns and I try really hard
to do it, but it is, it is a hard shift for my brain to make.
And so I try to, when I'm around people like that, I try to just use their names a lot.
Same.
Yeah.
Because it's, it's, I'll find myself slipping and like, I admire them for doing that, but
I feel bad when I get it wrong.
I do too.
And maybe that, maybe that's part of the point that, that, that I think that they're trying,
they're not trying to like hurt your feelings, but they're, I think the whole point is to
draw attention to this problem and, or to, for what them is a problem, right?
Like I, I don't really mind the label for myself.
I could see the, the benefit if there were more words, I might not identify with the
same pronouns as other men, but since we only have the two, this is the one that I more
closely identify with and picking a third, I think kind of like Katrina said, there's,
there's a lot of, of work involved and I just, I'm way too lazy to put in the work.
And I think that there would be like, it's not just laziness.
There's also like,
It's worthwhile though.
Well, I think the conversation with my parents and like, they're not bigots, but like getting
my people that aren't on the same wavelength as we are to get on board with that and like
not make a deal out of it.
I got, I got not flak, but it was brought up every year for all the years that I was
a vegetarian.
I like Thanksgiving with my family and they weren't, they weren't being dicks.
They were just like, you still a vegetarian nudge, nudge.
And I'm like,
That's kind of being a dick.
Yeah.
But like it wasn't like, oh, this fucking, you know, leaf eaters.
So like they, I mean, they could have been rude.
They were just, they could have been mean, but they were just rude.
Well, you're experiencing what it's like to have some sort of minority label attached
to you.
And everybody, everybody in our culture has been inculturated with, you know, male and
female pronouns for everything.
It's super, super common and it's difficult for everybody, including people who are age-endured
to make those transitions, but because it's, but it's worthwhile to do.
Right.
And it's super hard for you because you do like have a lot of the female gendered things
that like just trigger, right?
Like generally I've, the, the couple of people I know that do this have some markers that
you can tell pretty quickly right on.
It's, uh, the, um,
They're probably pretty useful for them.
Exactly.
That they look androgynous or, or age-endured.
Yeah.
There's, there's something done where when you look at them, there's a visual reminder.
Oh, hey, you know, don't use the standard pronouns.
So I don't know.
I don't know what you could do.
Did you get some facial scarring?
No.
That's a bad idea.
I don't want to have to do that.
Yeah.
