Oh, see, perfect.
I should be happy to hear that.
In the, in the thread that you were just talking about, that we're going to link
the gifting a signaling thread, one of the major themes that is brought up is
that signals are supposed to be costly and hard to fake.
And one of the guys kept saying it's so inefficient to give people gifts
because you're just, you're giving them things they don't really need or want.
And it would be more efficient just to give them money so they can get what
they want.
And the reply was like, yes, signaling is, it's supposed to be hard to give
someone a decent gift.
That's what makes it a good signal.
If you have actually know someone well enough to know, oh, this is a thing
they will like and pick it out and give it to them.
That takes a lot of effort.
It takes knowing that person very well.
It's extremely hard to fake that.
And so it is a very good signal that you actually do know someone well
and care about them was, was the counter reply to that.
Yeah.
And I think that person's pretty spot on with why people.
So like there's this trend of like, I think people are more happy to give
gift cards than cash, which to me, gift cards are everything.
They're limiting.
Yeah, they're everything that is good about cash, but or excuse me, they have
cash is limited.
Cash is better in every single way.
Cash is what gift cards are, but better.
Like I have two gift cards on my desk that each have less than a dollar
balance on them and I have no idea how to spend it.
All right.
I think I can go to Amazon and give myself like, you know, a dollar seventy
eight cents credit or something.
But even that sounds like a lot of work to do for under two bucks.
And like the best gift card is just like a Visa one, right?
Where you can spend $50 anywhere on anything.
It doesn't matter.
But then why didn't you just get cash?
And then you have that, you know, the $1 and 50 cents left over problem.
Yeah.
Oh, well, holidays are now over.
We can all just hold our breath until next year with why are gift cards
viewed as better than cash?
Is it just because it has the word gift in it?
I think it's partly because like, especially if it's to a place, it's
like, I don't know what video games you want, but I know you like to go to
game stuff.
Okay.
So like, I know you like video games, but I don't even know what console
you have.
So you're showing, you know, a little bit about exactly as far as like a Visa gift
card, I think that's just because for some reason cash is seen as tacky.
Yeah.
And I do consider like the Visa one slightly tackier than like a
GameStop gift card, but I consider them way more useful.
Yeah, exactly.
So I guess tackiness and usefulness aren't mutual or are not necessarily related.
So yeah, I don't know what to say to that other than I give cash.
Yeah.
Cash is the way to go.
I give cash and I am super classy.
I might be the classiest person in this room.
That's right.
Probably.
Wow.
No, I actually, I don't know, maybe someday it'll come up, but I do
consider you to be like a class above mine.
It's super classy to talk about a class that you are.
Oh, that's your eye.
See, I'm trying to drag you down to my level.
Wait, so are you still?
So you were the classiest person in the room before you said you were the
classiest person in the room.
Yes.
Okay.
It's okay to joke about it when the plebs are around.
We're just giving you shit.
There was last thing.
Oh, I was actually thinking about the gift card versus cash thing just as a
random, I'm not a conspiracy theory oriented person, but I'm wondering if
there was some deliberate ploy, because if I give you 20 bucks for Christmas,
Uncle Sam doesn't get a cut of the, of the taxes on gifts, the, the
businesses nearby don't get the revenue.
You could put that cash in a savings account where no one gets to benefit
from it, except for one bank.
I mean, it is deliberate because a lot of people don't use their gift
cards and therefore the companies get that money.
And they also, if people do use it, they come in and they spend more than
is on the gift card in order to use the entire balance.
Yeah, you kind of have to.
Yeah.
Oh, damn.
So it definitely benefits companies to put out beautiful gift cards.
That'll be my new steadfast rule for next Christmas.
No gift cards.
It's a good, probably a good rule.
Yeah.
Yeah, fuck the man.
There's some cultures where the companies, the companies are the man in capital
the capital M.
Yeah.
The, um, now there's some cultures.
It's interesting with there are certain situations where it's considered rude
not to give gifts, not to give cash.
There, there, um, I think, but I think in China, when you get married, there's
like a special red envelope with a special seal and you should, you're
supposed to put cash in it and give that to the newly married couple.
But anyways, uh, if you were to try to give a present that is not cash, it
would be considered gauche.
Be like, this is a newly starting out couple.
They need cash to buy things.
Screw you and your stupid wedging registry stuff.
Hmm.
But I mean, there's like a special envelope and everything.
Yeah.
To go with it.
Well, the nice thing about a wedding registry is you don't have to go to the
store, wait, you already do to pick out stuff.
Nevermind.
They take it back.
Or you can do on the store's website.
The nice thing about a wish list there, he'll say that, is you can, you can send
that to people and they can go out and do the hard work of driving to the store and
buying the thing for you.
Or just clicking on the wish list Amazon and having it shipped to your door.
Yes, or that's a much better way to do things.
I'm not a huge fan of the holiday.
Like I love the, I love the family stuff.
I hate the gift part.
I get like why people like it, but it stresses me out.
So I'm really glad it's over.
That's just my last two cents on it.
All right.
Well, shall we, shall we say goodbye?
We're nearing the end of our time.
That sounds good.
All right.
Thank you guys so much for listening.
You can contact us at bayesianconspiracypodcast.gmail.com, write comments at our
subreddit r slash the bayesianconspiracy and come visit our website for more
information that is thebayesianconspiracy.com and it'll have a link to our brand new
Patreon.
Yep.
And if you haven't yet, you are so inclined, don't hesitate to leave a review
at iTunes.
All right.
Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
