So they don't, they don't do well for paraphrasing.
I think that, you know, like we said, Planet and Spider and Bug have important connotations.
Boy and Girl have important connotations.
There was a great, I'm going to plug Skeptoid twice in one episode.
Skeptoid episode a few weeks ago, talking about the concept of race in humans.
How did Boy and Girl have important connotations?
I was going to get to that.
Okay.
But the, the, the race thing is a good analogy.
Asking for someone's races is not scientifically useful in a technical sense.
And there's all kinds of obvious bad reasons why people have bad affiliations or something
or bad connotations with certain races if you're talking to a racist.
But it can be a great shorthand for like, are you going to be susceptible to sickle cell anemia?
Or, you know, do you have, so there are different things that are popular, like especially genetic
issues in certain groups, like intolerance to alcohol in some Asian demographics.
So those, those are great little shorthands only because you don't have the time to get like a full
genotypical divulgence into their, their history, right?
Or into their, into their ancestry.
So like if you want a, a very quick rule of thumb, if you don't have time to run their genes,
that can give you some information.
So I think that people would argue that there are similar things between Boy and Girl.
I think it's much more of a social thing.
I think both the race and the Boy-Girl thing is people put a lot of importance on that because
it tells them how to treat those people.
And that's sort of a problem, but it's not, it's not a thing that's going to be easily fixed.
I agree.
And I agree that there's probably less obvious, useful distinctions between Boy and Girl than
someone might argue, like in the case of like quick medical diagnostics for race, like a race
checkbox in your medical intake sheet.
And it, at least there are at least as many important ones because you could say that
people under category girl usually have a uterus, not always, but usually have a uterus.
And I bet you that they have uteruses at a higher rate than people from Africa have resistance to
sickle cell, you know, or have sickle cell anemia.
I totally agree.
And if you go in with stomach pain, they're not going to check to see if your fallopian
tubes are, I don't know, clogged isn't the right word.
I knew somebody in their teens who had a novarian cyst in their fallopian tube and it was causing
discomfort.
And so like, they're not going to check that for, if you went in with abdominal pain.
Did you just say that they had an ovarian cyst in their fallopian tube?
It apparently was in root.
There was some, there was some issue.
That was what they called it.
And maybe I'm misremembering because I was 13.
Whatever it was, they had a cyst, maybe not a novarian cyst.
Okay.
Or maybe it moved.
There was some complicated thing.
But yeah, all of these, all of these can be very useful shorthand.
But what about at the point that it starts hurting people?
Right.
I totally agree.
One of the general lessons to take away from this intuition that people have to, you know,
ask, is it really this?
Is it, did it really make a sound?
Is a fish really a, or is a whale really a fish?
Those aren't really good questions.
You, you have good questions that satisfy whatever your criteria are.
And then that, that hanging node that isn't really attached to anything in the world isn't
really a good question.
So like, you know, whatever information it is that you're after, there's nothing left
to ask.
Well, is that person really a warrior?
Is that person really a girl?
That to me doesn't seem like, that seems like as fringe, or as pointless of a question
as, is an ostrich a dinosaur, right?
Or as Pluto a planet, right?
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
It's an ostrich dinosaur is a way cooler question.
Then is Pluto a planet?
No.
Is that person a boy or a girl?
Okay.
In my humble opinion.
It depends on who you ask because there are cultures that have very strong norms about
how you're supposed to treat boys and how you're supposed to treat girls and they're
very different.
And if you screw that up, you could be subject to social censure.
Well, I think that we might be one of those cultures.
I, well, yes, I think there's sub subcultures in the US where that is more important than
subcultures where it is far less.
And there's probably other parts of the world where it's a much bigger deal.
Right.
Where if you wanted to challenge your quote assigned gender, people would not just disagree
with me, but they, I mean, I violently disagree with you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So which I mean happens, you get hate crimes in the US, but like you don't get like publicly
stoned to death.
Right.
Often.
In Slate Star Codex, in the disease thinking article that you were talking about, one of
the examples that they gave of people holding on to definitions for morality reasons reminded
me of people's response to making lab grown meat.
I've never understood that.
Can you, so what is the response to lab grown meat that people dislike it?
I think, I think most people like it, but you will always see if somebody posts about lab
grown meat and the, the big organizations are definitely for it and hugely in support
of it because the goal is, is to lower animal suffering.
Period.
Right.
But you'll always see people say, just stop eating meat.
Like what's wrong with you?
You can stop eating meat.
Why can't people just not eat meat?
And it's because, well, the idea is because what they're doing is virtue signaling.
Right.
Right.
They put all this effort into doing a thing that it was a good thing.
And now people are getting the good effects without having to put in all the effort.
So it's like cheating.
Their argument is just be good.
Just be good.
And then we wouldn't even have this problem.
I'm not going to support lab grown meat because by the way, I support lab grown meat.
Totally.
No, the people I've run into that don't support lab grown meat are like, ew, that's gross.
I'm not even eating meat.
And those people like just, I cannot even, like, is your meat more tasty because it contains
suffering?
What, what is the, what is the...
So you're talking to meat eaters.
Yes.
Yes.
I'm coming from it from the other, the other side where I had someone share a link to this
lab.
I mean, it was like, I would never eat this.
Well, maybe they're just afraid of change.
Satisfied, quo bias.
Yeah.
That seems like a weird motivation though.
Cause like you said, like, so does the suffering add any extra zing or like, is it like less
weird to think that you're hacking off part of an animal and putting it in your mouth?
Or like, then it is to like think that this was never part of an animal in the first place.
I don't know.
Both seem kind of equally weird to me.
It just, it seems like evil for the sake of evil.
Just to say, I want my meat to come from an animal carcass.
Yeah.
That's a weird thing.
And I think there's an obvious error in that, in that thinking.
I saw a Star Trek TNG episode recently where they were telling people from another planet
that they don't, they don't enslave animals anymore for their meat.
It's made through their transporters.
Replicators.
Replicators.
Can you replicate full people in Star Trek?
Well, sorry.
I didn't mean to detail this, but that sounds like a really important question.
Yes, but they're evil.
What?
Seriously?
That's hilarious.
Not always evil.
Sometimes they're evil.
Yes, you can basically replicate full people.
That's how the transporter works.
It breaks you down, atom by atom, just directly scanning you, and then sends the information
off and then recreates you.
I thought the replicator was a specifically different machine.
Didn't we already talk about this?
Not the replicator.
The replicator, that's right, we did talk about this once.
We talked about the transporter.
But then I actually saw the episode more recently.
The replicator works on the same principle.
It's slightly simpler.
It just makes two of them, or it doesn't break you down, it just copies you.
The replicator actually just makes things out of pure energy, which is a cool thing.
I just think that it sounds really obvious, now you've got a fleet of all the universe's
best ship captains, and all the universe's best gunners, and all the universe's best
philosophers.
It's one of the frustrating things about Star Trek that they do not explore the implications
of this technology.
Womp.
Every time they do it, they accidentally make an evil twin.
Maybe that's the problem.
You don't want a fleet full of evil captains.
I'm sorry to have derailed you.
I couldn't resist jumping on that when I heard about it, though.
I just came out as not having seen Star Trek.
I don't know if I talked about that last time we talked about Star Trek.
It's okay.
We forgive you for this moral failing.
That's okay.
Okay, thank you.
My Steven node still has a goodness next to it.
There's different reasons that somebody might be overly attached to a label, right?
Some of them could be good reasons.
The ones that, I think, was it addiction?
He brought up, sorry, Scott, in the post, I believe, brought up addiction.
He said that in the absence of biological remedies like drugs that can break the addiction
and cure it, having scorn and social, what's the word for negative social pressure?
Consequences?
I guess.
But calling someone a loser who doesn't do anything in general makes people's lives
worse.
It's a psychological attack.
It's punishment.
