I was going to make an inappropriate joke.
Like, well, they got all just wear armbands with a symbol on them.
That's not like where you were going when you, you're talking about tattooing their faces.
I don't.
I'm, anyway, that was obviously, uh, an inappropriate joke.
You're right though.
How is it?
How is it that the, you know, no, no, no, but that's weird that I had more of an emotional
reaction to your armbands thing just because of the Nazi thing as opposed to my face tattooing,
which is the objectively more traumatic and significant thing.
I think, I think that everybody else should get face tattoos to show that they associate
with gender and then people who don't shouldn't have to have face tattoos.
That could work.
Like everyone should be forced to wear some kind of ornamental thing at any rate.
No, that was a joke.
Oh.
But I definitely don't think that that should happen.
I think that people should just.
Not bad.
They've read a lot of sci-fi books.
The other distinction was that yours was voluntary and mine had the connotation of being involuntary.
Oh, that's true.
And I didn't mean it voluntarily as well, but historically it wasn't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, Katrina, what is, I think that they is the preferred gender or neutral pronoun because
it's already English and singular they is something that you can use in conversation,
um, when talking about like an unknown person, like, so for example, on my way here, there
was a downed car and they just stopped in the, in the left lane.
I don't know who, who they were and that, that's a perfectly valid English sentence.
And I think I'm not sure as it's still around, there was like a push for a while for like
Z and Zae, uh, like with an X or a Z.
That, that has a little bit of a different connotation to it, potentially.
So they is, is pretty neutral, whereas Zee, please feel free to correct me, might include
people who are androgynous or gender fluid.
So it's a new pronoun rather than like an existent neutral one.
Potentially.
Okay.
I might be misremembering this, but I've always gone for they because it's pre-existing.
I recently started playing a, uh, Korean dating sim game, which I, yeah, right.
Uh, but you know, it's, it's not in Korean.
It's been translated English.
I don't speak Korean, but it's an interesting thing in the translation.
When they refer to, uh, see, there it is again, they, uh, when they refer to people
who are of an unknown gender and it's just one of them, they translated it as it, which
when it, when I saw that, I was like, it stuck out to me.
Because first of all, like, wow, way too things, somebody.
That's not a person.
And then I was like, huh, why don't we use it?
Because it has baggage.
It does have baggage.
It has, it has a bunch of nodes that you do not apply it to a human being, except
apparently it used to be applied to children.
Really?
Yeah.
In our history.
In our history?
Yes.
Or like in the last, in the last 20, 30 years?
No.
Oh, in human history.
Um, in our Western.
I could see that.
Western history.
You're not barely human anyway.
No.
There, there was a book that came out some years ago, but they're less children
are automatically less gendered because they haven't gone through puberty.
So the reason I asked for the origin of it was?
No, I don't think so.
Sorry, I didn't mean to talk.
Oh, no, you're totally fine.
The reason I asked for clarification was because I know that there was a book that
was around, I don't know, 15 years ago that was, I think it was pushed on Oprah.
It was a child called it and it was, that was apparently like a bad thing.
So I was like, this can't have been around 15 years ago and I just wasn't aware of it.
And there was some traumatic thing from this person.
If you read really old news, when they refer to things that happen to children,
they refer to the children as it.
That's really interesting.
So little, little Abigail so-and-so and then the rest of the pronoun for, for
that child is it.
Huh.
So I wonder when that switch happened.
There's an interesting look into it.
Yeah.
There's an interesting thing there.
So like, I think I doubt that was the purpose, but maybe they're trying not to
gender the children.
I'm so, I'm somehow doubting that they were that forward thinking, but that would
be, well, maybe they didn't simply didn't think that children were.
People.
Gendered.
Oh, that too.
Yes.
People, maybe not gendered.
I mean, it was common for-
Maybe they would think that we're gross nowadays, right?
Why are you sexualizing your kids?
Yeah, it's weird.
It was common to dress kids in very simple white gowns, whether they were boys or girls.
Okay.
So I'm, I can picture the period in history you're talking about, because my, let's
see, my dad's dad or my dad's grandpa, we have a picture of him somewhere in their
house of him as a baby.
Yeah.
That was common for a while.
Yeah.
In a white dress gown thing.
So that would have been, that would be around the period where they're calling
them it in newspapers.
Maybe a little early.
Well, yeah, actually, that's interesting.
Maybe around there.
I always think of Montgomery Burns from The Simpsons, skipping around in the
dress with a lollipop.
I always think of Mr.
Burns just all the time.
Do you want to switch over into listener feedback?
Okay.
Were there any pieces that you wanted to correct if I missed out on anything
talking about gender levels or something?
Or, because you know a lot about that.
I'm sure, I'm sure that some of you were very offended by some of the things that
we've said and feel free to tell us about it.
And we will apologize.
And read your comment on the air.
And feel free to tell us, maybe, feel free to tell us nicely.
Like I, if I, if I missteped, I am making an effort.
So I, I think it's, I think a dead marble.
It was something that I wasn't familiar with.
It's common.
Um, I will say one thing that kind of pricked my ears.
It's common to complain about how difficult it is to remember to call people the
pronouns that they prefer.
And, um, I know that some people are pretty sick of that because it's difficult
to, you know, identify with different pronouns, but, um, but the truth is it is
difficult, so all of those things are tough.
I'm sure it's way more difficult to identify as a gender neutral pronoun.
And it's way more comfortable for like, excuse me, with a gender, with a gender
neutral pronoun, uh, than it is for like me to slip up.
Um, I think that that's, that you were just talking about your own experience.
You weren't obviously talking about theirs.
And it'll get easier with time and with practice.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, that was fun.
We were talking about.
I never got around to the whole, uh, the cool, um, Google uses.
There's plenty of time.
Okay.
I talked for a lot.
Talk about your, talk about your Google stuff.
Well, no, it, okay.
So, um, it's kind of interesting.
The, the one of the ways, one of the things I got into with this was, uh, Google has
been doing a lot with, uh, it's Google translate lately where it's been using,
uh, deep learning networks, which work kind of like this, uh, like concept networks.
Yes.
Exactly.
Uh, which, um, not exactly at all, but the concept is similar.
It's, it's much more technical and, and difficult.
Uh, but the thing that really blew my mind was one of these networks, they were, uh,
using a deep learning network and training it to recognize objects.
It was a visual network.
So they just fed it several million still frames from YouTube.
It just does its thing, runs its learning on it.
And they found that it had fixated on a certain, um, not image, but a, a certain
grouping of features that is a cat.
And I thought that was the coolest thing.
Cause no one in the process of this training ever pointed to a cat and said,
this is cat, recognized cat is just after seeing millions of frames, network picked up.
Hey, there's this thing that appears a whole lot and it kind of looks sort of like this.
And when a human looks at it is like, oh, that's a cat, the network has discovered
what a cat looks like, which also says about how many, how many cat videos
there are on YouTube.
And how apparently universally liked cats are.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But it was really cool that just by aiming a, a learning network at YouTube, it
could discover what a cat looks like on its own.
And I was obviously joking about cat loving, being a common feature across
mind design space, but, uh, that even machines love cats.
Yeah, that, that's a really interesting thing.
We should definitely link to that article.
Yeah.
The, the other thing that this, uh, visual recognition program picked up, uh,
saw a lot in its environments was these bizarre sort of animal things that were
described in the article as looking sort of like half Ottomans, half goats.
And it got me thinking, what are these half Ottoman, a half goat creatures
that we cannot see, but are observing us at all times?
It is, it is a little creepy.
What are you talking about?
They would pick that up in just background images that didn't have any animals in them.
Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, they would just, the, the, there was, it was a thing that they also
recognized, uh, very often like cats and we don't see anything like that.
And it's, I realize it's not actually a thing that exists, but every now and
then it would make like a very good horror premise that there is these things
in our environment, which we cannot see for some reason, but the computer's picking
