have your mirror neurons fire whenever you witness a house self fail in his duties.
Pretty weak, question mark.
So I think part of what I liked about that was that it got to the point
that I was trying to make that I didn't feel like was answered very satisfactorily
in the episode.
He kept insisting that it wasn't, excuse me, Alonzo,
kept insisting that it wasn't about maximizing satisfied desires.
It was the desire itself, which I get as a shift from my consequentialist thinking.
But it's hard to see, like, he also said that it would be that you shouldn't
let someone sit there and beat themselves for failing or whatever, right?
Because they were having a bad desire.
Or I think he did.
He said something along those lines, and this was sort of a reply to that,
that sort of built on the fact that, yeah, but then the only solution
is to build a better world that doesn't involve those desires.
That seems to be a consequentialist thinking, in my opinion,
it's always been a flavor of consequentialism.
But, you know, as they say, a consequentialist sees consequentialism everywhere.
So, yes, the answer would be that he is maximizing his desires when he does that.
But the desire, its desires themselves can be evaluated based on how they
interact with other desires, whether they tend to fulfill other desires
or thwart other desires and a desire to beat yourself
if you didn't clean your house well enough is one that tends to thwart
other desires because it leads to, you know, bodily harm, the time wasted
beating yourself, the desire to not be in physical pain.
Yeah, exactly.
It thwarts those desires.
And so the answer would be yes, create a society where that desire
to beat yourself is not instilled in people because it is definitely
a subpar desire based on how many other desires it thwarts.
OK, so that's the scale by which you assess whether or not
the desires are good or bad desires.
Yeah.
And how well they mesh with other desires.
OK, I can dig that.
There was a remaining question on that that right in about we use the word
thought crime and I think in a context that was different than is typically used
like 1984 thought crime versus the way that you were using in that episode.
Right.
I mean, I used it a little bit different.
But the fact that all crime really boils down to what was going through
the person's head when they committed the crime is, I think, a very interesting
point and kind of makes thought crime not as open and shut a place
as people would think like you're allowed to think anything.
But when we punish someone for doing something, we're punishing them
for what they were thinking when they did it.
But we're also punishing them for actually doing it.
Yes, you have to do the thing too.
You can't just think it.
I think that was something that wasn't explicitly said.
Right.
And in the 1984 case, they were punishing people for just thinking
things without doing anything.
Right.
So there's difference in thinking, treasonous thoughts and doing
treasonous things.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, all right.
Although if you're really insecure in your power,
you probably want to beat up anyone who's even thinking treasonous things.
Right.
Yeah, that is a bad desire, though.
Fair enough.
I got one more, which I'm not sure if this is cheating because this was not
posted on the subreddit or anywhere else.
I just thought it was neat and relevant.
A certain person that we all know posted on Facebook about created white sapphires.
Yeah, this actually has zero things to do with our this is not listener feedback.
But this is something that you saw on Facebook.
Yeah, but it touches on signaling.
And did we want to venture it?
Yeah, of course.
There's also you linked to that great thing on the subreddit that someone made
a comment on some other thread about signaling.
Oh, yes.
And so that's that's on the subreddit for that episode.
There was a great link to another Reddit comment about signaling for in
their context of Christmas gifts.
We can skip through it, but it's worth reading his entirety.
The thing about the created white sapphires is really neat because they
there's a lot of created gems nowadays, which are just absolutely fantastic.
Lab-grown gems.
Right, but they're gems that are not dug out of the ground.
They're made in a lab and they are.
They're generally flawless and they can be made much cheaper in some cases.
And white sapphires are one of the ones that can be made very cheap.
You can get a carrot or two for less than a hundred dollars.
And the white ones look very much like diamonds, like unless you're an appraiser,
you're not going to be able to see the difference.
And it was brought up that this is a very useful hack to use one of these instead
of a diamond and save yourself literally thousands of dollars.
And my comment was like, yes, but that depends like who you're signaling to.
If you're if you're getting the diamond because you want to signal to strangers,
hey, look, I can afford fancy diamonds.
Then it's an awesome hack and you should totally use it.
But on the other hand, if you're trying to signal to you're like an old
first old fashioned person and you're trying to signal to the person you love,
I love you enough to burn $5,000 on a rock that is otherwise worthless.
Then you have just defeated the point of that signal.
That's right.
You're like, I love you enough to burn $60.
Or if you're trying to signal to your in-laws and you're not interested
in bald face lying, right, then spending 60 bucks might be might be difficult
depending on who your in-laws are.
Yeah, I mean, the whole point of signaling is that it is costly.
And if if you're faking it and you you may have to lie to people.
I've experienced somebody feeling pressured to buy expensive jewelry
because their their future in-laws would judge them otherwise as not
being able to provide for their new spouse.
Damn, that would be a rough situation to be in.
I would hope that, I mean, I'm not an advocate of lying, but I might just say
I don't want to tell you how much it cost.
But I think it's the classy route.
Yeah, there was a, we mentioned the Lugas Tyson earlier.
There was like a Nova special that he was on where he went and visited
one of these places where they make diamonds different than the white sapphires.
But they actually just lay down layers of diamond and make a little
lattice of fake sellable diamonds.
And there are people whenever he talks about it or maybe on the show even
that there are people who say, you know, I or my wife really still want
real diamonds and say, these are these are real diamonds.
I mean, like old fashioned like earth rock diamonds.
These are atomically identical.
Yeah, but there's it's different.
Like so people have that other weird attachment to it.
And these these ones are almost like they have a hanging node.
Yeah, exactly.
So it ties in and these the fake diamonds aren't all that less expensive either.
So like they're still a costly signal in that in that context.
But people have this exactly.
Is it really a diamond?
Yeah.
So yeah, good stuff.
As far as that the other signaling comment, it was on the rational
subreddit when it was on the thread share your optimum or excuse me, share
your most optimized winter holiday gifts.
And it's a very long comment, but the two long didn't read is giving
each other equal amounts of money slash requested items is missing the point
of gifts and you should just agree to not give gifts.
Giving unequal amounts of money slash requested items is better assuming
the person who receives is more in excuse me, is in more material need.
People are iffy about receiving material support and special occasions are good
workaround.
So, you know, if you know somebody's hard up, you know, you can give them cash
on Christmas or something.
Was there a rule against giving charity dollars in that particular thread?
In this thread, I didn't read the whole thread because I am one of the best
gifts that I got this Christmas was a certain amount of money and to choose
to give to charity, whatever charities I wanted.
I a lot of people when they give gifts, it in my less charitable charitable
moments, I think that a lot of people when they give gifts want the gift
receiver to see the gift every now and then and remember the gift giver.
Think like, oh, I remember this person.
He gave me this.
What a nice person.
I value our friendship.
And the problem with giving money to a charity as the gift is that you don't
ever see it again once it's given.
And so people are like, at least in my opinion, people are like, well, I don't
want to give charity money because the gift receiver won't ever see that
and think of me.
So I have only once, no, twice in my life, but it was from the same person
just two different years.
Only twice have I ever gotten money donated to a charity as a gift, even
though that's all I ask for generally from anyone.
And the one time it happened, I wrote a special handwritten thank you note,
which is the only time I've ever done that because it's the only time
someone's done that to me.
And I think the joke is on everybody else because I do not remember 98% of
the crap that I get, which goes into the trunk and then gets thrown out after
a few months.
And I still remember to this day that someone gave 50 bucks in my name when
I asked, or if they give you a piece of crap to put in your house and look at it,
you can just look at it and remember how that person gave you a worthless
piece of crap instead of charity money that is just taking up space.
I think the charitable version of the gift giver's intention isn't so much
that they want you to be constantly thinking of them.
It's that they genuinely enjoy the feeling of giving you something.
And so I tried to talk my parents into not giving me stuff, but to give it to
charity and they literally laughed it off for Christmas this year because I
wasn't going to be able to give them stuff.
And so plus they're like, who shops for their parents?
They're impossible to shop for.
So, oh man, I should just give them cash next year.
That'd be just hilarious.
Anyway, so, and I asked, I was like, you know, why?
This is actually what I want.
And my mom was like, no, it's really, I just like giving you stuff and it
makes me feel good.
And I, and I, that's, that's, you know, this works out for both of us.
So for both happy, you know, so you get something that I think you need.
And I get to feel good about giving it to you.
Well, bless her.
My mom also really likes to give things.
And my dad, my dad kind of gets where I'm coming from.
So good dad, good dad gives charity.
I got this pair of jeans.
Oh, sweet.
Yeah.
I was noticing them.
