That's a big deal if you have two versus three body parts.
See, in my opinion, they're an insect with three body parts.
Insects do have three.
They're an insect with two body parts.
They're an insect with two more legs than all other insects.
They're just a special case of insect.
I think what this works with is...
I think it's an allegous to the example with whales and fish.
For all the reasons you care about, you've got this big bucket in your brain called bugs.
It includes everything from ladybugs to spiders to scorpions to bees.
For my hypothetical fisherman, it was like everything that I need to catch in the ocean is a fish.
That might even include, to them, starfish and octopus, whatever they can eat out of the ocean.
The word doesn't really matter.
What the word is isn't a factual question unless you're going to just run to the dictionary and say,
well, the dictionary says you're wrong.
You don't need to know.
You don't need to know, I guess, the difference between spiders.
You don't need to know the difference between arachnids and insects.
You don't need to know arthropod and crustaceans.
All of those things are not need to know for you, because I guess you're not going to...
You don't care about having general knowledge and...
Oh, sick burn.
That's like in Sherlock, you didn't know how many planets were in the solar system,
because it's like, well, how is that going to help me solve mysteries or solve cases?
And it's like, it's the solar system, dude.
It's general knowledge, yeah.
I have a buck in my brain for bugs and spiders are in it.
And you don't look in it because it's full of spiders.
Yeah, exactly.
I understand.
That said, I know that spiders are different than ladybugs, but I see where you're coming from.
So like the standard thing, the reason I think why it's a mistake to ask,
after he's got this running definition of what matters to him about it,
there's the standard question, like if a tree falls in the forest and no one's around here, it doesn't make a noise.
And Inyash says yes, because, well, you just say yes.
Katrina says no.
I'm filling this in for both of you, because...
I understand where you're coming from, Inyash.
Yeah.
When I worked at the aquarium, I remember one of the things that we would tell people was,
this bird is, although it looks like an owl, it's not in any way related to owls,
which was a thoroughly simplistic thing to say that I disagreed with.
But the people who...
It wasn't useful to anybody we told that.
It's like, oh, it's a bird with big eyes.
It's just random trivia.
Like there's those moths.
It's random trivia.
It's so not...
Because if we were really going to get into it, and there's no way anyone would care,
I'd say, well, this bird is actually really closely related to night jars,
and the night jars are more closely related to owls than, you know,
and that nobody cares about that unless they're a biologist.
Right.
Another good example might be like those moths that look really like butterflies or vice-versa.
For the outsider who's not a biologist, they're just like, well,
they're both basically like what I consider butterflies or moths, whatever it looks the most like.
So you follow Neil DeGrasse Tyson a bunch, right?
A bit.
Does he...
Is there a useful reason for him to have...
For the astrophysicist to have defined Pluto to not be part of the planets?
It didn't weigh heavily enough on the nose that all the other planets fit into.
Okay.
So like it's too small.
It's orbits at an angle that's atypical.
It's not as far moved from other small bodies as other parts of...
Or as other major celestial objects.
All reasons that they just felt like, well, if planets can talk about all these things,
and it's going to include Pluto too, then planet means a lot more than we're trying to mean.
So we're going to just shove that out.
And that turned out to be when he started getting hate mail.
Okay.
So that, I mean, that to me feels like the point that there's no reason to fight over this definition really.
We have all the important information we need, and yet people will still fight over the definition anyway.
Yeah.
And people...
Because that's important.
Interestingly enough, these are people who I don't think really would have cared like a week before.
But then Pluto suddenly became super popular.
And I think I did hear somewhere that Pluto was rated them like the most popular, most favorable planet in the solar system by people.
What?
And I'm like, you guys realize...
Who has the favorite planet?
Mine's Earth.
You were right.
And I'm amazed that wasn't the most...
Not Earth favorite planet.
I'm amazed that wasn't like 95% of people.
But I think maybe like, I forget what the...
I don't know if I could take this up.
It was something I read five or ten years ago.
But it was something where people really liked Pluto for some reason.
And I have no idea why.
I think it's because it reminds me of the cartoon doc.
That reminds me...
That doesn't actually remind me.
But to go back to why we kind of came up with this concept, or Inyash came up with this concept in the first place,
is I was talking about gender in the last episode.
I guess the question to ask is what's your true question, right?
So I was talking about...
Oh, maybe there's a lot of overlap in these nodes, I guess,
between the concept of man and woman or boy and girl.
And that makes it less useful.
I know somebody who said to me,
well, what about mixed martial arts fighting in which someone who...
In which somebody who takes medicines to change their body
or identifies as female still has bone and muscle densities associated with being male or something.
Somehow this comes up every time I hear about...
I guess that's the argument that they use.
There is a fair bit of structural difference when that happens during puberty and growing up.
It's such a fringe case.
What's your real question?
What's the real question when...
If a man or a woman, if they're competing in martial arts,
what's their bone and muscle density?
Does it fall within this range or within that range?
The really weird part about it is that we already have weight categories,
and we want things to be sort of fair in a fight, so it's just not a ridiculous blowout.
But on the other hand, people who do extremely well in their chosen sport are genetic freaks anyway.
Michael Phelps has a really long torso and arms and short legs, right?
I think that anybody can do really well in their chosen sport.
We can all do as well as Michael Phelps.
There is a lot that actually comes down to the physical biology when you're the top two or three people out of seven billion humans.
It makes a huge amount of difference, and there's the most fascinating article about why Olympic records keep getting broken more and more every year.
It's not like the human race has been evolving over the past 50 years, but it's mainly selection effects.
Part of it is that training has gone up.
It was a really cool talk.
Just different materials used both in the tracks that are run on and the shoes.
But part of it also is that your typical runner nowadays has longer legs that are thinner in the upper part and widen more towards the ankles,
which didn't used to be the case, but it helps with the runner.
It didn't used to be the case because those people weren't running necessarily?
Yeah.
Okay.
So it starts to get weird because the people in the MMA things are generally kind of on the fringes of human bodies anyway, right?
It's not like your average Joe is going to walk into an MMA and be really good at it.
Even with training, there is a lot of it that comes down to, well, I got some good genes here.
I managed to get particularly dense bones in my body.
Yeah.
So why don't they have classes based on weight and bone density?
Right.
That is a good question.
So you have weight and gender and gender identity.
It's interesting.
I heard this lengthy discussion I heard about this topic was with Joe Rogan.
I forget who he was talking to, but he's got his feet in a lot of things.
He was a TV host.
He was an MMA fighter.
He's a stand-up comedian.
He does a podcast called The Joe Rogan Experience and self-admittedly, he's aware that he's not an expert on stuff,
but he asks questions and that's his whole thing.
So I'm just asking questions.
He made Brian Dunning's list of the top 10 celebrities spreading pseudoscience.
Good thing that you've been advertising him so carefully for the past however many minutes.
The past 15 seconds.
I put that disclaimer on purpose so that people would be aware that if you're going to go look at Joe Rogan's stuff,
be aware that he's not universally agreed upon to be an expert on stuff, but at least he's fair about it.
Anyway, he made the case that it was like putting in somebody of a different weight class,
even though they had similar weight, that there just happens to be different deviations of bone mass,
and whether or not that's true is an important question, and that's a factual question.
I think what it comes down to as far as tying more back to whether or not it fires the correct note or not,
is it's pointless once you've talked about all the things that you care about,
is to ask, well, is that person really a boy or really a girl?
That's where there's this intuition that people feel like there's an unanswered question there,
but there really isn't.
If you've answered all the better questions, that isn't just a label question.
And so as far as whether or not there's a difference, that's something that people should look at.
And I guess maybe why they wouldn't separate it, like separate fighters in different leagues based off of bone mass,
maybe because if it turns out that there actually is a standard deviation that's way different between males and females,
then that would be why they don't bother, right?
But if that's not true, they should measure for that, and they should correct for that in fights, right?
The Boy or Girl question is kind of interesting too, because as a...
There was a follow-up by Scott Alexander, who's writing as Yovane at the time,
which touched on the fact that after Eleazar did this whole thing about talking about how we don't need the central note that doesn't really exist.
He's like, yeah, but actually that central note is used by a lot of things.
It has a lot of moral connotations.
And like the Boy and Girl example is a pretty good example,
because there's still large sections of our society that simply wants to know whether someone is a Boy or a Girl
because they want to know how to treat them.
And there can be a lot of things that affect the way someone is treated because of a label.
I think the one he was talking about is diseases specifically, was whether obesity is a disease or a personal failing.
If it's a personal failing, then you should tell the person, ah, stop being so lazy and eating so much.
And if it's a disease, you're like, oh, you have my sympathy.
Let's see if we can find some way to work about this.
And he's like, people attach a lot of moral significance to these notes.
What was the name of that essay?
Disease Thinking, I think.
So that was on Slate Star Code X.
No, no, that was actually on Less Wrong.
Disease Thinking?
I saw it on Slate Star Code X also.
Oh, was it?
Yeah.
Okay, definitely.
He wrote a similar point on Less Wrong under the handle Yovane, like you said.
Yeah.
And I think that was a different post from prior time.
But I want to link to all these because they're all really interesting.
And there's no way to, there's no good way to summarize Scott Alexander.
He writes really long posts, but they're not long-winded.
