Welcome to The Basin of Conspiracy. My name is Gatina Stanton.
I'm Inyash Brotsky.
And I'm Steven Zuper. And Inyash, I think you were going to introduce our topic for today.
Yes. We were talking last episode about gender and how it isn't necessarily a completely binary thing,
and that got me thinking about the concept of concept networks.
And I thought that would be fun to talk about today because it helped to clear up my thinking on a lot of things
when I read through that initial sequence, and I thought it would be fun to share with other people.
Sure. Can you define what a concept network is?
Actually, I don't know if I can give whatever the official definition is, but I can give what, how I understand it to be.
When people think of a particular thing that they have a label for, like a bird, for example,
there are a lot of attributes that go into that thing, like small, has feathers, can fly, makes tweedy noises, has a beak, stuff like that.
And when all those different things are recognized, that is when we pull the concept of a bird from that.
So how about an ostrich?
An ostrich is a good example of a fringe case where it sets off some of our nodes.
Yeah, is the term that I'm going to use, because it was the term used in the post that I read.
It sets up some of our nodes, but not all of them.
And so then we have to start trying to ask things like, well, is this a bird? Is it not a bird?
What are we really asking when we ask if something is a bird?
The example given in the original post by Eliezer was these blue eggs and these red cubes, which are called blagues and rubes,
just as, you know, a mash-up of the two words, and trying to decide if something was a blague or a rub,
and there were various fringe cases that he introduced until it was made clear that the reason they were being sorted was because inside the blagues was one compound.
I'm going to go with uranium here, because I'm working off memory.
I think it was vanadium and palladium.
Something close to those words.
Those are too similar to each other.
I'm going to go with uranium and gold, because they sound very different, and everyone knows what both of them are.
I have no idea what the palladium and palladium are.
That's fine.
Do you know what that is?
They're heavy elements.
Okay.
So see, like uranium, I think, nuclear bombs and gold, I think, shiny things.
So they already have strong concepts in my head.
It doesn't really matter what's in them.
The point is that, yeah, there was an important distinction that was being made.
Right.
So when someone was asking for the purposes of the job, is this a blague or a rub, what they were asking is,
what are the compounds I can extract from it?
So the ultimate question was, what is within it?
But that is not necessarily always what we want to know.
Like when we ask as an ostrich a bird, we're not using the ostrich for anything.
We just kind of have this label of a bird, and we want to know whether the ostrich fits in it or not.
So the question is, are you asking if the ostrich can be used for feathers or something?
Or are you asking about the evolutionary, does it have a recent shared evolutionary history with other things that would be classified as birds?
Yeah, those are the various things you can ask.
And those are better questions than is a bird.
Those are much better questions.
But the point was made that in a true network, the only nodes are things that actually exist in the physical world,
and you can nail them down like, does it have feathers?
What is its evolutionary history?
Does it lay eggs?
Things like that.
But you can answer all those questions for something like an ostrich or for a fringe case,
and still, at the end, be confused as to, so is it a bird?
And that points to the fact that there is a node in our head which does not correspond to anything in reality labeled bird,
and that can be a bit of a problem.
And the most classic example of this, because it's something that I have seen blood spilled over, is whether Pluto is a planet.
And we can determine what the mass of Pluto is, how spherical it is, whether it has swept out its orbit, how far from the sun it is.
All those things can be nailed down and answered exactly with scientific precision.
But then people still debate, but is it a planet?
And then the knives come out.
Well, I mean, we don't even have to go to a planet, planetary, astral body example for that.
We still talk about birds, because a lot of times people will say, but is it a dinosaur?
Ah, see.
Right?
Yeah.
And that is a good question.
Because, you know, birds are descendants of dinosaurs, and often people would call them modern-day dinosaurs,
and then that kind of sparks something in people's heads to think about dinosaurs, birds.
And it can be really useful in getting people more interested in evolutionary biology, right?
So there's that approach to it.
You can misfire that node of dinosaur in their head to get them intrigued.
Exactly.
Yeah, that's an interesting strategy.
But it seems like it would get people interested.
And I'll bet a lot more people were paying a lot more attention to different kinds of astral bodies when it came to the Pluto as a planet debate.
But there's no actual tag in reality that you can place on the thing itself that says planet or dinosaur or whatever.
Exactly.
So you can just measure Pluto.
But it is a label.
It is a tag that you're placing on it.
Not like it's distance from the sun or it's mass or it's spherical-ness, right?
There's nothing intrinsic to it.
There's no planet-ness to it.
There's a bunch of atoms that have collected under their own gravity and swept out their orbit or not,
but there's no planet attribute of the matter that is there.
There's just protons and electrons.
In other words, we have invented these labels to help us sort different things into bins, right?
Yeah.
In biology, we talk about that all the time.
Are you a lump or a splitter, right?
Those are cool terms.
Yeah.
Do you like to lump things together or do you like to split things into lots of little tiny bins?
That's awesome.
And where are you on the lumping and splitting continuum?
Let me back up just a step and go with the network model itself.
One of the reasons it's possible that it seems that the way humans think is not in terms of just individual attributes that you can nail down.
In our psychology, it seems there is kind of a core of is it a bird or not?
Is that a boy or a girl, right?
I don't want to know all these various things about genetics and social structures.
Just give me a label.
And it seems that possibly one of the reasons for that is because it's a lot faster.
It works in real time when you see something in the bushes that is orange with black stripes and furry.
It's very important for your brain to go tiger run, you know, as opposed to when the actually you use neural networks in computers.
It's a while for it to activate all the various connections and come to a consensus, I guess, for lack of a better term.
Inclusion, at least.
Where it weighs each node and they weigh back and forth.
And by the time you finish your calculation, by the time you finish that in real time, you're your tiger food.
Exactly.
And there's many ways.
There's many reasons that it's important for us to use labels, right?
No matter what your philosophy is coming in on them.
Quick communication.
It might take a little bit longer if you are going to talk about one.
I mean, Pluto is a label, right?
For that thing.
That's super helpful because it's specific to that.
But if you're going to be like, well, there's this rock.
It's this wide.
It is made of these things.
Here's where you can find it.
That's it.
That's tedious.
It's tedious if it would be just easier to call it by its name or a planet because it gives somebody an idea.
I'm not saying that it is a planet, but to give it an example, to call something like that a planet helps give people a lot of information about it quickly.
Yeah.
Yeah, you use two syllables and you've conveyed a ton of information about what Pluto is if they never heard of the word Pluto before.
Right.
Or if you're trying to explain that it was different than the cartoon dog, right?
She's like, I've got this thing.
It's not the cartoon dog.
It's called Pluto.
It's the ninth planet from the sun.
Convays, that felt just weird saying because I can hear Neil deGrasse Tyson in my head yelling at me.
It's like the 27th dwarf planet.
But yeah, so that conveys a amount of information to people if they already know what a planet is, right?
And if you're working in science, then you also start out by defining your terms.
And once you do that, if you're working within a definition that everyone likes, I don't think there's anything wrong with working with terms.
It's a time saver for that reason, right?
Another good example of a fringe case is like, you could say fish are the things that you catch that live in the ocean and that you need a harpoon or a fishing hook to catch.
And that would include whales.
Whales aren't fish, but for all the reasons that you're interested about fish, they count as fish.
If you're looking to catch and eat one, you're not going to chase it on the savanna with a spear, right?
So depending on what information you're trying to convey and what use you're having, you can call it a fish or not.
And as long as you're not talking with a modern day scientist, people aren't going to be upset if you use the word fish, right?
Right. Also, you know, you might be taking advantage of people's willingness to expand their moral sphere to contain mammals and more closely related animals to humans
by clarifying that it's a mammal, a whale's a mammal, a whale has a big brain, whales feed their babies milk.
They're just like you.
One of the neat things, because you guys were just talking about definitions, right?
And that is what a lot of it tends to come down to.
People say, okay, well, let's define planet to mean this thing.
And then, you know, Neil deGrasse Tyson steps up or whatever.
But the neat thing that I liked from this post that I really got out of it was that it still feels like once you have nailed down
all these various terms, it still feels like you want to ask whether something is a planet or not.
That's why we go ahead and we make a definition and have that conversation with each other.
But in if something was a network natively, once you've nailed down all the nodes, all the other attributes, there shouldn't be anything left.
There shouldn't be a definitional question anymore.
And so the phrase that was coined for this was, this is what an algorithm feels like from the inside.
That you have this algorithm to figure out whether, you know, all the attributes of a thing.
And it feels like afterwards, once you know all them, it feels like there is still something that hasn't been answered yet.
You're still not sure is it a dinosaur, you know, and the fact that you feel there still needs to be some discussion had as to what the definition is,
is what it feels like to have that to be an algorithm running, running that, running that.
That's not just diagnostic.
I don't think I'm picking up what you're putting down.
And because we were just talking about why, why we want to know what the label is, why it's useful, why it's useful to, you know, sometimes put things in categories together, right?
It can open up new areas of thought and study.
And so we have all those good reasons for it.
I think that this is not like weird or magical that we still want to know how to label something after we know its attributes.
No, but I think it's a mistake.
Yeah, they're like, is there a reason that we really need to define whether a chicken is a dinosaur or not?
Yeah, so if the question is, is this insect in the same family as this other insect?
And we, you know, is it this kind, right?
Then we can follow through with that information and compare it to others of that kind, figure out if it does have differences, why it has differences from others in the group, right?
And actually get to, you know, some deep ecological and evolutionary truths that way.
Well, okay, see, so the one that gets me specifically, the one that I relate to personally is spiders, because they're not insects, right?
That's correct, they're arachnids.
Yeah, see, fuck that, in my personal opinion.
They are an insect in every single way that matters.
And I will call them insects forever because how are they not an insect?
So you're saying, to run back to an earlier example, that whales are fish.
They're arthropods, right?
If you say so, they're creepy, crawly, little tiny things that I want to smush.
Okay, so yeah, you just define them as creepy, crawly things that you want to smush.
Yeah.
Which I imagine does not extend to all spiders or all insects.
Ladybugs?
If it was in my house, I would smush it.
Everyone loves ladybugs.
What's a cuter bug?
That's my go-to.
There are a lot of really cute bugs.
What about that plant hopper that I shared for the signaling episode?
That was wonderful.
I love that thing, and I would never smush it.
I think, like...
But just to give you the spider example, it's really important to be able to lump spiders
into a group together of arachnids or, I mean, and then we're including animals like scorpions.
Such as other kinds of animals as well, because they simply have different attributes,
and some of the more obvious attributes will be they have a different number of body segments.
