It's amazing to this day.
And by to this day, I mean to last week, when I last saw this happen,
there's still people getting hung up on the Copenhagen interpretation
of quantum physics.
And I'm like, oh my God, many worlds has been around for so long
and you're still hung up on this observer effect thing.
He also brought up the movie, What the Bleep Do We Know,
which I have had the displeasure of watching.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
It's as bad as everyone says, right?
Yeah. It's complete woo.
It's basically Deepak Chopra explains quantum physics where he's just like,
oh, you know, we don't understand why light, you know,
so light is a particle and a wave.
And that means that you can basically do anything by believing in it hard enough.
And you're like, wait, what?
That's obviously what it means.
Well, you know, the observer effect means that you have to observe
something in order for it to have happened and the wave form to collapse.
So the power of observation must be magic.
Yeah. No, that's that's not what that means.
If anybody thinks that I'm going to observe myself getting younger right now.
He's listening to this.
Think that, right? Yeah, maybe they do.
I this he does have the quote in here, which is one of his quotes.
I didn't realize it was in this post, but I often use it.
He says, if we are ignorant, ignorant about a phenomenon,
that is a fact about our state of mind, not a fact about the phenomenon
phenomenon itself, which is a great quote.
Maybe he said the same thing in different posts, too,
because I know I've brought it up before.
It's I think that that was him just, yeah, calling back to an earlier sequence
where he said that.
But like, I like the reiterations, all this stuff ties in in different ways.
Also, I just want to read one more paragraph because it's hilarious.
My uncle's not an isolated phenomenon.
I've met people who think that science knows nothing about the brain
and that thought is a complete mystery to us.
My favorite was the fellow who confidently asserted that neuroscience
had been unable to assign any function in scare quotes, like to the cerebral cortex,
at which point, I just burst out laughing because the cerebral cortex
is the majority of the brain.
It's like the things that aren't the hippocampus and the amygdala.
I think basically it's like
it's the whole new part of the brain that like humans used to do.
All the human stuff.
As Tom McCabe put it, anyone who claims the brain is a total mystery
should be slapped upside the head with the MIT Encyclopedia of Cognitive Sciences.
All 1096 pages of it.
And I was just like, I felt that I feel that so hard.
That's a mood.
I've heard the same thing before about, well, science doesn't really
understand the brain.
And I was like, can I please put my consumer grade
EEG on you and then show you your brainwaves and then hit you with them
somehow because like we know things.
We don't know all of the things, but like it's not a mystery.
We know tons of shit about the brain shut up.
He does again have the inspirational stuff near the bottom where he says,
today, the absence of knowledge is a fragile and temporary condition
like the darkness in a closet whose door happens to be shut.
A single thought can shatter the absence of thought.
Every scientific every scientific discovery ever made
destroyed an ancient absence of knowledge dating back to the dawn of time.
And then no one knows what six, six billion people don't know today
and still less does know what seven billion people will know tomorrow,
which made me think, wait, where was it around six billion people when he wrote this?
It was.
Date was 2007.
So I looked it up because I was like, what are we at seven point something?
I looked it up seven point nine.
Yeah. We're almost eight.
Yeah. Fuck yeah.
In in like 15 years, I guess like
do overpopulation problems, but fuck yeah, like science will solve those.
And we're going to go colonize the stars.
God damn it. I mean, so far we haven't had mass starvation because
because of science. Exactly.
And also fuck your organic food.
An unrelated topic that I could rant about.
But I don't know why you were looking at me specifically.
Oh, no, I wasn't trying to know.
I know you weren't.
OK, I don't even know where you were looking because I was looking down.
But I was actually looking in your direction.
I wasn't aiming it at you.
I was just like, you're both sitting to my right.
Yeah. And I'm talking to the two of you.
Well, that was our sequences for the day.
Yeah. Did you have more to say, Steve?
No, I think I'm good.
OK. You had an expression like I was I was holding back.
Like I'm one kind of like joke on organic food, which like they always say
like pesticide free, which I just read as like full of bugs.
It is though.
I once I got like some cilantro that I forgot.
Or I didn't pay attention to the fact that it was organic cilantro.
And it fucking wilted immediately and was full of bugs.
And I was like, good job, organic food.
I tend to not buy organic whenever I can avoid it,
mainly just so I don't encourage those people.
It's more expensive and it's worse quality food.
Also, it's a digression on a digression.
But it's more powerful to people who want to buy them.
So, you know, not shitting on it.
It's not too much money and it makes you feel good.
You could we have a twenty thousand dollar catch we can sell you.
Well, no, I'm going to be thirty thousand, right?
That's right. Yeah. It's that one.
It's a relic. That's right.
Yeah, it has been set on by official rationalist butts.
So, yeah, I'm suddenly confused about where the conversation went.
It went over there.
All right. So, yeah, do we have sequence post lines up for next episode?
We do. Do you have them written down or should I read them?
Read them. OK.
So I think we should do three again because they.
These are. Oh, are you sure?
Because individual IQ differences is one that we can talk about, at least.
I.
Well, because then the next two are motivated stopping
and the motivated continuation, which kind of go right hand.
I'm good with either whatever you all want to do.
Stephen, we can handle three.
OK. Yeah. Growth mindset.
And if we spend so much time on one that we have to stop,
then we can just do push the other two off to the deal.
OK. So possibly the only one we're doing next week is why are individual
IQ differences OK, but we might do three in which case we will also do
motivated stopping and motivated continuation, which is one post,
and a case study of motivated continuation.
So looking forward to it.
All right. Some good one.
So, Stephen, last time you were trying to talk about how kids these days are
a bunch of sensitive, whitey crybabies.
It's no flakes, one may say.
If one wanted to be particularly inflammatory, one could say that.
And why we should take away their toys and make them sit in the corner.
I don't know. Is that what that article is saying?
No, no, it's not.
It's just I've been talking with people on Discord
about how they should always take away kids toys and sit in corners,
which is a gross, a gross misstatement of their actual position.
I just have a microphone right now and they don't, which is one.
I have the power. Exactly.
Everything I said is a lie.
Stephen, what are we actually talking about?
Well, I was going to say about the kid thing is I've spoken with actual
parents who think that you guys are crazy. OK.
I think we're going to try and continue where we were heading last week
or last episode, but I don't remember exactly where we left off.
And I don't listen to this podcast.
I know, I don't either.
We should spend so much time recording the podcast.
I don't want to listen to it again afterwards.
Right. They're basically like the the the article talks about the three great
untruths, what doesn't kill you, makes you weaker, always trust your feelings.
And life is a battle between good people and evil people.
And did we say that it's called the Coddling of the American Mind?
And it's by Greg Lukianoff and Jonathan Heate.
I mean, we said that last time, but I feel like, yeah, John Text.
And he put you happens to be listening to the first episode of the Vedic conspiracy.
Totally. They did an article in the 2015 Atlantic, which will be
linked to an episode, and that was turned into a book in 2018.
And I only read the article. I didn't read the book.
I feel like it's one of those books where it just expands in the article.
And the article had me sold already.
So although that's out, I'm sure it's a lot more examples and updated stuff, whatever.
But anyway, you know, he talks, he gives a bunch of examples of like,
here's where things have gotten a little off the off the rails and in his assessment.
And, you know, he cites like other academics who say, well,
this is how they would, this is how they define something like labeling or something.
You know, so it's not like he's just making up his own terms or working in a box.
In fact, we co-wrote the co-wrote the article, right?
So. Yeah, this is like C.T.
Yeah. But I think we were talking about the the first one.
And so it's worth just kind of.
Did we not even get first the first?
I can't remember, but we can we can power through and talk about any parts that sound interesting.
So because this is something that, you know, and then we can think
of any examples that are worth discussing.
But the idea of what.
So the other reason he calls these the three great untruths is because.
And I say he even it was they who wrote it because I mostly associate this with height
because I've listened to him talk about it on podcasts.
The the three great untruths are called such because they basically via this is
like the new norms of what people are trying to live their life of sensibly
are trying to live their lives by.
But they go against everything we know about human psychology going back to
ancient wisdom, to modern understanding of therapeutic techniques.
And so the idea that, for example, what doesn't kill you makes you weaker.
Like the idea that people are fragile in a way that makes them susceptible.
Just like you can make somebody's psychology worse by upsetting them.
The more you upset, some are just going to like curl up in a ball, die.
Yeah. And especially if you keep reinforcing the idea that that's what you're supposed
to do if you're upset, then people are going to do.
But it does teach people that.
Yeah. Sorry.
You're I think I don't know what you're going to say.
But like there's this this mentality of just basically pure helplessness.
