Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Steven Zuber, I'm James Dickey,
and today we are going to continue where we left off last week, but this time we are
exercising discipline, so we do not get on such crazy digressions.
We are still allowed regular digressions, but no longer can we have digressions off
digressions.
Okay.
It's five o'clock on a Friday and it's thunderstorming out, so just a recipe for a rotten brain,
but one way to warm up the rotten brain is by reading the sequences on Lesserong.com.
And let us jump right into that, the first one being Explanations, explainers, sorry,
explainers shoot high, aim low.
Yeah, this one was like, I feel like maybe we should just read it.
I also summarized it last week, or last episode, because we were talking about Neil deGrasse
Tyson was on Sam Harris' podcast, and Harris said, I think your book is perfect for like
a young adult who comes to science, and he's like, that's fun to hear because I wrote it
for adults, because adults told me that they feel like it's written for kids if they understand
everything in it.
Right, yeah.
So it's like.
If I'm not confused then.
Yeah, I'm not confused.
This must be too easy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But apparently, I mean, the short version is basically like, you're explaining something
to somebody, or rather you're drafting an explanation they're going to give to somebody.
You're like, all right, an elementary explanation of this will hit the lay person just fine.
And it goes, it's too dense and confusing over their head, or you didn't cross knife
in frontal distance.
So like, if you're aiming for high schoolers, you're not going to hit high schoolers aim
for like fifth graders, and you'll hit high school.
Yes, or even worse.
What are you going to say, Anish?
Oh, well, the anecdote, that's what I was looking for.
The anecdote that he leads off with is that he was talking to a scientist who wrote an
explanation in his field aimed at like a very low technical level.
Like he thought it was, he was writing basically for reporters, maybe some scientists that have
no knowledge in this field.
And it ended up being his most popular paper within his field, cited more than anything
else he'd ever been, he'd ever written.
And Eliezer said he had the same thing happen when he wrote an intuitive explanation of
Bayesian reasoning.
He was aiming for basically elementary school, which he admits now was kind of dumb because
he was using words that elementary school students probably don't know.
He had assumed the reader knew what a probability was.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So he's like, okay, maybe, maybe that was dumb of me to assume this is aimed at elementary
school.
But the point is he was trying to write to an elementary school level and it ended up
being really popular among undergrads and other people who are significantly older than
elementary school.
Well, it specifically, he says, let me find it, I regularly get fan mail from formerly
confused undergrads taking statistics classes and journalists and professors from outside
fields.
Yeah.
So like...
Not elementary schoolers.
Yeah.
But I mean, actually like undergrads taking statistics classes.
So like not even, you know, like people who are actively trying to study this, like,
Oh, this is a great explanation.
Yeah.
Which I felt that way about the next one, we don't have to jump to it yet, but double
illusion of transparency.
Yeah.
He did say that he wants to note that this is not because your audience is more stupid
than you think.
It's because your words are far less helpful than you think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That and this all ties back to the previous sequences that we talked about where the...
Inferential distance thing.
Inferential distance, illusion of transparency, self anchoring bias, all these things where
you, you already know what you know, and you assume much more.
If I was explaining this to me, I'd understand it.
Exactly.
That's basically how it's going, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Actually it was, no one knows what science doesn't know.
It starts off with like, I tried to do this real simple explanation and it turns out that
you didn't get it.
Well, should we move on to the next one then?
I just was going to say, I thought that it was a great explanation.
Oh.
But anyway, though, yeah, we'll get to it when we get to it.
Was there more to say explainer?
That kind of summary.
Yeah.
It's a brief one.
What I like is the double illusion of transparency, which in my one sentence summary is where
Inyosh says something to me, I think I understood him and he thinks I understood him, right?
Yeah.
All right.
Right, okay, yeah.
Well, no, I'm sorry.
The, I guess the last part of that is, turns out we're both wrong.
I think we both misunderstood each other.
We were just speaking before the microphone started rolling about how you nodded at a lot
of things that Brian said.
And Brian thought that meant you understood, but oftentimes nodding and understanding are
not correlated.
They're all anti-correlated.
And this, in this sequence, he says, I thought that if I said, hey, guess what I noticed
today, Bayes Theorem is the secret of the universe.
And someone else said, yeah, Bayes Theorem is the secret of the universe.
Then this is what a successful teacher-teacher-student interaction looked like, knowledge conveyed
and verified.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he did say that, like, it started out with them talking about Bayes in a IRC and
the guy didn't quite get it.
So he took it to private chat room, explained the meat of prerequisites, guy didn't get
that, explained the prerequisites of that, guy didn't get that.
So we went all the way back to the foundations of Bayes Theorem and turned out that the guy
had issues updating probability that a fruit is a banana based on observing that it's
yellow.
And he keeps mixing up the probability of banana given yellow and the probability of
yellow given banana, which I thought was hilarious because, hmm, are all yellow things
bananas?
Well, I have one example.
So yeah, and that was that this one sort of comes out in, is this the one that comes
out in, um, yes, I think it is.
This is the one that comes out in favor of, of university schooling because, yeah, I
was surprised by that.
Yeah, because it says that professors have the advantage of being able to directly query
their audience right there in the room and, you know, get feedback from them as they're
talking.
Pull out this.
It doesn't really sound odd, but until that very day, I hadn't realized why there were
such things as universities.
I thought it was just rent seekers who'd gotten a lock on the credentialing system.
Which like, yeah, mostly.
Yeah.
I've got this like awesomely romanticized view of, of university.
I think of, there weren't the academies that like Aristotle put here, you know, so like
that's just, I feel like this, oh, this is, this is scholarship.
This is a pursuit of reason and knowledge.
I feel that when I'm on a campus, even though it's just like, we're here to collect your
money and make you watch football games.
Yeah.
Well, actually, like, yeah, I found it.
Um, I hadn't realized why there were such things as university.
I thought it was just rent seekers.
Why would you need teachers to learn?
That was what books were for.
But now a great and terrible light was dawning upon me.
Genuinely explaining complicated things took months or years and an entire university
infrastructure with painstakingly crafted textbooks and professional instructors.
You couldn't just tell people and like, didn't we, I think it was just two episodes ago
that I came out saying that if someone was really dedicated and wanted to learn something
that they could figure it out, they could learn most things in a matter of months or
a couple of years at most.
It sounds like Elias or disagrees with me here.
Yeah.
I think that doesn't describe most people, though, like in order to understand a really
complicated subject onto mechanics or whatever, um, I think that you do, if you're, if you're
like a self learner, autodidact, uh, like the thing that you have to do is honestly watch
a bunch of YouTube videos of different people explaining things different ways or read a
bunch of different books and like, you start to be able to build a complex model by examining
it from different sides.
So, you know what, shape it.
It's a weird metaphor.
Uh, but, you know,
That was a good metaphor.
Yeah, I thought it was perfect.
Okay.
I, I am the kind of person I learned at least 10 times faster if I'm sitting talking with
somebody for 30 minutes than if I'm off watching videos because I can ask a question and like,
oh, that clears it up.
I don't have to watch this 90 minute YouTube video to find the answer or only to find that
the answer wasn't in it.
Yeah.
That's what I was trying to get at where it's like, you totally can learn quantum mechanics
on your own.
It's just going to be a lot harder because you're the one that has to find and curate
the information and you don't know what you don't know.
And you can't question the guy on YouTube.
Maybe could, but it would be harder, uh, or, and you can't question the textbook.
I guess he's saying genuinely explaining complicated things took months or years and he bolds explaining
to put that emphasis on it.
I think that's probably more, more true because when I was, when I made my statement a few
weeks ago, I was thinking that genuinely learning something doesn't take very long.
And I think there's a distinct difference between trying to explain something and trying
to learn something and you're trying to explain something.
The other person is usually far less engaged and isn't doing a lot of their own work.
If you're really trying to learn something and you're putting in, you know, hours every
day for weeks at a time, you cover a lot of ground fast.
And if you have like a fucking teacher to help you out and ask questions, coach you.
Good Lord.
Yeah.
I think that'd be my ideal learning environment.
Well, that's kind of what I try to do at work when I can grab somebody knows what they're
talking about.
I try to leash them down for 20 minutes and explain something to me.
Explain this like I'm five, please.
I literally wrote that sentence today or this week.
Um, I was, I was it for someone who's obsessively paid as a web developer, I don't know how
the internet works well enough to fix internet related problems.
So like we're, we have a lot of issues with domain names, not pointing where they're supposed
