And then like it sort of doesn't matter if like you're Asian American
and you just like keep getting your name mispronounced and like people being like,
oh, well, you must be good at math because you're, you know, Japanese or something.
And then like, but like it's I think it's just the experience of being in that environment.
They're talking about trying to describe the thing of death by a thousand cuts
where it's like you can't tell whether somebody's trying to fuck with you or not.
It doesn't matter.
You still feel fucked with at the end of the day.
Well, hang on.
Could we mic?
We could other mic if you want to be on our.
I think microaggressions are is an apt term because sometimes people are purposefully
being subtle with their aggressions towards you.
It's a form of bullying.
And I think that as someone who's experiencing it, it's usually a pattern
that is causes anxiety and sometimes legitimate concern, because in the past,
these small, almost easy to almost easy to misinterpret things have led to accelerations.
I don't know.
I'm a good way to address aggressiveness, the actual aggressiveness.
Yeah, aggression.
But I think I look at microaggressions as a form of bullying.
It's unfortunate.
We can't like engage back and forth because Charlie's got our arms full
and it was leaning forward for a mic.
I'm not sure how much of our previous conversation will be salvageable.
But yeah, I think that that's valuable in like in context of certain kinds of things.
Right.
But like I said, if a professor mispronounces your name on the first day of class
or misgenders you because they're, you know, whatever, the administration
system didn't put it in right or whatever.
You know, something like that.
I don't look like I don't know.
Well, yeah.
So but like as long as it's so like, I guess I'm just saying that this is where
like in there, you know, one of the other tenants of this, this, this bad
pattern of thinking is that like intent doesn't matter.
It's all about impact and it's, you know, microaggressions, a unique case
where it's sort of both, you know, because if, if I didn't mean anything by it
because I mispronounced your name and I never do it again because I now know better.
It's, it's hard to, I, I mean, I'm, I'm using me as an example.
So like it's hard to blame me, but I would say that, wouldn't I?
But it's hard to blame somebody if they make a very, very reasonable
mistake and correct for it, right?
You know, but, but I think Charlie's talking about a different kind of class
of activity where it's actually racism you're just trying to get away with.
Right.
And, you know, so consistently doing it, you know, needling, being annoying.
I just, I want to make the point that it does.
Like, I mean, like, I think that this is a phenomenon to describe the experience
of having lots of micro, like lots of small interaction people throughout
that remind you that you are not like the majority, that you are going to be misunderstood,
that people don't like, you know, that even, that you're in danger.
I mean, so I hate to say it, but a lot of that is just the fact of being weird and an outsider.
Like, I mean, I don't, I'm assuming we've all had that experience, but I know
when I first came to America, I had a really strong accent.
Everybody knew I was Polish.
I kind of got picked on it up until God, I don't think my accent really
cleared away to where it wasn't noticeable until middle school.
But I mean, that's just what are they not going to notice that I have an accent?
Like, come on, I mean, it's just something that you, you deal with because you are different.
Yeah.
I mean, like, I don't want to go as far as saying like, suck it up, you baby, because
people do have those different levels of sensitivity and there are really toxic
environments where I grew up in the township of upper, upper township.
There was also a middle and lower town and that's where all the, you know,
upper middle class white people lived and my family was poor and we had to like perform
into the upper middle class because like fit in.
So like, I don't know, but like, I got made fun of for having like clothes that didn't fit
from the thrift store.
And that's actual bullying, right?
It can be or it can actually just be like, maybe it's never like, they're like,
why the hell don't you're gonna close your bad at buying clothes?
But like,
I guess if you're young enough, you might not know yet that that's rude.
But what you're describing at just like sounds like bullying to me.
Um, yeah, it is that that's again, it's both.
There's the component of people actively trying to make you feel like an outsider
and there's the people just being ignorant about stuff.
Like a lot of times I would get asked, you know, hey, where were you from?
And people couldn't pronounce my name sometimes for a dozen times after they met me.
And that's just like, that's the thing that happens with having a weird name.
That's the thing that happens with having an accent.
I never was I upset about it.
I'm like, yeah, you know, I come from Poland.
We came here when I was old.
And yeah, don't worry about the name.
It's really hard.
It's well, you even go by in-yosh and not in-yosh.
An ash would be the technically correct.
I fucked up even after having, oh, I haven't heard it pronounced in a couple of years.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, because, you know, that's what was easier for kindergarten kids to say.
If I'm trying to, you've even come like even after updating your name,
you still get it mispronounced.
But it's like, you know, people aren't being malicious about it.
Right.
Wait, what now?
You've moved it from the Polish pronunciation to like a more Americanized pronunciation.
Yes.
But people still struggle with that.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I was just remarking on that.
Okay.
Yeah, I didn't have much to contribute there.
Okay.
Yeah, maybe let's, I don't know, start to wrap up or move on to a different subject.
I feel like we're not solving the problem of microaggressions.
I think by moving on, you guys are microaggressing against me.
Would you have anything more you'd like to add?
No, I don't.
Now I feel microaggressed.
I feel like you're fucking with me.
I was just trolling you actually.
I think that's a macroaggression.
Well, I prepared for a megaaggression after the show stops.
An aggression right to the face.
That's right.
Well, I think that, I mean-
Suggression won't stand, man.
You know, that reminds me.
Thank you.
Because I was going to end on a sort of duties to note.
So, you know, the last one about good people and evil people, like I,
the last thing I want to say on this is like even people I disagree with on this,
you know, everybody's got common ground.
You know, I guess, I don't know.
I mean, this is like the most dude thing that doesn't, you know,
this won't like change anyone's mind until you experience it.
But like, this is true of everybody who used to be a racist and isn't,
or everybody who used to not like this group of people and now is fine with them,
or even somebody who used to hate a co-worker and doesn't anymore.
Like, you find something, you find some common humanity and you're like,
oh, this person doesn't totally suck.
And it's, you know, so until you've had that experience,
you maybe can't generalize it.
But once you do, like you can be like, oh, yeah, I probably feel that way
about basically every human and I can just not de facto hate anybody.
So I advise the people do that.
I think the thing that I was trying to say earlier and then also with the microaggressions
is sort of that there's a complicated answer to what do we do about this,
which is like in some cases it is on sort of, it's the onus of the person who feels offended
and whatever, like to maybe, you know, evaluate, is this a reasonable response to this thing?
Is this a feeling or a fact?
Is this something that I should just let go and learn to tolerate?
Or is this something that like, you know, and sometimes it is that and then sometimes it is
actually like, you know, this, maybe the student, whatever Ivy League school,
who was like the one racial minority there was having an awful time.
And this was really stressful for them.
And if, you know, they had listened to the dean, like maybe they could have actually sat down
about it and the dean could have been like, what is making you feel ostracized in this way?
And they could, you know, come up with, well, here's what we can't do.
Here are some like interventions that we can try to implement and like, let's work together on this.
Yeah, so like, we're not going to solve this problem overnight.
And it's really complicated.
And that's like the whole, yeah, life is a, you know, battle between good and evil.
There's no such thing as good or evil.
Those are subjective, like words that we use to describe someone's behavior
that nobody can really come to agree with.
And like, nobody is in their head being, I am evil and I will say a racist thing
to make people feel bad in the name of evil.
I see you have the alt-right pipeline and the notes that you want to touch on that at all.
That was part of like the catastrophization.
And there was another word for it in the CBT checklist.
Can you describe the thing and then maybe I can find the word?
The idea that, oh, if you're exposed to this dangerous idea that you're vulnerable
and you'll slip right down the path of madness, you know,
you watch one flat earth video on YouTube and suddenly, you know,
I don't know if it's CBT thing per se, but it sounds like
But perceiving everything as that kind of threat is.
Yeah, actually pull up the list and figure out what cognitive distortion.
It's really weird too, because no one ever says, you know,
it's a leaving the alt-right pipeline, because any video, you know,
along those lines could be one leading out as well if you're started in.
I remember having a conversation with somebody who I had previously respected before I
like realized that this was their true and honest opinion and I couldn't quite
put my head around it.
But like the idea that being exposed to any of this content, you know,
so many people are so vulnerable that they'll, they'll, they'll just,
they'll fall right into this and you're right.
They never fall, they never fall the other way, which is weird.
Because it's the dark side of the force.
And if you even look at it, it takes over your brain.
Yeah.
But like humans don't actually have their own brains.
They're just controlled by the evil people that have the evil thoughts.
This was part of like a discussion of whether or not to like talk about,
this is part of a discussion about like whether like to moderate discussion of
Sam Harris on a blog, on a, on a server that wasn't about Sam Harris,
but it was in discussion of his app and it just happens to be,
huh?
What do you mean moderate?
Uh, whether or not, because he's a problematic person.
So is it all right to talk about his meditation app, which happens to be the best on the market?
And, and, you know, it was just a weird situation where somebody was like, well,
yeah, I mean, we should, we should be careful because, you know,
they might Google him and then find his stuff.
And like that, that's the, just the weirdest most.
Again, we didn't, we didn't talk about like the level of, of a paternalistic and like
desperate need of, of authority figures.
