Like if I if I'm exposed to a scary thought, oh, my God, my day is ruined
and I've got to I've got to shove on my day is ruined.
And I've got to I mean, I'm not sure at what point it's it it it goes from
like just signaling to like actually internally being true for yourself.
I think that like I know these stuff or I've watched them as sort
of the Donna Justice, I have these friends that are totally reasonable,
cool people and then a few months later, we're like posting hashtag kill all men
or like in all caps.
If any of you fuckers dare post a picture of Thanksgiving, Turkey on Thanksgiving,
I will be I'm going to unfriend you because I'm vegan and I'm triggered.
I'm just triggered thinking about that.
And I was like, yeah, triggered what happens?
Triggered the thing that I don't I mean, I understand because everyone knows
everyone knows of somebody or has met somebody maybe with post-traumatic stress
disorder. That's not what it means anymore.
Well, they it's like pre-traumatic.
It's like pre post-traumatic stress disorder.
No, or that was being triggered was actually it used to mean we'll give you
a panic attack or like a PTSD flashback.
But now people are using it to I will be very upset.
Well, or they'll say they're having a panic attack just thinking about
Thanksgiving dinner.
But if that's really the case, what in this is what Hyde argues to as a as
a social social psychologist that are social scientists, sociologists, whatever
it is, the brain man.
Yeah. Well, and what I think just is true of of psychology, that if that is
really how your brain works, we're thinking about Thanksgiving dinner,
sends you into a panicky spiral, you know, your heart is constricting,
your palms are sweaty, you're you're you're going to panic disorder.
You feel like you're going to die every time, multiple times a day.
And well, even interestingly, it can be it can be super seldom, at least
from one person I had an experience with, but or heard about an experience with.
Well, I had panic disorder, but people can have panic attacks.
Right. Yeah. Disorder means, yeah, it's and my understanding, too, from panic
disorders, it can just come out of basically nowhere.
Yeah. There's usually some inciting incident, but in my case, it was actually
just chronic stress from working at Disney for like 11 hour days and having
my boss call me God, I was like having dinner with my it was like, I think
all the holiday or a weekend or something and he like calls me the CEO.
No, actually, it was or rather, whatever.
Well, it was not Walt Disney himself.
He is called back out of the grave.
But he's like, call me.
He's like, hey, we need to talk about the fonts on this.
And I was just like, dude, and the Jews, too.
I like sort of let him rant for a bit.
And I'm like, OK, like I I'm taking note of the fact that not even my boss,
like that it was he was the CFO of the company.
I was trying to remember his title.
So I just thought we were talking about Disney.
No, he was dead when I was.
Yeah, but I was like, OK, I know that you're upset about these fonts.
Like and you need to talk to me about that when it is not Saturday
at 8 p.m. and I'm not out at dinner with my family.
I think one of the things that annoys me about the triggered phrase
is because like the classic example, I know the classic example is,
you know, an actual war veteran who like a balloon pops near him.
And all of a sudden, like he has all the stress reactions of someone
trying to kill him because he went through that.
And that's like a flashback, literally, like is I mean,
you can have PTSD about being raped or no, no, I know.
I mean, but like you feel like you're you're back there.
Like it's not it's not just like what I'm very upset.
It's I honest, like I think I'm back on the battlefield being shot.
Yeah, but they don't the thing is people who have those disorders
generally don't go around demanding that society conform to them.
Like if I'm going to walk into a restaurant,
I want to make sure there's no balloons there because I could get triggered.
Or if I'm going to like you sue McDonald's
because like some kid had a balloon or something like exactly.
Like, yes, this is a thing that sucks about your life.
This is why you don't want to have PTSD and you feel bad for people to do.
And hopefully they can find some way to treat it.
But, you know, you don't go around attacking other people
for having triggered you because of whatever Jesus Christ.
Like I the hashtag kill all men thing where like I was just like,
what the fuck are you talking about?
Like, well, you know, when I say all men, I don't actually literally mean all men.
And you should know that.
But like I'm a I'm a rape survivor.
So I get to say whatever I want.
Just call them transphobic next time you want to kill all trans men.
That's fucked up.
Actually, it's funny because I was not like I didn't
identify as a trans guy at the time.
And I sort of wish I could go back in time and be like, oh, wow, excuse you.
Like I got to unfriend you.
I guess you're going to kill me, right?
It would have been a good move.
I haven't heard someone say that in years, but I've also been on Facebook.
I probably haven't heard someone say that since I left Facebook in 2015.
So according to Scott, like said, you're like everybody's upset about race now
and the gender stuff is over.
So yeah, that's race is the huge thing.
Yeah, we can get to the race, too.
And we get to this thing because basically it's just well, there's
specific topics that people get especially upset about for understandable reasons.
I don't want to sort of like the age of conversation we were having.
I want to make it real clear that like I don't want to trivialize PTSD.
And I think that that like originally social justice, I was all behind it
when I heard about it.
I was like, that sounds awesome.
Yeah, I recall myself as a social justice warrior.
Like it sounded like such a cool thing to be back when it meant a good thing.
But like it, I totally think that like people, you know, that there is
not enough awareness of things like panic disorder and how common PTSD is
because you don't just get it from being in combat.
Like you can get it from, uh, man, they're gone.
Well, like samples.
Yeah, well, yeah, there's actually a lot of people have PTSD
about childhood, not even childhood rape, molestation.
There's a lot of bad things that can trigger it.
Yeah, it can get triggered, Rosie, but like that is totally reasonable.
And I do want there to be more awareness of that and more like, I don't know.
I might my thing with trigger warnings is that like I was sort of for them
when it was like, OK, um, hey, I'm I'm your college professor.
We're doing African-American studies and we're going to read Huck Finn.
But like I want to put some trigger warnings here to let people know
that they're going to have like the N word a bunch of times.
And like the idea was here's the sort of opt in, opt out.
Like if you can handle this cool, I'm just like trying to look out
for if anybody might like, you know, but it doesn't mean ban the book.
Like I think that was actually an example in this article where they said,
like, well, like Huck Finn is banned now because it might offend people.
Honestly, I can see books like Huck Finn or Uncle Tom's Cabin
or really any book that contains the N word still be required reading.
You just tell people up front, look, this has the N word in it.
It's for a reason.
Yeah, like it's not going to be comfortable,
but it's an important book for this class, for this reason.
And we're going to read it.
What's interesting with the discomfort thing, I guess I've got two thoughts.
Well, and a meta thought of kind of just blanketing the last 10 minutes of,
you know, the I think the mentality of many of the people in this domain
is is well intentioned, you know.
Hey, we're trying to make people feel safe, feel better or whatever.
Are you against without looking like an app?
Well, and that's kind of why I'm caveating it.
But I do know that like a large part of what some people enjoy about it
is like just the the fun of being in a dog fight that like the thrill
of being in a fight that you know, you can't lose because because you feel like
righteous like crusaders against evil and that can be a dangerous mindset.
Yeah, I think that like we're talking with triggers and PTSD,
like this is a quote from Article 2, but like avoiding all avoiding all triggers
is a symptom of PTSD, not a treatment for it.
Right. Actually, it really is.
Like, I mean, you mentioned a warpet.
Like I remember I was at the gas station 10 plus years ago and it was raining out
and the guy was like, oh, yeah, he was checking me out,
but there's already somebody else there and I don't know how it came up.
I don't know the guy because, again, I'm just hanging out waiting for the rain
to stop and like, oh, walking home.
And he's like, no, I just I don't drive in the rain.
The going over the puddles, watching the splashes reminds me of IEDs
and it freaks me out.
And that's that's just where I'm at with this.
But he said it just nonchalantly like this is that in his treatment of it.
You know, he can drive again.
He can do stuff, but he's he's like, yeah, driving in the rain.
Just not not I'm not there yet.
And like that.
So, I mean, and, you know, one person's suffering doesn't mean someone else
should have the same threshold of suffering.
You know, this is this guy.
There is a highly sedative person HSB thing where like, and actually
the book, The Buddy Keeps the Score is really great for a lot of things,
but has it was the psychologists do first sort of like figured out
effective treatments for PISD.
And well, like exposure therapy is is a is a not
bad way to go about treating PTSD.
The example from the article was, you know, imagine a woman who got
stuck in an elevator and had a panic attack, felt like she was going to die.
And then if you want to ensure that she can never operate in an office
building again or have a normal life, you can make sure that she never has
to go on an elevator again, right?
Then that that's kind of what this this mentality leads towards is let's
never assimilate you, you should never be uncomfortable.
Yeah, let's let's just accommodate your entire life around your elevator
phobia, but instead what you really should do is do this with or without a
doctor like physically present, but under the advice of a doctor, start by
looking at an elevator again, maybe from like the safe distance of the lobby
of a building and then, you know, approach it, watch people come on and off.
You know, just the idea of reconnecting with it and we're like, oh, yeah,
this isn't scary every time.
In fact, it's almost never scary.
Maybe take some MDMA under supervision as well.
Oh, I'm so excited about the potential of MDMA therapy.
Yeah, I don't want to.
Yeah, it's going to awesome.
I'm so glad they're actually researching that.
I the thing is, I don't want to be the asshole.
Like there are actually people, I guess, with this highly sensitive person disorder
that that I think it's not it is just a people.
There's a very what is it about her from a threshold of distressed tolerance?
If it's impacting your life to the point where you cannot interact
with the normal world, then it's a disorder.
Yeah, textbook.
Yeah, that's how that that's how it's defined.
But like, I think there's not actually a
I don't think I don't think like everyone should just be like, oh,
