their writing style, because I was sure people would be able to identify this in
moments and not one person even suggested it might be me.
You know, I don't know if I could do that.
It takes me a while because I feel like he has such a distinct voice.
Me too.
But then I look at, I'm thinking of worth the candle.
If you told me all that as I wrote it, I would believe you.
And if you told me that, uh, Alexander Wales wrote methods of rationality, I
would believe you.
Like, they feel so like, like all the buttons, the hit for me, they all hit the
same button.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, one of the most good writers can write in different ways.
They can, but one of the most prolific writers of our lifetimes who actually
wrote his own stuff.
Cause don't, anyways, uh, is Stephen King.
And for a long time, he published under Richard Bachman, uh, partly because
publishers had this thing where they just didn't want to publish too many
books by the same author in a year.
They were like, Oh no, audiences will get burnt out on them.
And turns out that's completely fucking wrong nonsense.
Yeah.
Look at how many James Patterson speaking of people who don't write their own things.
I was about to say he's one of the, but moving away from douchebags, uh, you
can just, you keep hitting a high and so James Patterson doesn't write his own books.
Oh, a lot of them he doesn't know.
He just comes up with the outline and then he's like, go to work typing monkeys
and I will take all the fame and most of the money.
When I worked at a library for like, every time we got like, you know, there's
a monthly budget for, here's the new books like that, you know, sorry, backing
up that was totally incoherent.
Uh, you get a monthly budget and then you purchase new books and you have to sort
of look at the statistics of your circulation to see, okay, who do people
want to see?
And it's all, you know, everybody wants the new James Patterson book and there's
like a waitlist of people before the books even out to put it on hold.
But like, I just remember unboxing our book, like deliveries and having to
like catalog and put stickers on all of them and stuff.
And just like, huh, like three James Patterson books.
Does he write three books a month?
What the hell?
And then trying to read some of them and being like, man, uh, there was a series
of his that I started and it started really good.
But you could just straight up tell the point where James Patterson is like,
all right, I got to write my other six series that I'm working on.
So here you go.
Go straight or you finish this because it just suddenly like characters
were completely out of character.
Whole plot threads were dropped.
Like one character developed a superpower that was never mentioned again.
Well, we can't let any discussion of books and authors go by without
be mentioning Wheel of Time.
The last three of which were written by Brandon Sanderson.
It was the last three.
Uh, it was the last book, but he broke it into three books.
So, um, it was a very dist, I don't even know if it was aiming for,
or, uh, Jordan style voice or not, because it was distinctly different.
It wasn't, it wasn't worse.
It was just like different.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Did it like throw you off or were you fine with it?
I knew it was a different author.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, I.
But basically every, every single, um, author who has been revealed to be
writing under a pseudonym, it's never been because someone figured it out.
It's always been a leak by a publisher or someone who knew them.
So you're saying Rowling wrote some adult books that were just apparently
got awful.
I mean, they were fine.
But she published them under, but they were just the same thing.
I heard some bad things about them, but a shrug, but she published them under.
What the heck was it?
Um, some, some dude pseudonym because like they were like, Oh, what if I, I think
she actually was like, I'm going to like, see if I published this and like, see
if my writing is actually good or if people are just like, Oh, that's the
Harry Potter person.
You got to read that.
And like, nobody likes their adult books.
So I feel like that's kind of a bummer for her.
I would just publish it under like LM bowling or something instead of J.K.
Rowling make it, make it kind of obvious.
But I mean, you know, wouldn't get that successful, like just go forth and
mess around with whatever you want.
If you don't like your other stuff, cool.
I'm going to ride my laurels on Harry Potter for generations to come.
So I don't like J.K.
Rowling as a person, but I do appreciate or I have to respect the like, let me
test if I'm a good writer or if I happened to find like a formula of people
like, and now just attaching my name to anything will make it popular.
I mean, it's the latter because a lot of people who really are good writers
will never get famous.
I mean, there's a huge amount of luck in it.
So yeah, like, like, you know, Sprotsky, for example, who has written
all of one book, I mean, come on, several short stories, short stories.
No one reads short stories and never is, is, you know, that has yet to be proved.
You know, so you said, you said, never get popular.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
Well, we'll have to wait on this entry before we just human whether or not.
I will have more news about this at the end of the episode,
but I am actually going to be starting on my next novel here in a month or two.
Fuck yeah.
Yeah.
So we just did this, but I'm seeing y'all like to hear them.
All right.
So we I was trying to think of some some way to tie this until we don't know
what we don't know, but no one knows what science doesn't know is the next post.
I think we just let's just go into it.
Didn't we talk about this one before at some point?
Remember having done so.
It's I mean, a lot of these are very familiar.
Yeah.
It may have just come up in conversation.
Well, can I read the beginning because I actually really liked his example.
Sure. At a family party some years ago,
one of my uncles remarked on how little science really knows.
For example, we still have no idea how gravity works.
Why things fall down.
Actually, we do know how gravity works.
I said my father, a PhD physicist, was also present,
but he wasn't even touching this one.
And I just have to say that's the wisdom that you have with age, I guess.
We do.
So my uncle, yes, I said, gravity is the curvature of space time.
At this point, I'd still swallowed Feynman's line about, and this is a link,
being able to explain physics to one's grandmother.
It links back to the double illusion of transparency.
We're so sad that that he had mistakenly at one point believed that
you should be able to explain a complex thing to your grandmother.
Well, you don't.
I believe Feynman's line was you don't truly understand something
until you understand it well enough to explain it to your grandmother.
Yeah, something like that.
But he was like, he's like, I used to think that this was basically this is what he's saying here.
So I continued, you could say that Earth goes around the sun in a straight line.
I mentioned a curve that shows both space and time.
So that a straight line shows steady movement and a curved line shows acceleration.
Then curve the graph paper itself.
When you try to draw a straight line on a curved paper, you get what looks like acceleration.
And then the other was just like, what?
But I love that.
That was like a really good visual representation of gravity, I thought.
But then again, I also have prerequisite knowledge of that.
I guess the uncle didn't.
So he was just like, what the hell are you talking about?
Why are you folding graph paper?
Yeah, what does that have to do with the price of tea in China?
So it goes on to say, and then I have, I have to like sort of do my annoyed thing
about Eleazar, I think, assuming too much, going too far in the direction of Evo Psyche.
When was the last time in history when it was possible for a single human
to know the knowledge of the most advanced civilization?
I've seen various estimates for this, usually in the form of polymaths,
nominated for the position of last person to know everything.
One plausible candidate is Leonardo da Vinci, who died in 1519.
Shortly after the printing press began to become popular and shortly before
Copernicus inaugurated the scientific revolution.
But in the ancestral environment, it was possible to know everything.
And that's why I was just like, oh, come on, da Vinci didn't know everything.
Like they had higher math in the Middle East that he probably didn't know about.
And there was like advanced medicine and surgery and China and India
that he probably didn't know about just because like, yeah.
So that's my nitpick about that.
And then my nitpick about, well, in the ancestral environment, there were like
bands of 200 people and everybody could know everything.
And I was like, bullshit.
No, like, you know, flint napping is actually kind of difficult.
People specialized since we like first started understanding things
and like developing skills, which I'm going to like end my rant
and then like not bring it up again about that.
But just I get what he's saying.
I think it's just not really simplistic and also is kind of treating ancestral
people as dumb.
They were as intelligent as us.
I do think you have a good point that probably there was already way too much
knowledge for anyone to know everything.
Even before history became a thing that was recorded.
I kind of take this point more that if anyone in that, if anyone back
in ancestral lands, if anyone knew how to do something, then everyone at least
knew that someone knew it, right?
Like if there was the knowledge of how to, yeah, rocks into arrowheads,
then you may not have it yourself, but you know that this is something
that the human race knows.
And and like his example was that there were people in the human race
that were alive that knew how gravity worked, but his uncle literally
thought that nobody alive knew yet.
And and that, you know, was news to his uncle.
And that is basically the point of the post that you don't know what
someone somewhere might know, because no one can know everything that not
just know everything, but know everything that is known.
Right.
So it'd be one thing for me to understand everything in the world.
I'd have to be very, very old or have a godlike brain, right?
It would be a less, it would still be a monumental task and still unattainable,
but much less unattainable for me just to know all the things that are known.
I've got a big list in my head of all the facts.
And I don't, not the explanations, just all the knowledge, right?
