Coward, true.
Whatever school this was, I forget.
It's an or Yale.
I think it's the post and if it's not an institution, this was yeah, but the other, the other problem
with just trying to engage this person one-to-one is that if they're not coming to you in good
faith, you'll just be burning six hours a day talking to somebody who just loves wasting
your time.
And it's weird because I've had conversations like that where I thought these were good
faith conversations only to like, realize after the fact like, Oh no, this was never
meant like as a, this was just meant as somebody rehearsing cash arguments that they'd heard
just to try and kick up shit and apparently calm engagement at serious consideration didn't
work.
So they went another route.
Yeah.
I mean, it's, it's, I don't see a good solution to like on the individual basis.
You know, I mean, frankly, if it's the Facebook, it would be a case by case thing, right?
If it's a Facebook group, you just say, yeah, the vegan Facebook or the vegan recipe group
is in the sidebar, like over there.
You can go make your own vegan only group.
But this is my Facebook group.
Yeah.
Like, you know, I'm not going to let one person tell me how to like, you know, as long as,
you know, the world is not your safe space.
As long as they don't complain to Facebook about you being a transphobic racist and managed
to get you kicked off Facebook and your group band.
Yeah.
I mean, it's, it's weird because that I, but just the idea of burning any more time than
just like directing them towards like the place of the internet that already exists for what
they're looking for.
I don't know, like, I think there's no easy solution to this.
This is a hard solution.
Like you, you do have to, I think, tank the sacrifice of be willing to talk to people.
And then like, eventually you can be like, hey, I've like tried to work with you and
you just keep being belligerent at me.
So I'm not going to have this conversation anymore.
Come back when you want to do a productive discussion.
Oh, look, Jace just said that I can't have a productive discussion.
I guess it's because I'm black.
Like, I mean, there's no way that this can't be spun into a fight against you, right?
So as soon as they get bored of wasting your time or you've shown them that they're not
going to waste your time and that you're not going to waste your time with them anymore,
they'll just come out of a different way.
Literally the only thing you can do in response, though, I think is just do the right thing
each time.
And I like that.
That's why I try.
You can also document the hell out of it.
So if they try to get you fired or something, you can be like, this is completely unreasonable.
Like, look, look how hard I tried to work with this person and it seems pretty obvious.
I don't know.
Maybe I'm putting too much.
I'm just basic.
I'm basing this off of actually, like I was talking about CBT, but DBT, dialectical behavioral
therapy is a moddit, a moddit, a modification slash edit.
I tried to say both words at once and it came out as moddit, a modification of CBT specifically
for personality disorders and more specifically borderline.
That's why I know about it.
I have a partner of borderline, family members, et cetera.
And that's specifically around targeting thought distortions around emotions, which personality
disorders are triggered by specifically emotions.
And then borderline, very specifically, it's feelings of abandonment that comes from a
childhood PTSD thing.
And there's a genetic component, but it's the whole teaching yourself and internalizing
feelings aren't facts.
And then being able to sit there when you're experiencing extreme distress and go through
the tools and be like, let me just sit here and see if feels like I'm going to die if
I have to put up with this feeling.
But look, I've sat here and I've thought about how upsetting this was for five minutes and
I'm not dead.
You build resilience that way, like exposure therapy.
You learn tools for evaluating, is this a true thought or is this a feeling that's causing
me to think that, you know?
It's interesting that you say feelings aren't facts because, I mean, in a way they are,
we've had at the episode about emotions before where a lot of the feelings that people have
internalized and rely on are because of things they have learned in the environment and
their feelings can be useful, they can be adaptive, but they aren't facts.
Yeah.
Well, the trick, the facts about how you feel at the very least and how you feel is often
based on things that you know and you've experienced.
I guess the problem is that like any other thing in life, like your eyes sometimes lie
to you.
Sometimes your ears lie to you.
Sometimes your feelings lie to you too and it can be hard to figure out when that is
and you have to learn when that is and how to deal with it.
There's ways.
There's like, you know.
There's optical illusions that you can eventually understand and work around, audio illusions
of the same way and also, I guess, feelings illusions for lack of a better term where
it's like you're having a panic attack even though there shouldn't be any reason for a
panic attack and eventually, hopefully, I guess the point of the therapy is to try to
understand why, where the disconnect is between what the feeling is and what the reality is
and how to deal with that.
Both CBT and DBT are just, they, it's some tools that I'm going to do CBT because I have
actually pulled up the list of cognitive distortions.
So when you're having a lot of distress about a thing, you can pull out your list and go,
is this all or nothing thinking?
Is this over-generalization?
Is this a mental filter, like the opposite of an over-general?
This sounds like a list of what to do if you want to be a woke, outraged person.
Discounting the positive, jumping to conclusions, magnification, emotional reasoning, short
statements.
Seriously, literally like a playlist.
That's why this was so overposed.
Well, the thing is, these are the bad ways of thinking.
These are the cognitive distortions and you, like.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
This sounds like a playlist of what happens when people get into those.
That's exactly it.
Like, if somebody is like, okay, well, I feel like I've been personally attacked by
somebody posting Thanksgiving, like, that was the thought I was having earlier, where
there's a difference between being able to recognize this person is not trying to attack
me specifically, personally, by posting a picture of their Thanksgiving dinner.
There was no harm intended here.
I think it's reasonable for that person to go on Facebook and say, like, hey, I'm vegan
and if friends wouldn't mind, I think it'd be really cool if you could just put trigger
warning, there's pictures of meat, if you're going to post like meat or put it behind a
read more.
But like, you know, it's on me, obviously, to manage my own stuff, but I just think
that like, you know, I would appreciate it if people would do that.
Hey, thanks versus all caps.
I will unfriend you immediately and like docks you.
I think the hard part is the social proof thing, because lots of times if you aren't
sure you're seeing something, you turn to somebody like, are you seeing that over there?
Is it just me?
Or like, if you're getting a weird vibe off someone, you turn to someone else, you ask
them, like if someone goes absolutely nuts and everyone else in society is like, you
know, chill out, man, you're freaking out and authorities are like, we can work with
you, but you're having an overreaction, maybe, you know, try the CBT thing, whatever.
But like, if literally everyone around you is like, yeah, yeah, you are being unfairly
maligned by these racists and transphobes, and we got to do something about this.
And that is basically what Twitter does because Twitter enjoys that kind of thing.
It is the entertainment of the Twitter.
Yeah, that is, you know, the social proof is a lot of the promise.
Like you look and you're like, do you see a witch over there?
Is our neighbor a witch crafting spells to curse us?
And everyone is like, holy shit, yeah, she's a witch.
Then all of a sudden you think there's a witch.
Well, and if you don't say it's a witch, then they'll think you're a witch too.
I mean, and the other, the worst part of this is that there are people who are unfairly
maligned for these sorts of things under like actual aggressions, right?
And wait, what do you mean?
I mean, you know, if I just didn't press there.
There's a difference.
Like there are there are actual witches.
OK, yeah. Right.
The thing is, is when you have too many fake witches that you're
running at the stake or just, you know, lands for sacrifice, accusations.
There was a whole thing for a while of I mean, it was it wasn't continues to be
a huge problem that people don't believe rape victims, but then
woke people, promoted, always believe the accuser or the victim, I guess.
Listen to victims.
They say victims, but they mean accused.
I mean, either way, honestly, like it's kind of interesting
because you're sort of presupposing that, I don't know, accuser sounds like.
I mean, they say always believe the victim.
But if someone is leveling a false rape charge, then the victim is the person
who is having a false rape and like the thing is that like the statistics,
they based that on like a statistic show that is actually pretty like unusual.
It's kind of rare for somebody to falsely accuse someone of rape.
It doesn't mean it literally never happens.
Right. And like that we shouldn't investigate, though,
because that is just a recipe for disaster.
Oh, hey, guess what?
Like, you know, the feminists have made it so that now we can make false
rape accusations, whatever we want.
And people are obligated to believe it.
You know, like, well, this is this is one of those things where, like,
it's coming from a great place and it's coming from a is trying to
write a historical wrong of like this has been fucked up for way too long too far.
Well, like it ends up with hashtag kill all men.
Well, or it just takes you right back to to kill a mockingbird.
You know, if you don't like your black co-worker because you're
you're a white racist person, you say, oh, that person raped me
and they have to believe you.
And that person has to get fired.
You're like, great, I purged my my white my workspace.
And now it's nice and white again.
Like that is the kind of of weapon you're handing out.
And it's this is like mutually assured destruction at this point.
Well, it's not not all that mutual.
Yeah, I think the way Steven just described it, it's like, you know,
if somebody is a bad actor, they can accuse somebody of being anti-Semitic
and transphobic and then like if nobody's going to investigate or like that
they raped me or said, you know, so like this is this is just madness.
We obviously don't want this to continue to be a thing.
Did I ever tell you about the P.Z.
Meyers thing? Oh, I'm not sure which thing you're talking about.
So P.Z. Meyers wrote the Ferella Wrangula blog,
which was a great atheist blog way back in the day.
He was support was obsessed with that blog.
He was he was really fun to watch
because he would punch theists a lot verbally and it was great.
And I was there for the boxing.
But wait to get an example of his of his flavor of new atheism.
I remember he posted a video of him torturing or at least smashing a step
and a cracker, a cracker, a communion wafer.
But that was in protest because some kid had not
he like disrespected the wafer or something.
And they were trying to like,
were they trying to like arrest him or punish him in some way?
