And then the dean's like, you know what, I'm going to take time and let's
engage with you and talk about it.
It seemed like it could have gone so right.
You know, I think the fact that it didn't go right that one time
doesn't mean that we got to stop trying.
No, but part of what you're saying about like, there's no other way to do it.
No, there is there's one way that I think help.
And I don't know.
I'm curious when you guys just feedback on this because like, you know,
we you can't solve racism, right?
But what you can do is you can institutionalize ways that make it
really hard to be racist or at least to give power to racists.
So like, for example, you make it illegal to legislate, you legislate
that it's now unlawful to not let someone wrench from you because they're black, right?
So it's you can you can legislate good behavior in like the highly visible ways.
You can't legislate that somebody not shoot a dirty look at black people
if they're racist, right?
You can't make this person not feel like they fit.
Oh, yeah, like you can't like hypnotize them or something.
And then be like, wow, now I feel like I fit in great or make everybody
else change their behavior to accommodate this like there's things you can do.
Sure.
I definitely think that we should do the things that we can do, but you can't
make a bunch of laws about like, you know, basically like trying to prevent
microaggressions from happening because the problem is that one of the problems
people get outraged about something that they interpret as a personal attack
where most of the time if they had actually like, you know, had a CVT
workbook there and like they could sort of go like breathe for a bit.
Do they like distress tolerance skills and then be like, OK, is it more likely
that this person who I don't know, yell that thing in the hallway
because they wanted to traumatize me or that like they're just an asshole
or maybe like I misunderstood.
Maybe they made a racist joke, but like it was sort of one of those in-joke
things where like gay people make fun of themselves or whatever.
Like, like, man, you're so gay, dude.
And like a person I know uses the word gay pejoratively as gay.
And he's I mentioned that to him and he's like, yeah, I own that.
I'm like, all right, good to you, bro.
You, speaking of microaggressions, you had some good things to say about them.
Well, I wouldn't phrase it that way.
I was going to defend my microaggressions as a legitimate concern.
OK, I wouldn't say I have good things to say about them.
I guess I phrased that poorly.
They are real and they can be really upsetting for people to have to
tolerate this from experience. Exactly.
And so that you can't legislate it away.
Well, because they're micro.
It's just like, you know.
So, well, I mean, to clear up what I meant by legislating is
like you could pass you could pass at least in if it's not a law,
you can pass a a university initiative that like we will never fire
an employee based on a mob from the internet.
Like not like so this isn't something that you you push through the state
legislature, you just say as a as an organization, we will never do this.
I don't. And we might open an investigation.
OK, we'll look into stuff, but we will never just like, oh,
shit, the kids are mad at us and fire somebody.
Like that's something that's just one idea.
But I mean, what I'm thinking about though is a microaggression
that I experience a lot is just being misgendered by like cashiers
where like I hand them my idea, I'm buying alcohol.
It says male, I'm presenting male.
And then they'll be like, oh, sweetie, like that's going to be this much.
Like have a great day.
And like, you know, do you think they check your license for the sex on it?
No, they don't.
They look at the, I don't know, people can't do math,
which I think is really funny, like they'll say I should always have the date
up in the store. No, they'll like grab the that or like, I've seen people
like grab the idea, look at it, have a brain fart and then like scan it.
So like because they have some kind of computer thing that says of age or not
of age, because like, oh, God, I can't see math.
I've been there when I've been cashier.
I mean, what as long as we're on that note, I don't mind
belaboring this for a minute.
If you're over 21, your idea is horizontal and like I see Colorado in Colorado.
Is that not a nationwide thing?
I think that's generally the just how all IDs are.
But in Colorado, if you're under 21, it's vertical.
Right. OK, that was super, not a thing in Jersey.
It might be now, but like it wasn't even a thing in Colorado back when I was under 21.
Well, in any case, the the person at the bar I go to isn't much older than me.
You know, so they if they see a horizontal idea, they know what that means.
The other thing is that you glance at the date and if there's a nine in it,
you're like, oh, here you go.
Like you don't have.
And it's 86, right?
But we're not we're not past a 19.
Well, yeah, if there's a 19.
Oh, I see. Yeah, sorry.
Yeah, my bad. 2019.
Well, then that person is, you know, if they've got an idea,
if they've got a state issued idea at two, you know, I think they've earned their booze.
A drink, yeah.
Congratulations, man.
I was wondering where the number crunch is coming in, because it's like, look,
I think I think on the the the sane end of the the the license checking thing is
that if the person sells the alcohol and if it's a fake,
if it's a if it's a convincing fake, if it's your older sibling who looks
just like you and you stole their ID, that person still is liable for,
well, a, they'll lose their job because the store is still going to get fined
like five thousand dollars.
So I can see why they spend so much time analyzing it.
But I do just notice that that's weird every time I go out.
What were you going to say about microaggressions, though?
Jace put it more succinctly than I ever could.
It was we were talking about, I'd said, like, you can't legislate away,
basically, somebody calling me sweetie.
And even that is just like.
But you were going to say, like, micro something about microaggressions
are generally, oh, look at these things.
But you were like, but they're actually kind of valid.
Oh, well, Jace, I think put it that way was that, like, there are people
who endure these annoying things that one once in a blue moon would be an annoyance.
But a couple of times a day is like an actual annoying strain.
You know, a not uncommon one is people wanting to touch black people's hair.
And like, if you're like most people don't want strangers fucking touching you,
like that almost, you know, I hate to fall into the group of people
who overuse the word aggression, but that's almost aggression.
Like granted, I'm not I'm not trying to hurt you, but it's like you're you're touching me.
Yeah, it becomes a microaggression when it's like like that.
You almost can't even say that people are acting in bad faith.
Like per se, like I still look real femme despite having been on testosterone
almost a year and it's like not somebody's fault if they they're not trying to offend me.
You know, the the person I don't know, some old lady like, oh, wow,
I can't believe how like amazing your coronars are and like touching some girls'
hairs because that was like, you know, maybe this is like an 80 something year old woman.
And the social norms were different in her time.
And she's trying to compliment this person or like, you know,
but like that comes off as just incredibly like humanizing and fantasizing.
Like I think the thing I dislike about microaggressions is just the word
because it implies, first of all, a level of aggression where lots of times
there's no actual person feels aggrieved.
But like, yeah, I see what you're saying.
But like what I'm saying to you is a lot of the time,
it's not somebody actually trying to piss you off.
It's an accident and on top of that, it has the word micro in it,
which makes it sound like this is such a small thing.
You literally need a microscope to see it.
So why are you getting so upset?
Because there's a thousand.
I know, I know, but it's a stupid word.
I like the term just disrespect by a thousand cuts.
When you point out to someone, look, you're kind of being disrespectful.
Like everyone can get that.
Why are you calling it a fucking stupid microaggression?
I don't know if I love the word either, but I can at least differentiate.
Why I would explain why disrespect wouldn't work in at least some cases.
Like if you're if you have an unusually pronounced name,
especially like if it's a cultural and it's it's when you have no idea
what it's like to have an unusually pronounced name.
I was I was I was trying to think of a way to bring the point home to you.
But, you know, so like, I don't know if, you know,
ran into a lot of anti Polish people in your upbringing, probably not.
Because I don't know if people can spot Polish people from across the street.
But not really.
Every now and then you're like dumb pollock joke.
It used to be more of a thing like the white like lower class white people
were treated poorly, but then we got people of color.
And then they're like, oh, that's a much easier target to identify and harass.
Like, yeah. But what were you saying about the name thing?
I was going to the name mispronunciation thing
because it ties well into my my my bimonthly recommendation
for everyone watching Key and Peel.
There's a couple of segments where Key and Michael Key's the substitute teacher
and he's mispronouncing everyone's name.
Oh, I remember that.
And, you know, Balaké instead of Blake.
Yeah. It's like nobody's raising their hands
and because he's because they're saying the name wrong.
But then it starts freaking out.
Yeah. So like, that's the that's the inversion of the thing of like,
if you do have an unusual name and a professor mis mis mis
pronounces it on day one and you say, actually, no, sorry, it's Balaké, not Blake.
You're like, oh, you got it, dude. Sorry, my dad.
But like that that so that that is.
But then every single person you talk to that day also.
So that that's where like it gets to be.
OK, so I don't know if I'm unusual, but I've never in my life been upset about that.
Even people who like meet me several times over the course of a week
will mispronounce my name because it's a tough fucking name.
I'm not upset about people gendering me if they do it by accident.
But I've there are some trans people who get very upset about it.
And sort of I think it's this misattribution of intent to harm someone.
Right. Well, and Charlie's points, I think the important part
and that's probably where this term came from, you know.
Well, no, actually it didn't.
I think it did come from like the little things
like asking where someone's from for this phenomenon.
And what they're trying to describe with microaggressions
is just the experience of constantly having this thing that upsets you.
Yeah, I think it's the impact, you know, whether or not it's intentional.
I think, you know, like the person at the diner calling you, you know,
from Texas, they do to everybody.
But like I've even heard that people wearing the wrong clothes is a microaggression.
Like they're just they happen to be in the same room as you and they're wearing
clothes that you think are, you know, those are my people's clothes.
You're not allowed to wear those.
That's a microaggression that I'm not affected by accident.
I would be kept doing it intentional, but like we can't tell the difference.
