Where like because they were like, you literally desecrated the body
of Christ, which we believe is literally his body and like he needs to be punished.
And P.Z. Meyers was like in in protest.
Hey, look, I'm doing it too. Punish me too.
This is way back in the days of 2006, give or take.
Anyway, what was the.
Oh, the thing was he at one point,
he related this on his blog because it scared the fuck out of him.
A female student came into his office
during normal office hours and closed the door and basically threatened him
with a face with a rape accusation.
If he didn't do I was some kind of a great change, something right?
And he said, I got right there.
It's something like that.
He said, well, I'm right there and he left and immediately and went straight
to the principal and was like, this is happening.
She's in my office right now.
I don't know what to do. Please help.
And like, that's terrifying.
Yeah, it was absolutely terrifying, but they jumped on it.
They handled it very well.
And the thing is, like later on, he became one of the like
hard left, new feminism atheists.
And I remember like three years later, he was making a comment
and he was in the hashtag.
It was like, believe, believe Victor, believe victims or something.
And he says, there is literally no such thing as a false rape accusation.
This has this is so unheard of that it's basically drinking the Kool-Aid.
And I'm like, dude, it literally happened to you.
You blogged about it three years ago.
How do you not remember that?
No gods, no heroes, no idols in the comments or something.
I mean, I don't know, I didn't.
I bet he would have just deleted the post because couldn't live with the dissonance.
Yeah, I didn't.
I mean, you know, I don't want to get hung up on the false rape accusation thing.
I mean, no, no, because again, it is a very rare thing.
And it's it's a it's but it's taking it way too fucking far.
If you make the new norm, they don't exist.
Yeah. So therefore, like, I mean, you have to have some kind of
reasonableness in your like, like, OK, this is a problem.
Like rape happens a lot.
And rape culture is a thing.
And those are bad.
And like, how are we going to solve that?
Well, not by like cracking down so hard that you leave all these loopholes
for people to just exploit.
Like, I remember during the Mueller investigation of Trump's ties to Russia
that and like the the shenanigans with the election that I at least heard about,
but it never went anywhere.
Like people had tried to pay women to say that that Mueller assaulted them.
And I remember that like that.
Then again, this might literally be fake news.
I don't know where where it came from.
And I don't so I can't send by it.
Substant, I can't like, yeah, I should say, I remember hearing about that,
not like that it was true.
Well, the thing is, I think that it wasn't so quickly just went nowhere.
But that's the kind of thing that just would happen.
I mean, like, hey, this political guys give me trouble.
This this this pesky investigators going to going to turn up some dirt.
Here's a thousand dollars.
We go on TV and say he assaulted you.
You know, so like it's it's not that like I want to say we need to demand evidence.
And this like, again, this is a very important historical wrong that needs correction.
But I guess I said I don't want to get hung up on it and I am.
So, you know, it does kind of tie in well, very loosely, if I'm forcing it,
it ties into the third grade on truth that life is a battle between good people
and evil people. Yeah.
And this this is where, like, even the people I disagree with on this stuff,
like, again, I know that most of them have their heart in the right place.
You know, some people just get off on the fun and that's not the right place.
I don't think you live a good life that way.
But the like thing that came up when I was thinking of PZ was like,
he got he became radicalized.
He like, I was all on board when he came out as like, hey, I know that,
like, you know, we're the atheist movement.
But like, I also when they were making a plus, I don't know if you remember this,
they tried to do a thing where as sort of a response to people saying that,
like, new atheists are evil and have no morals.
It's like, what if we make atheism, like a movement that is not just about
we don't believe in God, but then also is like, and also we believe in science
and that people like human rights and like that we will, you know,
we believe in equal rights for all humans, regardless of their color or sex.
It sounded awesome. I was like, oh, man, I want that like bumper sticker.
I will join that group.
It's like the group that doesn't believe in God, but then also like does believe
in things like justice and equality and stuff.
But then like, yeah, you radicalize it.
And then it's just when you start this black and white thinking,
which is I think actually one of the cognitive distortions from CBT
or all or nothing thinking.
Yeah, I think a lot of people, I mean, so the the inclination
to have this fighting on the good side of history is not like something new.
Like when people were purging the Jews or or keeping the bloodlines pure
by not allowing interracial marriage, they were fighting for, you know,
the good side of history.
They thought that they were keeping civilization from falling apart,
keeping bad things from happening.
And it's the exact same impulse that motivates these people now.
And I mean, the reason I say that is because some of the things they do
are so obviously racist that it's just like, do you not see the parallels?
Apparently you don't.
And it's just it's that same motivation of I am doing the correct thing
and because all these people are evil and they must be evil.
Yes, we must use all your weapon.
Wasn't there a sequence about something like that where arguments are sold?
Yes.
But it just seems like there's always this inclination in human nature
to think in us versus them terms and to beat up on the them
because it is the right thing to do and it is what will save the human race,
which is us because the them aren't really quite human.
And and it's just I guess people need to find that outlet.
And if it's couched under anti racism or whatever the fuck terms,
they'll still they'll gravitate to something just to have the us first them
tribalism and and keep the cycle going.
They're done truth again.
The life is a battle between good people and evil.
OK, yeah, yeah, that's Italy ties in with like the, you know,
you you need to dehumanize your enemy, basically.
Like if if I guess that's like the the idea that like, OK, say you're
say here, trans guy and it's like actually like kind of scary being out in trends.
You know, there's a lot of like trans people commit suicide
and incredibly high rate for harassment.
They also get killed a lot and like if you have that like I fear for my life
or I don't know your block for it, there's real bad stuff out there
that like does exist.
But if sit there and like just, you know, let yourself let your fear take over.
You end up with this like all white people are evil and racist.
And we need to fight them.
And you lose all shades of gray when you have the black and white thinking.
And like, honestly, you know, stuff is complicated.
People are complicated.
The worst part in my opinion, even the shades of greats,
the fact that all all people are judged by outward characteristics
that can lump them into groups rather than treating people as individual.
The hashtag kill all men.
We're like, well, like you should know that I don't actually mean all men,
but like they would not really that so much.
I saw that discussion and it like.
I I mean, that's just got to be just like a loud badge that you get to wear
that says I'm in this group, right?
And I'm with you guys.
But the what you mentioned about interpersonal marriage reminded me
because I mean, that's the thing about, you know, facts or feelings or feelings
over facts and, you know, what matters is how it made me feel.
And I felt offended like people have been using offense to silence people
forever and to shut things down.
And like, I don't and we keep realizing over and over that that's not
the right way to do civil liberty or life.
You know, people were offended watching black and white people hold hands.
Right.
Like I don't get well, no, no, this time this time my offense
is this this is the right time to use offense as a as a weapon to stop somebody.
But like the people 50 years ago felt the same way about their bullshit
that none of us agree with anymore.
Performative learned helpless an excuse for attacking whoever you want.
In the worst case, yeah, like the the whole, you know,
what doesn't kill you will make you a mental like, I guess,
when I was talking about see that the thing of like in that way,
I think there's not like a simple solution to this.
This is actually sort of a species wide cognitive distortion
that we're all susceptible to the the whole arguments or soldiers
like greens versus it's core like rationality 101.
Yeah. And we can't just go fix, like go, you know, we can't yet
pull down the console for a brain like, well, I've got to fix this cognitive
distortion, but like, but there are ways to do it.
The thing is, though, that you can't force people to do CBT or DVT,
who are being controlled by these cognitive distortions.
You can cash, you know, you can calmly like have a conversation with them.
I wish there was some way that we could all like coordinate so that every
time this comes up, the response is validate the person's emotions.
Like, oh, I understand that you're feeling really upset and that like
you're scared for your life, maybe like talk like, you know, the kid that said,
like, I feel like I don't fit in at Harvard or wherever.
I feel like sort of bad if it's not Harvard.
I think we've said both Harvard and Yale.
We should call it Princeton next time.
OK, that's from New Jersey.
I'll make some of them happily.
No, actually, Princeton's cool.
So the Columbia student who had this thing.
Yeah, this student of color, they specified saying like, I don't fit in
and you need to do something about it.
And it wasn't even that you need to do something about it.
I think it was just directing anger at them.
And I don't even think that the initial letter contained that much anger in it.
It was just like an expression of how they're feeling.
It seems super. Maybe this is a bad example for what I'm trying to describe.
But I think it's a good example of like the kind of way that this just went
weird because it seemed like, hey, you know, I'm feeling this way.
And I don't even know who the dean was of the college I went to.
Do you do like state universities have deans?
Probably. Yeah.
But like, I would never think to like to write my dean.
I might write an instructor or my, you know, or the campus therapist or something.
Or the entitlement.
I mean, that could be part of that.
But the fact that they were like, you know what,
I'm going to escalate this to the dean because I'm feeling this way.
