That was one thing that I really wanted to hammer home in.
I didn't get around to maybe I brought up last episode, but like always having to like,
you know, the people, you know, demanding that professors get fired,
they demand the school do something.
I demand my employer do this.
I demand the, the server moderators do that.
Like they always want to run to run to the teacher and say, they're, they call me a name.
It's a childish behavior.
And that's a, a lot of, you know, what's behind personality disorders or mental disorders where
like it does put you in this child like state of mind and cause your behaviors to become more
simplified, that black and white thinking, et cetera.
There were two things that like he just said, that's discounting the positive is a distortion
because, oh, because Sam Harris said some problematic things, we need to ban him forever
from everything.
And he's never, because he said some problematic things, he's never said anything good.
Catastrophization of, well, if this happens, then obviously that's going to happen.
That's going to lead to nuclear war.
And if you hear his voice, you will turn evil too.
Yeah.
You got to like, you know, check yourself with, you know, if you're doing CBT,
listen to what you're saying and then like, check, see, is this one of these distortions?
And then like, is it possible that I'm wrong?
And you can run through the checklist sometimes be like, no, I think I was right to be upset
about that.
But like a lot of the time it's like, just you're psyching yourself out and you teach
yourself to not do that by running through this list.
Writing down what like, you know, the, I love the catastrophization is my main problem.
I still struggle with it a lot and I've gotten a lot better.
But when I first started being on this podcast, I had to like, man, I like, I was, I was freaking
the fuck out all the time where I was like, Steven and Nenish really like me.
Do they really want me in the podcast?
They probably just do it because they invited me that one time that it would be awkward if
I kept going back and they're like, oh, we can't really be on it.
So like, did they even like me as a person?
Like, oh, they probably think I'm so, I say dumb things all the time.
I bet they're just like trying to be nice by not pointing out how stupid I, and it's just
like, wait, okay, hang on.
I have to like grab a notebook and be like, how likely is it that Steven and Nenish think
I'm an idiot?
Have they ever said that or like done anything to suggest that?
Okay, there's no evidence.
We actually really, really like you.
Like, and it's like, how likely is it that like, you know, that they don't really want
me on the podcast, but it'd be awkward to kick me off.
And I'm like, no evidence of being the case.
But like, you still have to sit there and then like, write out the catastrophization
and then look at it and laugh and go nice, nice job, brain.
Like, before you articulate it, you just have all the emotions.
So you just like, you're stuck in emotion land.
You're like, I feel so anxious about going on this podcast that I can't do it because I,
you know, because why?
Because of nothing, because of shit that I'm making up because I have these cognitive
distortions.
I think the running through authority figures is specifically because they can't actually
ban people on their own.
They have to, you know, get someone else to do it for them.
They want the validation, first of all, of their emotions and they want somebody else
to go solve the problem for them.
Like, they don't want to have to tolerate distress.
They get validation from their peers, from the rest of the Twitter mob saying, yeah,
you're right.
These people are awful.
Everything's the worst.
There's different.
And then it's the, the exercising of power to make someone powerful do something for you
that everybody knows is fucking stupid.
But they're going to do it because they're, they're worried about whatever the mob could
do, PR, whatever it is.
And that's, you know, that's a huge power boost.
I think that's what it is.
It's the ability to bully the people who you see as power figures.
That's the bad faith ones anyway, but there's also people who, I think, think of themselves
as this helpless nobody who is going to be crushed by this big, evil, dangerous force,
and they need to grab all their soldiers, you know, that you need to use everything
in their power to fight evil because you don't give in to evil.
You really think that the people who are running to the Dean or the server mod or
whoever are like, I'm so weak and helpless.
No, I think, I think some of them are.
I mean, like, I know people like this.
I mean, in that case, they're absolutely fucking delusional.
They are.
No, that is, that's what CBT is for.
It's these are cognitive distortions.
These are actually delusions that you have that don't match reality.
So what I'm hearing is all these people need some serious psychotherapy.
Indeed.
Or sometimes they're right though, too.
Like, again, the student at wherever could have been having a really terrible time.
Maybe there was just tons of people saying racist stuff around them all the time.
Maybe like all of their, I don't know, say it's Harvard again, because who cares,
like all their, you know, posters have white people in them.
If you go on their website to buy some Harvard merch, like all the models are white.
And like, just this sort of like e-racer, maybe like, yeah, like,
nobody has ever pronounced their name correctly or bothers to care and like laughs about it.
And like, it's just, it's a really toxic environment to be in.
And like, I think it was really cool of the Dean to kind of be like, hey, like, you know,
maybe you're exaggerating.
Maybe you're not.
Let's talk about it.
But then the part that made it seem like bad faith was that they took the invitation back from,
you know, the top person at the school.
Yeah, I don't want to like.
Yeah, I don't know the person.
Analyzing whether or not like who was in the wrong there.
I'm trying to just say that like, sometimes like,
I think people have legit reasons for trying to cancel people.
I'm sure you could find some, some old money racists at Princeton or Harvard or whatever
Ivy League school it is we're, we're dumping on right now.
But there's no way that there aren't also people who are very liberal and, and on that person's side
and acting as a support network.
I, it's not like we're in the fifties and this is Jackie Robinson trying to play racism,
sexism, like ableism, all these things do exist and hurt people.
And they're like, we shouldn't just say, suck it up.
That's too bad for you.
You know, but like also we shouldn't sack the Dean without like, you know,
trying to maybe do some like intermediary measures first.
Like, yeah, like, I mean, I don't know.
Maybe secretly the Dean released a public message of support, but you know,
behind the scenes was like, yeah, this student is the worst.
Everybody should gang up on them.
And Harvard never said that publicly because they don't want to look bad.
But I don't know.
I mean, I'm saying, yes, maybe the Dean deserved to get fired.
I, we can't know for sure.
We don't know many of the details, just what we've heard in this reporting and that could be.
This is such a bad example.
We should stop referring to it because like, okay, like, I don't know.
Can I come up with like some fictional thing or Steven sounds like you want to say something?
I think just like we can summarize it at the highest level, which is like,
often grievances can be valid and real and actually felt, but there can be a tempered
response that doesn't involve just immediately firing the person that they're worried about
or even like immediately trying to ruin their life.
Right.
You can, you can, you can move from, hey, you know, this, this person or, you know,
this person teaches a class about, there was a one person in the article, they went and like,
did a sit-in in their class because they was like a,
wait a sit-in as in just like, sat there to investigate whether or not this person was
doing this, no, it was a bunch of students doing a sit-in and then they read from like their list
of grievances and they didn't name their professor, but they were talking about him.
And it was like, I don't think it was English because it was a college course, but it was,
you know, some, some, there was college level English and, and it was correcting people's
spellings and stuff.
And that was, that was a microaggression that was racist because they actually know it's a lower
case eye on indigenous, for example.
And they're like, well, not to me and my truth.
And so like, so the appropriate response there is to like, talk it out, not to fire the teacher.
The teacher didn't get fired in this case, but whatever.
I have one last thing about the alt-right pipeline before I ever get, which was that.
Can I say one last thing about this before we go to that?
Yeah, okay.
I mean, just based on how liberal most universities are and how liberal other teaching staff is
and what I've seen of the, the, the way students react, my priors are to be that this probably
was not a big deal.
And maybe it was.
I mean, I admit that there's definitely racism and sexism.
Yeah, right.
I, there's definitely racism and sexism out there.
And we do need to fight against them still.
But, you know, I'm saying what you're saying sounds like believe victims, like you're saying,
because this is most often nonsense.
It's probably, we should just treat it like it's all nonsense.
No, I'm saying that my priors are along the lines of this is probably nonsense.
Yeah, but you're not advocating just dismiss all like planning about racism.
No, not any more than I'm complaining to fire anyone who's had a complaint against them,
because they're, you know, actually looking into things would be a good idea.
Yeah, but that's unfortunately, like if things are divided into black and white,
good people and evil people, you're not allowed to, you're not allowed to find nuance,
which is just like a problem that needs to be, needs to be addressed.
The last thing with the alt-right pipeline was that it kind of, I just was like,
all right, so now we're putting together a banned books list.
Like actually we are.
It might actually not we, but people are.
Well, the night said it might actually just be shorter to have an approved books list
because, because quite frankly, like, you know, can I recommend Neil deGrasse Tyson?
Well, he's been on Drogon show like four times.
So, you know, if I, if I YouTube Neil deGrasse Tyson and I want to watch him,
you know, chat, just shoot the shit with some moron for three hours and talk about aliens or
whatever, like, well, shit, I'm going to be watching the Drogon experience.
And like-
Wasn't he also on Sam Harris's podcast once?
Twice at least.
Twice, oh my God, he's basically a white supremacist.
Well, but I mean, that's the thing is that, that just like, and I think the person I was
talking to was like, well, I mean, you know, there's got to be edge cases and like, yeah,
but how can you possibly find them?
Like if you're concerned is literally just like the YouTube algorithm being so much
stronger than the average human mind that, that was their case that they would,
that they would watch videos and they recommend, they recommended, but it's like, you know,
it's basically the red scare again.
If anyone learns about communism, they will be brainwashed.
Right.
And so I just, I didn't understand it and I found the whole thing like extremely
patronizing to the average person.
Yeah, can we all agree that censorship is nerve-
Yes.
All right, all right.
Well, you know, there, anyone else have anything else to say?
Because I've got a great segue.
Oh, I want to hear your great segue.
All right.
