And I think a possibly a like voluntary, you know, when you voluntarily institutionalize
yourself, they were at some kind of like clinic for people that were just like, yeah, no,
I need to, you know, go to a mental health clinic.
Things aren't good.
And the they couldn't figure out what therapy to do with them.
They were trying to do yoga and people would like start crying and run out of the room.
Like he had a bunch of he said, like, you know, female patients who had a sex molestation
rape based PTSD.
And so, like, in one case, it was something like, OK, and then, like, put your left knee
on the ground and this one like runs out of the room crying.
And this isn't I'm not remembering the details exactly, but it was like, oh, like later,
she's like, sorry, my abuser grabbed me by that knee and held me down with it.
Like and then raped me.
So like reminding myself that the my left knee exists by doing yoga triggered that.
And again, that's the whole like, you can't predict that there's no possible way to predict
what any possible person might be triggered by because it can be totally random shit like
that. It's connected to a traumatic experience.
But what this person developed was a somatic therapy system where you're working with the
body first in order to just reacclimate yourself to the feeling of being in your body and having
those emotions basically sort of an exposure therapy there on with, you know, in a safe
setting with guidance. Same thing with like Stephen was talking about with exposure therapy.
If you have arachnophobia, you don't just want to go like, I'm going to challenge my
arachnophobia and going to go to the zoo and going to look at all the tarantulas.
And now that's that makes a recipe for freaking yourself the fuck out.
Like, yeah, you want to do it in steps.
You want a professional guide to do this sort of thing.
Yeah, I mean, I don't know.
Yeah, that's the thing is I wouldn't be prepared to guess on like the appropriate treatments for
most phobias, right?
Yeah, but it's an important ingredient that you like actually try to treat it, especially if
it's actually ruining your life.
Yeah, no, you're the person who's that freaked out by thinking of Thanksgiving dinner.
Like, you're and you're actually suffering.
That's the thing. If you're if you're scare quotes suffering on Facebook for upvotes or
whatever. Yeah, that's that's one thing.
But if you're actually suffering, you should do something about this.
Do you guys remember when we were fighting to basically what I remember was fighting
to get gay people the right to marry and be treated as equals?
I think that was for him largely.
OK, I mean, they were still even older.
People could probably remember the fight for getting a non whites in America.
Yeah, in a racial marriage.
Yeah, it did not be that wasn't that long ago.
Was it? It was like there's people right now that still remember it.
Yeah. But I was like, what?
At what point did the social justice wheels fall off the wagon where we went from trying
to actually make life better for minorities and make the world more equal to where it
is now where it's just trying to to beat people up and basically perpetuate race?
I think it was a runaway process, you know, like, and I'm not and I haven't dug into
the history of this.
But like it everything that you see now can be seen as a as a reasonable evolution
of things that were being advocated for 20 years ago.
I see it as something getting coopted by signaling and politics.
That too. I don't think it's reasonable at all.
But I do think it was coopted by people who want power or who are racist.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, I mean, sorry, I was going to say like an incremental
understandable step by step evolution in that sense reasonable, not a rational evolution.
Right. Yeah. I mean, there's a lot of people that I knew and that I were friends with
that I'm sadly not friends with anymore.
And a lot of it was about them just getting more and more sucked into this.
And at some point being like, huh, it turns out you read Scott Alexander
and you're a Nazi, so I'm not sure I want to hang out with you anymore.
I'm like, well, I do read Scott Alexander.
I don't apologize for that because he's not a Nazi and neither am I.
And Scott Alexander is a sweetheart.
I'm so upset when people try to say that he's problematic.
Yeah. And like the.
Well, I haven't met him personally.
For all these readings, he's a sweetheart.
Yeah, you have. And even just but even just reading his blog.
Right. The only people who could say that are people who don't read him.
And oh, my God, I mean, that's that's the distressing part.
Like at some point I turned around and I was like, wait a minute,
this has gone off the rails and it's bullshit.
And a lot of people haven't got to that point.
And I don't know when they will.
Like, how do you how can people get to that point where they realize this is not
raising the sanity?
And I mean, I know it's happening more now.
And I've been very hard to hear that lately in college campuses,
there's been a bit of a, I don't know if I would call it a backlash exactly,
but people saying like, this is fucking crazy.
And oh, yeah. Yeah.
So the new teens are going to save us all.
Thank God.
The new teens are like so out of fucks to give.
I think that they don't even have the energy to be
social justice warriors of any flavor.
Yeah.
I wanted to point out last time we were talking about this,
but then like it's my own fault that I forgot because tied up
anything about social justice.
I almost did it again because you were talking about losing friends,
digital justice, and I wanted to bring up this ridiculous story about that.
But I'm not going to.
Instead, I'm going to say that heterodaxacademy.org is the thing that exists.
And it is, well, it says on site, a group of 5,000 plus professors,
administrators, K through 12 educators, staff and students who believe
diverse viewpoints and opening query are critical to research and learning.
And this was actually somebody in the rationalist community
and in my Philly group told us about this and we talked about it for a while.
But this was like a backlash against the what is it, like liberal bias that they have.
Well, the books, but like it was not even really about that.
It was like professors losing their jobs for having like conservative
political opinions that didn't even come up really.
Or I mean, it was it was, I think, just as much about professors
leaving losing their jobs for having liberal opinions that weren't liberal enough.
That too.
Yeah, this was an attempt to, like, I don't know, form sort of a community movement.
Yeah, but the heterodaxacademy is mostly like older people, people who are ready,
you know, in their 20s, 30s, whereas I was thinking there are students who are.
Yeah, OK, I was I was more I'm always more happy to see things
where there's actual people in their teens organizing and stating these opinions
because because that makes it feel like it's more that the future is not lost.
When it's younger people pushing for it rather than like old wise people,
that it takes 60 years to get this wisdom, but wouldn't that I'm long to share it?
Yeah. So I'm sorry, we're cutting you off.
I'm just reading a part of their site again.
They're saying the problem, our commitment to heterodoxy within the academy.
So yeah, it is like this is focusing primarily on college and its college
professors, but they did say that they've got K through 12, they've got students.
Has taken shape as a response to the rise of orthodoxy within scholarly culture.
When people fear shame, ostracism or any form of social or professional retaliation
for questioning or challenging a commonly held idea,
we believe the best way to prevent orthodoxy from taking root within the academy
is by fostering three key principles, open inquiry, viewpoint, diversity
and constructive disagreement.
That's the my is that my primary.
I think that might be my primary objection to the social justice
or whatever they were talking about, the coddling of the American mind, I guess.
Is that, yeah, you don't you don't solve problems by just censoring them.
Like you have to have the constructive disagreement there is like, you know,
you know what really broke me?
I had been a supporter of the ACLU for many, many years because they're
the Rachel DeLisle thing. I don't.
Wait, was that the ACLU?
Anyway, sorry, go on.
I mean, like I the word literally slipped through my ears because I was just thinking.
Yeah, the the ACLU thing where they were always the people
like don't censor anyone ideas are best when they're refined
and people can talk about them and there's no such thing as a thought crime.
And this is what we're all about and we'll fight for everybody's rights.
And, you know, one of their lead lawyers has gone on record
saying that there was a book that they want banned and burned
that no one should ever be allowed to read.
And I'm like, you've literally become the book burners.
Like, how did this happen?
And they still send me mail every now and then me like, hey,
why aren't you supporting us anymore?
Did they break the angry letter back lead lawyer?
Just one person or is this a company or an organization endorsed position?
Well, it's one of their lead lawyers speaking publicly for the company
for the ACLU and they didn't ever disavow it or any.
Yeah, I mean, because I, you know, if whatever,
the a C level executive of Apple or something came out as a race,
it doesn't mean Apple's racist means that guy is right. Right.
Oh, that's another thing, though, like is like now sort of standard
to call for that person to be fired or pun some way. Yeah.
Yeah. And there's there's another weird wrinkle with that, too.
Well, I guess one thing I was going to mention about maybe this turning around,
like there are cases of professors and other university staff
getting students expelled or suspended for the exact kind of same weird bullshit
that they're trying to get teachers fired over.
Like some of them are in this.
Some of them are in this article.
Like one professor or dean or something,
they wanted a parking garage built on campus and students didn't like it.
So one student put like a Facebook collage with a joke about like,
look, it's going to be a memorial parking garage
because the guy said it was something about his legacy.
And so that the guy pretended to take it as I took that as a threat to my life.
And I felt scared.
And so the kid was was severely disciplined or expelled.
So like the thing is, this is like
it's becoming 1984 here.
This is a weapon that that you can't just swing one way, right?
And it's it's going to be if you're if you're if you're enjoying the feeling
of like taking down the powerful by being one of the historically powerless,
like the powerful are going to stay powerful.
They're going to just take your tools, right?
And it's going to be easier for them to do it
because they've got a bigger platform if they want to stoop to that level,
which again, there was other cases like that in the same
in the Calling of the American Mind essay.
It's it's one was a picture of on Instagram
of one of the other co-workers daughter and her shirt said,
I'll take what I want through fire and blood or something from Game of Thrones.
And they deemed through some meeting that this person needed to have that fire.
Well, that clearly meant an AK-47.
And right.
So it's so it's it's that kind of madness.
Yeah. And so I mean, the quote is literally
one about using violence to get what you want.
But I it's clearly like if you put if you have it on a shirt,
it's like I like Game of Thrones.
Yeah, this is maybe metaphorically, I'll do this.
But I think it's not this person is proclaiming
that they're going to use violence to get what they want from the school.
It's a shirt showing that they like Game of Thrones.
Well, and if you want to just take it one level higher,
