to with certs, not validating properly and SNI and SSL and lots of other TLA's three
letter acronyms.
Lots of acronyms.
Yeah.
And, uh, so I, I put in this chat and I was like, all right, look, I'm trying to solve
this problem.
If, if one of you two experts can jump in and just explain, and I said, you know, ELI,
five, you know, for 20 minutes with me, I'll get a good start on this.
And that's really like, I think that's the main thing that I get out of like an educational
system that I don't get out of just having all the resources in the world.
Cause like, I don't know what part of my problem is to start Googling first.
Yeah.
You don't know what you don't know yet.
And I'm like, you have to dig through all this stuff to get the prerequisites that you
need.
And there's a lot of this stuff that's superfluous to what you actually need to solve, but like
you can't pick and choose what you like read in a textbook because if you don't know, if
you don't know what you don't know, then.
In an idealized educational environment, somebody would give me like a stack of a bridged
textbooks and say, read them in this order.
Right. And you're like, yeah, you can skip this part, read the highlighted sections.
And then that, that would be it.
Right. And then maybe they're there to consult and that's kind of what college is.
Oh, I want to, if you squint, I think that's, yeah.
I think that's the difference between like, because Eliezer is his goal, which he is
telling us in these posts, literally, is to explain what AI is to people and why is
dangerous, which is a very different thing than like, if I wanted to learn how to start
programming it in AI, like, I mean, obviously I couldn't learn that since no one knows how
to yet, but, uh, explaining to a general audience, this is what it is.
And this is why you got to worry about it is a just completely different task than
trying to learn something because you're interested in it and want to do it.
If you're, yeah, also something that somebody, in order to get a passing grade, that person
might not like actually care about the thing.
So you do have to also engage them.
Like there's, there's small real quick.
I want to actually like suggest a thing that reminded me of Derek Zivers, who I love.
It's like entrepreneur writes cool books and stuff.
He has a thing called the do this directives.
Just post a link, I guess, because the URL is bizarre.
SIV, SIV.rs forward slash d1.
What is dot rs?
Does he have like a Russian, I don't know, URL anyway.
Well, just a link.
But the whole thing was he's trying to figure out how to, uh, compress information or as
like an experiment.
This is just a free thing that you can read.
And I highly recommend this and all of Derek's stuff.
But it has things like how to be useful to others, how to get rich, how to thrive in
an unknowable future.
And like each of them just have a very, like he's tried to cram all the stuff he knows
into the smallest amount of time.
And interesting.
That's, that sounds, maybe we could do a show about this.
Oh yeah, that'd be fun.
But sorry, that just reminded me of that.
And this is where we get the secret reveal that all along the reason he's been writing
these sequences is to teach people about AI.
And he has had to go way, way, way, way back to the beginning, because apparently just
going to the beginning isn't enough.
You got to go back to the beginning of the beginning.
And when I read this, I left because I was like, you got to, you can't just tell people
about AI.
You got to trick them into thinking they're learning rationality and then slip it in there.
In fact, you can't even do that.
First, you got to trick them into thinking they're reading a Harry Potter fanfic.
I was like, wow, actually, like took his own advice.
I don't even know if that was like sort of his intention for writing methods of
rationality.
If he'd like internalize this, it was allegedly on our last episode, he had
said that it was he just wanted to write a Harry Potter fanfiction.
And I'm like, I don't just, I don't just, I just don't believe you.
I'm sure he also wanted to write a Harry Potter fanfiction, which is why he
chose Harry Potter, but he is the word just, I think.
And I'm like, I don't think that was just it.
But, um, but maybe, you know, I remember him saying that he was trying to write, I
think, I think he was trying to write the sequences or the book that was supposed
to be.
Yes.
Yeah, that was it.
He was originally trying to write a book about rationality and.
And that's where the sequence realized that, yeah, like he could post in this sort
of like serial way and get like and keep his momentum up.
But like when he was trying to sit there and just put it all down into a book, the
motivation was hard and that was even easier when he was like, what if I could
just make this a Harry Potter fanfic?
Like that was sort of just a getting unstuck from writer's block experiment,
which worked out really well.
And I mean, so much of it has to do with feedback.
Cause when you're writing a book of any kind, you get no feedback for sitting in
a room for hours by yourself, like, man, I hope people like this every day for at
least six months, usually nine or more.
And yeah, you, you hear nothing.
Whereas if you're posting online every one to two days, you get feedback in the
comments section every single day.
It's interesting feedback from intelligent people that have cool things to say.
It's, it's very socially rewarding.
It's why a lot almost.
So every author I've ever met and pretty much anyone who's been born in my generation
or later has written fanfic and posted online.
And most of them say it is far more fulfilling than actually writing novels because we all
have these souls that are just screaming for affirmation.
Please somebody like what I'm doing and you get that so much online, especially
when you're writing Marvel fanfic or Harry Potter fanfic or something people want
to read anyway.
I think that, you know, there's probably the selfish motivation, but also we're
just, we're social animals and it's hard to get the motivation to keep doing a thing
yourself.
There's also the commitment and consistency of like, I said, I would do this five
times a week.
Yeah.
You're peer pressuring, you're committing to being peer pressured.
And I think that's a great motivator.
The only, the only fanfiction I could think of that I've read of yours is the
Cain and Abel story.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, so.
Is that a fanfiction?
I mean, that's, that, that if I, if I, if I squinted, that's, yeah, I mean, Amazing
Man is, um, yeah.
Chuck Tingle, Amazing Man 2 is Chuck Tingle fanfiction.
A host is basically Evangelion fanfiction.
Oh, I didn't read the last one.
I mean, cause you hide your, you hide the details and you're like, see, no, this is
an original world, but no, everything's fanfiction.
Harry Potter and the methods of rationality.
Right.
Yeah.
If he had just made up, could you imagine like the, the, the, he just makes up like
he changes the names of everybody, which is the exact same story, except, uh.
That's apparently how, uh, 50 Shades of Grey came to be.
It was a Twilight fanfic.
Called Masters of the Universe.
Yeah.
And she just changed the names of all the characters and changed some details and
was published as its own original book.
And then, and then chopped out the vampire business and then boom.
Yeah.
But I think that the fanfic had, I mean, I don't know, I haven't read, I haven't
read the fanfic, the original fanfic.
I haven't, and I tried to read 50 Shades of Grey and I couldn't do it.
It was so bad.
The original fanfic is just as bad.
It was, I was listening to the audio book.
But it's got Edward and Bella.
So, you know, heart eyes.
I guess.
I'm more of a Jacob, Team Jacob.
No, no, I'm not.
Uh, I didn't like either of them.
They're both, they're, she just shouldn't date either of them.
Pretty much everything.
They're both like crazy controlling weirdos.
You know what?
We have now gotten onto a digression for digression.
So we got it though.
All right.
Yes, we did.
Let's pull out back to quick emergency evacuation.
Um, so, um, double illusion of transparency.
Yes.
Moving on.
Uh, what else was.
Oh, no, that was, that was basically a double illusion, right?
Unless anyone else has something I had and have much left to learn about
explaining, but that's how it all began.
I like it.
He's a fun writer.
Well, you know, we mentioned that every fifth episode or something, but I also
just dig his writing style.
Like content, the content's great too, but there's some writing that engages me
really well, probably doing important Mary stuff and shouldn't write another
like methods of rationality length fiction.
But if he wanted to, I would, you know, occasionally he'll still write small
things on tumblr and I love his writing.
People need personal lives too.
You can do the writing, you know, in the time that you're not, I just, I don't
want to take him away from important AI research for my own leg.
Yeah.
But if you stick them on important AI research for all his waking hours, he's
going to burn out and die.
Yeah.
Couple, couple of weeks ago on the HPMR subreddit, someone cross posted to some
other subreddit and it was a fun, rational and short story.
And someone's like, that's great.
But what was this?
They're like, check the top comment of the thread or it was a link to a tweet.
Yutkowski wrote that under suit and into see if he was identifiable by his
writing style.
And he wasn't.
And he wasn't.
I didn't, I didn't catch the result of that.
Well, that's, so people are thinking that he, because he's writing something
under suit in them now, right?
Isn't there a plausible candidate for that?
Yeah.
There's, there's some rumors as to what it is that he's writing, but given that
it was like two years that this fanfic was out and then he finally came out and
said, this is, this is the short story that I wrote under a pseudonym.
I am greatly updating away from people being able to identify, uh, authors by
