just toughen up, you snowflake.
The problem that I have with it is not the people who actually have
disorders that could use some help and that I hope, you know, they can get help
and I can be accommodating of them.
It's more the fact that now literally everybody is like, well,
I'm highly sensitive about this thing.
So you have to do whatever, you know, it is that I'm demanding of you.
It's basically an exertion of power just because, you know, this is a power
that I can flex and I'm going to do it.
And what are you going to do when you're like, oh, I don't think you're
actually a highly sensitive person when you're already somebody who feels
really powerless that probably really empowering.
I do like understand where people are coming from and why they like I heard
on there's a lot of discussion of social justice, but somebody pointed out
that somebody who's been bullied their whole life now has the power to bully
others, basically, that this is like, it gets, it can get to a point of just
outright being bullying.
For example, this person who was actually writing, this was the person who
was a professional artist and had their career ruined because they posted
like aged up versions of cartoon characters, like making out or something.
And they were like, pedophile, chase them off the internets.
Also, they're, they're like, also they're anti-Semitic and transphobic.
And I was like, this is literally a Jewish trans dude.
You guys, I don't think that people knew that.
It was like, they just needed to start like finding evidence for, it was a
witch hunt at that point.
And like Steven said, it's one that you can't lose because I know if I were
to say something like that, like the, you know, I'm annoyed about people
flexing power as opposed to I don't have a problem with helping people
with actual disorders, then you're like, well, you're gatekeeping mental disorders
now, who are you to say I don't have this?
Or sort of putting the onus on everybody else to like pamper this
person and also to like predict what things you'd think might trigger people,
which is you sort of pointed out, like you can slip on a banana peel.
This is a really stupid example, but like then have PTSD about bananas and
nobody's going to predict like, hey, trigger warning, this photo has a banana
in it and somebody might have slipped on a banana.
Like there's just, you can have all kinds of bizarre things that are associated
with.
Dude, I remember there was a state star codex post where he posted a picture
of a spider.
I don't even remember why it was some kind of joke thing.
And it was edited within an hour or so to take down the pictures.
Like, sorry, I was informed that people, yeah, that there's people who are
triggered by pictures of spiders and they were reading my article and
suddenly had a panic attack.
So it's taken down now.
And I'm like, really?
I can kind of sympathize.
And so that's, that's, that's where this becomes interesting.
You know, like, again, you can sympathize with like the response, the, the
ick response to a spider or just the, oh my God, that freaks me out.
But like, not with the like, but like people, I get to control other people's
content with my like objections.
What I might have done, and I didn't see this article, if I was a frequent
commenter, which I've never commented, I might have said, you know, I don't
know what that spider picture to do with the post.
Like, you know, it was related in some way.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, if it did something, I might be like, that fucking sucked.
You know, like I, there's a separate I like called.
Oops, all spiders.
No, thank God.
No, no, it's one that, that never has spiders, but it had one.
And I, it's called no spiders here.
I forget what it, I forget what it's called.
It's all spiders wearing mustaches pretending they're not spiders.
Oh, it's r slash.
Hmm.
And, uh, anyway, probably three, six months ago, there was one that had this
horrifying spider in it that I'm imagining was photoshopped or something.
But wasn't expecting to see it.
It's still with me right now.
I'm still not in love with it.
But like, that's the, you know, again, somebody with, with way more arachnophobia
than me may have been actually like, you know, freaked the fuck out rather than
just made severely uncomfortable for six months, whenever they thought about it.
But like, it's not, uh, I think that, that was, that was the thing about just like
you said about, or like you said about, uh, people having to accommodate everything.
I think that it's, it's under, like in your own space at your own house.
You know, if you want someone to not bring over meat because you're a vegetarian,
more power to you.
It's your price.
Yeah.
Um, if you go over to their place for dinner and I mean, you know, they are
inviting and like their spouse is cooking a steak outside and you're like, no.
Well, that's what, that's the grill over, you know, because, because most of my
friends in real life and the people I interact with aren't of this variety.
The, the super majority of encounters have had, had with them are online.
And it's just that the, the weird sense of like entitlement, you know, you go
into someone else's corner and you're like, I demand you clean this up and put
these signs up and it's like, but it's not your house.
Like I just don't understand that.
Yeah.
The entitlement, that's, that's a good, that's trying to articulate where I think
that I, so I've been invited to a, uh, acquaintance friend, almost friend.
Yeah.
Sure.
I say to friends house, uh, I say, uh, on next week and they're vegan and said,
you know, feel free if you do bring anything, not to bring anything.
That's not vegan.
Right.
I'm like, yeah, I mean, that's your house.
Totally makes sense.
But like the kind of person who would post, wait, sorry, any pictures of
Thanksgiving turkey to me feels like just the exact same kind of person would be
like, Hey, I'm going to bring my beef jerky to your house.
Even though I know you're vegan and you explicitly told me, I wouldn't like not
to have that stuff in my house.
It's like the reverse behavior, but the same asshole-ishness both ways.
Yeah.
Um, God, I had like a thing about the entitlement.
Um, I'm sure I'll come up again.
My brain is doing.
No, you're good.
There was something that I remembered from a minute ago too.
I wanted to put out, which was the idea, you know, Huck Finn is reading
Huck Finn is uncomfortable.
I don't like reading the N word, you know?
And I mean, and I've never been, uh, in a population that was subjugated to it,
right?
So it's just like, it's, it's a, it's a gross reminder of, of bad parts of the
world and especially bad parts of history.
But to make, I guess, like, if you're going to move mountains or like reform
the education system to make no one ever uncomfortable again, you got to rule out
a lot of history, like actual history, maybe you can skip Huck Finn because
it's, it's fiction, but like, if you can never talk about slavery or the
Holocaust, never talk about slavery.
That's doing the app that that's going to have the opposite effect on future
generations was like, you're not teaching them about the mistakes we made in the
past and then they're going to repeat them.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, I don't know, I don't know if these people will become the
next Hitler, but like, but the point stands of just like, you know, is the
world too scary?
Is the history of the world too scary?
The history of the world is scary.
It sucked.
The world can be scary, but I guess, you know, and again, I'll put caveatting it,
but yes, some people have actual issues like, and disorders, whether or not this
hypersensitivity thing is called a disorder or not, it seems to fit the
definition of impacts my life, like on a day to day basis.
I think that's just basically what constitutes a disorder.
But the, I was just, there's like a diversion of that, but that definitely
like, I dated someone who had, who was a HSP and they didn't like having it.
We would watch movies and they'd have to like go leave the room and hyperventilate
if like they saw a scene where a character hits in the bed, happened to them
and then they would feel it happening to themselves.
Wait, how can you watch any movie if you can't watch something bad happening
to someone? That's the whole point of fiction.
They mostly watched like My Little Pony and Scooby Doo and like musicals.
They did like things that had like, I don't know, they just liked the fact
that they had this because they're like, I like drama and like murder mysteries
and stuff like I wish I could watch these.
It's just like they could never predict when something was going to actually trigger them.
I guess you're right.
My Little Pony didn't have very much in those terms.
I mean, there was still some conflict, but you always knew that they were going
to win through the power of friendship at the end.
I think, yeah, like I used to actually have to.
Like Avengers.
I used to have to.
That's a damn, Avengers is basically My Little Pony for adults.
Wait. My Little Pony is basically Avengers for children.
Sure. OK.
That works too.
That's the whole point.
That's what I love about all of these.
You know, it's a solo movie is fun, but it's like, no, really, it's the synergy
in working together and being able to do things as a group that you can't do alone.
All of that, it's the magic of friendship.
It's perfect.
I would love to see a parody where just the Avengers are all ponies.
But anyway, I'm sure there's 34 of it out there somewhere.
Rule 34 is porn specifically.
But I know I'm saying not only does it exist, but there's also a point of it.
A pony, a venture porn because he thought of it.
Gender swapped porn version of this pony parody.
OK. Yeah.
According to the most basic tenets of psychology, helping people with anxiety
disorders, avoid the things they fear is misguided is one of those pop out quotes
from this article and I did rather than just complaining about social justice.
Like last time, I want to, as Stephen suggested, talk about this from the lens of CBT.
Apparently, I'm the resident expert, which well, no, I have an expert on everything
brain. I'm serious.
I've got more brain questions for you that remind me.
So but those are do ask me brain questions.
I will big neurology nerd.
Perfect.
But yeah, so you were talking about exposure therapy.
I was talking about the body keeps the score, which was talking about somatic therapy.
Well, literally, like the title of this book, I really recommend this book to everybody.
It's awesome.
Is that like so so things traumatic experiences are actually stored in the body
a lot of the time.
He was the author whose name I don't remember was describing.
What was the name of this book?
The body keeps the score.
He was describing his work with traumatized patients.
