it could just be a sigil of how stark or just the Game of Thrones logo.
And they could say that shows about getting what you want through violence.
I think that means people did a rape in that show.
That means that you're endorsing rape by wearing that shirt.
Right. So I mean, you know, the buck's got to stop somewhere.
It will eventually like, and I think it's slowing down.
The Google trends for all these key terms are going down,
at least on some of the the metrics.
Well, there was that Scott Alexander post,
and I feel like maybe we should have brought that one in conversation
where he was talking about the feminist movement,
the new feminists becoming a big thing.
There's a big spike and then now things have shifted to race.
So like nobody's talking about Elevator Gate or whatever anymore.
Or like they did actually have graphs there showing the like rise
in popularity of certain terms and then those falling.
I don't know.
Maybe this is just a thing that's cyclical that happens.
And I hope not.
Like I do actually I want to sort of bring attention back to
Heterodox Academy and I wanted to talk more about CVT
rather than just complain about this and catastrophize about it.
Yeah, which well, that would have been a good segue to CVT.
Let's talk about catastrophize catastrophizing then.
Yeah, if I could have made a joke because CVT is I was talking
about the somatic therapy, exposure therapy.
Those are sort of tackling the issue on more of the visceral level.
And then CVT is honestly sort of using rationality to overcome
your brain's glitches.
I love it.
It's I've gotten so much bang for my buck out of it.
And the cool thing is that you could find, I think, the CVT workbook
for free or like really cheap online and just like apparently
again, Scott Alexander did some rants on poll or found some research
showing that just reading the book and doing CVT yourself is about
as effective on average as like doing professional CVT with a psychologist.
So like if you don't have insurance or, you know, there's not a CVT practitioner.
Apparently, this is just a completely legit option.
That's all I did at a combination.
I've done a little bit of CVT with some therapists, but mostly
it was just reading the exercises and then practicing them.
Probably depending on where you're at, you might need like a professional
to help get you started because it's one thing to just read the book
and be able to say the words, but then another to internalize it and do the lesson.
Yeah.
So if someone's talking, if you're in a conversation with somebody
and I'm going to call it your conversation and say, hold on, you're doing that thing.
You know, you're catastrophizing, you're spiraling on this or whatever.
And you're like, oh, yeah, shit, you're right, where you kind of maybe
it just helps to have someone groove those into your brain, help groove those into your brain, right?
Yeah, this is actually like it gives you CVT gives you a toolkit of basically
like I liked it because it looked a lot like or basically is cognitive biases
that you can identify yourself doing.
You basically carry around this list of cognitive distortion.
You know, we didn't, I think, talk directly on great untruth number two.
Always trust your feelings.
Yeah, let's talk about that.
What do they say about trusting your feelings?
This gets complicated because you never want to say to somebody your feelings are wrong.
But if you're using emotion in place of facts to inform your decision making,
you're just doing things incorrectly.
And that's not like, that's not just my opinion, man.
That's, that's dialectical behavioral therapy.
Feelings aren't facts.
And it's important to keep that in mind.
And so like this is like one of those things where if the intent of somebody's words was
and there's like that popular case, this probably came up with the last episode
where this Dean was at least forced to step down or got under heavy fire.
I always forget who got fired.
Some kind of punishment.
Yeah, she got in some serious punishment.
Somebody at the school wrote her letter.
It was one of those rich kid schools where like 2% of the population who goes there
came from poor backgrounds.
So like nobody's struggling when they go to Yale, except for 2% of people.
But it's, it was like, you know, I don't feel welcome here.
This school didn't really like wasn't made for me.
It was a minority student.
And I don't feel like I fit the typical mold of the student here.
And the Dean wrote back was like, you know, that I really appreciate you reaching out.
It's important to me and to the entire college name community that we make everybody feel included.
I'd love to sit down and talk with you about, you know, what you feel it is that we can help
like make the help better fit the student mold to encompass people or something.
And I miss phrasing it a bit because I'm drawing it from memory, but it's essentially
that message.
But if you squint and look at it through as uncharitable a lens as possible and like
this person did do that and then share on Facebook and say, well, I guess I don't fit
the mold of my college or something.
And then I invite your feedback and suit that out to your, your, your Facebook friends or
something.
Did they not know that they weren't white?
What?
The student?
No, the student was not white.
Yeah.
Did the student not know that they're not white?
They knew they weren't.
And they knew that they were going to Yale.
Well, they wanted to go there and express that opinion, I guess.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, because I mean, I don't see how you can possibly complain about not being white
in Yale when you knew you weren't white in Yale.
It's like you get there and you're like, wait a minute, no, it's in a mirror before.
I think they might have had like, I don't know, it sounded like the Dean's response was
what might help this kind of thing instead of caving into, because like, you know, it's
the people fear, um, witch hunts, they fear mobs, they fear getting fired and shamed publicly.
But if more people sort of had the courage, I guess, to be like, Hey, uh, it sounds like
you're upset.
And I'd like to hear more about like why you're upset.
And then maybe we can get together like a think tank and think of ways that we can try
to, you know, make everybody here feel better.
Like, let's discuss this and literally don't understand because the Dean was like basically
saying, you're not comfortable.
I hear that.
I would like to work with you to make you feel more accepted and more comfortable.
And the person's like, he just admitted, I don't fit the traditional mold.
I'm like, did you want him to lie?
And say, did, oh, did you want the Dean?
Is that her?
Yeah.
I only bring that up because she's also in a minority group.
Okay.
Did you want her to lie and say, Oh, I'm sorry.
I couldn't tell that you don't fit the mold because you looked very white to me.
Like what?
It's impossible to know what kind of response would have been accepted if this one wasn't
it, because it sounds like they didn't want like to, they didn't want to solve the problem.
Yeah.
They wanted to stir shit.
Yeah.
And I think that's what really annoys basically everyone who isn't someone who's trying to
just be this kind of person.
It's the fact that they are trying to do something about it and you don't actually want help.
You're not asking in good faith.
You're just trying to be an asshole and it's unfortunate because a cooperative Dean
who wanted to make the campus a better place was, you know, pushed out because he wanted
to make a shitstorm out of it's not, it's not clear why.
Oh, so wait, I think I forgot the, in the beginning of that sentence, you had started
it with or that story, this Dean had been punished after this, right?
Yeah.
Absolutely.
So the initial complaint wasn't about a person.
It was just like, I don't feel comfortable here.
Yeah.
And it was like, let me, you know, me, the Dean of the school who's busy, I would love
to meet with you.
Let's make the school a better place with your input.
And yeah, I mean, so then that was the person who ended up getting called out and tried
to either successfully or unsuccessfully cancel or something.
Yeah.
I mean, cancelling, yeah, the third of canceling is the thing that makes people not respond
in this way and just like cave in or try to cover their asses.
I think that the Dean's response is what like people should commit to doing if they're in
positions of authority or whatever, or like, I don't know, say I'm running a Facebook group
and somebody's like, yeah, people keep, I don't know, it's a Facebook group about cooking
and then somebody gets all upset because people keep posting pictures of meat and they're
vegan and they need to put trigger warnings on those and maybe ban those people.
And like, I feel like
Go join a vegan group.
Yeah.
As like the Facebook like community manager, whatever they call that thing, the mod, I
don't know, could be like, hey, like, you know, private messages them, I see that you're
upset.
Can we talk about this?
And then just keep responding that way.
If there was like some way that we could actually get coordination around, this is the way to
respond to this.
And just people only have the power to bully you if they know that like, you're going to
cave into their demands or that like, you know, that they're not going to experience
repercussions.
But like, honestly, like, if you're going to come at me with a complaint, I'm going to
say something like, okay, like, what, what are we going to do about this?
You know, it might just be like, wait, what, you want me to help you solve it?
I just wanted to complain and have all my problems taken away.
Well, like, yeah, I think just keep replying that way.
And the people, the person can freak out at you and like, you have to be like, wow, you
seem really upset.
And I'm sorry that, that like you're feeling bad.
I think your feelings are valid, but let's, but seriously, let's talk about how we can
fix this problem.
I mean, there's a couple and just keep doing it.
I think that the two main problems with that, because it sure is nice and that would work
on a one-to-one basis.
But on the one hand, this person, when you're, when you refuse to capitulate immediately,
they can just go grab 30 of their friends and start a tweet storm.
Yeah.
That's why I was talking about coordination problems, because like, you can't get everybody
to, there's no way I, like, you can get all college professors to make a pact that like,
we're not caving into this shit.
Right.
But even then too, just being the target of harassment is stressful and you want to leave
anyway.
And so like,
Who, who I really blame about this whole thing is Harvard.
Like some students are going to be shit heels.
No two ways about it.
But then they sacked the Dean instead of standing by her.
Yeah, that's coward.
That's absolutely coward.
