Eventually they will make tumors eventually these tumors will metastasize you can see that.
But before that happens you can already see the aberrant bio electrical state that that this oncogene has established and you know where the tumor is going to be and you actually know where the margins are going to be here.
So there's all kinds of cancer diagnostic opportunities there.
Okay, so in addition to being able to monitor these things of course the most important thing are functional experiments you want to be able to read and write this electrical information to prove that it's functionally important and then to to modulate it in medical settings.
So we developed some tools now this is really important. Everything I'm going to show you next. There are no applied fields. There are no electrodes there are no electromagnetics there are no frequencies there are no waves.
There's only modulating the native interface that cells use to hack each other in vivo. And so this is this is really just tools appropriated from neuroscience to manipulate ion channels and gap junctions.
We have predictive control over the bio electrical state of cells.
This is, this is really very high resolution molecular pharmacology genetic modification of ion channel properties and optogenetics and so on.
So when you do this okay so so what happens when you do this if we were to change the electrical information, but back when I first started doing this around 2000.
What everybody said at the time was that what you're going to get is uninterpretable toxicity and death. It was thought that the resting potential in normal cells is a housekeeping parameter that if you if you mess with that, you're going to you're going to just get toxicity.
So it turns out that that's not the case and that this information carries very, very specific instructive, instructive cues. So, so what we can do is in these tackles by by in by manipulating by electrical patterns and this is by injecting new channels by using optogenetics and so on.
You can induce the formation of ectopic hearts ectopic odysses ectopic for brains so this is where the brain normally ends and you can wonder if this guy is that much smarter than than this one.
You can make ectopic limbs so here are six legged frog this one this is actually an optogenetic frog.
And so so you can see that this isn't this isn't just some kind of random toxicity.
We're actually calling up new organs, and this is maybe my favorite example of that which is which is this.
We take a frog embryo and we inject some ion channel RNA. These are potassium channel RNAs that were specifically chosen to make a voltage spot of the kind that you saw in that electric face that corresponds to an eye spot.
And what we would do is inject that into a region of the animal that would become let's say gut.
So what you what you have here is these endoderm cells, and they happily when you establish that voltage pattern they happily make an eye.
Now, according to your developmental biology textbook endoderm should not be able to make I only the the anterior norectoderm should be competent to make I that's actually not true you can get I anywhere if you prompted with the right bio electrical pattern.
Yeah, not the master I gene pack six that doesn't work anywhere outside of this area by the way but but the bioelectric state does.
So you can you can induce these eyes and so and so these eyes can have all the right lens and retina and optic nerve and all the stuff they're supposed to have.
And so notice notice a couple of the additional things here one is that this this signaling that we that we did is extremely simple.
We didn't give all the information needed to to to make an eye, we don't know how to make an eye and we certainly don't know how to specify all the different the stem cell positions and all that we this is a high level sub routine call, we said make
an eye here, all the rest of the competency is in the system itself. Yeah, this is this is of course something computer scientists exploit all the time. Also, and of course doing doing it that way extends the competency of the cells we thought only these cells
could do it actually all cells can do it and that just tells you that when you're estimating the level of intelligence or competency of a given system, you're really taking an IQ test yourself.
Right, if you if you're not prompting it with the right things you you you miss everything and so that's very important.
The other thing is that here this is this is an this is a lens sitting out in the flank of a temporal somewhere.
These cells they're they're marked with beta galactic societies, they are the only ones that have this new channel. Now why are all these other clear cells so these are native cells that were not manipulated by us, why are they participating in this in this construction project.
That's because the another competency of this material, which all of this is really attractive for regenerative medicine kinds of things is that these cells know when there's not enough of them to make a lens.
And what they do is they recruit their their neighbors to help complete this process is another collective intelligence which is good at this and that's of course ants and termites they also do exactly that they they recruit their buddies when when the job needs needs more elements.
So you see the secondary instruction we instruct these cells you need to make an eye these cells automatically instruct their neighbors you need to help, we did not have to micromanage any of this.
And so that is why in our regenerative medicine program, we try for triggers we don't want to, we don't want to 3d print limbs and we don't want to try to manipulate all the cells. This is this is an example of what we've done so in the frog.
So after like 45 days later there's nothing it doesn't it doesn't regenerate.
However, if you apply a cocktail of ionophores that that sets up a particular bio electrical state, then then within within a couple days you get an msx one positive blastima.
And by 45 days you've got some toes you've got a toenail, eventually a pretty respectable leg that is touch sensitive and multi it's a functional appendage.
We interact with that wound for 24 hours. That's it. After that, an adult frog will grow a leg for a year and a half, 18 months of leg growth doing which time we don't touch it at all.
So, so the idea is not to micromanage the process the idea is to say to those cells at the very beginning, you're going to go down the leg regeneration path not the scarring path in morpho space you get them going then you leave them alone they do they do their thing.
And here's where I need to do a disclosure, because David Kaplan and I have, we've founded a company called morphoceuticals, which basically seeks to move some of that technology into mammals, we're now trying this in in rodents with a wearable
bioreactor that applies various drug payloads, and eventually hopes to trigger regeneration while you support it but this with this environment.
So I need to move to a quickly move to another system to kind of really really hit hard this this idea that I mentioned before which is that there is an encoded.
There is there is literally a an encoded representation within tissue of what to do if you get injured. In other words, the target anatomy is represented in the tissue in some way there is there is literally a goal represented in the biophysics of the body.
And I want to show you that we can now see those and change those, at least at least to start just, you know, and set to some extent. So this is this is our plan area and this is our flatworm.
And these guys have amazing powers of regeneration, every piece gives rise to a new worm. And so if you cut off the head and the tail this this you see that that in this one headed animal, the anterior genes are in the front, you know, in the where they where they should be.
They should reliably make this one headed worm. And now what now how do they how does this piece know how many heads it's supposed to have you might think well it's nailed down by the genetics of course.
But remember genetics doesn't say anything about how many heads you're supposed to have not not directly. And so it turns out that what what what it has is this is this bio electrical gradient that has this information one head, one tail.
What you have to do is take this animal and in place rewrite that bio electrical pattern so that it now says two heads. You can see this is kind of messy there's still a lot of technology to be worked out here but we can we can say two heads.
And when you do that that animals hangs around anatomically completely normal gene expression completely normal. But if you cut it, it makes a two headed animal this isn't Photoshop these are these are real.
Literally what you're looking at is literally a visualization of the memory of the tissue of what to do if I get injured. It's a counterfactual memory it's not true right now. This is a this, this is not a map of this guy this is a map of this guy perfectly normal one headed anatomy.
This is, if you think about what what brains allow us to do this kind of mental time travel where you can think about things that are not happening now, you know, future things past things and so on.
This is the beginnings of that this is a counterfactual pattern. This is what I think a proper plenary and looks like and it doesn't matter now because I'm not injured but if I get injured. This is what I'm going to do this is what the cells consult.
Now I keep calling it a memory because know and note that what we have not done is change the DNA we haven't touched the genome they're completely wild type cells.
And if you take these two headed animals, and you cut off the primary head, and you cut off this this this weird ectopic secondary head, and you might think that this middle fragment would just would just of course go back to the normal form dictated by its genetics.
The first two headed worms were seen in around 1903. Nobody recut them until we did it in in 2008, because it was perfectly obvious what would happen of course it would go back to normal because the genome is normal, and that is not at all what happens.
In fact, if you do this they will continuously in perpetuity regenerate as two headed animals, and we can until we set it back we can we can set it back.
And so this is in fact a memory it has long term stability it is rewritable. It has conditional recall here you can see these these two headed guys moving around, because the question of how many heads you're going to have is not nailed down in your genome.
It is the genome encode some hardware that by default will be running some code that says one headed pattern, but you can rewrite it it's all it's it's it's reprogrammable as as good hardware is.
And so, and so this is this is kind of really important, because this is not a genetic trick.
Also, not only can you control the number of heads you can control the shape of the heads, and these triangular headed species are perfectly happy to make a flathead like a pifalina, or around head like an S Mediterranean, but 100 to 150 million years distance between
these guys, but they're they're okay. You're making the brain shape of these animals making the stem cell distribution of these animals, visiting the attractors in anatomical state space that normally belong to these other species, but this hardware can go there to it just normally
doesn't. So you start to get an idea of this latent space of possibilities around what a given genome does, and of communicating the right path to to to these cellular collectives via by electric.
And this is why we're trying to make a kind of a full stack understanding all the way from the molecular genetics of where do these channels come from, then what is the symmetry breaking self organization computation that happens in these electrical tissues,
these electrical networks, and then eventually, or a body level regionalization, and eventually algorithmic decision making based on this by electrical information that we can then use to infer interventions.
And so I'm in the last just couple of minutes, I just want to show you. So, so I've shown you I've shown you a kind of novel organ formation I've shown you regeneration. I'm going to show you birth defects and cancer very quickly.
This is a normal frog to well taphole brain forebrain midbrain hindbrain, lots of ways to mess up this process, alcohol exposure nicotine mutations.
And what we wanted to do was to see if we can now try to repair these complex organs. So what we did was to make a bio electrical model a computational model of the bio electrical pattern that normally tells the brain, what the size and shape should be.
And when you do that, you can interrogate that model for interventions and cases where things go wrong. So, this, for example, is a the effects of a mutation and notch notch is a very important neuro genesis gene if you mutate notch.
And forebrain is gone midbrain and hindbrain are just a bubble, these animals have no behavior they're completely disabled.
What we asked the model to do was to say okay, the pattern in these the bio electrical pattern in these mutants is incorrect and we observe that with our dye technology.
What channels would we need to open or close to get back to the correct pattern, not fix the mutation, but but to get back to the correct pattern the model gave a suggestion there's this htn to iron channel, which has some specific properties that we can talk about.
And, and what we did was, yeah, we we showed that, despite that dominant mutation of notch, these animals can be rescued and this is these are two drugs that open htn to they're basically anti epileptics already in human use that completely restore the brain.
You get your brain structure back you get gene expression back and they get their IQs back they have normal learning rates compared to controls. These have none.
So, so what this shows is that at least in some cases, you can.
And you can you can fix, you can fix various teratogen induced defects as well. So, so at least in some cases, what you can do is you can fix hardware defects in software.
The hardware is so amazing that in some cases, even and I'm not saying this will be true for all genetic diseases, of course it won't, but but for many cases, you can actually fix the situation in the at the physiology level.
And so what we're doing now is creating this kind of this kind of platform where and you can go on you can play with this online, where you choose the cells or the tissues that you want.
It tells you all your possible ion channel targets, we're working on the simulator here in between that will tell you which of these you need. And once you know your targets, then you pick drugs because because something like 20% of all drugs are ion channel drugs is a huge amount of
potential electroseuticals out there. So last thing I want to show is the cancer application.
What evolution has done for us is to scale up the cognitive capacities of single cells towards larger goals in novel problem spaces. So, so individual cells these little little amoebas and such have little tiny goals they all of their goals revolve around this very short.
The cognitive light cone is very small so so local local physiological states and things like that. But together in an organism they're bound into electrical networks that work on huge goals.
So this is centimeters long and no individual cell knows what a finger is or how many fingers you're supposed to have, but the collective absolutely does because because it you can see that because it works towards the set point.
The cognitive light cone scales up their goals are now centimeters in size in this anatomical space, larger goals in a different space.
That scale up has a failure mode that failure mode is cancer, and here's what you see human glioblastoma. These cells are not more selfish than normal cells, they just have smaller cells, because they've been electrically disconnected from the collective.
And now all they all their goals are amoeba level goals. And so if you have that.
If you have that idea, you can try to come up with a therapeutic that instead of killing these cancer cells would reconnect them electrically to the rest of the network and this is what we've done here so we inject human oncogenes.
And then you co inject an ion channel that forces the cells to stay electrically connected. And even though the oncoprotein is blazingly strongly expressed here, there is no tumor in this is this this is the same animal, because it's not the genetics that drives it's the physiology.
And here, just by pointing out that in the space of biomedical interventions.
Lots of focus has been spent here these are all the things that address the hardware, but complimenting that and you can find all the details here are a huge potential set of tools from behavioral science from cognitive science and so on, that really take
an advantage of the competency of the material and I really think you know sort of projecting forward. I really think that future medicine is going to look a lot more like a kind of somatic psychiatry, then it's going to look like chemistry it's going to be about communicating
your goals to to a collective via the bioelectric interface or via some other interface.
So, I just want to thank the postdocs in the students who contributed to this work are various funders are collaborators, the disclosures of companies that have funded our lab here, and most of all the model systems because they do all the heavy lifting.
So, thank you very much and I'll take questions.
