What is neurohacking? What is no tropics? You've probably heard this throne about over
the past few years, when people are talking about, I take no tropics and my brain is working
on another level. I'm taking these smart drugs called no tropics. You've got to check them
out. Maybe you've heard this in conversation, but you don't quite know what it is. You don't
know what no tropics do. Maybe you don't even know what neurohacking means. Today, we're going to
find out. Today, we're going to talk to the co-founder of Neurohacker Collective, who takes a
complex system approach to medicine and well-being science. We're going to be talking about all the
toxins that are in your living room and in your kitchen and in your life, how spending so much
time indoors is affecting your life and what we can do about it. We're going to get geeky.
We're going to be talking brain health, no tropics, smart drugs. Mr. Daniel Schmuckdenberger,
great to have you here on the show, sir. Thanks for having me. Fun to be here. Let's dumb this down
to the very simple. What is neurohacking? Neurohacking is a general term for any kind of
applied neuroscience, applied neuro technology for optimizing the nervous system, optimizing
the mind-brain interface for various cognitive goals or psychomotional goals primarily. We could
also be talking about neurohacking for kind of sensory motor neuro purposes or anything that
has top-down neurologic control, whether that's aspects of health and regulation, immune system,
longevity. But when we talk about neurohacking in kind of contra distinction to the whole field of
biohacking, we're generally talking about cognitive and psychomotional tuning and upregulation.
Okay, so to the uninitiated, what did you just say? Because it sounded very interesting.
It sounded very complex. What does it mean in a nutshell?
Tools for increasing cognitive capability, intelligence, focus, memory, etc., and for
increasing psychological well-being. Awesome. Okay. What is preventing us from just being
naturally gifted in our intelligence and having an optimized nervous system? Like what's going on
today in 2017 as we're recording this that's preventing us from having that kind of optimum
capability? A tremendous amount actually. So if you look at our interface with the modern
technological built world and you look at what our evolutionary biological history is, and you look
at the places where there's suboptimal interface between those, it's in almost every area. So
whether it's eating food that came from topsoil, where the agricultural method had it deficient
in micronutrients, trace minerals, where even if you're eating the healthiest food that you
can get access to, you have fundamental nutrient deficiency. And those are the nutrients that make
not only all aspects of physiology function, but brain specifically, or whether we're looking
at ubiquitous toxicity, like the volatile organic compounds that are in paint and flooring and so
much carpet, so much interior toxicity or external environmental toxicity, organophosphates,
PPEs, phthalates. Most of the toxins that we are exposed to and we see study after study of
breast milk in mothers in the United States having 200 plus petrochemicals. Those petrochemicals are
either endocrine disruptors or carcinogens or neurotoxins. They have a real effect.
And then we also have pathogens we never had before because of antibiotic resistance, because of
the amount of global travel, because of pesticide resistance. So as you share the effects of
artificial lighting, the effect of the amount of time people spend in fixed postural positions with
a fixed eye focal length to a screen, so many of these things are things that we can work with,
but are suboptimal to the human condition. That's just on the physiology side. On the psychology side,
most people don't have the connection to tribe that would have been part of the
an evolutionary biology of humans feeling meaningfully connected to other humans, don't have
a sense of connection to meaning and purpose, have a level of stress from the worldview that they
have come into and from the macroeconomic system and maybe from other macro global issues. So
all of these are stresses on our physiology, our psychology, our nervous system that are
going to have a suboptimal quality of life and performance if we don't work with them.
It's fascinating. You're talking about, you know, the food we eat, probably the cleaning
products we use in our kitchen or bathroom, staring at a screen. Obviously, I talk a lot
about the dangers of looking at too much electronic light sitting down as well. There's a great
book called Get Up by James Levine, which talks about the problems of humans sitting down so much
and how that's affecting us. And then I assume what you were talking about when you were talking
about emotional capability was, of course, Dunbar's number of people, I think, was about 150 or 160
people when we used to be in tribes. That was the number. But now it seems like even if we're
connected to more than that, which would make you feel like you were popular because you connected
250 people, it seems to suggest that actually, you become less happy, the more people that you
know or the more people that you're connected to or the more people that you have to keep up with.
So can we just break down each one of these things? Let's just look at the food we eat for
the time being. Like, if I go to Whole Foods down on Fairfax in Santa Monica Boulevard in
West Hollywood here, can I be sure that the foods I'm eating from the salad bar at Whole Foods
or the kale or spinach I'm buying from the in the plastic bags are going to be okay for me? Or
is what you're arguing saying, you know what, chances are it's still going to be pretty bad for you?
I don't want people to feel hopeless or... But you're about to make us feel hopeless.
No, I mean, is buying food that is from a farmer's market or some place that is local,
fresh, are going to be a lot better than other sources? Yes, very likely. Is buying food that is
organic likely to have less pesticide residue and maybe more trace mineral? Yes, those were worth
doing. Now, even in even in organic crops, will we still find glyphosate and other
organophosphate residue just because it's being sprayed nearby? Yeah, we find that. And is the
top soil going to have the microbiota and trace mineral density of what an indigenous and
primitive environment would have? No, so it's better. It is still not ideal and people aren't
going to be eating the variety of foods they would in a natural environment that are seasonal and
that are each pulling different minerals out of the soil and air. And they are going to have
an increased need for certain nutrients because of toxins and stresses that they're processing.
So what we're arguing is basically we don't have an evolved process for dealing with
organophosphates. Our glutathione pathway or cytochrome P450 pathway, none of those pathways
were evolved for dealing with petrochemicals because they weren't part of our evolutionary
environment. And so given that we have the exposure to those things, it's actually
important and beneficial to support our system to deal with the world it happens to be in.
So how do we ensure that we're eating the best quality foods and what's the practical
way that we can do that? Outside of someone foraging or having a garden where they
can really ensure that themselves, I would say farmers markets are great because it's
someone else having a garden where you can learn about the farmer, learn about their methods,
find one like well. Likely you can get something there that is less hours since it was harvested
then at a grocery store. And outside of where that's viable, then going to local co-ops and local
health food stores is going to be probably the best usually viable option. And then of course
understanding the different things that are in there which is that not everything in a health
food store is actually healthy and not everything that's healthy for one person is for someone else.
And is there one question that we should ask our farmer at the farmers market when we're about to
buy the kale or the spinach or the strawberries or the bananas or the fruit or whatever we're
about to buy? Is there one question we should be asking and one answer we should be looking for
to ensure that we're giving ourselves the best opportunity to get the healthiest food we possibly
can? Well you might have one question being that you framed it that way which I'd love to hear.
I would generally ask what are their growing processes and practices? So I'd want to get into
how they enrich the soil, what kind of, you know, do they use rock flowers? Do they use
different kinds of micro rice and, you know, soil enrichments, pesticides, proximity to other
pesticides? How long from when they're harvested so they'll get in? Obviously the more one knows
about anything the better they can do to navigate that space. Okay we're talking to Daniel Schmucktenberger
who's the co-founder of Neurohacker Collective. We're going to talk to him a little bit about
a product that he has as well that's going to help you with your with your brain and to give
you brain nutrients. I had a cleaner come to my home just the other day here in Los Angeles,
Daniel, and she was complaining that I didn't have enough products in my in my apartment for
her to be able to clean with. She didn't bring her own product. She, you know, came and was reliant
on me and she asked me for next time that she came to buy a product the name of which escapes me.
I think it was Clorex or something like that and it was clearly like a bad chemical. What product
should I be buying to clean my home or to make available? Like what what kind of natural products
because it seems like everyone's like oh yeah get this and it's like these vicious chemicals which
are doing this. It seems like permanent damage to our brains. Just for a little bit of context.
Ammonia is an amazing beautiful chemical, right? Chlorine is a beautiful molecule. All of the
chemicals that we have developed, I mean DDT is a fascinating chemical, right? And so the better
living through chemistry, the problem was that we didn't understand complex systems. We didn't
understand whole systems and so we understood one very narrow part of a system. We developed
something that would be good for that part of a system but it had other effects. Those other
effects were called externalities. We started to understand those externalities and realize the
problem of the externalities on both the environment and our physiology. So you know most of the
pharma meds are actually really fascinating chemicals for the one pathway they're affecting.
It's just that they affect other stuff which is very problematic. So it's not that it's not that
bleach or ammonia or limaway doesn't have some application where it's possibly beneficial but
we do want to be conscientious of the fact that those chemicals have effects on biology that
even breeding them have effects on biology after the fact. And those are they're not
effects on biology that we want to have unconsciously. So you have companies like
7th generation and heathers and things that people can get even in the grocery store that are
more eco-friendly both from their effect on the environment and their effect on humans in the
environment where they're clean. And then you have some companies that make really kind of
high-tech things with high-tech nature tech cleaning products that can be very effective
with different essential oils and imponified natural fatty acids. Yeah I'm not I'm not affiliated
with any of the the companies I'm about to to mention but 7th generation certainly I have
a couple of those products and I'm glad that you said that because that makes me feel good about
buying them. And then there's Honest the Honest company which is the company created by the
Hollywood actress Jessica Alba. And are you familiar with their products so that the Honest
company products healthy as healthy as I can get as well Daniel? I have seen them and heard good
things about them but I can't speak to the chemistry out of my head. Okay you mentioned
global travel how is global travel affecting our nervous system? Lots of things I was speaking
from the point of view of pathogens which was before we had global travel we had the pathogens that
would have been within a bio region that would have been things that we had evolved immune system
and microbiome to deal with well. And when we travel we have the possibility of getting exposed to
a lot more pathogens that we don't have innate immunity to deal with and so there's of course
beautiful things about our ability to travel and get exposed to other ways of looking at the world
and you know people worldviews but there are there are other effects of that that we have
to be conscientious of and so the answer of just more vaccines for every place you go also has
consequences and so it just these are if we have a system that's going to be exposed to
more pathogens and pathogens that it didn't evolve to deal with in recent history well
then again we would just say that's a place where we want to have more immune system support
just like we'd want to have more detox system support if we're exposed to more environmental
toxins. Let's highlight just a couple of other problems and then we'll get into some possible
solutions here. Staring at a screen what are the problems with that? Well beyond the
the backlighting and the lumens and the specific kind of uh the kelvins the specific kind of
spectral frequencies of light that I imagine your listeners all understand quite well a few
other things that can be problematic about it is that it's a fixed focal length and so if I'm
looking at a computer that is 12 inches or 18 or however many inches from my face then the focal
length of my eyes for being able to focus very close and very far is not getting engaged and
those are muscles and in an evolutionary environment we would have been not looking at a very fixed
focal length for all that much time right we would have been looking further off and seeing
trees up close in the process of that dynamic movement of the eye musculature to be able to
focus near and far is part of what helps keep that musculature healthy and prevent the kind of
vision loss that we consider so natural with age it happened before computer screens with books for
us but fixed focal length for very long period of time there's an easy solution for that which is
every 15 minutes half an hour that you're looking at a book or a screen just look far away you know
and let your eyes focus look at something very close let your eyes focus so musculature stays
engaged there's also a postural effect of if I'm looking at a screen uh if it involves me not moving
very much then of course we have all of the neurological myofascial effects of just being
very sedentary but if the posture of the ergonomics themselves have me looking down and taking the S
curve out of my cervical spine the C curve out of my cervical spine you know then I'm going to
be dealing with those uh postural effects so computers are awesome international travel is
awesome and to to the degree that we're interfacing with it for one set of reasons but it's having
other effects we just want to understand those effects and know how to uh augment any possible
negatives because I got a uh a lifespan treadmill desk and I'm as I'm recording this with you now
I'm standing on it I'm not actually walking on it at the moment but I I now for the most part
work at a computer standing up and initially I thought I was so clever but then I realized that
I didn't have a computer stand on my desk so my computer was actually down at kind of chest
level and so my head was kind of you know aiming down a little bit rather rather than straight so
here I was for months going I'm so clever I'm on a treadmill desk I'm standing up look at me
and then I was like oh actually hang on a second my spine is probably still slouching over because
I'm looking down so now I have a stand and the stand my computer and my laptop sits on top of
that stand and as you can see I'm talking to you now Daniel my eyes are at you know my head and
my posture is exactly the way it should be I'm speaking to you from home on my couch on a laptop
so laptops are are pretty profoundly suboptimal ergonomics and as much as we can say that we'd
like people on not on computers which is uh not necessarily realistic for the work they have to
do in the world it's also meaningful or that we want them on ergonomically uh perfect computer
setups which when they're traveling is going to be hard at least understanding the dynamics so one
can counterbalance them but for most people the ergonomics that are going to be important is if
you're looking straight ahead uh meaning not down and not up you would like to be looking slightly
up from there if you're going to be in one place for a long period of time so that the natural C
curve in the cervical spine is being supported rather than otherwise so where we're generally
looking a little bit down then we end up getting the muscles in the back of the neck and the suboccipital
muscles getting tight causing all of the kind of dynamics that come from that and so if someone
puts their monitor higher than they normally would where the center point of their monitor is around
eye level uh and then they usually want their keyboard low and we can get into ergonomic keyboards
so that the shoulders aren't up that uh that's generally keyboard low monitor high is a kind of
first rule of thumb i love it well i'm i'm now you've inspired me to put my computer up even higher
now so i'm going to make sure i do that when we uh when we finish this interview thank you for the
for the tip there um two more things i want to talk about um uh before we move on to a little
bit more about neurohacking but we're talking to daniel schmuckdenberger and you can check out what
he does over at neurohacker.com that's neurohacker.com you can read all about what it means to be a
neurohacker um wi-fi i love wi-fi everywhere i go now when i travel it's like i need wi-fi i need
wi-fi we're all addicted to wi-fi when i was down in sydney australia recently they've got free wi-fi
on bondai beach and when i was traveling through the baltic area in latvia lithuania everywhere you
go is public wi-fi free everywhere i'm in my apartment here in los angeles i've got the super
duper high speed wi-fi just running through the the whole place what are the potential dangers
of wi-fi and or too much wi-fi this is a tricky and harder to answer question um
when we think about wireless uh transmission in general so we're talking about emf and rf
