Speaking of Spencer, there was another comment I wanted to just make really quick. I was going
to reply on Reddit, but it's a, it's something I've heard elsewhere too. Can we see that right
after one, if we finish up not without a two? Yeah, yeah, yeah, please. Okay. Now, with that
incident ended that with another example might be the disproportionate number of black and mentally
ill people executed in the US. Unlike healthcare laws, this is state sanctioned killing that the
majority of Americans favor carried out only after due process. He does have a very good point,
and he says, although the number of people actually killed isn't huge, how do you feel about violent
resistance specifically to the death penalty? And I kind of like that he brought that up because
I personally hate the death penalty. And I think it is a monstrous injustice and there
should be no such thing. But I do not violently resist the death penalty. So I guess I've made my,
I have cast my vote in that particular case that despite how bad I think it is, I think
more violence to stop it is even worse. I mean, I think also it's just pragmatically,
like if you're talking about trying to maximize the amount of good you can do throughout your life,
how many judges could you beat up before you get thrown in prison? You know, two or three? So,
I mean, if you're just, if you're breaking into their houses and I mean, let's talk about killing
them. If you're just going to run in there and beat them up and say, you shouldn't be
sentencing people to death penalty. And I don't think my doing that would have any effect on
how society views the death penalty. Probably not. So I mean, you could join an advocacy group that
like, what's that amazing one that does investigations in like decade old cases with DNA
and stuff. Oh, yes, I know what you're talking about. We'll find it. The something project.
Yeah. The innocence project. Something like that. Anyway, there are organizations that,
if your if your goal is to is to minimize people killed by death penalty, you're better off giving
money or volunteering for one of these organizations than you would be just again, killing judges,
right? Or whoever it is that you think is responsible voters, maybe I mean, so I, I'm not
in favor of the death penalty either. But there doesn't be a difference between saying, look,
society as a whole thinks that death penalty is okay. And we're going to kill, you know,
a handful of serial murderers every year versus and a lot of perfectly innocent people. Yeah,
some sort of perfectly innocent people. Again, I'm not for this, but I'm just saying that there
seems to be a difference between saying we're going to kill people after due process, after
they've been in court, even if it even if it's kangaroo court bullshit, there's there's something
more desirable going through the system and deciding on it that way, rather than saying,
you know what, I'm going to be the arbiter, me personally, I'm not talking to anybody,
and I'm going to go out and kill people or whatever your whatever form of violent resistance
takes. Like we talked about on the Nazi punching episode, there was that guy at University of
Washington who got shot. And this was like a Bernie campaigner, right? So you have to be
willing to accept false positives, you know, whether I guess you're going through due process
and death penalty or if you're going to go out for vigilante, right? I guess in the least convenient
possible world, what if it was the case that all the laws are exactly as they are right now for
white people. But if you were a black person, you were found guilty of a law, it was death penalty.
Yeah, or found guilty of breaking the law. And it doesn't matter what law it is, like you,
you knocked over a 7-eleven, you stole a few hundred dollars. Well, you're found guilty death
penalty for you. At that point, do we have violent resistance? Yeah, I mean, that sounds like a much
more supportable case, right? You know, so again, we're like, it's kind of thing.
Like at what level of injustice are you willing to take up arms?
Yeah. And certainly, I think that again, like you said, if it's anything that's explicitly
discriminatory, again, I guess I'm also wondering who to be violent against. I mean, it could just
be that by being violent, you're raising the alarm and somebody somewhere will notice and somebody,
you know, will start passing laws or, you know, like Gandhi did that, but with the opposite of
violence. Yeah, just in general, doing destruction to businesses and government buildings and hoping
that the government eventually says, we don't want any more of this, let's change the law so
people stop rioting. I mean, I could see a case for that. To the extent that I'm against this,
it's pretty softly, but it's to the extent, it is in principle, I'm against it. But in practice,
things get a lot muckier, right? But I mean, that is the argument I've seen that if you gum up the
works enough, the system reacts to having its works gummed up that badly. Yeah. And I mean,
I guess then it just, it's a matter of being tactful, right? Like it's punching individuals
in the street really gumming up the system. No, if anything, it's making this guy famous as hell.
I mean, so one of the commenters, the great Nick said that punching Richard Spencer is probably
a bad thing. But he said that he'll appear in public less because of this punch, which means
that he'll appear on media less and have influence over fewer people. I kind of disagree completely
at that point. I don't think I'm the only person who would never have heard of Richard Spencer if
it wasn't for this incident. And then we went to check out his websites, his sites got clicks,
somebody got ad revenue. This gave him a lot of press. Yeah. And you don't have to leave your
house to get press. If you have a computer in your house or if a journalist is willing to come
to your house, right? So there's a great article about someone who worked with, do you remember
Tucker Max? No, Tucker Max was a raging douche hole who on internet would just say crazy misogynist
things and came out with a book about basically how awesome it is to be a misogynist. And they had
almost no revenue for advertising. So they bought a few really just extremely sexist awful ads in
this subway system of I think Chicago or the bus system of Chicago, I don't know. And they immediately
got censored and removed and the city government said, Hey, we're sorry about this, but they got
massive media coverage for putting those up and then forgetting them pulled. And they had tons of
people protesting them. And they, I mean, it went to number one, New York Times bestseller,
because so many people heard about it. And even if 99.5% of people are decent people and think,
Oh, this is awful, that tiny small fraction who would have never heard of him are like, Oh,
hey, this guy, this sounds funny. Or this sounds cool. Let's read this. So it is he the believe
the name of the article is, I wrote the book on outrage marketing or whatever, and you should
stop playing into these people's hands. And I think it's a good point that a lot of this is just
trying to get attention by getting the outrage. And it is it is counterproductive when we give
them all this press, I think so too. And that's, that's sort of where we came down on the episode
and how to deal with these people. You know, if it's a small enough minority like this, I feel
like it's completely fine just to completely ignore them. I think the Nazi puncher did more
for their cause than Richard Spencer has. Watch, it was an inside thing. And the guy
having the in front of the camera when he got hit, you know, I'm not really that conspiratorily
minded. But if I was, that's exactly the kind of thing I would orchestrate, right?
I didn't want to say the reading great lyrics comment, what his words were,
punching Richard Spencer probably is also a bad thing. But he said that he will appear in public
less because of the punch, which means that he'll appear less on media and influence fewer people,
just something to think about. And yes, that is exactly what I was thinking about when I
wanted to talk about this. And it is the reason that I wanted to put together that episode because
what you're basically saying is just to think about the use of terror made someone terrorized
and shut up their speech. And I'm like, yes, that is exactly what I don't want.
Yeah, I guess that's sort of why I came down on the episode. Like I'm not, I'm not in favor of
this guy being attacked. But like I said, part of me feels like the sunshine's a little brighter
every time a Nazi gets his nose broken. But I, that's not the kind of thing, that's not the
kind of thing I want to endorse. But if it's the kind of thing that becomes necessary, that's fine.
And I'm not really, that's a pretty wishy-washy position. And it's not very actionable. And it
could put me on the wrong side. If things do get really out of hand, I might be one of the last
people on board to pick up a gun and go start shooting people or whatever, again, form your
violent resistance wants to take. I really don't think just punching these people is going to make
any difference. You're going to make the martyrs, you're going to put them, you know, if the numbers
go up, all these people are going to be on TV. And, you know, I, so I guess I'm not really sure
where we're supposed to go with this. Do you want to read Matt's counterargument to us? Or should
I read it? Matt wrote us an email and he had a counterargument for us, which is a thing that we
like on this episode, in general, in our spheres. So Matt says, the reason there are only 300 of
them, by of them he means the people who attended Richard Spencer's conference, the kind of white
supremacists that were on that video. The reason there are only 300 of them is because of the
extreme cost you incur for publicly expressing that belief, including being punched on the street.
Have you been on the internet lately? It's swarming with people capable of being Nazis.
Every racist YouTube commenter is a future Nazi waiting for a movement to exist so he
can come outside. To the extent that Trump is that movement, it's the perfect time to get
busy punching. The thing about revolutions is that they never work if you can see them coming.
Because they're a total reversal of power, you can't announce you're coming or the movement will
be squelched by the powerful faction you're looking to overthrow. This is an evolutionary
selection pressure acting on revolutionaries where the only ones that ever occur seem to come
out of nowhere. So the fact that you can't imagine a fascist revolution in America isn't
evidence that there won't be one. And he goes on to cite a number of stats showing that very popular
white supremacist websites such as Stormfront have as many as 100,000 visitors a month and
obviously not all of them are white supremacists, but he goes on to show that there's a organization
with like tens of thousands of members registered online, which is also white supremacist, and tries
to make the case that there's a much larger presence of white supremacists than we believe,
they're just underground right now. And he ends with, not ends with, but he also mentions,
you said it was too late to respond with violence by the time the government was on the side of
the fascists. So here's a terrifying bit of recent news from leaked FBI documents. And he
linked us to an article which I will link in the description that says the FBI has been
investigating white supremacists infiltration of law enforcement, which apparently white
supremacists have been getting jobs as police officers in various locales around the US and
slowly trying to infiltrate them, which kind of makes the whole laws thing a bit moot because
they could selectively enforce only the laws that they like. So I didn't read the attached link
there, but is it saying that a shady organization of secret white supremacists has made the conscious
decision to infiltrate the police in other areas of government or that some police officers happen
to white supremacists? Both. Okay. Well, the first one's scarier. Right. I mean, you're going to get
some percentage of assholes in every discipline, right? Or at least most of your discipline. But
if they're making the concerted effort to sneak in for this express reason, that is a little
disconcerting. I don't really know, again, what the appropriate response is. I mean, if you punch
a cop, it doesn't end well for you. And certainly, I guess I'm always concerned about false positives.
I think he wants us to be worried that there are a lot more white supremacists that we were saying
that there were and that they're kind of underground and building slowly. Yeah. And some of these are
stronger cases for that. I mean, YouTube commenters, I mean, if that's the case, then what was it?
Last year, the year before where the hashtag kill all white men was super popular. And that was among
like college campus girls. So I think that your average internet Nazi is going to just be some
15 year old sharing frog memes. It's not going to be some person who actually has an actionable
plan or wants to go out and do violence. They just think they're being edgy and they're entering
puberty. But like I said, that's that's the case for some of these weak ones of YouTube comments.
And I think Matt's Matt's contention is that punching the Nazis in public makes them less
likely for people to want to join the edgy group and be and be vocal and public about it. I don't
know if I agree with him, but I think that's what he's trying to say. Whereas I'm kind of more of
the opinion that the more you punch them, the more the edge lords are going to want to join that group
and be like, look at how edgy I am. Yeah. And I mean, if you can say again, too, from I imagine
from their position, if you're out there getting attacked for these beliefs, that just helps you
win your oppression Olympics that you're trying to enter into and saying, look, we're so marginalized
that we're the only ones in the country that people are being violent against, etc. Like again,
I don't believe that. But I think that's the kind of thing that they're going to tell themselves
and their internal narratives that's going to make them, I guess I'm getting as I don't think
that's going to slow them down. If anything, it'll speed them up. And you know, then when somebody
goes all the way and starts killing the people, then he's going to be making martyrs. And I think
that's going to get out of control pretty quick. But that said, the intercept article here is
worrisome. So that's a nice way to put it. So they're likely may be a bigger problem here than
I was originally given to think. So thank you for enlightening me. I mean, fairness, I didn't
research that article very in depth. The FBI later walked back from that investigation and
apologized for it. But it's not clear if that's because they had a lot of political pressure
to do that. Yeah. So that I mean, it sucks, because if you do say that and you stop there,
then you could say, Oh, well, that's just evidence of the how high this conspiracy goes,
or somebody greased some palms, but it's also consistent with like, sorry, we were actually
wrong. So I guess it maybe doesn't stand alone to make a case, but it might be evidence. I mean,
these things happen all the time, too, where the IRS was super into investigating Operation
Snowball with the Church of Scientology. And then they were threatened with just thousands of
lawsuits. And like, you know what, nevermind, sorry, bye. And so I mean, sometimes that is just
enough to push people back even when you're right. Yeah. So something to think about. I don't know
necessarily if in I'm willing to grant everything that you're that Matt rodent is true, I still
don't know if hitting the people is the appropriate way to do it. I mean, maybe it's actually voting,
maybe it's going through the door getting signatures to put forward amendment or mendems or
something. I wonder if there's some way in the system to go about doing this, rather than just
hitting people on the street. For me, I guess I'm not really sure if this a lot of these are cases
for killing people, right? If you're, you know, if you want to make sure Richard Spencer not
ever talks in front of a microphone again, you don't hit him in the face and then get
a diswarmed and press coverage, you kill him and then you can't say anything ever again, right?
If you really want to terrorize white supremacists into not talking, you kill him and you make a
big message out of that. Yeah. And I mean, certainly if you're talking about how we're
trying to win this war against white supremacists and stuff, I mean, wars aren't one with
throwing punches, right? It's interesting that they always walk back from that though. They're
like, no, no, beating people up is okay, but not killing. Well, and I'm really glad they do.
I'm not, I'm absolutely not in favor of that. I by no stretch of the imagination,
can I be reasonably interpreted as saying we should be out there killing them. We
absolutely should not be, but it seems like all the arguments that you're making here
apply more strongly to that case. Unless you're just trying to scare them to going inside,
but it's not like they lose internet access if they don't go outside, right? So what are you
going to do? Like troll them? I mean, that's not really going to stop them either, right?
But having your life be uncomfortable enough that you are scared to go out of your house and go to
the grocery store does suck, which is I think what their goal is. Okay, thank you for stealing
me that from me because it wasn't clear to me at all what their end of goal was. If it wasn't to,
you know, silence them. Or I guess if it was to silence them, I wonder how you did that without
killing them. But yeah, I mean, that's not going to make them stop. They're still going to vote
for assholes. They're still going to be greasing palms. They're going to be doing all their shady
shit. They're going to just be what, writing fewer articles, which is also I guess somewhat
advantageous. I don't know. No, I mean, it's a sticky point, right? Maybe certainly the point
where I talked about killing people. I don't know if that can be, I'm terrified of being quote
mind there. Did you have anything else to add on that one? Not on that one. All right, so we
did have another write in from, I don't know if we want to use people's names and write ins or not,
but let's just call him G. His first initial is G. Yeah, so G wrote in and basically made a defense
of Richard Spencer, felt that we're a little unfair. More than a little unfair. He said,
you were very unfair to Richard Spencer. Yeah. So this is a good point. Richard Spencer is not
