a Nazi and has never advocated violence against anyone. I will agree that he is not a Nazi and
that he is not a part of the American Nazi Party. And he has said several times that neo-nazis don't
like him. I'm not sure about the not advocating violence because while he has always been very
careful to say publicly that he is for a, you know, for a peaceful, what do they call it?
Cleansing. Yeah, a peaceful ethnic cleansing. And once his political goals to be brought about
in a peaceful method, that's kind of bullshit. Because at this point, nearly or close to one
third of the US population is a minority is minorities. You cannot peacefully deport 100
million people. First of all, if you are forcing 100 million people to leave, you are stripping
them of almost all their assets. Because when you, when the rest of the country knows that you have
to leave, they can get your property for cheap. They know you aren't taking your house. They,
they know you aren't taking most of your stuff with you and you have no chance but to sell it
for pennies on the dollar. So it is a massive looting of that demographic. And second of all,
they have homes, they have families. Where, where are we going to put them? You can't just ship them
off to other countries. So if you try to make 100 million people leave, there will be violent
resistance as there should be. Well, and also, I mean, it's bullshit. I'll say one question too.
Like, I mean, my family came over sometime before the civil war parts, my family did,
but there are definitely minority families in the United States have been around the United States
longer than that. Where do we send them to? Right? What is their appropriate homeland? So,
I mean, if it's not here, we seem pretty arbitrary to draw the line anywhere else.
And I'm pretty sure he wouldn't try to kick me out since I'm quite white and I come from Europe.
But on the other hand, my parents moved here like an 84. They, they're, they're more recent
immigrants than most of the people that he was targeting. And why am I not getting kicked out?
I believe it's just because of the color of my skin and just this peaceful repatriation.
How are you peacefully going to get all those people leave? You can ask them to leave 100 million
people aren't going to leave. So the only way to get them to go would be to force them, which is
violent. And that, that's, that's exactly what I was going to say is that that seems like you've
crossed the line from writing an article for your shitty blog to out of hitting something like the
Trail of Tears, right? Where again, so that's the thing is the immigration police come to your house
and like, you know what, we want you out while I don't want to leave. Okay, well, we're going to make
you. And by make you, we're going, it's like, at that stage, it's things are going to get violent,
right? So I mean, this seems like this seems like a perfect analogy to what not without incident
was saying on Reddit that to the, to the Trail of Tears example. With a Japanese internment.
Yeah, yes, it's not supposed to be violent. I mean, if you want to just leave your shit and come
out quietly, things don't have to get violent is really what it's saying. But that's not really
a peaceful solution, right? And any, any, I think any altercation where you're telling people to do
at gunpoint isn't, or I guess at the threat of gunpoint. And then of course, the obvious
implication of shooting your gun, that's not that can't doesn't count as peaceful. It maybe
counts as non deadly. I totally think it's, it's a bullshit dodge to say I want this to happen
peacefully. And we should not allow them to get away with that. Yeah, we did acknowledge that
that is black genocide right article wasn't written by Spencer. So I don't see how fair it is.
Well, I guess I'm, let me read this out of in context here. G went on to say the old blog
post you cited quote is black genocide right unquote was as you quickly stated on the show,
not written by Spencer. So I don't see how it is fair to associate Spencer with it,
especially considering that he moved it from his site. I guess I don't know how long it was on
there for. And like I said, I first heard of this guy the day after he got hit in the face.
And I did a weekend's worth of quick research. So I mean, if it was true that he went on there,
and he's like, I can't believe people publish it like this on a website, it's immediately gone,
this, this user's banned. That's what happened cool props to him. I got the impression that
what that wasn't the sort of stance that he took on these things, but I could be wrong.
You know, it's, it's, it's a tricky subject that because he know I was I was perturbed when I saw
people quoting that and attributing it to him, because he didn't say it. And I dislike that it
was associated with him so much, because on the one hand, yeah, it was on his site. But on the
other hand, no, he didn't write it. So how at what point is the fact that it was on his site
a tacit endorsement by him and how much can he divorce himself from that? I think it's not
it's enough that I wouldn't use that as an argument against him personally. But when other
people do, it's hard for me not to say I kind of see your point that he is at least not against
this sort of thing. I agree. I mean, you know, if you want to remove it and stuff that that seems
to be some some indication, but I dislike that it's being used. And I think it shouldn't be used
against him basically is what I'm trying to say. He said plenty bad things by himself that you don't
need to quote mind someone he was associated with on his website. That's what I was going to say is
there's plenty of room to just find things that this guy said personally. And I don't think he
needs guilt by association unless that association is ironclad. You know, if this was somebody that
he pushed up or he paid him or something to and he's, you know, help publish his shitty book or
something like that's the kind of thing where we could say, look, he's helping this person,
this person's bad. But that doesn't even that doesn't even seem to be how far this went. So
I am curious as to what all our listeners think about when guilt by association is valid, because
I do remember saying earlier that I would not sign with Castelia House to publish anything I
were to write because of what a douchebag and somewhat racist their owner is. And Vox Day owns
Castelia House and Theodore Beale, I guess this is real name, but he goes by he writes by Vox Day
online. And he is the same kind of I don't want to say white supremacist, but asshole. Yes,
that's pretty all encompassing term. Yeah, he's he's this sort of Richard Spencer type of person.
And I would not want to be associated with him. So I would not sign with him. And it does make
me wonder when someone signs with Castelia House, what exactly are they, you know, are they okay
with their name being associated with? That's important. I mean, I don't have a lot to add
there other than that's a good query to put out there. So skipping the rest of this email is
pretty long. But it was it was thoughtful. And I appreciate I mean, I go on and read more of it.
Yeah, I'm not done with it either. I just wanted to thank the author, G here that I mean, clearly,
you disagreed the way we approached it and felt that we weren't being fair enough. But you
responded to us in a very polite way. And I appreciate you doing that. I mean, you cited some
stuff here. I'm not necessarily moved by your arguments, but I appreciate the way you engaged
them. And I think this is the way dialogue should go, right? I mean, he could have just hit us.
So no, there was there was some other stuff on here that, yeah, by all means, go ahead and
see what else was on there. And Yash. So this is I'm approaching these in the order he wrote them.
He said, I founded a bit odd that you objected to even considering genocide as a possibility.
As rationalists, shouldn't you be willing to consider any idea? How do you know that
genocide is wrong unless you consider it first? I would like to say that I am strongly against
the death penalty. As we mentioned earlier, I have a blog called death is bad. I in general
think death of any humans is a horrible thing. And I have thought about it extensively. So
when I don't consider genocide, it's because I consider the death of even one person to be
an atrocity. And the death of an entire group is much more so.
So yeah, as as rationalists, I do think that one of the things you try to do is to engage
every idea thoughtfully. That's not to say that we have to spend a lot of time going over things
that if we've decided that we don't like doesn't mean that we don't have to revisit them or that
we're not compelled to address new arguments. But if you're against death and principle, and
you've got solid reasons for that, then by extension, you're against genocide. And I mean,
is there some plausible or is there some possible future or hypothetical where you might be in
favor of it? Probably. I mean, if it's if it's invading aliens that turn out to be really easy
to kill, but they're really bad, sure, we can genocide the species, you know, like lived in
Middle Earth and orcs were literally just murder hobos that do nothing but but rape and kill,
then maybe it'd be okay. But we're not these are humans. Right. I mean, but the thing is we
have considered genocide. I mean, we've heard of it at least. And there are very good reasons
to not even bother bringing up that argument because it's so fucking stupid. Yeah, that's
that's sort of where I'm at. I do see where you're where you're getting at, like, shouldn't you
engage this? Don't you claim to be a rationalist? And that I think it's it's fair to say that the
point has been engaged and some are really thrown out, right? Not necessarily like, oh, we just don't
talk about that. That's on our sacred box of things we don't talk about. It's like, no, that's not
our box of shit we've settled our minds on. Yeah. And if you're going to make a new case for genocide
that's super compelling, I mean, I'd be curious and reading it just morbidly. What could possibly
be a compelling argument? Go ahead and send us an article. But I think the odds that I'll change
my mind are pretty small. And that's not necessarily close minded of me. Like the odds of me changing
my mind about homeopathy working are also pretty small, right? Or, you know, like, I don't know,
Bigfoot wandering around North America, like we would have found one by now. Now, if we did find
one that would cause an interchange my mind. So there's a difference in saying, like, I'm not
interested in wasting my time, you know, flying out to the the woods of North, you know, of Northwest
America to go look for big feet, Bigfoot's, I don't know. It's not close minded to me to say, no,
I'm not gonna waste my time doing that. Because I don't think they're there. Close minded to be
saying, I'm going to shut out any and all possible evidence that you're bringing forward. I feel like
that's a digression. But I'm trying to make the point that I feel like it's okay to dismiss the
topic of genocide in a certain group of humans, more or less without really spending a lot of time
talking about it in the same way that I'm not going to waste my time thinking about lots of other
stupid propositions. If I see a proposition for a perpetual motion machine, anything that violates
the law of conservation of energy, unless there is a number of really big Nobel laureates that have
come out and endorsed this, I'm not even going to bother looking at it. I'm like, this is a fundamental
misunderstanding of how reality can work as far as we know it. I'm not even going to bother reading
the first paragraph about your perpetual motion machine. I mean, that's how strongly I feel about
is genocide a good idea. Yeah, I almost feel like that was too much time to spend on it.
So moving on then. Well, that's just, I mean, how uncomfortable did that make everybody sitting
there talking about why genocide is a bad idea? I think that if that's the kind of thing that
you're on the fence about, you need to settle your moral framework pretty hard before you're
ready to come out and talk about it. Is it not impossible? Sure. Like, you know, the orcs example
is probably the most reasonable one, right? Since none of us are orcs, I don't think that's really
worth, and is this too, is this too flippant? I feel like to engage it too much is to give it too
much platform, but I mean, if anyone has a really good case for genocide, I guess, shoot us something,
but you probably will not get any traction with us. Yeah, don't anticipate that. But again,
I don't think that's being, I don't think that's a flippant dismissal, but I don't really know what
else to say. So let's just move on. Yeah. All right. This one I thought was very interesting.
You claim that Spencer gave a Nazi salute at the MPI event, MPI being this event we've
talked about that was captured on video. That is false. If you watch the video,
you'll see that he's raising a glass, not saluting. And I was like, why? So I went back and I watched
the video and I'll be damned. He was raising a glass and toast at the end. He did not actually
give the Nazi salute. I saw a picture of somebody doing Nazi salute, though. There were some people
Nadine's doing the Nazi salute, which again, we should go back to Guilt by Association,
but I thought it was crazy how I had seen the video before. And in my memory, I remembered him
giving the Nazi salute because I'd heard everywhere giving the Nazi salute in his speech. And it just,
I had a mental image of him giving the Nazi salute. And then I went back and looked and
no, there's a glass in his hand and he's clearly kind of toasting. And that was a crazy brain
thing that made me be like, well, like this is why we have evidence. And I'm glad we have
a video recording of this. Right. Well, we had that friend post a Facebook post, you know,
I forget what the context was, but it was like something alternate fact is true in the sense
that like, we grew up with the Berenstein Bears spelled the way that everyone thinks it was spelled,
but it wasn't that where Nelson Mandela died in prison, all these things like everyone thinks
are true, but they're not. Yeah, this seems to be just one of those things where yeah,
I had the same thing that I thought that I saw this video and apparently that was in a genie
movie. Right. So anyway, yeah, fair enough. So that may be not not on this, not on this case,
maybe not on film. Was he giving a Nazi salute? So are bad. Some people in his audience were
giving the Nazi salute though. So I mean, again, guilt by association. I mean, it's not like,
not like he did it. So I mean, but if you're in the room with people who are enthusiastically
doing a Nazi salute, the guy who wrote in here seems to he's making the case that it might have
been a tongue in cheek ironic spirit, but I don't know how you get that from the from the footage.
And if it is, I mean, I can kind of see how it is because that's a really uncut, like there's
so much baggage with that gesture. There is a lot but the okay, so as he pointed out, he said,
well, let me read this real quick. I would also guess that those who did salute weren't even
really Nazis, but were saluting in a tongue in cheek ironic spirit. People in the alt right
are called Nazis all the time by the left. And some of them find it fun or funny to embrace
the label rather than argue against it, which I totally see because every now and then you hear
people saying that since I'm signed up for cryo, it is my own crazy religion and I'm just as bad
as the people who think that Jesus is going to rapture them or whatever. And I've gone to the
point where I'm like, okay, fine, it's my religion. This is my sacred burial right when I die. I want
my body to be frozen instead of buried and believe what you want because I don't really care. And
I saw her to see that point, especially if you're in a group that gets shit on console. How many
times have we been told that people on the right are Nazis? I've been hearing it since Reagan,
that Reagan is a Nazi and the Republicans are Nazis. And I can see at some point people on
the internet being like, you know what? Fuck you all. Fine. I'm a Nazi. Hail Hitler, you know?
Like in a sort of a reverse trolling ironic sort of way. And I can kind of see his point,
but on the other hand, I don't want us to lull our way into Nazism. Because for every 10 people
that are doing it ironically, there's at least one person who's like, yes, we should be killing the
Jews. Hail Hitler. One of the people in the group doesn't know it's a joke, right? So we can make
up whatever percentage we think that is. I'm not really sure. But yeah, I think that that might be
a reasonable concern that there's exactly some percentage of people that thought we were all
joking, right? And then one person shows up with their backpack full of ammo and a couple of guns
and like, wait, are we not really doing this? So yeah, I think that's one of the reasons we don't
joke about things like that very much. The Nazi thing, because there are people who will take
it a certain way. I would not be comfortable with that anyway. Even even as a joke, I'd be like,
guys, we're still joking, right? Yeah, I don't want to be the guy who realizes that like, oh,
it turns out that now four fifths of the people are Nazis. And I was the only one who still thought
it was a joke. Right. Oops. So that that that is interesting. And that that was, it's an
uncomfortable fact, but I'm all for putting the truth out there. Spencer didn't salute at that
that event. So or didn't not be salute at that event. So there it is. I keep thinking because,
you know, I've been on panelists at Denver Comic Con a number of years now, and some of them have
been pretty large, like 400 people, right? And afterwards, after we're done, you know, having
our talk for 48 minutes, and we close, and there's the applause, what if some of the people like,
gave me a Nazi salute from the audience? Like, what would I do at that point? I'm pretty sure I
wouldn't shut down everything be like, Hey, guys, let's let's not do that after the talk's already
over. I don't know. I could see you at least writing a blog post saying, Hey, I saw this happen.
What the fuck was that? Was that some sort of uncomfortable joke? Let's not do that again.
Or at least explain what you're coming from. But if it is already like sort of an inside joke,
I mean, I if that's that might actually be true. It's an uncomfortable inside joke. I might
mean, maybe get a better sense of humor. You know, I know I did it a lot when I was a hardcore
atheist. No, not a Nazi salute. God, no, when I had just come out as an atheist. And I know
some people who are witches as well. And it's it's a thing that like, Oh, yes, we we worship
