Satan, hail Satan, you know, let's go drink the blood of the babies tonight like we do every night.
Oh, sure. Because you hear that from Christians a lot. If you're an atheist, it means you actually
worship Satan and just the the, you know, the neo pagans nowadays, or even the old school pagans
who apparently have a beef with the neo pagans, which is interesting. But they will every now
embrace and be like, Yeah, no, I'm totally doing the baby eating tonight. That's what we witches do.
And that seems a lot more funny from this side, you know? Yeah, I guess I'm a big supporter
of the church of Satan. That said, if there was any reasonable concern that some percentage of
atheists was actually eating babies, it would stop being a funny joke to make. Yes, it would.
So maybe that's where the line is like, I mean, if it's true that some of them are joking, that's
fine. But this isn't the kind of thing that you should be complicit about. Yeah. And to the extent
that anybody was not joking when they said yes, atheistic babies, or yes, we atheistic babies.
To the extent that someone might not have been kidding, then the whole thing stops being funny
and the entire group should stop making that joke, right? Yeah, every now and then you do wonder
about the guy who says that we should kill religious people. And I think that's why there's
never any jokes about ha ha, let's throw all the religious people in ovens, because that's a place
we're not willing to go. Yeah, I'm not sure. Are you talking about a specific guy or a hypothetical
guy? No, but I mean, there was at least, I remember some of the more virile young people
and the forums I was on that was like, we really should just kill anyone who's seriously religious
because there's no way to help them and they're bringing down all of the rest of humanity. Well,
not to belabor too far in that rabbit hole, but like, you were seriously religious for a while.
So I mean, good thing you weren't killed before you got a chance to change your mind, right? So
that seems like a great argument for not killing people before you try and talk to them. Probably
after. And certainly no one else made a joke about it. There was no ha ha, yes, let's give the
whatever the equivalent of the atheist Nazi salute is. Fair enough. Well, I guess what we're
saying is, don't be given the Nazi salute, or people are going to think bad things about you
and it'll be your own goddamn fault. Yeah, I think that's a fair takeaway. I mean, if you're willing
to just roll with that association, well, then you're willing to roll with being called a Nazi
and all the nonsense that comes with it. But if you want to be taken more seriously, you don't
make those kinds of jokes, right? Yeah. Again, I'm not convinced everyone who's doing that is
joking, right? I think it would be an outlander's claim to say that literally everyone is joking,
right? Some of these people seem quite earnest, and you'd be playing mind reading games by saying,
no, I actually think you're joking despite that you're telling me you're not, right? So yeah,
forget that noise. Oh, I was wrong. It was G who was trying to convince us that there's a lot more
Nazis than we think there are, or a lot more alt-right people than we think there are. Oh,
it wasn't the last right in. Yeah, it says it's a movement that's spread out across the country
and indeed the world. So the 350 people that could make it to DC for the conference isn't the
best baseline. You should consider the fact that white nationalist ideals are so persecuted by the
mainstream culture that many adherents of the movement do not want to be seen supporting it
publicly and consequently wouldn't go to a conference even if they could. If we look at the
web traffic and then he gave us the stats on how many people go to these websites. So I guess it
was the pro-right guy who was trying to tell us there's more right people out there than we
thought. And that's probably true. Excuse me, that is true. That's in fact who wrote that in. But
yeah, I'm sure that the alt-right community is bigger than these 300 people. I meant the people
who were earnest enough about it to go to these conferences. Now, you're right, there are probably
social disincentives from going. So maybe that number would have been 10 times bigger. I guess
the point that I was making didn't really hinge on it being 300 or 500. It was more like even if
it's 3,000, even if it's 10 times people who went, or even arguably 100 times people who went.
We're still looking at like less than 1% of people. We're not looking at half of our neighbors,
right? But once we start getting the 30,000 ounce start to be a little bit worried. Same,
no, I totally agree. But I guess, like I said, even if it did get all the way up to being,
you know, 300,000 people. That's still 0.1%. Yeah, this isn't like, you know,
it's not as mainstream as standard republicanism or conservatism or republican ideologies. There
was one last thing here that G wrote in was for a podcast that is ostensibly not about politics
and meant to appeal to a wide audience, you do express your political opinions on the show
quite frequently. As a conservative with moderately positive opinion of Trump, I often find it
frustrating that a podcast which I otherwise enjoy so often drops in remarks, which I consider
horribly backwards without any discussion or consideration of other points of view. That's
fair. And I really appreciate the way that you wrote that in, rather than, you know, flaming
and being irate or something, especially like on leading up to the election, we were, I think,
much more guarded about being outspoken against the president and certain actions and factions and
groups. You know, so like, if we haven't made it clear, ideologically, I want everyone to be able
to talk and be comfortable around each other sharing ideas. Yeah, this is what prevents punching.
Yeah. Being able to have an open discourse. And exactly. And but that doesn't mean that I don't
have my opinions, you know, to the extent that G wrote in, to the extent that you're right-wing,
I'm left-wing, right? Maybe you probably even less so. I think I'm pretty moderate on a lot of
things. But I think there's a difference between saying, you know, you have to agree with us or
you're stupid. And maybe we came off that way. And if that's true, that might not have been fair.
I would like to see, you know, if anyone or G specifically thinks that there's remarks that
are literally horribly backwards and that we didn't give any discussion or consideration,
write us in and let us know. Because I would be interested to know in what those points are.
And maybe mention them on our next listener feedback.
Yeah. I mean, I do find with talking about that, I'm trying to think of anything right off that
was horribly backwards. But I mean, if we're super biased, we might not have caught it.
Exactly.
Well, I mean, let us know. I don't want to be the asshole who's pissing people off. I mean,
obviously, if Spencer heard our last podcast, you know, he wouldn't be a fan of most of the
things we said, or maybe not Spencer in particular, but some of the people in that camp, I'm not super
concerned with being charitable or with those people coming away from the show and being,
you know, happy having listened to it. But there's a midline. I don't want to scare away half the
population and make it seem like this show isn't safe or conservative minded people, or at least
not fun to listen to. So was that two, I don't know.
No, I think those right on. All I have left is one thing which is just a note to drop in. It's
not something we really have any or at least I don't have anything to comment on it. Peregrine
Tuch, I think is the how you what how the name would be pronounced says since it came up in
Germany, we have a criminal offense called Volksverhetzung, I think. I'm glad you tried
reading that rather than me. I wasn't prepared. I mean, I took a little bit of German, but it was
a long time ago. So I don't know if that's right. Anyways, it's basically a law against incitement
roughly translated the relevant part reads anyone who in a manner which is likely to
disturb public peace incites hatred against parts of the population or calls for violence or
arbitrary action against them attacks the human dignity of others by insulting maliciously contempting
or slandering parts of the population will be punished with imprisonment for three months to
five years. There is a later sentence for those who only do so in writing films, computer games,
etc. Anyone who denies the Holocaust in Germany is guilty of this and it is known over here and
sometimes a cause for great indignation that no such law exists in the US and anyone can say
more or less anything. Generally, we do not understand why you don't just make it punishable
by law to incite hatred against part of the people, especially if the way it is done is by
telling lies or slandering the minority you want to incite hatred against. And I don't really have
anything to say to that aside from I think that is an interesting law and I kind of like it,
but it's good to have another opinion. Yeah, I mean, so a carefully crafted and extremely
well, I mean, the problem with I think making certain forms of speech illegal. And so the
the person who wrote and had expressed some frustration about, you know, or at least some
confusion about why America is so gung-ho, you know, free speech, no matter what. I mean,
the same the same freedoms that allow people to say terrible things are the ones that allow people
to say good things that no one wants to hear. The only thing that keeps the engine of progress
moving forward is being able to talk about whatever idea it is. And if you put some things off the
table, then those things will never get moved forward. But I mean, again, in anti Holocaust
law, it's hard to see how that's going to hurt things in particular. But that's a slippery
slip to like anti blasphemy laws or Liz Mejia state laws. Yeah, whatever, whatever other
things that might have a bad impact down the road or plausibly could. So having a blanket thing of
like, look, we're not going to say we can't talk about anything. Having that base rule of just
free speech around the board. I think that it's one of those things. This is actually one of the
things that I might this is probably a bigger topic, maybe we can save it for later. But like I'm
like utilitarian consequentialism utilitarianism on one hand and free speech on the other. Like
I'm kind of even like if it's a case where look, some bad things might happen if you say this,
I'm kind of in favor of like just keeping free speech around in general.
Because the higher order effects are more beneficial.
Exactly. So like, you know, one obvious thing, you know, like would be,
should I have the free speech to burn a Quran knowing that, you know, people have said embassies
on fire around the world? I probably shouldn't because I know that'll happen. But to say that I,
you know, I can't just because some people are going to be violently outraged by it.
I mean, you can get highly outraged by anything. Exactly.
People used to get violently outraged that a black person would date a white person.
And if you're going to say, look, anything that has a violent con consequence, based off of your
speech or your actions, that's going to leave anyone who's any, any group of bullies who's
ready to be violent, going to let them dictate whatever you can say and think or say and do,
right? So free speech wins, I think is a is an important axiom for just progressive society.
Again, I'm not saying that there's no way that you can curtail certain corners of it.
I personally do think that in general, the the laws again, the laws protecting free speech are
great because they do help us get to the truth eventually. But I'm such a big fan of truth.
And I really hate the propaganda lies that sometimes people spew out that I am willing
for there to be some laws about when if something can be proven to be malicious and just blatantly
false that any reasonable person should have known better and not spread these things,
then yeah, it's fine to haul them into jail as long as you know, you can prove it in court.
Because there's certain things that I think you're just as long as they're not illegal,
I'm going to uphold everyone's freedom to say whatever they want. But there's some things
that I think maybe could be pushed into the line of illegal. And in that case, we would
have someone arrest them and take them to court rather than punching them in the street.
Yeah, sure. I mean, a really easy example would be like accusing the person who
whatever didn't give you promotion, accusing them of being a pedophile,
right? You know, that gets people out with pitchforks outside their house. I mean,
I was exercising my free speech isn't a good response to that, right? You're lying to incite
terrible consequences for this person. So I mean, don't let my my endorsement of free speech be
taken to be to where you know, you can say or do literally anything. I mean, I guess with truth
and honesty behind it, I'm a fan of free speech. But it was interesting to get the perspective
of someone who is living in Germany. Yeah, no, absolutely. And like I said, I think I can see
why it would make sense for laws to like that to exist in some parts of the world, even if I
have mixed feelings about them, they make a lot of sense to me. So well, this went on longer than
we thought it was going to. Oh, well, hope we didn't bore anyone. If we did bore anyone, hope you
didn't listen to it because you know, you can always stop and fast forward or listen to something
else, right? Yeah, this is this is on you if you're bored. All right, we'll see you all in a couple
of weeks. Thanks.
