Okay, hello. This is Inyash and Stephen again. Hi. We have recorded this after the rest
of this episode because we went and rushed the On Punching Nazis episode last week really
quickly a few days after it happened, and the episode that you just heard was recorded
before that. So we've gotten some listener feedback and we wanted to put it on the air
while it's still somewhat relevant. So we are recording the feedback to that episode
right now and putting it at the end of this episode while someone still potentially cares
about it. That sounds about right. Should I start? Yeah, go for it. Okay. So let's go
with Not Without Incident. Not Without Incident said, while I agree with a lot of your ambivalence
about Nazi punching, I think there are two important points that weren't really addressed.
First, Stephen mentioned this in passing, but the idea that the state protects against violence,
also called the state monopoly on violence, doesn't really apply to some oppressed people.
In other words, if you already feel the state isn't going to punish violence done against you
or a group you support, there really isn't any reason not to punch Nazis from a societal norm
standpoint. There is even an argument put forth most famously recently in the book Ghetto Side
that this lack of any serious state response to violence in poor black communities is the primary
cause of the high murder rate. And we did briefly mention that, as he said, but I think that is
a very good point and we should have probably hammered on it a bit more. I think you mentioned
the state monopoly on violence, not me. Okay. In any case, whoever said it during the episode,
yeah, we kind of glazed past that. I'm not sure if I talked about this in a previous episode,
but so I mentioned previously that Melissa has had that same experience with the police where
the police are not anyone you ever call. You do not want them involved in anything because they
will only make things worse. And in cultures and societies like that where, I mean, especially
in there are places in the US where the police, you can't expect them to be on your side. And in
those situations, I totally understand why someone would go to taking enforcement of those things
into their own hands. I still think it's a bad idea and that it'd be better to have a functioning
police system. But given that there's a lot of places in the US where we don't have one,
I kind of see their point a bit. But on the other hand, the guy that punched him looked to be a white
kid in downtown New York. I'm not sure he has that. Maybe he made the trip. But I mean, the other
thing to consider too is that that sounds like a good reason why you need to handle life conflict
sort of internally without getting the police involved. That's not a great reason for preemptively
attacking people who say stupid things on the street, right? Did you hear that? I know you
listened to Sam Harris a lot. Did you hear that interview when Sam Harris talked with a leader
from the black community? I don't remember who it was now. But Sam Harris made the point like,
what is wrong with these people who someone steps on their shoes and scuffs them a bit,
that they resort right away to violence and possibly even killing each other about it.
And he said, Sam Harris, you are lucky to live in a society where you can simply accept that
that's no big deal and not make a thing out of it. Whereas some of these young men, if they don't
make a thing out of it, then their honors at stake, they could be targeted for violent crimes by
other people because they're seen as weaklings. And it's a self preservation mechanism to keep
up those appearances of being a badass. And it sucks for them because they don't have a choice.
They have to respond with violence and get offensive and say, you got to apologize to me
or else their life, it gets really shitty. Yeah, the guy painted a very good picture. His name
was Glenn C. Lowry Lowry. And the episode was racism and violence in America. And it was a
it was a good conversation. I think it's one that was fruitful for both of them and for me to listen
to as well. I did sort of paint that picture, right? Where Glenn was giving me the example of,
you know, you're on the bus, and the guy scrapes your boots or whatever. And it's the kind of
thing that, you know, most people don't care about. But then if you don't say anything, well,
then you're a pussy, his words not mine. And, you know, so then you've got to step up and now
there's now there's a beef and I don't know how crazy this guy is, you can't go to the police and
be like, Hey, so this scary guy said he's going to kill me, but he hasn't done anything yet. So
like it is really on you to handle that is reality for a lot of people. And you're right,
the police don't aren't the the go to resource for them that we wish they would be. And this is
one of those episodes. I mean, Sam Harris gets a lot of crap. And I think in some cases deservedly
so. But one of the things I love about him is that he is always willing to sit down and reasonably
talk through things. I've had situations on the specifically on the punching Nazi things with
Facebook, where there's some people get so emotionally invested, and it's just not something
you can talk about at all with them, which is fine. There's some subjects I can't talk about
because I get too emotional. But Sam Harris like sits and talks and listens. And he's very thoughtful
about everything. And by the end of the episode, it sounded like he had come around a bit and
changed his view. And I was like, I have more respect for you know, Sam Harris. Yeah, he's
willing to listen. He updates a lot. And that's one of the things I like about his his approach.
Recently, he got on board and he updated to the what I consider the appropriate level of
concern with like AI risk. And so he's been talking about that a lot lately, completely unrelated
to all this, but just talking about a big update. Should we go on to his second point? Yeah, why
not? Not with that incident. Second point is, I think there's a much more direct way that pro
Nazi speech and alt-right or even mainstream conservative speech in the US is more violent
than you all acknowledged. He says 45,000 Americans die every year due to lack of access to healthcare.
200,000 Americans die prematurely from air pollution. And he goes on to give, you know,
several other statistics about how policy leads to death. And he says he can't vouch for how reliable
any of these numbers are individually. But I think it's reasonable to argue that any speech
espousing an extreme right wing ideology is violent and lethal in a completely literal sense.
And that that is very much a thing that I have a strong aversion to, because he is literally
citing examples of difference in opinion on policy. He's talking about pollution policy
and health care policy, which are both very complicated topics with many other effects.
And he's at this point saying that a difference in idea on pollution regulation or a difference of
opinion on basically government regulation is violent and lethal and therefore a violent response
is justified. And I think that is exactly the opposite of what we want. It sounds like when
someone says that disputes over health care are violent and lethal in a completely literal sense,
that sounds like an excuse to kill and main people who are on the other side of you,
on the other side politically. And that is I just that is exactly where I don't want to go.
I think there's an important distinction to be made between like systematic, you know,
if it works out to where certain ways hospital regulations are run or something, tend to
disenfranchise, say homeless people, homeless people tend to be of certain demographics,
that and I mean, there might be historical reasons why that would end up being the case.
And you could make there could be a case made that's quite plausible, that it's due to a history
of segregation and discrimination and stuff like that. But there's a difference between
stabilizing and turfing a homeless person who walks into your ER and going to the street and
hitting them in the face until they're bleeding to death, right? So like one is lethal and violent
in a completely literal sense. The other one is just like, well, I mean, our hands are tied,
the hospital staff, any of them might wish that they could keep them around and do everything
they could to make them, you know, fully healthy again. But that's just just not in the cards for
working in that system, right? But I guess if you're going to equate that and running out there
and hitting that person in the face with a brick, like, I think that you're missing something pretty
important, right? Or am I misreading that to be fair? I mean, I think that's exactly the point that
yes, weapons laws are weapons of mass destruction, you can kill far more people with laws than you
can by going out and individually stabbing someone. But on the other hand, at this point,
he's making the case for violence of liberals versus conservatives, Democrats versus Republicans.
And I think a civil war is much worse. At some point, the alternative of resorting to violence
to enact your favorite policies is worse than simply accepting some poor policies. But more
to the point, once you are not talking anymore and fighting instead, you're no longer allowing your
opinion of the world to be changed by evidence and words. It is now being enforced by guns and
weapons. And so if you're wrong about something, there's no way to find that out. You're going to
hurt the person who disagrees with you. And if he disagrees with you for a good reason,
you'll never know. Yeah, I mean, I think once you're talking about settling things with violence,
things have gotten pretty out of hand, right? To be fair, not that incident did say,
with a last sentence in that post. However, I'm not sure how well this holds up to scrutiny or
violence is the correct response, even if you accept everything above. And I mean, just pragmatically,
even if you thought that violence was the correct response, and you are talking about possibly
violence between, you know, anyone who's liberal and anyone who's conservative. Well, one of those
parties, one of those groups tends to be more in favor of having lots of guns. So you can punch
them all you want. But if they're going to jump on the war bandwagon with you from the other side,
there, I'm not sure this is a war you can win. So maybe talking about it would be easy. I think
I'm taking this too lightly. There was one other really good thing they brought up. Yeah.
Okay, so go on with how he responded to me about that. Yeah, so one obvious place to draw the line
is violent resistance to politics that are explicitly murderous. But I think that is clearly
too passive. Do you agree that violence would have been acceptable in response to Jackson's use of
the Indian Removal Act in parentheses, the Trail of Tears, even though that policy was not intended
to be lethal? I thought that was a bit of a headscratcher. And I've been giving that some thoughts,
like other examples might be like Japanese internment camps in the 1940s, right?
Would it have been okay to violently oppose those? And I think it probably would have.
I think it would have. I mean, so like the implicit, well, and in the Indian Removal Act
explicit part of the decision there was that like, look, we're going to tell them to move. And if they
don't, well, we're going to make them, right? When you're talking about making people do things,
you're talking about coercing them with violence or threats, right? Or plausible threats of violence.
So yeah, I think, I mean, I don't want to equate the Trail of Tears or Japanese internment camps to
what, I mean, I guess, what exactly are we equating it to? Is he talking about the politics,
or I guess the statistics about? Well, he's saying at some point the laws are evil. And
where do we draw that line between bad pollution regulation and having someone taken out of their
home and shipped off to a internment camp? I mean, explicit or poorly veiled implicit targeted
discrimination? Is that a fair line? It's like we could say, everybody. So here's what I would
consider kind of an edge case, the redlining that they did in the God, I don't even know what decade
it was now decade before I was born, but not very much before it. It was they had maps of cities,
and there were neighborhoods that they would outline in red, which is where the term redlining
came from. And they're like, in these neighborhoods, you can sell houses to black people. And in
these neighborhoods, you can't. And that was not an explicit law anywhere, but it was policy and
real estate agents and realtors knew about it. And when black families tried to buy houses in
these other neighborhoods, they were not allowed to. And that was a way of really not only socially
segregating people, but making sure that the assets that black people had were less valued.
They lost a lot of wealth by being put into our worst neighborhoods. And it has led to a lot of
problems, both socially and economically. Yeah, economically. And I don't know, is that a thing
that it is unjust enough that it feels like something that you should maybe be able to respond
to with violence? But what would you do? Like punch a bureaucrat in the face?
That's sort of what I was thinking about. And I mean, so I get there's a very, I think there's
a difference between saying there's an understandable outlet, or there's an understandable situation
where someone might want to react to the violence versus saying violence is the ideal response.
I mean, like, you know, if you're a victimized black family being redlined here and screwed
into a bad neighborhood, I don't think the correct response would be punching your realtor in the
face. They're just doing their job. And I mean, that's not that's not a great defense, but a better
defense would be it's not like it's their decision. Do you punch a lawmaker in the face who voted for
that? I mean, that almost makes more sense to me. It could be that the realtor is personally
against it. They're just like, Well, I mean, I'm making a living, and I'm doing my best to try and
you know, skirt it a little bit. I mean, that's being deterrable. But what if there was like a
journalist who was was printing a lot of articles about how this is a great idea, because the races
should be kept separate? Yeah, that I mean, that sort of makes sense. I mean, to punch them then or
to not punch them, I guess I could see I could I'd be more sympathetic to punching that person
over the realtor is just doing you know, what they have to do. You know, it's not like, again,
it's like the doctor or it's like the ER docs kicking somebody to the curb after they're stabilized.
It's not like they're mean. It's not that that it's not like they lack compassion. I mean,
they're ER doctors, they're probably not a bunch of assholes, right? You don't get into that line of
work if you hate people. But because I think Richard Spencer is more closer to the journalist.
Yeah, he's more of a popularizer. But I don't know if that would, I don't know if that would still
be, I don't know, it's it's it's a difficult situation. I don't think that I would respond
with violence, just because I still think the better option would be to take this thing to the
public and point out the injustice and work for laws or take it through the courts and hope that
you get a good lawyer and that society is swinging more towards your way rather than trying to fight
it out. And if it's not, you know, if they're not swinging your way and things do suck, I mean,
so this is kind of the thing, and I'm not really sure how to pin this down. But I do think that
there might be circumstances where an undesirable or the kind of thing that you shouldn't advocate
is a is appropriate. This might be one of those circumstances where I wouldn't say, yeah, you
should go hit him. But you know, if someone does hit Richard Spencer in the face, it's like, well,
I'm not going to look super hard to try and find you and put you in jail, right? Like, I'm not going
to say people should go out there and hit him. But in this particular case, he's like, this could
be one of those. I'm trying to think of a good analogy. And unfortunately, the only one I can
think of is terrible. So I think they should treat it just as much as the same as they would
treat any other assault like that. Well, like once you're selectively enforcing the laws,
you're basically making things legal. It's true. And I do see where that's obviously a terrible
slide into vigilante violence. But I don't know. It's complicated. And I'm not a political scientist.
There could be great reasons why, you know, I mean, there might be 1000 historical examples
where this exact kind of rebellion has shifted the tides of history. And if that's the case,
that's that would be a compelling point against my being tacitly against it.
I think the Trail of Tears is an interesting example, because the Native Americans had basically
already lost the war, right? Their their option was to do what he said, or be wiped out by the army.
And at that point, it comes down to, is it worth being wiped out in order to inflict casualties
on the people doing this to you? I mean, that yeah, that sounds like a completely different
topic. And some might come down one way or another, right? And so that doesn't really quite,
it's not quite analogous to the modern day situation, because we all, I mean, unless we're
talking about getting the military involved, we all have access to basically the same weapons.
So I mean, if it's just going to be a group of thugs, you know, with swastikas versus a group
of people without swastika, you know, a bunch of victims, but they all have, you know, whatever
guns you can buy, I mean, that's going to be a fairly even fight. It's not like, you know,
you've got, it's not like it was with the Trail of Tears, right? Although I'm not sure what exactly
went down historically with the Japanese internment camps. I mean, presumably everybody could go buy
munitions, but it was just a matter, I guess that was, you know, full on military intervention,
right? Yeah, that is an interesting case, though. Yeah, I guess I don't think we're anywhere near
where we were, certainly not with the Trail of Tears, where I was talking about, look,
get out, or we're going to drag your broken body out, or, you know, with the Japanese internment
camps. I think society in general is swinging way away from those things. I don't think we'll
ever swing that far back into them. It could be that we're, that parts of society are swinging
back a little bit, and that's why people like Spencer are getting platforms and shit. But I
don't think, at least in my perspective, that we're nearly as badly off as we were a century ago.
