way we perceive the world is value written. And two, structuralist. In this context, an ideology
is a system of discourse that dominates a given social contexts. For structuralist definitions
to apply, you need a lot more than shared values. You need a clergy that maintains and diffuses
the specific discourse underlying the ideology. I have a limited insight in the historical evidence,
but as of my understanding, ideology as factor of mass mobilization is pretty much an early
modern particularism. Do you want to add anything? I mean, I feel like that's, if we cast it in terms
of active inference, it would be the active states, right? You need something which acts upon the world
in order to create the self evidencing you require. And that would be like the clergy, right? You need
to push these beliefs onto the world. You can't just sort of let them happen, especially if we
talk about precision, right? Because remember, everything we goals, everything's always non-
stationary. We move, we change, we interpret, we reinterpret those degrees of uncertainty.
So how do we make sure that we continue over time, right? That we don't just dilute, that our
boundary stays very strong. That's what is discussing earlier with the groups that want
to avoid extractivism. You need to proselytize. You need to make sure the same narratives
we return. We always return to that same narrative. And how, if we look at like the clergy, for instance,
I don't know if it was a mistake or not, but for a time, the only way to preach was in Latin,
which means the only way to access the Word of God was through these people who not only
had to give you the Word of God, but they also controlled what it meant. Because you don't speak
Latin. I don't speak Latin. I'm going to believe you. You have that knowledge. So it goes back to
these structures of power where there are some people that have more access to influencing others,
right? They can push their beliefs with more precision on others. And others just kind of
have to follow because they have no real way to themselves interpret and potentially shift narrative
themselves. When you do that, I feel like I'm preaching. Oh, there's just a lot. There's a lot
there. One part that I thought was very interesting was variational free energy is about observations.
And in what you had added just recently, you talked about like the measurement of a joint
probability. There has to be like an aboutness of sensory observations for that thing. Otherwise,
it has not even a sensory, it's not even an inanimate thing, unless it has this.
That doesn't mean it's an interesting thing. And I think that's what the recent work helps
clarify with this sort of taxonomy from inert to more classically active control systems on through
just the infinite possibilities of broadly cognitive modeling ecosystems of shared intelligence.
Yeah. I think that's a really interesting distinction you just made. So the paper by Lance and Co,
maybe that is the key because I am okay, so maybe this is a hot day, but I generally lean
towards panpsychism. I do believe that if consciousness is the substrate, then everything
is some degree of consciousness and we can stop using the word conscious and we can use the word
model, right? There's a degree to which there's a response between the internal states of the
market blanket and the external states. So there is some exchange of information there and whatever
is done with the exchange, maybe nothing. And this may be the aboutness. Your internal model
has no aboutness. It's just there's information that was inputted and the only thing that it
outputs is a constant of its boundary and that's it. And therefore, in order to have aboutness,
you have to have the possibility for your internal states to shift to move your
boundary somehow towards something more specific to segregate, to discretize
the external world into things that have more or less valence relative to your objectives.
Very, very akin to what Donald Hoffman is suggesting, basically.
Building on that and throughout your presentation, I got a sense of the kind of two cultures,
the sciences and the humanities, not that they were exactly being represented in the talk, but
in terms of excellent style and classical approach and the non-overlapping magisteria
idea that they're sort of a separable technical from the social. And it's even though it's widely
clear that the beliefs in the moment shape the niche that has these feedback things,
the development of top down architectures in some way that become top down affordances for
those or other people at some future time. So where do we go from there and just like
thinking about that space? How do you approach chapter six of the textbook in terms of the
recipe for the active inference generative model? For a social setting? For a social setting?
Okay. I think we go from semantics and we map the semantics of a group. You qualify
what that group is. Maybe the description length of that group is extreme. Maybe the
description length is my neighbor, your neighbor, me and three of their cats, but not the fourth.
You know what I mean? Like maybe there's a cluster there and we map the semantics of that group
and it's very specific. And then through those semantics, there's an inherent causal structures
of the structure of the beliefs through which we could together, like our own little experts,
try to map, well, okay, what are our states? What are our observations? How do we map to this?
And we try to test that model. And then let's assume that we disagree. So we're going to have
different kind of breakdowns of reality and we're going to test the different models in a sort of
Bayesian expansion or Bayesian model reduction or just just, you know, testing different models
and DCM style and seeing which one maps better to the expected
observations we're going to see given our model. And you can do this for anything. You can do this
for a small group of neighbors. You can do this for a very large group of people. You can do this
for participant research. You can do this for medicine. I think it's really about how do people
carve nature at its joints? And can they point to the exact observations which they believe
are part of the carvings or not? I think that's possible in social sciences. It's just about
taking the time to formalize how observations
map to the carving together. I think social sciences generally tend to
push back against a carving. They will prefer something that resembles more a manifold.
It's like it ebbs and flows and it's like there's some prototypical stuff, but mostly it's
there's stuff that could come in and out and stuff. And that's fine. You can be accounted for. So
if you look at different carvings, you can say we can work them through on a sort of
probability and say, well, this is much less likely. It's possible. It fits within the carving,
but it's much less likely. What about this? Well, this is really, really, really, really
likely. Let's put a probability on this. And maybe to you, the probability is 0000001.
That's fine. It's in there. I think they'd be more comfortable with something that's less binary
and something that's more curved and allows for new things to be added where we to disagree on
inclusions, et cetera. That's a great point on kind of a narrow note, but to what you just said
there, let's just say that there's four options. If our prior is 000000, then the any number of
evidence times zero stays zero. So that's like essentially fixed. And that's when the hyper
parameters fixed. And then if you enable even a tiny amount of nonzero value, and so it's like 0.99999,
and then a bunch of zeros, then that can still rise off the baseline. And then that's the whole
question of attention and cognition is how do you stay aware of relevant salient information,
relevance, realization, and all that. Another point was about the causal model from the outside,
the part that the person doesn't directly control. There's no direct control in the
active generative models of action observations. It has to go through the niche. That's how the
thing is defined. And so only indirectly can observations be changed. And so that's the kind
of part that you don't have agency over, literally, although the other glass half full side is that is
to the extent that you do have agency over that. And then where that glass is and what narrative
actually puts water into the glass or not. And then what is the glass half full glass half empty
part? It brings so much and just so much like on the personal thought side. But also it's just
really interesting to see how this line of research which was more qualitative several years ago,
like in the 2016 to 18 time, and just to see how different motifs have come into play with the
generative models. And so it's a pretty cool lecture. And many people appreciated your work
in the chats. That's cool. Do you have any other comments or anything you want to talk about?
No, but I would I'm going to have to go in about two minutes. But I would like to encourage people
to really participate in the next one to read some texts, and to express their ideas because
this is how we percolate. This is how we percolate good ideas and future research. And
the field of social sciences is ripe for this. There's so much that could be done right now,
translated, connected, like we can get towards a confluent time in research and science.
All right, really looking forward to the discussion and hoping that people
engage in this affordance. All right. Thank you. See you. Bye.
