on their adherence to social norms and expectations. It allows us to guide individual choices.
When faced with a decision, an individual way, the deontic value of potential actions
against other factors like personal preferences, beliefs, to determine the most appropriate course
of action. He'll just allow me one. So this ties us very nicely to the notion of agency that we
explored before. In regimes of expectations by actual constants, we elaborate that deontic cues
enable the environment to learn about the behavior of its inhabitants, effectively outsourcing the
epistemic and pragmatic values of any behavior. You can see that the extension of active inference
here takes on a whole other meaning. So active inference allows for dynamic adaptation, enables
the individual to update their internal models, better anticipate and connect to their environment
such that the environment and the individual mutually model each other. Deontic value here
serves as a common thread between active inference and regimes of expectations.
Through these regimes of expectation in active inference, we'll achieve a better understanding
of social conformity and decision making. Regimes of expectation centers on the computational
construct of deontic value, which we explained before, and aligns with the broader research on
social conformity, especially the winner takes all model proposed by Frank in 2008.
Social expectation here plays a significant role in shaping human decisions and specifically
social conformity act as a learning strategy which is effective in uncertain environments.
So now that we build on the foundational role of deontic value and the regimes of expectation,
we find that this computational construct also serve as a crucial weighing factor in individual
decision making. So we'll see how we can put this effect directly on decision making.
Regimes of expectations have basically a function of fitness enhancing social conformity.
It suggests that conforming to social norms has evolutionary advantages. It leads into a circular
causality between shared Bayesian expectations and individual policy selection. It's consistent
with findings by Sanfey in 2014, which emphasize the importance of norms and expectations in
social decision making. So now that we have how the environment
and the individual co-construct through these regimes of expectations,
we will find how this allows us to construct a sense of self, specifically the social self.
Here social norms and shared Bayesian expectations link our individual and collective decision
making processes to the broader understanding of selfhood.
So how does active inference allow us to model how we derive the sense of self?
Let's start by explaining the three main types of selves, minimal narrative and social.
The minimal self is the pre-reflexive experience of being a subject, emphasizing the body's role
in shaping subjective experience. The narrative self is shaped by personal stories and experiences,
highlighting the importance of generative models in organizing these experiences.
Aligns with the active inference formalism and psychological desires, providing a coherent
narrative that guides our sense of self across time.
So social self emerges from interactions with others and is influenced by social norms,
values and shared generative models.
This concept is supported by the full concept of intentionality, which includes desires,
beliefs, intentions, awareness and skill.
Understanding these facets of the sense of self through the lens of active inference
gives us an integrative cognitive process for emotions and social interactions.
So now we'll delve more into the intricacies of the social self
to show that the generative model and social scripts discussed earlier are integral to its
formation. These scripts optimize through extended active inference not only guide our
social interaction but also contribute to the shaping of that self, creating a seamless interplay
between individual cognition and collective social behavior.
So as we said earlier, social scripts are the cognitive blueprints that guide individuals
through a myriad of expected actions or events in social contexts. These scripts are essentially
generative models that help individuals predict and navigate social interactions.
They're indispensable. They allow us to continuously update our internal models to minimize uncertainty
and achieve a stable internal state. It's particularly important in a world where social
interactions are increasingly complex and laden with unspoken expectations.
Its optimization serves as a micro-level mechanism that complements the macro-level
influence of social norms and deontic values, creating a cohesive understanding of social behavior.
Social scripts can be enshrined in deontic cues, which enable the environment to learn about the
behavior of its inhabitants, effectively outsourcing the epistemic and pragmatic values of any
behavior as we saw earlier in cognitive niche construction. The concept of contextual modulation
integrates sensory and motor cues to influence our actions and decisions, allowing for dynamic
adaptation and refinement of generative models. Through this modulation, we can see how social
scripts and norms are shaped and adapted over time, which promotes the adaptability in the
face of changing environments of individuals embedded in that environment.
Now, contextual modulation here is pretty important, and the mechanism not only
refines our generative model, but also provides the adaptive flexibility required in complex
environments, which unites the theoretical underpinnings of active inference with empirical
findings and adaptive behavior. According to Francesco Donnaruma, action perception is an
active inferential process that combines motor prediction and hypothesis testing, crucial for
understanding social scripts. Adaptive social behavior thus results from the dynamic interplay
of socio-effective and socio-cognitive processes. Research by Berg Merza provides proof of concept
that social contexts may alter perception, enabling more adaptive behavior. It's also
supported by studies that reveal how instinctive behavior circuits in hypothalamus dynamically
encode spatial and sensory cues to drive adaptive social behaviors. Contextual modulation and social
scripts are integral to adaptive behavior and action perception, which allows us to show how
social interactions are crafted through these different scale, these deep temporal models,
that integrate various kinds of priors at different scales. So here, contextual modulation
acts as a linchpin in the integration of social scripts into the generative models.
We can now appreciate how generative model and social scripts coalesce to form a comprehensive
framework for understanding interactions. So active inference is a nuanced lens to explore how
power dynamics shape shared generative models, thereby influencing the cultural affordances
available to individuals. For instance, epistemic communities serves as platforms where power
dynamics can significantly shape shared beliefs and actions. Through the construction of certain
niche, we can see that existing power structure leads to the creation of environments that
perpetuate these structures through certain kinds of scripts, certain kinds of norms,
and through the valence that we associate to our sense of self relative to these scripts.
Cultural affordances here are dynamically influenced by power-tinged asymmetries.
These asymmetries can affect how individuals perceive and enact social scripts,
which further shapes the cultural affordances that they encounter.
We see how deeply intertwined cultural affordances are with power dynamics.
It allows us to understand societal structures in more depth.
So when we expand the scope of active inference and cultural affordance negotiation,
we can dive into a case study that of gender norms and gender fluidity to broader cultural
contexts. This exemplifies the influence of power dynamics.
So just as individuals navigate and adapt to cultural affordances that are deeply shaped by
societal power structures, they have to navigate gender-related affordances that they also engage
with. So through this, we can also understand the concept of gender fluidity.
Here, generative model plays a specific role, which is to adapt to changing societal norms
and gender-related affordances. These are cultural affordances.
This dynamic from a niche construction allows individuals to create and adapt
environments that reflect their evolving gender identity and expression.
The concept of affordance negotiation is particularly relevant here.
It refers to the process by which individuals adapt their behavior to maximize opportunities
and minimize challenges in their environment. In the context of gender fluidity, it involves
navigating complex social scripts and norms that shape gender expression.
Research suggests that these gender differences in negotiation are contextually bound and can be
subject to change. By understanding how individuals navigate these social scripts and norms,
we can, for instance, address the limitations or constraints that affect expressions of their
gender identity. So here, gender through the lens of active inference as a case study and
affordance negotiation gives us a comprehensive view of the social psychology and how it can
apply to gender studies, for instance. But this is true for many other kinds of cultural phenomena.
So we build now on the understanding of how active inference and power dynamics shape cultural affordances.
We can see how this allows us to understand potentially puzzling actions which are shaped by
social scripts and the dynamics within the epistemic communities they inhabit. So we have
defined how scripts allow us to interpret different kinds of behaviors and how people navigate
their desired outcomes given these social scripts. So we can see how this allows us to
identify desired outcomes given these social scripts. So what happens when we are faced
with puzzling actions? People rely on their generative models to update their beliefs and
expectations. So do we interpret these behaviors based on inherent traits or situational reasons?
Here traits and motives interact with predicting behaviors, channeling the behavioral expression
thrown throughout one's life. On the other hand, contextual cues significantly influence the
interpretation of ambiguous behaviors. Social scripts guide our expectations in social situations
can either be adapted when confronted with unexpected behavior or allow us to shift
from script to script to have a better prior over what we might expect next.
So for instance, this challenge is particularly pronounced for those who diverge from established
social norms and script. Their interpretations are influenced by the dynamics of information
spread within their epistemic communities. Understanding ambiguous social behaviors is
not just about individual cognition, but also about the social and cultural contexts that
shape our interpretations. So now we're going to dive from this point into the specific contextual
factors that further nuance our understanding. Our former discussion emphasized the influence
of power in social norms. And now we're going to turn our attention to the impact say of social
anxiety, behavioral flexibility and goal oriented perception in shaping our interpretations of
social behavior. Understanding social behaviors often requires an approach that goes beyond
trade based interpretations. Contextual factors like social anxiety can significantly influence
how we interpret an ambiguous social cue, for instance, determining the most likely prior using
the most likely prior rather than being open to other kinds of interpretations. Behavioral
flexibility is another crucial aspect to consider. It allows for adaptability and nuanced understanding
of social behaviors across different social contexts such that a different script, a same
script can be interpreted different ways through different kinds of behaviors.
The concept of goals here plays an important role in social perception. They can serve
to provide a broad implication for where we understand an individual to try to be headed
such that while their lower level script may be different from the one we have, their higher
level script is still interpretable. So now we're going to try to see what can be the outcomes in
real life of all these processes together. We're going to focus on cognitive mechanisms that underpin
social phenomena like confirmation bias and echo chambers. Building on the concept of active inference,
we explore how individuals not only interpret ambiguous social cues but also actively seek
information that confirms their pre-existing belief thereby shaping epistemic communities.
Confirmation bias is a cognitive tendency that affects information spread and decision making.
It is driven by agents seeking information that confirms their pre-existing belief
while avoiding challenging information. This is an effective way of using action to minimize free
energy rather than updating beliefs in a costly manner. Echo chambers, amplified as bias by
creating self-reinforcing loops where individuals selectively expose themselves to aligned information.
So research indicates that network structures contribute to the persistence of echo chambers,
thereby affecting policy making and public discourse. The minimization of free energy
transfers to the network thereby shaping the environment. You can see here how there is
a loop where the environment both shapes the individual who will in turn continuously shape
the environment. Interestingly, some studies have identified a reverse confirmation bias
whereby some people actually do seek out information in an explorative manner which again
aligns with this idea of active inference epistemic value and here we may try to ponder
why certain people are more likely to break out of their echo chambers rather than stay in them.
This may align potentially with deep temporal models whereas we can see value at a later point
in time and perhaps focus more on this expected value rather than on the direct value of the
confirmation bias. To mitigate such biases we can use strategies such as fostering epistemic
change through diverging information and encouraging reflection to break apart echo chambers.
And now we've explored a little bit confirmation bias and echo chamber. We can see how this
extends to human communication. This allows us to explore the principles of active inference
which shape individual cognitive tendencies and the influence of the broader dynamics of
communication and collective intelligence on the environment. So we can link communicated
behavior to biological imperative of minimizing free energy which emphasizes the action-oriented
nature of communication. The framework allows for adaptive behavior even when the models deviate
from theoretical representations of the environment. So how do we justify that people lie or that people
say things which don't seem to lie properly with what everybody else seems to believe about
the environment? Effectively this is an action. You're trying to push a belief onto the environment
such that there is a potential for the environment to be shaped in a way that evidences your beliefs.
So we can think of cognitive control here whereby active inference has an effective
goal maintenance in working memory. It provides top-down guidance for overt behavior moving
beyond stereotyped responses. Our understanding of communication is enriched by introducing
neurobiologically plausible computational hypotheses. The ecological approach to active inference
is a framework that understands the complexities of human communication across different scales.
It explores how individuals contribute to the collective intelligence of a group or society
by fostering a collaborative approach that leverages diverse skills and knowledge.
This is one of the reasons echo chambers are maintained. They're efficient in the transmission
of information and promote collaboration among agents who overtly share a model.
So now we're going to look at a more detailed understanding of ecological dimensions of this
discourse. Context, as we saw earlier, plays a crucial role in the activation of predictive
inferences which offers further support for ecological approaches. Active inference models
contain terms that encode both the object of desire and the strength of desire at the
psychological level. So the context of inactive inference suggests that generative and recognition
models are best cast as realizing inference and control under the free energy principle.
So in this way communication through the active inference lens gives us an action-oriented nature
of cooperative communication where together we mutually craft our models such that we can
achieve a common goal. So now and lastly let's dive into a very short overview of how this may
translate to language processing. So remember we discussed deep temporal models. Here they
enable us to explore the sequential dynamics of language processing. The models are hierarchical
where inference at higher levels informs the selection of words at lower levels.
This hierarchical structure allows for the accumulation of evidence over nested time scales.
One key aspect is the emergence of behavioral and neurophysiological correlates in those
sequential dynamics like the theta-gamma couplings that we discussed earlier. It's a phenomenon that
again was observed and allows us to measure belief updating under variational message passing.
Thus generative models aren't just predictive but also explanatory. They can help us understand
neural mechanisms like language comprehension.
So in cognitive control linguistics can be cast as individual agents contributing to this
