intelligence of the group and the research shows that generative models are central to the perception
and interpretation of the linguistic signals. We have a structural understanding of sequences of
words and their context sensitivity. This enables the agent to resolve uncertainty about the underlying
conceptual, semantic or lexical causes of sensory input. It can incorporate beliefs about narratives,
the type of question, the scenic state of the world, a semiotic factor indicating the topic of
discussion. These factors generate expectations for the lower levels such as syntax and semantics.
Models enable inference through this deep temp structure about the narrative as such as those
seen in reading. Here the neural processes can be understood in terms of simulating the epistemic
foraging seen in reading and other language related activities.
So to conclude, we have seen a comprehensive understanding of active inference and activism
and their interplay in shaping social cognition behavior. We have explored various philosophical
perspectives such as the inactive affordance-based perspective, the Helmholtzian-Beijian model,
and highlighted their contribution to understanding our social interactions.
We have explored deep temporal models as a potent computational tool for modeling complex,
time-dependent patterns in social cognition, such as in language as well. We have discussed the role
of mirror neurons, emphasizing their potential centrality and continuously updating internal
models of the environment and their significance in social cognition.
We have discussed potential future directions for research if you are interested in these topics.
So here the interplay between active inference and activism, computational models like deep
temporal models give us a multi-dimensional view of social cognition and agency. It broadens the
scope of research but also brings us closer to our goal of understanding the complex cognitive
and social phenomenon. So for next class, I offer you an opportunity. You should pick a text
from this session, from the references that will be made available, or one that you find yourself
in the literature, read it, and try to explain how it ties to the concepts that we explored today.
Ideally, you can present it to the group, take five minutes, explain what the text says,
and how it connects to the contents of the course. If you have any questions, we can potentially take
them now. Thank you, Mao. That was epic. All right. Well, people can write questions in the chat.
I'll just read one. All right. Where does identity and ideology fit?
In my presentation or in the framework that I'm presenting. So I'm going to assume it's in the
framework. Identity fits as a social self, right? Identity is literally how you craft your selfhood
relative to the narratives that you're given. So it's precisely the social self that we discussed.
Ideology corresponds to a looser, let's say weak script that allows you to shift the valence of
certain values across certain norms. So let's assume that you understand values as a higher
or lower probability for a type of high level behavior. So I value kindness. There'll be a
high prior over kindness, and therefore the paths, the policies that leads to what I ascribe to
as kindness will therefore become more likely to be adopted and will become a norm if more of us
value the same thing. The key issue here is how do I associate the semantics of kindness to
the actual pragmatic representations and actions that correspond to what I believe to be kindness.
And this is where the co-construction happens, right? We communicate together. And I'm going to
say this is kindness. I'm acting on the world to determine now this is what we will believe to be
kindness. And I value kindness very highly because that's my ideology and therefore
this is what we should be doing. All these things connect together through the interaction of the
environment, the symbols encrusted in the environment that I share and co-construct through communication.
Wow. And how does that have an impact on affordances was the follow-up question there.
So if we go back to the part on the course about affordances, we saw that certain things are made
more likely given the niche that you are in. If you understand the onto cues, you see that
there's going to be some signals that pull you as attractors in a specific direction. So let's
assume that we have an ideology, again, that promotes kindness in the environment. It is highly
likely that potential pathways towards kindness will be made more available. So for instance,
let's assume that we believe that giving money to people is kindness. There's going to be more
initiatives for you to give money. So for instance, I don't know if you guys have taken the plane
recently, but Air Canada has started a program where if you have loose change in your pockets,
you can put it in the seat in front of you in a little pocket thing and you can put the money
there and they're going to donate it. Now, I'm not saying that's kindness. We can argue about
the politics of it all and the tax, etc. But this is an affordance that wasn't there before.
And now it's in my environment. Now, I don't have to take it, but it's now more readily available
for me to actually act on it. And you can see this across every level. It's just that most
affordances are invisible to us as affordances. We just react to them. We just exist within them,
but we don't consider they wouldn't be there, such as a bathroom in a house. This is one of the
things that allows us to think more critically about what it means to be homeless. Like to you,
it seems obvious when you need to go to the bathroom, you'll go to the bathroom, right?
There's a bathroom available to you, but there isn't one for people who live outside because
they don't have a home. And yet we've criminalized the act of relieving yourself outside. So we've
basically said, well, don't pee. Or if you pee, well, you're now a criminal. So being homeless
by virtue of not having access to the same affordances means it's effectively criminal to be
homeless. So these are the kinds of ways that ideology shapes our affordances and effectively
pulls us in a state of attraction and effectively in different states of power as well. Because
we collectively have decided that the only people who get to have the right to certain
affordances are the people who have enough money to live in a house, etc. etc. etc.
Thanks. There's a lot there. Alright, I'll read a comment. This is something you could address
right now or save it for the discussion or however you want. Michael wrote,
would you be open to attempting to map a social or personal narrative rather than another element
in the literature, e.g. translating the hero's journey or 12 step recovery?
I'm not sure I understand attempting to map. Like connect the active ontology and formalisms to
a more broadly understood narrative or specific script?
Yeah. I mean, so I'm a big fan of the hero's journey, but
why do we want to say, why do we feel like the hero's journey in itself is valuable?
We feel that it's valuable because we feel that it is a very easy explanation for why somebody
would have value and it is usually easy to minimize free energy through, well, there's a clear path,
this person wasn't the result of very complex interactions of the environment or whatever.
It's actually, no, no, no. It's all him. He just understood what he had to do. He figured out what
he had to do and there you go. He was able to do it. So this is a signal for perfect fitness
to the landscape. It's perfect cognitive grip. So it's like there's an underlying
assumption that this one person was able to update their generative model sufficiently
such that they were perfectly able to grab every affordance that the environment gave them to go
towards their stated objective. So in terms of active inference, it's pretty simple. It's someone
that has the capacity to go from a very unfits generative model to a very fits generative
model relative to the environment. And so we like that narrative because it's like, okay, well,
then that means everybody can do it. If we can go from a failure to being a hero and all we have
to do is take one or two hardships and go through it, then it's possible. Now, there's also some
deification here because usually the hero's journey goes through some very, very difficult
elements and comes out on the other side. And we assume that because they can, there's a rationale
of meritocracy, which is the world is relatively equal for everybody. So it tries to pull away
from every other power factor, ecological factor. And it's like, no, no, no, it's all about how you're
able to fix your generative model to do the right things that you have to do. So that's why I'm not
a fan of it. But I hope it was this the mapping you were looking for in terms of active inference and
energy minimization, anything. Here's one thought on that. The hero's journey or
another archetypal attractor, just archetype or just thread that way. It embeds a concise narrative
account that is made legible through storytelling that we can understand. And it embodies not just
kind of mythical things, but also like real structural implicit features. That's why some
stories can be so short and so transferable across context because they abstract, but also they,
it's what they do include in those cases. And then you talked about how that conveys something
about value, which is what supports social norms and social values, which of course,
you can't point at anywhere yet. What can you say about what are social norms or forces, or what is
the social? What is the social? I think you can point to it. I think you can effectively point to
processes, you can point to material realities, institutions. I think we tend to use the notion
of the social to contrast it with the notion of the individual. It's just that nothing's ever that
simple. The individual is always built because of other individuals. So there's no really such
thing as an individual, you're always embedded within something. So the real question is,
what's the scale that you're interested in? And what is identifiable as what may be within or
outside of your control within that scale? And we generally make a sort of conflation between
what is social and what is uncontrollable. Even that's not necessarily true as we saw,
right? Because we, through our actions, which can be verbal, which can be physical, we reiterate or
push on what constitutes what is valued by other actors within the same locality. So
if you're asking what constitutes culture, well, at the level of my house, culture is
we go to bed around 10 to 11. Because if you don't go to bed at 11, you're going to make noise and
you're going to wake me up. So our shared culture is this. This is something that we repeat over
time that constitutes an attractor for more than just me. If I look at the level of my building,
it's nobody puts plants outside on their balcony. If it's at the level of Montreal,
there's potholes everywhere, and we're not bitching really about it. We've all accepted
there's potholes everywhere. So it's part of our culture. It becomes part of our conscious.
And so why is it cultural? It's because
we can see that this behavior, these expectations translate not just to you,
to your own model, but it translates to the model of other people as well. And they can expect the
same for you. It's something which is definitely shared. So I think you can easily point to things
once you define the scale at which it becomes manifest.
Thanks, really interesting. All right, a question from Upcycle Club who wrote,
in terms of the philosophical dimensions of agency in active inference,
what is the role of self-referentiality?
I think you don't have to define the term, but if I understand correctly,
we saw that you have to both model yourself and model the rest of the world in order to
understand whether your actions are likely to have the effects you want to have on the world.
So this self-referentiality, if I understand correctly, but I could be wrong,
is this notion of accurately modeling yourself as well? Does that answer the question?
Yeah. All right. A question from Michael who wrote, I work with marginalized communities who
experience the larger culture as dominant and scientifically enabled. How should such communities
fortify themselves against the more skillful, extractive cultures?
I mean, that's the main question that's been for countercultures forever.
It depends what you mean by fortify yourself. If you mean be less likely to be extracted from,
I think the question is being extracted from without getting something in return.
Because effectively, as you saw, for coordination to happen, you must provide something for the
group in order for the group to move further. So it's always a little bit extractive. You will
always expend some degree of free energy in order to move towards the policy that you've chosen as
a group. So there's two elements here, chosen as a group, and there should be a return on that as
well, right? It shouldn't be just you pay, nobody else gives you something. So it's the degree to
which the system minimizes everybody's free energy rather than minimizes this group's,
and this group is still a high free energy, low allostatic, high allostatic load, etc.
So what you mean, I'm not the expert on that specifically. I'm sure there are people who
have worked with marginalized group way more than I have, give you better insights. But
from what I've read and from, if I can derive from the theory that we've presented today, it's
you need to have a strong narrative that supports your capacity to increase your fitness landscape
and increases and maintains the bonds, the mark of blanket around your group.
If your group is likely to dissolve all the time, if it's constantly
threatened and shaky, it's not going to be able to go very far. It's always going to be in protective
mode. So you need to ensure that the group has strong bonds, that the group can expand, and that
the group can together enact policies that lead it to minimizing free energy in relative to the
larger group that generally entails having more and more connections with individuals from the
larger group such that you are capable of changing their model little by little.
You want to have a strong boundary, but you don't want to be unable to communicate with
the external group because if you do that, you can't communicate and co-construct.
So it seems trivial, but it's developing allyships where you have people from the
larger group that become people that adopt your message and allow the expansion of your group
and the ideology or the generative model of your group to be integrated within what determines
the policies of the higher level group or at least of the dominant extractive group.
I hope this helps. I know it's not as concrete as one might want, but I'm sure people with much
more experience in these fields would have much better answers for you.
I have a question that I've long had about some of your different research projects which
are presented here. Often, there's this modeling of both the view from the inside
with phenomenology and also a view from the outside. So what can you say about active
inference and that? What does that mean? Where does that come from? How does that
matter for the personal and the social? So imagine a market blanket. Every market blanket
entails there's an outside and an inside. Now, you can always redraw it. You can always consider
it's wider, smaller, inside your market blankets. There are market blankets. It's all market blankets
all the way down. So this notion of internal and external is only useful in relation to the
measurement of a joint probability. That's it. It's not ontological in a sense. I can consider
that my cells also have like an internal model and an external model and I'm just some emergent
scale given the connection between all these models that have an internal and external model.
This group right now has a market blanket, which means us, we have spoken and people who have not
spoken to us do not have access to this information here. And in order to exchange information,
they'll probably have to speak to some of us. And so there'll be an action that we put upon
the world as a group with some degree of cohesion over time. So I think we have to understand internal
and external really in those terms in terms of temporality and objective. Outside of that,
these are illusory boundaries. They're not real. And because they're not real, we can sort of issue
to essentialism. If a boundary can always be redrawn relative to some kind of observer,
then everything is always observer relative. There's no such thing as a thing which is a
thing in itself. It's always relational. It's always phenomenal. And how does this tie to
phenomenality? Well, because we are talking through this market blanket, because we're like,
we don't actually have access to the rest of the world except through this boundary.
The internal model is what effectively wiggles relative to the external world. And therefore,
you get phenomenality from this remodeling of the external world from this given boundary.
So for instance, our groups, phenomenality of everybody else is our shared representation
of who that even means, of what that even means. We have this phenomenal representation of that
group. We could even potentially create symbols for them. We could create actual representations
which would become kind of what would constitute qualia at the level of our group. So yeah,
I think I've answered your question. I get lost in my thoughts sometimes, but
it's great. All right. I'm going to read a comment from Avel who just requested this comment to be
read. Avel wrote, I'd like to add some things about the ideology question. You have a diversity of
definitions of ideology. For the purposes of the demonstration, I'll cluster them into two. One,
post structuralist. In this context, an ideology is any system of value or of instrumentation of
the world. This is the definition malused. In this case, everything is ideology, because the basic
