they have a higher chance of being considered for a job.
Typically,
when someone is saying that a person is privileged,
they aren't dismissing that person.
They are pointing out how they are being dismissed by the person's
unawareness.
Rather,
they are pointing out how they are being dismissed by the other
person's unawareness of the kinds,
severity and frequency of problems that they're talking about.
And my feedback on this is that I totally agree with that.
And this is one of the problems with talking to everyone else
in the world is that privilege does have a distinct
technical meaning in academia.
One that is entirely reasonable and that you can't really
argue against.
You're like, yes,
this is a thing that really exists and it really does make
life easier if you're white.
But that is not how it's used out in the real world in academia
in that rarefied atmosphere where you're only talking with
other people that know these sorts of things and that are
fairly reasonable about the sort of thing.
I should hope some of the new stories you see out of colleges
makes me wonder about that nowadays.
But in those places,
yeah,
that's that's a good way to use it.
But out in the non-academic world where I hang around with
a fair handful of SJW types,
I usually see it as shorthand for why it's okay to denigrate
or attack a person or a group.
It's because like,
well,
you're a white person,
you have privilege and therefore it's okay for me to call
you a piece of shit or whatever it is.
Right.
And that's that is how most people outside academia see it
being used,
which is why I think it has got this sort of backlash because
you're you're using it as an excuse to punch people.
If we go back to the punching analogy,
you're like you're white,
you're privileged.
I don't care about you.
I don't care about your life circumstances.
I don't care if you just got well,
I was about to say,
I don't care if you just got raped last weekend.
They probably would care,
but the point is they don't know what your life is.
They just know that you're white and therefore it's okay to
be an asshole to you or to like,
you know,
punch at you.
Well, and that's I mean,
you know,
and I get the terminology and someone would say,
well,
it's not actually punching,
but as long as we're using that phrase,
like just don't wire people throwing punches in the first
place and I get like we come from positions of privilege in
the academic sense towards easy to say why we're not throwing
punches because we we haven't been pushed to that extreme
maybe,
but at the same time was it was it one of the commenters?
I'm trying to remember how to pronounce the name.
It was like give me a second.
Sorry.
More than a mile.
Yeah.
More than a more than a male.
Yeah.
I mean, I had a lot of good comments.
That's that's your bad for making it hard to say.
I'm pretty sure I know who this is.
So but I think that's basically a tactic of like a
Motton Bailey, right?
Have we talked about that in the podcast before?
No.
Should we cover Motton Bailey quickly?
I think we should.
Okay.
Motton Bailey was introduced by Scott Alexander as a the
quickly in terms of the analogy in old medieval cities.
The Bailey is the area around the area in a settlement
where useful work is done.
It's where the stables are where the blacksmith is.
There's probably don't have the store houses of grains,
but anyways,
it's the place where economic work gets done where
everyone actually does the life where things happen and
the Bailey is like the big tower in the center.
That's super well fortified and you want the Mott because
that's where things get done.
But when someone comes by and needs to defend yourself,
everyone retreats to the Bailey.
They should rain arrows down upon the invaders until they
leave and then they can go or everyone goes up into the Mott.
Did have I been saying this backwards?
I honestly don't know.
So I don't know.
The Mott is the big tower.
Okay.
The Bailey is where the useful work is done.
That's fine.
Everyone goes up into the Mott.
They stay there.
They're fortified and then once the enemy leaves,
they go out to the Bailey again.
And in the analogy is the Mott is something like the
way privilege was said here that privilege is that a group
a sort of a series of problems you don't have because
you're in a certain group,
like you won't get pulled over by the cops for driving
through a neighborhood.
And that is true and unassailable and everyone says,
yes, that's true,
but that is not where the useful work of the the term
privilege usually gets done.
When we see the work that the board privileged user does,
it's always in reasons to ignore people or shit on them.
Exactly.
To tell people to shut up and get out of here.
I feel like the best way to explain this analogy.
So the Mott is the defensible one.
The Bailey is the not defensible one.
Yes.
So like the Mott of like feminism is like,
we just want equality for women.
It's like everybody wants that.
Anyone who doesn't want that is obviously a shit bag.
But the movement may have been hijacked by people,
you know, who will the second you say like,
hey, look,
why are you shitting on trans women like terfs?
Like we talked about in that episode and they're like,
you know, we'll fuck them.
They're not real women or whatever,
whatever their bullshit arguments are.
And then you say, well,
your whole thing is nonsense.
They're like, no,
no,
no,
I'll be care about is equality for women.
And so I think,
you know,
people people will deploy that when attacked and then move back
to not using that steel version of the position and then just
attack with with,
you know,
bullshit situations.
Yeah.
Um,
in fact,
I just found more into males thing about that post about
that.
If you want me to read it quickly.
Okay.
Statements like men have more social power are very susceptible
to Mott and Bailey shell games.
Consider men are taller than women in colloquial usage.
This means statistically speaking,
the mean height of men is higher than the mean height of women.
Everyone knows you don't mean 100% of men are taller than 100%
of women because everyone is very aware of the actual fact
of the matter here and everyone is aware that everyone is
aware,
et cetera.
So there's a low risk of being misunderstood.
Now consider men have more social power true,
but boring.
The median man can get away with more BS than the median
woman.
Also,
the most powerful humans tend to be men.
Here's the false,
but highly inflammatory yet frequently asserted as truth
statement.
All men are more powerful than all women in some vague sense.
Yes,
even a poor disabled minority has more social power than
sale a pair Sarah Palin because he's a man somehow.
That's how privilege works.
Stop asking clarifying questions.
That reads a lot like Scott Alexander.
Yeah.
And so the true but boring meaning is true,
but boring.
That's the motte.
Most men would readily admit to it because it frankly doesn't
mean a whole lot.
Yeah,
I suppose in the history of the world,
that's how things have turned out.
The second insertion,
the Bailey is a falsehood.
