Oh, my God.
Not like the premises then.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
So Christopher on the on the Sam Harris podcast was a reformed
neo-Nazi and it was a very intense conversation.
It was a lot of fun.
He had been out for 20 years,
you know,
out of movement and he's been writing books against it and
helping other people escape that culture.
But man,
as far as you know,
reaching out and talking to people that was one of the themes
that he's trying to push and it was a very,
very good conversation.
Yeah.
Would you like to sound like you were going to jump in,
say something?
Kind of actually makes me think about some things I went
through with Tom people back home with the idea of conversation
and so,
but what I mentioned to you in a message about regarding
keeping to the conversation about last week's podcast.
You know,
privilege works well for consciousness raising of the
majority.
I don't know if you touched on this yet.
Not really not.
No,
but you don't get to punch sideways.
If you're going to,
you don't have to mention like you don't have,
you know,
a Jewish female punching,
you know,
Hispanic female punching
and an African American female punching,
you know,
a gay
Native American male.
This doesn't work.
It only it only functions well for bringing to the tension
of majority,
majoritarian
groups in society.
Their attention.
So this idea of conversation is it back to my little with
the Trump's thing or dealing people back in West Virginia
and in Rappalachia more generally
is getting past the idea that we have to have debates and
we have to win.
We have actually conversation and the point is to build
community to build community.
And so there's no point in winning if you lose the community
in the process and I like to cut what you said about
conversation being war.
It doesn't have to be.
I mean,
like it can be intense,
but it could also be just general bonding for clarification.
That's a popular quote from a less wrong blog post or from
a less long,
less wrong blog post series on politics of the mind killers
that that that particular lines repeated a lot.
So it's sort of tongue-in-cheek.
I didn't right.
I'm just in the one.
At least you mentioned it and I liked it.
And so that's I just I know I have a hard time with the way
we talk about privilege because I think what you were when I
came into in the middle of was what you were saying about
there's the academic use and then there's the application.
And we move back and forth between them without actually
having there's too much slippage,
slippage slippage slippage slippage slippage and that's
where it gets troublesome for me and talking to people all
the time about this issue like what you were you're bringing
up the last week also telling a white Appalachian male that
he's privileged is missing a lot of the intersectionality of
what that person goes through.
And what's also funny to me is when you get an intersectionality
is that I ran brought this stuff up really.
She talked about the greatest minorities the individual and
if you continue breaking down this identity politics pre
identity politics,
she had much as I'm not an Iran fan,
but when a woman hits something you got to you know, but
mainly yes that idea of following every different group you
could possibly fall into and the next thing in the day you're
going to be just the individual you are and this in my guess
my last thought on this would be to ever read the philosophy
I think it was by Nigel Nigel.
I don't have say his last name.
Probably not.
It's back in like the 70s code.
What's it like to be a bat?
That was Thomas Nagel.
Nagel.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah.
You have read that one, right?
Yeah.
It's a short essay.
It's a very short but the main concept was at least my
takeaway years ago was it we'll never know what's like to be a
bat as a bat knows how it is to be a bat.
We only know as a human how a human would interpret it interpret
interpret interpret being a bat and I think that we should
also understand that as a person I will only understand a female
or an African American or a neighbor American or someone
who doesn't speak English as a primary language a person didn't
go to college only through my experience of trying to empathize
and so much of our arguments and so much of our communication
is based on the assumption that you will understand me completely.
You hold my assumptions and that's where I think the concept
of privilege the concept of conversation is war gets muddy.
So is it there's aren't true we don't we people do not understand
my assumptions.
They do not only know what I know because what I've read
and what I've seen and I can only touch the differences of
other people's lives you know through analogies and we know
how bad those can be for understanding the world.
Yeah.
So the reason we brought you here today we should that's actually
a good segue yeah reaching across to talk to people we should
introduce you because I don't think we did yet you are Joshua
I am Joshua you're okay going with Joshua on the podcast I am
okay.
You know anything that you want us to take out if you think about
a couple days later shoot one of us a message or probably
you're already in touch and you know there'll be no gotchas
no you said it sorry it's going out there's you know whatever
you want is good so if you're like you know what I regret
saying this thing or something or whatever.
Yeah do you want to just do like an intro yeah Josh with the
reason we're back and start the podcast and do the thing the
reason I wanted Joshua on the podcast is because of the past
you like the welcome to the Bayesian conspiracy thing.
We'll do that at the end.
Okay the reason we.
Oh right over the past few months I saw a number of posts on
Facebook of yours where you kind of went into what I want to
say went into deep cover went back into into Trump country
basically and really because you you originally were from
Alabama right no no not a West Virginia West Virginia which
is even more Trump country okay okay I was like the coal mine
it's more of the you give an example real quick is it all 55
counties went Trump okay and in the primaries all 55 counties
on the Democrat side went Bernie okay so there's no Hillary
love so it is completely Trump and what is so and yeah you
you got out I'm I believe and went to college somewhere got
out as in well the story was I want to be a musician so I went
to Atlanta first I so I went from a town with two traffic
lights and one was at a three-way because there's a gas
station okay so 1600 people at most at the time graduating
class of 69 kids and I take off for a town that has I don't
know let's say a thousand traffic lights at least six at
least six you know lanes going in on 85 and so my car was
rattling the entire time so point being it was a it was a
world change and I knew I want to be in a city I knew I need
to be where the action was because when I was in high
school middle high school I sound like you 10th or 11th
grade this guy came in actually was a friend of willing
well he actually owned Willie Nelson's ex-wife's guitar he
was a songwriter and I and I went I volunteered to help the
FFA you know do this big dinner so I could get to meet this
man what's FFA future Farmers of America okay and that is
something very big it where I'm from yeah it's having been
raised in Denver my whole life I would not have known those
actually you get hogs you know the school sponsors it you
raise them or not just hog the cattle beef whatever maybe and
you then you slaughter at the end of the year wow and you
have a big sell I mean there's also they tell you we adopt
highways we learn how to deal with you know general maintenance
of a farm but just agriculture on an on an industrial level
to there's classes in it so more of the point was this is it
this guy told me I waited around to the very end of this
dinner and the speech that he gave and I said I want to be
a songwriter I want to be a musician and he said well you
can't hunt tigers there are tigers to be found and that
meant you had to go to go to Nashville or LA or someplace
that was that people were writing songs and playing music
and stumbled across Atlanta had a music scene that you know
there to be a big fish in a small pond type of thing early
on so so with that and I did that for a year and that was
for the purpose of conversation I was there being a musician
going to music school and I found myself but you know but in
the evenings speaking with you know bassist and drummers from
all different levels in the program and the thing musicians
talk about more than anything else politics and religion
and so what I would have expected musicians to talk about
we talked about politics and religion and there's one dude
to talk about baseball but I mean I wasn't I'm a Mets fan
so I don't care about the Braves so with it I found myself
saying well but where I'm from or you know where I'm back
home we do this and one day the space players said well son
we ain't back home and with you know with an accent and so
on and it was really a moment like I want to have an opinion
so I went to college I dropped out of music school to go to get
