their solutions that they have they have in their back pocket
to use and they also understand how bad they're losing I don't
know the number as of right now due to the last special
elections but just last year if you looked at the state
houses and the in the governorships that were completely
controlled by Republicans or by Democrats only six to seven
states had complete control by Democrat to only Republicans
had like 1720 I do remember hearing a lot of that Democrats
were getting really concerned that all the local elections
and local boards were being taken by Republican candidates
and so the Republicans are they are saying something that
people are responding to and maybe not on the in certain
pockets throughout the country not like Northern Virginia
or out here and you know you know any metropolitan area but
the Democrats need to broaden their base as an understanding
that people are being hurt in other parts and they're not
being heard and so how do you respond to that and they have
the solutions if they look to the past and they think of how
to apply them to the present it's not it's of course it's
difficult but it's not you know they want to forfeit the field
and I think in many respects what we got with no offense
I don't know how anyone in the room voted but Bernie was
he's a left-wing populist he was he was not a progressive
and the fact that the media portrayed him as everyone knows
that he's a left-wing populist right Anderson Cooper doesn't
have figured this one out yet and you have seen in saying
that did hit that Hillary Bernie make Hillary more
progressive like no she made he made her more populist going
to a base on emotional level which he seems to be capable
of doing emotional attachment to people.
And I think I'm bashing Hillary I don't mean to I mean
like well so you so you think the way to combat this takeover
of populism is through more like traditional progressive.
Yeah I think because this is the people.
So what is the traditional progressive policies.
I think so but it's something to back it up a little bit from
a Roseanne was recently all reared you saw that.
No I mean I heard about it.
Yeah do you see how many people turned in for it.
No no idea 18 million people turned in to watch a sitcom.
Is that a lot.
Yes OK stay in age just sit down and watch it.
There's a nostalgia factor it is Roseanne and it's from the
late 80s early 90s mid 90s.
But the thing about the show that got my attention is that
the promotion so she's her and John Goodman went on Jimmy
Kimmel and Jimmy Kimmel is riding her a little bit like
when you're a liberal person what happened.
And she's like I didn't change you did.
You kept moving and the one thing that I don't think the
left has really grasped how much is that they have moved a
lot of they think I'm the same one I'm the one who has
always stood for the right thing and I've done the same
thing and this the right has gotten more radical the right
has moved to the right.
There's no distance but the left has moved to my grandfather
is a great example of someone who as a conservative you
know Democrat but is it but he's like I was he wasn't
conservative he voted for you for Kennedy he was that
ground a guy he's a Kennedy Democrat and then the party
kept moving away from him.
So I think that's a cliche at this point but I want people
to pay more attention to how much their their views are not
lined up with where everyone else is because we live in a
country where you have to you are in a society you have to
think about what's effective if all I if every position I
take is only for what makes me think is best doesn't mean
I'm in and I'm going to lose I'd rather you make some
compromises somewhere I'd rather have a guy in Pennsylvania
be a Democrat on and vote against Pelosi or whoever he
say is going to vote against but still have someone who has
an active voice and that's how the Democrats are going to
win at this point.
I have and having and having having up progress is
valence I'm so actually so the reason I said the idea of
progressive and more an old school progress that sounds
ridiculous to say that way but is the importance of these
are things people are comfortable with right now and
giving them more new and more new and more extreme is not
something that people are comfortable with and I a lot
of the back to the system aspect is that people tell a lot
about gerrymandering.
Yeah, I'm fine with gerrymandering and looking
talking to people back home.
There's actually no one really cares.
Oh, gerrymandering is not an issue really what because
the gerrymandering for most states where they have of
course there are politically you have situations where we
are disrupting this and that and we are but particularly
for a state like West Virginia you have three you have three
districts and they're broken up by industry.
The north is lumber and and and you know so type of work
down the south the south is coal and the middle is commerce
it's so it runs right through the center from the eastern
hand handle down through the capital so keep so keep it
and keep it in line with the idea that I don't want to get
into gerrymandering.
The thing is it more important and what people with these
people see that I talked to back in what in Appalachia is
the primary system and this is backed up about there's even
538 that talks about this you want a bigger bang for your
buck the primary system and so the back when my grandfather
is old enough to remember when to work for the state road
you had to be the of the party of who's in power huh?
Yeah, that sounds kind of weird right?
Yeah, but that's how it works back in the day and so moving
forward now that unions have lost their sway.
Yes, but the parties have lost theirs this starts with the
Democrats in 1968.
Yeah, I wanted to ask you about this because this is something
you posted which like I felt not personally attacked by but
you said that a policy is the purview of parties and so if
you are not part of a party you are removing your voice from
from the and like that I mean because I recently like stepped
away from the the feminist like group as a as a general
grouping and like and I have always been independent my
entire life even though I've voted Democrat in almost every
single election and position that I can think of I still I
don't like parties and you're saying that I am basically
disenfranchising myself by not being part of a party.
Absolutely.
Can you explain that like why is that policy because okay who
makes policy?
I lawmakers?
No.
No, well I guess think tanks.
So the people who you propose policy come through parties
they come through think tanks providing a federal level and
then of course you have some party issues that people pick
up on it at a state level but mainly you have to have people
doing the research giving you the numbers giving you the
arguments of the politician.
So the legislation is built out of what academic was our
what the academics that which is funneled through the think
tanks and so once you don't have a sway to it even if you
might be a middle of the road person you're not going to have
any impact if you're not a part of the system as in the system
is Democrat Republican you might have some libertarian people
who will use a Cato argument you know somewhere along the way
but yet so when you're when you're not a part of a party
you have you don't have a say in what policy happens and
what the bigger thing I find is but you don't have a middle
as middle has gotten larger.
You don't have to say even if you are part of a party it's all
the elites that make the decisions.
You can just vote for one party or the other and they both
suck but you don't you're not tempering the edges.
You are not signaling to the Republicans that they need to
stay moderate you know they don't need to go so culture war
about about who's who kneels at a football game and you don't
need to be on the left saying that you know yet you know
putting a cancer warning on Starbucks coffee is kind of
stupid California.
I mean like this is the extreme is I mean so what happens
is as the right moves to the right and the left moves to
the left and this is back to the party this election process
the primary process as we keep make move only the radicals
or the more devotees of the party in it because move further
to the right now the people who are more moderate in the
party move to the to the center as independent and there's
a nobleness to being the moderate and actually not
really not moderate but being independent back up so there's
a nobleness to being independent to one thing to be moderate
it's another thing to be independent and so by by
disfranchising yourself voluntarily by not being a party
you're not signaling to the people in power through your
vote and you're also not having any say if you're gonna be
in the policy realm about what what's what's concerned but
if the people in the power just expect my vote anyway no
they didn't know if this thing about I mean I was a
Barney Frank Barney Frank was asked this question but you
know what was the biggest fear we had like who did he he's
like my constituents I answered to know what my constituents
and this allude being a person who worked in DC and knows
quite a few politicians who would be there working to think
tanks is a misnomer to think that the parties you know are
the parties but the politicians are bought by corporate
interest or bought by lobbyists it's much more values and
because they're concerned by getting reelected and no matter
how much money someone gives you you're not going to get
elected if you vote for against what your constituents want
but how the hell do you do you tell your town hall
meetings if you're voting Democrat or voting Republican
hey I'm just and I'm just gonna go to town hall meetings
they're such a pain in the ass they are but you're vocalizing
your concern and this is where I think understand civics not
to you per se but the way of a voter has the ability to say
here's my values and here are my concerns think tanks offer
up well actually politicians go back to think tanks and
through whatever members of their staff and they say these
are the values and concerns I find reasons that there are
ways that can we can do this I think and tying back to what
Stephen and me were talking about before you showed up this
would be one of those great reasons to have a a homemaker
contract person like because I don't want to go to fucking
town hall meetings but maybe if someone else doesn't mind
it can handle that for the household like a representative
to go to town hall meetings for you right the family unit here
yeah we're gonna do a caucus thing but you have to make
your you have to share that you're a voting member and that
