Hello Bayesian conspiracy listeners.
This is Kyle, the sound editor and sound designer of this podcast.
A while back we asked you, our listeners, if you could help us create a new musical intro and outro for the show.
We'd like to thank you all so much for your submissions, and for all the other wonderful contributions made to our podcast by the rationalist community at large.
Today we'd like to introduce these new listener-created compositions, which will permanently replace our old, yet beloved, heavy metal track.
Our new intro theme music, which you will hear at the conclusion of this announcement, is composed by David Groovier, who also did some composition for Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality.
Our outro music was composed by the dynamic duo Sumerci and Keeper.
And now, on with the show.
Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Amy Ashbrotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we have a guest.
But first, we are going to do listener feedback.
We're doing listener feedback at the top today because the guest is a little bit late, but we will introduce him as soon as he gets here.
Gotcha.
Before we get into actual listener feedback feedback, I want to do a host opinion update.
I'm ready.
Okay, so a couple months ago now, I think we had the marriage episode, where I came out as basically against marriage in all its current present day forms.
And I got some, I don't know, feedback.
I don't, people have talked to me a bit, both, both through I am and through messages on Reddit and stuff about it.
And I am moderating my position slightly.
I think that there is a place for marriage when it comes to one person staying at home and taking care of the kids and being the homemaker.
Because there is, for both parents to work and have to pay for someone to be the homemaker and to take care of the kids is really expensive.
And that is something that you can do if you make a lot of money.
But in a recent post on, oh God, I forgot the blog it is, but the name of the post is Seizing the Means of Home Production.
It just pointed out that it can be really economically useful to team up with another person and split these tasks where one person works outside the home.
The other person works inside the home to raise the kids, keep things running.
And you know, there's a lot of other crap that goes on with keeping a household running more than just cleaning and keeping kids.
There's the taxes, there's all sorts of running down to city hall whenever that needs to be done.
There's a lot of chores, which I, you know, I have to do myself, which is a pain in the ass right now.
My car is overdue on maintenance because I haven't had fucking time to go and do it.
And if I had someone in the house that had some extra time every now and then help me out, that kind of stuff, that'd be really useful.
Someone else wrote me saying, how's that tying to marriage?
Well, and someone else wrote me and said that, yeah, her and her husband both had a strong careers, but they really wanted kids.
And so she, due to the protections that marriage gives, she felt comfortable quitting her job and raising the kids instead.
And that's fair because when you go into a partnership with someone, you need some assurance that they're not going to just punk out on you
after five years if you guys have decided to go into this for a long time.
Because you are giving up a lot of income and not only that, but a lot of work experience and resume building when you're staying home instead.
And so that's, that is a valuable thing.
So that empty box that Nazim talked about that, that's where that's other marriages.
It's just, it's a box with high walls that makes it hard to get out.
So the benefit that, so that the protection that you're mentioning there is the, the insulation from like an easy dissolving of the relationship.
Well, no, I don't look, I'm getting everything up to do this.
And like my life track, or I guess both of our life tracks kind of depend on this not falling apart in the next five years.
Let's lock this down with some legal work.
Is that what you're saying?
No, because I don't think that people should be, should have a harder time getting out of a relationship they aren't happy with.
I think of anything that that should be easier because there's already a lot of psychological barriers to it.
But I do think that if someone does give up their career, then it is good for there to be like, honestly, I think of it more of an LLC kind of thing.
You and someone else have teamed up and there is some assurances that even if you do dissolve this LLC, that you won't be left destitute.
You will have access to half the resources that you guys together created because even though one person was working outside the home to bring an actual cash money,
the person working inside the home was contributing as well.
That's why you formed this LLC with the other person to take advantage of their labor without having to pay someone to do it.
So yeah, getting half the stuff and then getting some, not severance, but that's sort of after you've been let go from a job,
they keep paying you out for a while to transition for your transition that I think that sort of thing makes a lot of sense.
And I just hate the fact that it is called marriage and it is tied to having your relationship being respected by society.
And if you are in love, you are considered supposed to get that.
And I think all that is total bullshit.
So from now on, I am going to refer to all marriage as homemaker protection contracts.
And that is because that is the legitimate use for them.
And I think that is what they should be called.
And right now my sister is going to be entering into a homemaker protection contract with someone,
which I think is stupid because both of them are going to continue working outside the house.
No one is staying home to raise kids and make home because they don't want to do that.
So I don't know why they're getting a homemaker protection contract when...
Well, sure. When you rebrand it that way, then it sounds stupid, right?
Yes, yes. That is my direct intention.
So yeah, if someone is staying home to be a homemaker, good on you, get a homemaker protection contract.
But otherwise, I think it's silly.
Well, that's nice to hear an update.
I think my general feedback or my general thoughts on it are like,
it makes sense to protect yourself from bad situations,
just like you don't want to enter into a lease with somebody who has broken six leases in the past or something, right?
Because then, you know, your chances of being fucked are pretty high,
but if they have a good lease history and you can check their relationship credit score and it comes out great,
then I don't know, I guess it's ruining the metaphor.
I think that if you calculate the risk to be super low and most people...
Actually, I've rated it that most people don't even calculate the risk.
They just think, this is what people do. We get married and I got to lock this down.
Yeah, that's the problem.
But to the extent that any thinking person is getting married
and they have the time and energy to consider the question,
is this a risk to my future?
And the answer is most likely no.
Then it's like, you know, if it makes one person happy
or makes both of you a little happy or whatever, then I don't know.
Yeah, but it's always a risk.
And that's actually, that was my same thinking with my last marriage
because I was already kind of against marriage, you know?
But it made her happy.
And if I had just thought of it as homemaker protection contracts,
I would have been like, no, we don't need to do that.
And I think I'm going to keep doing that
because that's basically their legitimate function, my opinion.
That there will always be some risk involved
and that is a risk you're willing to take.
If you're getting a homemaker, you know, life partner out of the deal.
Maybe it's not scary to me because I don't have any stuff.
Like, if I don't have a life savings or a house, then like, you know...
Yeah, great.
You can have half of my 1999 Honda Accord.
Are you planning to have no stuff for the rest of your life though?
I don't know.
I mean, when in doubt, like the future being like the past, right?
Cool.
No, I plan to have stuff for trying to buy a place.
But yeah, I hear you.
It's something to think about.
And it's nice to have a moderate move back.
I don't know if we put this in the air or not,
but after the recording when we did that episode,
Navin asked if there was anything that you had,
if you'd get ready to under any circumstances.
Yeah, if you did mention this, I think the next episode.
Oh, good, because I thought that was awesome.
So it wasn't like you were just like,
no, I hate it forever and it's bad for everybody.
Right.
So it showed at least a thought about it.
So cool.
All right, what else we got?
All right, on to actual listener feedback.
Oh, wait, we should think our supporter as well before I forget.
And to think our awesome sound engineer, Kyle Moore,
who makes this sound like audible chocolate in your ears,
as opposed to like a cheese grater ruining like a record?
I don't know.
He can't make that sound any better, but he can make it.
He can't make the words any better,
but he can make the sound sound better.
Yeah.
Oh, well, who was the name so I can add it to our list
that you guys think it's last week when I wasn't here?
The most recent one that...
Yeah, it was like two first names, right?
Like Chris Johnson or...
That sounds right.
I'll find it.
Okay.
Yeah, but we can take the next person.
Okay.
This week, we would like to think our Patreon supporter,
Stefan Abbs or possibly Stephen Abbs.
And I'm assuming it's Abbs.
It's ABS.
Sounds right to me.
I hope the guy has great abs because otherwise.
Is it Stefan or Stephen?
I should ask him.
Yeah.
I mean, Steph, I don't know.
It doesn't matter.
It does.
We want to see your name, right?
Hopefully it's one of those two things.
We really appreciate your help.
It makes everything awesome and keeps the lights on over here.
So thank you very much.
Yeah.
Here you go.
So the second to last episode that came out,
so we recorded these, you know,
how we've mentioned it before.
We kind of lead some in advance.
So two episodes ago, we did one with Vivian on...
It didn't turn out to be what it was going to be about,
but then what it actually ended up being about
was just like, I don't know,
how to try to think sanely about privilege and social justice,
warriorism and that sort of stuff.
And we got a lot of feedback,
kind of like this comment on the website from Pink Wojak
that said,
I found the double thing required to understand privilege unbearable.
Please don't do that again.
And there was one of the most active subreddit conversations
on there.
And follow me and just go check it out and add stuff.
So as long as we're on both the subreddit and privilege,
should I read Ustis's comment on about privilege?
Yeah, go nuts.
Okay.
Ustis on the subreddit talked about privilege.
Ustis says,
I really dislike the term privilege
because it has a different meaning in colloquial terms
versus how it's used in sociological context.
This is very...
This isn't very unlike theory as in the scientific model term
as opposed to how people use theory in day-to-day talk like.
To mean hunch.
Yeah.
It's my theory that your spark plug needs to be replaced.
Anyways,
Ustis says privilege from a sociological perspective can be
looked at simply as a set of problems that a particular group
of people simply doesn't have to deal with just by being a member
of that particular group of people.
A poor white person has a much lower chance of being pulled
over if they drive through a neighborhood predominantly
populated by a different racial group.
Just by being white,
