you answer is just extremely interesting. But as I was listening to that, I was thinking
about the question that Chris started us off with in our conversation today about the,
is there anything that is orchestrating all of the different components and the wild
thought that suddenly occurred to me is, well, what's orchestrating it is the consciousness.
You know, that's, it's another, you know, when you start thinking as we are in our
conversation today, and every, you know, you take this route and then you take that route and then
you take that route, extensively discussing different issues and they all just converge on
the same answer, you know, that it seems as if something like consciousness sort of more or less
has to, has to come into play if the system is going to be dealing with these sorts of problems.
So it just, it just occurred to me that basically what we're saying is what they nowadays call,
I say nowadays, I mean, in relation to much higher, much more complex creatures,
the, the so-called global workspace, and that's the whole idea is,
so that sort of suggests that, that overarching function is the global workspace,
and the global workspace therefore is not an epiphenomenon, it's doing something
which wouldn't be possible if there was, I'm saying if that is what's doing the orchestrating,
maybe that's the virtual regulator.
Yeah, good point. Yeah, yeah, I mean, so, so I've got a student with whom we are
running through the various popular theories of consciousness, you know, half a dozen or so,
and just asking whether, for the same reasons that each of those theories associates consciousness
with brains, we should then have to posit the same thing in the rest of the body, and otherwise,
because many of those things, you know, people talk about cytoskeleton, and they talk about,
you know, magnetic fields, and they talk about this kind of like action, perception,
cycle, and orchestration. I mean, these things go on in every part of the body all the time,
and it's actually very tough to be able to, on any of these theories to be able to say,
ah, well, clearly, it's, you know, it's got to be the brain, and it can't be this other,
if, as I think about it, if we can, and we don't know very little about how it works, but you can
imagine that with this, trying to navigate your way through this physiological and transcriptional
space with disastrous consequences, if you go the wrong way, does it, is it like something to
be part of that process? Seems like it would have to be. It seems to me to be, it would have to be,
and all of that at the same time as it's also like something to be that worm in whose body,
right, that those are not the same, and so it, you know, it seems, it seems to me perfectly
plausible that there are multiple distinct consciousnesses associated with that system
doing their various jobs in various spaces, you know. Yeah, I was reading a paper just today
that you wrote with somebody, Anna, Anna, what's the name in this?
I was doing it again, yeah. Yeah. On, it was on nervous system, immune system interactions.
But I can't resist making a further leap based on what you were saying, Chris, about
the, the idea that the observer just sits there and observes. Of course, that point that you made
there is the, is what leads us in physics into a participatory interpretation of, I mean, the whole
of quantum mechanics, sort of, the whole of the problem of the observer arises from, so it's not
a problem that only psychology and neuroscience carried. It was the whole, the passive observer
of Newtonian physics gets problematized and that you can't leave the observer out of the,
out of the, out of it all. Yeah, well, I mean, looking back, what I think was really happening
was the observer was being treated as a god, as not being a physical system at all.
Because if you treat the observer as a physical system, then you, you're immediately faced with
Newton's third law, which says interaction is interaction. And, and you have to talk about,
you have to be inactive, you have to be talking about the action side as well.
So, the only way to really have a passive observer is to have a supernatural observer.
Yes, God's I've, God's I've gone to these, there's a, there's a, there's a really interesting
project that I've got another student working on now that it was a very simple, so it was all,
I'll show you guys when, once, once the results are ready, I'll show you some of this,
a very simple system, which are sorting algorithms. So, you know, you have a string
of numbers that are randomly distributed, and there's a, you know, there's selection
sort and then bubble sort. And these just, you know, the whole algorithm is maybe 10
lines of code tops, right? It's just like these little, but, but of course, they also always
presume, they presume two things, they presume an omniscient God's I observer, which can see
all of the pieces and moves them according to his plan, right? And it, it, and it also assumes
infallible hardware that when you want two things to swap, they swap. And so, and so we released
both of those constraints, and we made versions of these algorithms that are cells I view
algorithms that basically just talk about what does, what does each cell want while it wants to
have neighbors that are in a particular order, but, but all the cells want that and so hard.
And so when you do this, there's some amazingly interesting and bizarre capabilities of these
algorithms that show up that are nowhere in the algorithm itself. If you look at it, I mean,
they're completely not apparent from the, from looking at the actual algorithm, they do some
very interesting things, because then, then you can play all kinds of games you can, you can put
different, you can actually make different cells obey different algorithms. So they can be a chimera
of two different sorting algorithms and ask how the two interact and so on, and how they navigate
that problem space, right, of going from a jumble to a perfectly ordered, they all have a target of
perfectly, you know, perfectly ordered to all this stuff. And, and you start to see all this,
and this, I think this goes back to, you know, what, what, what Chris was saying, you know,
you can't make proteins, you don't have genes for, but apparently you can have functionality that
you don't have algorithmic steps for, because, and this is, you know, you, I mean, the easy,
the simple version of this is just sort of emergent and complexity, but I think, I think it's
more than that. I think there's more hiding in these things that you can gain access to,
that are in no way apparent from the examination of the details. So that, you know, that observer
thing is, is I think really interesting moving it around and also the evolutionary aspect of where
