Well, I just have a comment on your email mark, which I think we are completely on board with
that in that we're interested in the phenomenology of stress in arbitrary systems, so down to
bacteria and treating physiological stress as some internal measure of variational free energy.
The comment I wanted to make is based on some physics work about what's the structure of an agent
that can deploy multiple interaction modalities, so multiple ways of making measurements on the
world and acting on the world. Mike and I and Jim Glazebrook sort of foresaw this in our 2001 paper
in Neuroscience of Consciousness with the remark that interesting agents that had memory capability
etc. were going to be segmented into components that communicated classically. And Jim and I have
now generalized that if you have a system that can deploy multiple reference frames
that are distinct and so they don't commute, then those components of that agent have to be
separable, so they communicate classically. What that says is that the different components
of a system are measuring different components of variational free energy and that nothing is
measuring the total variational free energy of the system because there's no component that's
looking at the entire boundary. Each component is looking at some piece of the boundary,
and some of the boundary is devoted just to free energy exchange, so that information flow doesn't
get processed as information that one can do computing on. So if we want to model the system's
best guess about its own VFE value, we need to have some metaprocessor that instead of looking
at the external boundary is looking at the boundaries of the components that are looking
at the external boundary and constructing a model of the VFE that those components are getting.
So that's the beginnings in a sense of an affect system, right? That's what the
brainstem in effect is doing, or what the midbrain is doing.
Well, that's basically almost exactly what I was going to say. So let me just say first of all,
I mean, this is the big issue that Mike brought to my attention. It never occurred to me,
to be honest, that basal cognition descends below the brainstem, let alone below the nervous system,
let alone to the level of bacteria. So this has been the big eye opener for me, I mean,
among other things about Mike's work, and that was true Mike that I became familiar with it.
I mean, it was before I met you, Chris, but that for me was the big eye opener.
Now, I want to just comment on, before going to the midbrain, I want to just comment on
what you said to start with there, Chris, which is, I mean, maybe I'm just saying the obvious,
but to me, it's such an important part of the obvious that it bears emphasis.
Because the system has to measure how well or badly it's doing in relation to these multiple
component needs, they have to be treated as categorical variables, which is basically what
you've just said. And the importance of that for me is that that becomes a sort of principled
basis for qualia, because such variables not being reducible to a common denominator
must be distinguished qualitatively. So that's terribly important, I think,
for the whole business of consciousness, and at starting with affective consciousness,
because we're talking about needs, need gradients. So what is continuous, what is a
continuous variable, although I very much take your point that there's no component,
at least at the level of the of the bacterium, and probably in any system that doesn't have this
meta homeostat, which is in the midbrain, which is putatively in the midbrain.
The common denominator is a variational free energy, but there's nothing measuring it.
So there's there's two possibilities. The one is, does anything have to measure global
free energy? If each one of them is doing that, then the totality, the total
workings of the multiple components still has the same outcome, namely that free energy in
general is being computed. It's just been computed in compartments. But because each compartment
has the same imperative to minimize its free energy, there is a global effect of minimizing
free energy. So that's one way of doing it. The other way is the is the meta way which which
will come to. But I want to just make clear that in my way of thinking, that common denominator
is the balance. It just is bad for any self organizing system for its free energy to be
increasing and vice versa. It just is good for it to be minimized. So for it to be reducing.
So there you have value tied, of course, to survival value. So tied to the basic value system
of all living things. And that's the that's the common feature of all efforts is they have a
goodness and a badness to them. They have a valence, but there's an additional feature
necessitated by the very point that we are discussing, namely that there are multiple
survival gradients that that there has to be in addition to valence, there has to be a specific
quail, a specific quality. And I think it's terribly important that it is, at least as far as I can
tell, it's obligatory that they must be a quality. The value has to have a quality and
there we're beginning to, as I said a moment ago, talk about conscious feelings or at least
conscious proto feelings or proto conscious feelings or something of that kind. So that's
dramatically important. Now to come to the other route, which is the meta-homostatic.
I think you have exactly in mind what I have in mind when you say that then we need to go to
the midbrain, is that there is this terribly interesting fact that all of these homeostatic,
all of these need monitoring systems send their residual error signal to the periaqueductal
grade. The periaqueductal grade is, I mean in those of us who've got such a thing,
is therefore, I don't know if we can think of it as computing
a variational free energy in totality. It's just a matter, it appears all that's necessary is a
prioritization of those different homeostatic deviations. Which one of these, I mean to the
extent that there's an action bottleneck, where there's not an action bottleneck, where it's
autonomic, it doesn't matter. But where some sort of action in the external world is commanded,
then we start to come across action bottlenecks. Which one of these needs am I going to prioritize?
Which one am I going to act upon first in the world? And it seems to me that that's the main
thing that the PAG is doing, is its prioritizing. And in the vertebrate PAG, immediately behind it,
immediately dorsal to it, is the tectum with its superior colliculi, which is getting a condensed
mapping of the multisensory mapping of the environment. What some people call a saliency map,
or an attentional map. And so between PAG and superior colliculi, the interaction between them,
we have there the possibility of evaluating needs in relation to opportunities. The colliculi being
the map of opportunities, and the PAG being the monitor of needs. And that is a splendid idea,
which is not my own. It was first formulated by Bjorn Merker, a Swedish affective neuroscientist,
who's sort of retired now, I think, living in a forest somewhere. But that's my way of thinking
about the issue that you've just raised. Yeah. And how far down in phylogeny that kind of
processing system goes that keeps this kind of multi-dimensional representation of stress
updated, is a good question. In something like E. coli, you might just have a bunch of stress
components that nothing is trying to integrate. Yes. Probably has a better understanding of
that from a physiological point of view than I do. So I wonder, Chris, when you first started
talking, you said down to bacteria, I was thinking, what about all this stuff below that?
Specifically, in the case of stress, issues of geometric frustration and materials, the kind
of things people see in material science. And so on the one hand, you might think of that magnetic
domains trying to align and all that. You might think that that's what you just said, which is,
it's a bunch of stress with nothing integrating anything. And so that may be. But I also wonder,
there's this notion which I see referenced from time to time, and I've had a really hard time
finding any of the originals on it. But it's Wiener's notion of virtual governor. So it's this
idea that in certain systems of multiple components where they're linked, and so the whole thing is
rather unstable and trying to control it by controlling each one is really hard. What he was
saying is that you can define this global thing. And in his case, I think it was like
a bunch of dynamos connected together, and they were super unstable that way. But what you can do
is you can define this virtual sort of super dynamo that doesn't actually exist. But what you
can do is formulate a control strategy for that thing. And that works better than trying to
manipulate the actual stuff that's there. And so, you know, so now I wonder in certain kinds of
systems that may be well, that may be not on the phylogenetic tree at all, that may be far simpler
than that, if there isn't some sort of non obvious virtual integration center that is doing some very
primitive version of what you guys were just talking about, right, trying to figure out which
stress do I relieve first. So maybe this is a question for somebody like Robert Batterman who
studies this stuff at the mesoscale and materials where you put some kind of material and maybe
a dumb material or maybe it has to be some sort of one of these active matter things or what,
but you put it under some kind of stress. And I wonder if there isn't a good lens that you
can put on that where you say, oh, look, here's this virtual thing that's actually deciding which
buckles first. And which of the stresses do we relieve first? And you could even imagine
a multimodal thing where there's physical pressure, but there's heat, there's magnetic
domains, you know, you could imagine a multisensory, so to speak, right, kind of thing. And so I don't
know, maybe, maybe, maybe this goes further down, right? I don't know that anybody's done this, but
I can sort of imagine defining such a thing. Yeah, I mean, you can certainly think of something
like this, sinus gelatin as a elastic stress detector that has its own response capabilities
built in, but also is signaling constantly to the rest of the cell about elastic stress or
mechanical stress. Yeah, and I think wasn't it a Gunther Bueller, I think, right, was the one who
was saying that basically he was thinking that the microtubule organizing center was basically
this sort of integration module for the sinus skeleton, trying to make decisions about what
are the priorities and what is it, what's, you know, what are the more phylogical computations
that the cell has to do next? Like he's got a lot of, he's got a lot of really prescient stuff in the,
I guess early 90s, I'm talking about the intelligence of cells implemented by the
sinus skeletal network that's inside. So, you know, so I don't know. I also, I also wanted
to ask Mark, I wanted to ask this, this, this special region of the brain that you're talking
about that does this, but is there anything special about it, aside from its connectivity? In
other words, if you saw it in isolation from the rest of the brain, would you be able to say that,
ooh, this is the kind of thing that would do that? Is there anything special about the neurons
or is it or potentially could any collection of neurons do that if suitably connected to
the rest of the brain? Anything special about it? At the neuronal level, no, it doesn't have any
special type of neuron. It's a rather poorly differentiated structure. In humans, it's,
well, in all vertebrates, it, as the name suggests, the periaqueductal gray,
it is around the cerebral aqueduct of sylvia, which is the canal, the central canal,
which runs through the neuraxis, up the spinal cord, right up into the hemispheres.
In the hemispheres, it's the lateral ventricles, and then the, there's the third ventricle between
the tooth alomai, and then there's a fourth ventricle just in front of the, between the
pons and the cerebellum. And it's, and it's, it's between the third and the fourth ventricles,
there's this little canal. And behind that canal is the tectum, which is, as the name suggests,
the roof over the canal. And the periaqueductal gray wraps around the rest of the canal
and terminates on the tectum. And it's got, it's 14 millimeters long in, in us humans.
And it's, it's got a columnar structure, which as I say, is not very well differentiated.
And the, and the columns themselves are not that well differentiated from the surrounding
white matter. The lack of differentiation partly speaks to its, to its age, you know,
it's an ancient structure. And it's, its location around the, around the canal, the central canal
is, is a precursor of what will happen higher up at the, at the floor of the third ventricle,
the hypothalamus is there. And these, that there are several, what are called circumventricular
organs. And what they, what that location bestows on them is the capacity to sample CSF.
So they, they are, they, they're sampling that there's, there's a blood flow through them.
So they, they're sampling what's going on in the blood, they're sampling what's
going on in the CSF. And then they're getting these neuronal messages from, from all of these
various need detector, other distributed need detector mechanisms.
I mean, that's really interesting. I, I, you know, this is the sort of thing I thought
the long time ago when I first heard about the, the so-called pleasure center, right?
This, this kind of like the, the, you know, this, this currency of reward.
I thought, and so would you know, that's what it was, if it was sitting out in the dish somewhere,
you know, is there something, is there something special about it, or it's, it's anything could
do it. It's just, it has this like, you know, functional connection with the rest of it.
What, what, you know, what, what does a pleasure center do all by itself, if anything?
Yeah. Well, in the spirit of, of all three of our work, I would say, well, it all
comes down to what kind of computations are being performed. It doesn't matter what the
substratum is that's, that's performing them. But, you know, darkly there's, there's more
to, to be said on the topic of the finer structure of the PAG that I wouldn't be able to speak to,
because what, what I've told you is the limits of my own knowledge about its structure, but
there may be more. I should look into it, but for the reason I've just said, I doubt that that's
going to be the, it's more, it's, it's what sort of information it's processing, and in what way
it's processing that information. Now, at the level of E. Coli, and I take your point, Mike,
that why stop there, but, but let's pause there. And, and let me ask, so these various
components of stress that need to be monitored and acted upon, are the duty actions have to be
prioritized or can they, can they be performed simultaneously?
I'll tell you why I asked the question. It's because, well, actually it's coupled to a second
question. So let me ask the second question first and then tell you why I asked both questions.
The second question is the actions that it can perform in response to
deviations from its preferred states. Are those actions monotonous? In other words, is there,
is there only a stereotype response available to the organism? So why I asked both of those
questions? Do you remember I said earlier, which I say again, I think is a fundamentally important
point, that if these are perforce categorical variables, that means they are, in their very
essence, qualitatively distinguishable, must be qualitatively distinguishable from each other.
And I said that is a principled basis for why qualia would, would, would come into existence.
With a valence, remember, these are qualia about which the organism gives a damn existential value,
you know, they have. And the, but if in addition to that, you have to prioritize them,
then there has to be, you could say each of these may be categorically distinct,
but if they're being processed simultaneously and independently of each other, which they can be,
if there's no need to prioritize, then there's a less pressing need for them to be qualitatively
distinctive in the sense of experienced qualities. Because you would, if you're trying to juggle balls
and you, and you want to, you know, which one you want to catch next, there needs to be some way
of identifying it. So it would need to be as it were color coded or, or flavor. And the, the second
reason implied in my, my second question is that you would then have to feel your way through the
success or failure of your action. If the action is not just a monotonous reflex, but in fact there's,
there's a trial and error component to it. Let me try this, let me try that, is this working,
is that working? Again, sort of obliges us to assume there's a, there's a palpating going on.
And again, that's, that starts to suggest something in the nature of, I mean, if you're palpating
multiple systems, you need to distinguish them from each other. And there needs to be some particular
way of representing how well or badly it's going categorically, which, you know, there are even
more than what I said earlier. I just don't see how it can be done without it being done by means of
failure of some kind. And, and to say again, the obvious why this is so important is it is exactly
that, that David Chalmers and his predecessors like, like Tom Nagel and others, they claim that
there is no possibility of a mechanistic account of why there is something it is like to be the
organism. They say a mechanistic account of something it is likeness, in other words,
subjective, qualitative, phenomenal experience. They say it cannot be accounted for mechanistically.
And I think that what we're talking about right here and now is a mechanistic account
of how qualia come into existence. As long as you take the step, which I think is absolutely
essential, I don't see how we can have a science of the mind without it, taking the step of contemplating
the mechanism from the point of view of the organism, you know, you have to take the observational
aspect of the organism. Well, I'll say at least two things about priority. One is all of these
