response modalities require energy. So the system has finite energy resources at any given moment.
And a lot of stressors are stressors that decrease the energy supply. So the system,
a system in general, is just not going to have the free energy available to deal with everything
all at once. So that's one point to do with energetics. The other point is that a lot of
these responses require gene expression. And so you have the question of how many,
in something like a bacterium, how many operons can be transcribed simultaneously? And
operons overlap in various ways. The polymerase for one is going to get in the way of the others
and so on. So there's not just an energetic issue. There's also this structural issue
that has to do with the way the genome is organized that will prevent the system from
responding in every conceivable way at the same time. And, you know, I don't know the details of
the E. coli genomics in terms of where relevant stress response operons are.
But for example, if your stressor is that you're running out of the sugar that you're currently
equipped to process, then you need to express the genes for some other sugar.
And if those operons are nearby, then you have to turn one thing off to turn something else on.
And in, you know, mammalian or eukaryotic systems where the signaling pathways are so
interwoven and cross-modulatory, then there are all kinds of winner-take-all or winner-take-most
kinds of arrangements between signaling pathways, which turn one off when another becomes active.
So there's, and again, this may be an example of what Mike was describing in terms of a virtual
govern, that it's just the way things are arranged to enforce certain kinds of prioritization.
That's just fascinating. And what about the repertoire of responses?
Are they fixed and mutable, or are they trial and error possibilities? In other words, the
possibility of something that I would describe as voluntary action.
Well, at some outer limit, they're fixed by the genome, and you can't make proteins that you
don't have genes for. But even there, you have the trial and error of gene transfer.
Now, you can go out in the community and try to get new genes to do something that you need to do,
or whether that can be treated as voluntary or not. I don't know at the level of microbes,
for example, but they certainly do it all the time.
I want to focus on two things. One is to just broaden out. So I think if we think beyond
bacteria, for example, you can't make proteins that you don't have genes for,
but you can take actions in physiological and anatomical space that you don't have
genes for. I mean, you don't have genes for anything in those spaces. But the point is,
I think there's huge room for novelty in problem solving in those higher spaces,
so maybe not in the protein space. That's true. But in these other spaces, there is.
And in particular, I'm thinking of a related model, and we're just starting a project now
that I think will give a lot of data on these kind of things, which has to do with our barium worm
example. So what happens there is you throw barium on these planaria. Barium is a non-specific
potassium channel blocker. So the cells are very unhappy, especially the cells in the head,
because there's lots of neurons. They want to have potassium channel function. Their heads
explode physically just overnight they blow up. And then the next couple of weeks, these worms
grow new heads that are completely barium insensitive. They don't care. And so we asked
a very simple question several years ago, what's the difference transcriptionally between the barium
adapted heads and the normal heads? And we found that there's a pretty small number of genes,
only a couple dozen genes that were differentially regulated in the light of this stressor.
And of course, the best part is that planaria never see barium in the wild.
So there's never been selection pressure to know what to do when you're hit with barium.
So now that raises lots of interesting questions, because what it's doing is it's
improvising a transcriptional solution to a physiological stressor that it's never seen
before. So you can start to imagine what that might be like. And so is it generalizing from
things that had seen before, which is maybe epileptic, you know, hyper excitability or something like
that. But in any case, one of the things, what we're going to do is we're going to try to track
cells, worms, and even groups of worms through this journey to find out how they explore that
space. Because, you know, it's like a, I don't know, 20,000 dimensional space of possible gene
expressions. You don't have time for random search. And the worst part is that you can't just,
you can do some experimentation, and maybe they do. So we're going to find out, you know, do they,
do they like, is it a directed walk to the right region? Or are they sort of
ambling about? And some of them find it? Do they all take the same walks? You can ask all
this. But a lot of the changes you make are going to kill you long before you get anywhere good,
you can't just randomly start, you know, turning knobs on this thing. So, so that, that question
of, you know, creative problem solving, generalization, navigation in this, in this weird
space where, you know, you know where you'd like to be, but I don't know if you know how to get
there. I don't know if they have an internal coarse grain model of their own, that mapping
between the transcriptome and the physiome, which genes do I now regulate to have a particular
physiological capability? Do they have a coarse grained sort of manual to their own cell function
somehow that they sort of know roughly what to do? Or is it a complete sort of, you know,
lightly directed to search that they do? Yeah, so, so I think all of these kind of notions of,
of where do you go? What do you pay attention to? It's all going to play out there. So we'll see,
we'll, we'll see how that, how that works out. But another thing that I wanted to, I wanted to say,
and I wonder if, I wonder if there's a name for this, and maybe you guys know what, and if there
isn't a name for it, I think we should come up with a name for it, which is the flip side of
qualia. So, so people who are interested in consciousness talk a lot about the, the, the
qualia. But this emphasizes the receiving end, the inputs, what does it feel like to be on the
receiving end of various things that happen? But I'm really interested in the opposite side,
which is the active end, which is, what does it feel like to try to figure out what can I do next?
What effectors do I have? What should I do next? It's the, it's the output, it's the output end,
right, which to me is really the critical part of the whole consciousness thing, which is,
okay, yes, what does it feel like to sort of be on the receiving end of being a,
a sentient being in the physical world? But what is it, what's the flip side of that,
which is I have to take action. And by the way, what do I have control over? So, so what do I
know? What parts do I have? What are my effectors? Where is the boundary between me and the outside
world? Do I really control, you know, over there or, or, you know, these are these are the effectors
that I have. So that, that aspect of the, the active aspect, the fact that you can't even if,
you know, even if you, you, you don't believe in free will or whatever, you still,
it's impossible to live that way, right? You can't, there's no, there's no way you could
actually implement this. Well, I'm going to sit back and see what the big bang has ordained for
me. I mean, there's no way to live like that's impossible for us. And so, and so that aspect
of the fact that no matter what you, what you, what you act, you have to be active all the time
that this, I don't know, is there a name, is there a name for that, like the flip side Aqualia?
Well, I would have to answer that question by, by, by
disagreeing that the Qualia are on the receptor or are particularly attached to,
to the receptors as opposed to the effectors. I think the Qualia are attached to the control
center. And, and, and so the way that I would describe it is, and I'm using, you know, I'm,
I'm sort of bringing calls to Newcastle. I know that you guys are very familiar with these sorts
of things, but the sensory states that are of interest are actively offered sensory states.
In other words, I have acted on the world, given my model of the world, or my body,
given my model of the world or my body, I have acted on it. And I expect, given that model,
that to now have this sensory consequence flowing from my action. And if the sensory
consequence is what was expected, then all is hankidori. If it is not what was expected,
then you have an error signal. And the summation of these error signals is what we need to minimize.
The average error is what we need to minimize. Now let's say the, you know, within one of these
homeostats that we're talking about, because there are these multiple homeostats.
That is just the state of me, you know, how it's not the state of the world. It's the state of my,
my free energy is, and you would probably actually have to say, given the point you've just made,
Mike, about it being an action, and the, and the way I've supplemented your point by saying,
it's an action with expected consequences, the expected sensory consequences, then what the
control center is monitoring is changes in expected free energy. So, so there we have,
it's even more action oriented when you start speaking about expected free energy as opposed to
free energy. So, the, the, the, this is in a way the point that I was making with, with Carl,
by the way, yesterday made exactly the remark you just made, same consciousness all about action.
But it's an in this discussion we had yesterday about illusionism versus realism.
This very point came up. And I noticed that some of the people in the meeting, some of the
colleagues on the, on this panel, that they seemed to think what, what you've just said,
what you initially said, which I'm disagreeing with, and I can see from your nods that you're,
that you're, that you're not going to defend the view that clearly I have to do with what the
receptor samples. And that seemed to be their view, you know, that, and the whole, the whole
idea of the illusion, the illusion is, this is what they were saying, the illusionists in the room
that they were saying, well, you know, so the, what we are, our failure, what we are sampling
in our sensory states are not the world. They are our sensory states, they're states of our
blanket. And they are sampling just, you know, small components of reality, the ones that are
of survival interest to me, and they representing them in any old way that I like, you know,
and this is what that chap Donald Hoffman calls icons, you know, it's just, it's just like,
then it speaks of a user interface. And, and I mean, I accept all of that, except I don't think
those are the Qualia. I think that the Qualia are my response to, you know, in terms of what
matters to me, that this active aspect again, that, that you're, that you're speaking to,
and that's an internal state. It's me measuring my free energy or my expected free energy.
All things turning out as expected always uncertainty prevailing from my current actions
in relation to sensory parameters, which are not in and of themselves the point, because remember,
as we get increasing complexity, I don't mean of the predictive model so much as
of the creature. The, the, the homeostats are no longer tied to, to, in a one to one fashion,
to a particular sensory gradient, or particular, I mean, like, for example,
a, an, an affect like feel, you know, which is, which is pretty basic. What sense is it,
what's, what's, what's sensory modality drives fear? Well, a whole lot of them. So it's the,
what the homeostat is having is doing a pretty, the control center is doing a pretty complicated
job there. It's busy. It's busy deciding as it were, you know, is this constellation of sensory
inputs of error signals is this constellation of error signals, a fear constellation. And, you know,
maybe fear is too complex. An example, you could say pain likewise. It's, it's not just one sensory
gradient. And it's a whole lot of things. So, yeah, I think it was, yeah. So, so just, just to come,
sorry, just a round off the point, since we've ended up talking about illusionism, after all,
my point to these colleagues yesterday was that, that means the quail is not an illusion.
It is, it is the direct registering of your own free energy. In other words, it's a,
it's a measuring by the system of its internal state. It's, it's response, it's subjective
response to the, the, the, the actively authored sensory inputs or, or, or the deviations from
the expected sensory inputs. And so that you can't call that an illusion. I mean, in what way can
that be an illusion? It's, it's, it's not, it's not about some world beyond the blanket. It's,
it's about yourself. And, you know, sorry to have to say it, but I mean, what could be more obvious
than that our qualitative conscious states or subjective states, their states of us, you know,
they're not states of the world, but the illusions don't disagree with that. But they,
but they, you know, I think when it comes to affect, which they don't think about,
when it comes to affect, which I think is the foundational form of consciousness,
for all sorts of reasons, I believe that that is the foundational form of consciousness.
When consciousness emerged in nature, and through you guys, I'm learning it emerged
not earlier than I ever thought. You know, it's, it would have taken the form of the kind of thing
we're talking about now. It then becomes a whole different story. Once a organism is able to not
only feel its own state, and remember why it has to, we've been discussing in the earlier part of
our meeting today, all of those imperatives, why it must be a qualitatively differentiated
subjective state of existential consequences. That is the subjective and the valence aspect of it.
That the, I've lost my train of thought. I don't remember what I was going to say about that.
Just, just, I think what I was, oh yes, that's what it was. So that once you have these, I feel
like this, if I can put it into words, of course, such such small organisms are not thinking in
words. But it's, I feel like this, it's just the raw feel. And then that the additional adaptation
becomes, I feel like this about that. And then we extend our affective fields onto a representation
of the world, which must, which must be, there must be some common currency, you know, between
the feeling and what it's about. And I think that's what perceptual consciousness then becomes. It's
an, it's a sort of application of values onto the context, which is generating within which that,
within which that feeling is generated. So that's, you can imagine all the functionality that flows
from that. So, you know, now it's, now you have the possibility of working memory of saying,
okay, I feel like this about that. So I must avoid that and I must approach this. Is that right?
Let me think my way through this. Okay, that's what's likely to happen. You know, all those things
then start to become possible. I mean, I think you're 100% correct. I was, I was just just saying
that I think, as you said, too, a lot of other people focus on the input side of Coelia. And one
example of this that I think is interesting. And it's why I'm looking for a new terminology is,
you know, in all of these theories of consciousness, right? So we have epiphenomenalism.
So, so the point of epiphenomenal epiphenomenalism is that there is somebody home, so to speak,
that feels things happen, but they have no causal power. They don't actually do anything.
But what we don't have is the flip, no, no way, as to my knowledge, nobody's proposed the flip
kind of theory that, well, yes, there's action, but nobody actually feels what it's like, right?
So people, so people clearly prefer, you know, they've sort of clearly emphasized the input side
of things, but nobody's bothered to, you know, and they've chopped it off from, I mean, you know,
obviously, we, I think we, we could say incorrectly chopped it off from the other side,
but nobody's chopped it off in the other direction that I know of. And so, so that's, that says to
me that going all the way back to when, when these things were first sort of proposed,
there's this emphasis on the receiving end as opposed to the active end.
Well, you're, you're, you're both pointing to the fact that this language was
invented by people who viewed perception as a passive affair.
Yeah, exactly.
And, and had this idea of the observer
that runs throughout classical physics, you know, and the whole classical worldview that
the observer's not doing, and it doesn't have to do anything, except just sit there and collect
information. That's what the, it's what the inactivists are rebelling against in their
sort of confused language.
Yes, I, that's, that's right.
And so, and that takes us, you know, so it was Helmholtz was the whole thing of unconscious
inference. That was his, the thing about the what is perceived is what is actively solved.
You know, Carl always acknowledges that his whole way of thinking goes back to
that early work of Helmholtz is exactly on this issue of the active nature of perception,
that perception is the consequence of an action.
You know, I had a slightly wild thought while I was listening to what you were saying, like,
not when you asked this question now about the about the flip side of
whales and all of that, but when you were answering the question about
the extent to which we may describe the action repertoire of bacterium,
you talked about these worms that you study as including voluntary actions and, you know,
