real, we know that there's nothing actually undulating. However, we can't
stop ourselves from seeing it. You don't have control over it, it's just coming
up. So we don't have like ultimate perceptual control over what our eyes
are doing, you know, we're only influencing one level beneath ourselves.
There are weird examples like with the Necker cube. It's a cube that you can
view from two different perspectives. And in that example, people are able to
flip between these different ways of viewing it. Is it popping out of the
screen? Is it sinking into the screen? And you can actually flip that at will.
But it's challenging. It's hard to flip the Necker cube for some people. Other
people find it easier. So what makes the difference between people that have an
easy time flipping the Necker cube and others that don't, you know? So I think
there's like, emphasizing this, you're the volitional agent at this higher level
trying to have top down influence on these lower levels. And sometimes you
struggle to have the influence that you want to have. Other times it takes the
form of cartoonified abstraction, right? And yet it makes its way down. But
you're only operating at a very higher level. All right, quick note on
fractals, and then we'll hop into the quantum computer question at the end.
So when we measure electrical activity in the brain, if this was all real, then
we'd want to see this sort of scale free observer windows at all these different
levels, cross frequency coupling going down this hierarchy, all this interesting
resonance structure. And what we do find is that the background noise of the
brain has this one over F power distribution, and it's called pink noise.
White noise is like equal noise at all frequency bands. Pink noise is shifted
towards the lower frequency end. So lower frequencies have more noise and
higher frequencies have less noise. This sounds like the ocean. You can look up
pink noise and listen to it for yourself. But it sounds a lot more like the
ocean, whereas white noise sounds like static. And the pink noise is a little
more soothing than this pure static. So when we measure the brain, we see pink
noise, we hear the ocean in the electrical activity of our brains. And what
this implies is that these big low frequency rhythms have a bit more of an
influence over the overall signal in our in our brains and in our bodies. And
this is what we would want to see if there was a scale free fractal like
organization to the activity in our bodies. And so there's a lesser known
principle in fractal mathematics called the Hearst exponent. So if you take the
Mandelbrot set, you kind of have this like Buddha looking figure at at once
one view of the Mandelbrot set. And as you zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom,
zoom, you keep zooming, you see all these crazy patterns, crazy, crazy, crazy
patterns. Boom, you see the Buddha shape again, once you get deep enough into the
Mandelbrot. Keep zooming, keep zooming, keep zooming, boom, there it is again.
There is a certain rate at which you will zoom and then you see the original
pattern that you started off with, right? And so there's a rate of zoom until you
hit an interesting pattern. And so what we're using or what we're sort of
speculating is that observer windows are kind of like fractals in that they have
a certain depth that you have to zoom before you see more observer windows. We
have observer windows, they're neurons, let's say, zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom, zoom,
zoom, zoom, zoom, nothing, no observers, no observer windows, bam, proteins, these
are observer windows. Keep zooming, more time passes, more observer windows,
right? Zoom out from the neuron, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, bam, brain
nuclei. So the idea is that observer windows are not arbitrary, they're not
anywhere, there are clear boundaries on what can be an observer window and where
you find the observer windows. They're not infinitely spread like at all, at all
levels, but there's some sort of ratio or some sort of mathematical description
for when observer windows show up in your body and in your, in your brain. And
so a fun question here is how deep can we go? You know, is it turtles all the way
down, right? The, the classic example of the earth is flat, there's a turtle
holding it up, but who's holding up the turtle? Oh, another turtle, but who's
holding that turtle up? Oh, another turtle, oh, it must be turtles all the way
down, right? How deep does this observer window fractal go, right? Who knows,
maybe you hit Planck scale and that's the last observer window, you got these
Planck scale observer windows and everything's kind of built up out of
that level. If we zoom out, are there observer windows at larger, more
macroscopic, slower scales? Maybe, maybe biology is complex and biology needed to
be evolved. And so we are the largest observer windows on the planet. And
maybe we are giant observer windows relative to the rest of nature and
resting to the world around us, right? Maybe there are larger observer windows.
What would that look like? Very speculative, almost into the woo woo
range, but interesting and fun to think about. Okay, observer windows are
limited. They are difficult to create and they're defined by a high degree of
synchrony. How high is the synchrony requirement to be an observer window?
Well, you know, Jonathan Schuller and I are going to move forward publishing this
paper thinking about this, just very classical, sort of simpler terms, just
talking about electrical activity and coherence and synchrony is kind of a
matter of degree, you know, where coherence is weak coupling, synchrony is
strong coupling, but it needs to be strong enough that it forms that functional
unit, right? However, if you take a quantum computer, quantum consciousness,
take on all of this, what if synchrony was really quantum coherence? And here
the terminology gets very confusing because the word quantum coherence sounds
like the other word for coherence. But the idea here would be that really,
really strong coupling would be you form a single wave function, a bunch of
quantum bits, they're all entangled, they form a single quantum computer. And so
the observer window is a quantum computer. The high degree of synchrony that
you require is the ultimate level of synchrony. No environmental influence
whatsoever. Quantum mechanics has a definition where the superposition and
the entanglement effects reign supreme, they become dominant when there's no
environmental influence and it's like the state of ultimate synchrony, right? So
one way to recast the now model within the quantum consciousness paradigm is to
say that observer windows are quantum computers, right? There are quantum
computers, and there's quantum computers nested within quantum computers, and that
gets a little speculative and wild. But then these quantum computers set the
domain of what can be an observer window, and then all other forms of
compute quantum computers talking to each other is classical. Classical
communication has a phase lag, it has physical constraints on the communication.
And so coherence is classical communication between quantum computers.
Cross-requency coupling gets bizarre, but maybe it's some other form, yeah, of
classical communication, or maybe that is yet some third form of communication
that we don't really understand yet, right? Synchrony is quantum computation
fundamentally. Coherence is this digital classical, maybe forming a
digital computer network, and then that cross-requency coupling seems to defy
either of these forms. And I'll come back to this in our next episode, because
after this we're going to dive deeper into these notions of fractal computation,
and there's some fun ideas out there that I'd be remiss to not introduce you to.
So look forward to our next episode on fractal computation, and I'll leave you
to ponder tonight as you fall asleep. Are you a single conscious being? Are there
nested conscious beings within you? Are you a rich dialogue? Is your mind a
corporation of workers working with you for some common goal, which is your
life's mission, and this is a collaborative enterprise of conscious
beings nested within each other? Is that your reality, or are you a holistic
single individual, or are you a collection of physical processes and
chaotic influences? Alrighty, I'll talk to you again very soon.
