into a single integration and your thoughts become more abstract and yet
time flies by because you have less moments of consciousness per second.
However, there's more information in this abstract quality in each of those
thoughts. So we're going to move on to the second principle of coherence and
coherence is really best understood by contrasting it with synchrony. So
synchrony, remember, is how we create an observer window. This is no easy feat.
You need a lot of biological infrastructure like a capaciting membrane or
all these fibers oriented to create high synchronization in the brain nuclei.
So synchrony is the creation of single entities with zero lag. Everything is
just one thing all of a sudden and we can form this equivalent of a conscious
being with the capacity to integrate information. Coherence is like a
conversation. So the analogy here is that coherence can be understood of as two
people having a conversation. One person talks, the other one listens, the other
person talks, the other person listens. And so there's a communication going on.
And the words need to be transmitted to the other person, right? There is a
non zero phase lag. There is a lag between the information going from one
person to the other. And when the information is received, it's integrated
in that observer window and then it, you know, some new information is sent
back, right? And so when two people are having a productive conversation, they
are coherent. If you were to track their audio waves, you would find that
they're sort of vibing together, but they're not happening at the same time,
right? It's not the same person speaking the same words simultaneously. Sometimes
that can arbitrarily happen, but it's more of a predictive thing, right? So
their communication has delay. And you wouldn't say, oh, that conversation is
going so well, they've just fused into the same person, right? There's still two
different people. The synchrony is the creation of the two separate people. And
the coherence is the communication between the different people, right? So in
practice, in biology, we see that when brain regions want to communicate with
each other, there's something called neuronal communication through neuronal
coherence. This is developed by Pascal Fries. And Pascal Fries proposed,
essentially what I just told you here, you have these rhythmically oscillating
different units. And when they want to transmit information to each other, they
will sort of align their oscillations so that one transmits some information, the
other one receives it, and the transmissions are sent back and forth,
right? And so if we look into the brain and we look at some complex cognitive
control tasks where multiple regions need to communicate with each other, you'll
see that they'll become coherent with each other. And that information will
preferentially follow these different pathways. And so what's really cool about
coherence is that it's very dynamic, it's very transient. And so this really
contributes to cognitive flexibility, right? So if I had information come into
my brain, and it always went down the same pathways every single time, this
would limit my flexibility to dynamically interact with my environment. And
actually, we want our attention to route information in this pathway versus
another pathway. And so when you want to pay attention to one quality, but not
another, you'll see that those regions processing the qualities that you're
paying attention to will become coherent with each other. And the ones that you
don't want information to go to will kind of not have that strengthened
coherence together. And so there's this really fascinating phenomena in the
brain where so much of our processing is linked to very interesting, distinct
rhythms, and probably the most pronounced in human cognition is what's
called the theta rhythm. This is about five times to eight times per second,
kind of five to eight range. And the theta rhythm is found in so much of our
behavior and in a lot of our information coming into our brains and in a very
special brain nuclei called the hippocampus. And so when I am speaking to
you right now, the words that I am saying to you are actually entering your
ears at a rhythm of the theta rhythm. And shockingly, this theta rhythm is
found across many different cultures and languages. Doesn't matter what
country you're born in, what language or ancestry you have, all languages that
we've been able to find have a very pronounced eight Hertz to five Hertz
theta rhythm in the speech envelope that gets transmitted. So cross culturally,
people are talking to each other at the exact same rate, and it seems to have
maybe an evolutionary and a biological basis, right? So if your brain and your
hippocampus, this memory storage episodic memory construction region in the
brain, it is vibrating in the theta rhythm. And so when you're giving people
words and language, you want it to resonate into their episodic memories and
you want it to be constructed into present new memories, but you also wanted
to access old memories. In addition, your eyes are moving at roughly a theta
rhythm. Even when you fixate on a single fixed point, your eye is actually
twitching around in what's called micro saccades, small eye movements. Those
micro saccades and those macro saccades as you look around a room and explore a
new environment are all locked to the theta rhythm, right? So you have
audition, theta, vision, theta, major memory storage in theta. And so all of
these different regions in the brain are processing different information, but
they're transmitting that information to each other in the theta rhythm. And
there was this really cool paper by the Hanselmeyer lab that that actually
presented people with snippets of audio and flashes of video. And when those
snippets and flashes were presented in theta rhythm, coherently, you were
actually able to assemble an episodic memory for those audio visual parents.
And when they looked in the brain, they found electrical activity rhythmically
vibrating in theta frequency in visual cortex and in audio cortex. And there
was increased coherence when you were forming a memory and when you were
successfully sort of pairing that information together. And so coherence
is a way that this audio nuclei, this visual nuclei are sharing information
dynamically, routing it over to the hippocampus, routing it up to higher
order regions that need to process some information. And so coherence seems to
be this really fundamental role for how information is routed throughout the
brain. So what might this feel like? And so I think there's this idea that, you
know, hey, we're just routing information around. And so it's kind of just like
switchboards or circuit breakers just pumping information here and there. But
I wonder and I speculate whether the experience of being an observer window
within a coherent transient functional network feels like a dialogue, feels
like a conversation, maybe even like a debate, and not necessarily just like
the direct one to one transmission of information, right? We go back to the
analogy of two individuals communicating. If you're an observer window and
you're at this macro scale, you have all this neural information processing,
protein information processing, all these scales beneath you working to
generate all this information. Does this macro scale electrical activity that we
can measure for this nuclei? Is it like the equivalent of like a fully fledged
personality? And here, you know, there's a couple movies like that movie inside out
by Pixar, which sort of depicts these different personalities communicating
with each other in the brain. Is coherence more like a dialogue than just,
you know, sending a signal through a wire or like a carrier pigeon from one
place to another. Instead, it's a dynamic interplay or conversation between a
bunch of personalities. And so there's this guy, Richard Schwartz, who he was
studying, he was doing family therapy where he would take a dysfunctional
family and they'd go through a psychotherapeutic process where they'd
communicate and they'd look at different family roles that different people were
playing. And he found that psychologically, this psychotherapy that he was
using actually works well in an individual. An individual has an internal family
system, as he calls it, a bunch of personalities coexisting within your
mind and within your psyche. And these different personalities can be
dysfunctional. The conversation could not be going well. There could be
dysfunction in the family or there could be a coherent family unit where the
personalities are flowing and communicating effectively with each
other. Is coherence some signature or some direct neural mechanism for how
these different personalities in your brain communicate with each other? It's
not a carrier pigeon. It's a dynamic, interesting conversation between sub
entities within you. So being a observer window and undergoing coherence might
feel like more of a conversation than just shooting signals through wires.
Third and final principle is cross frequency coupling. And oh my God, I
love this principle. It is so exciting. So much of my own personal research has
been moving towards looking at cross frequency coupling, because it's really
this fascinating way that you can study multiple spatial temporal scales
interacting with each other. And so the first discovery of cross frequency
coupling was in the hippocampus, the region I mentioned to you previously. And
what they found was that the brain nuclei of the hippocampus was undergoing
these big slow rhythmic theta oscillations. And meanwhile, high frequency
neurons were also activating and going through these action potentials. And
they were coding for different regions in space. So there's a rat running
around a maze. And there's different cells called place cells that fire for
different locations along the maze. And they found that within the theta rhythm,
a sequence of these place cells were firing off. And as the place cells were
activating, they were all locked to a particular phase within the theta
oscillation. So every time the theta oscillation like went up, you get a bunch
of place cells activating, and then it goes down and there's silence. And then
it goes back up and a bunch of activations and it goes down and there's
silence, right? And so this is called phase amplitude coupling, it's a form of
cross frequency coupling, where the phase of the slow frequency oscillation is
related to the amplitude of the higher frequency oscillation, right? And so
research shows that you can actually decode trajectories of movement from
these theta oscillations in the hippocampus. And when you go down to the
neural level, you just see a cell fires for this place, a cell fires for that
place. But from the electric fields of the hippocampus, you could figure out a
trajectory of motion, right? And so it's it's basically forming some form of
abstraction, right? It's sequencing, it's organizing, it's it's basically
ordering the lower level information into this just stalled more abstract
representation. So it's not just like binding a more complex representation
like we talked about with synchrony, but it's really this form of abstraction.
You're building a more abstract representation from more concrete
information, right? Trajectory is more abstract than just a point. So here you
have like a vector and maybe a speed. But below it, you just have a single point
in in space and maybe in time. And so we can find a lot of evidence that when
you're doing these higher order cognitive tasks, right? When you're
undergoing some mental function, which requires abstract knowledge, you'll
find this phase amplitude coupling pattern, this cross frequency coupling
pattern, where you see these big slow rhythmic brain nuclei coupled to these
faster rhythms. And the the real canonical one is called theta gamma
coupling. And this was the example in the hippocampus that I mentioned. And you
find theta gamma coupling whenever you need to generate more abstract
representations, or you need to build more abstract items from more concrete
items. And so this seems to be sort of a universally applied mechanism in the
brain. And it's gaining a lot of traction. And we're finding more and more
evidence that this is taking place. Newer rhythm, which I've been sort of
pioneering and getting really interested in, is called delta beta
coupling. And this is the idea of similar to the to the building of abstract
ideas or representations. Delta beta coupling has been much more strongly
linked to action initiation and decision making and action planning. So in a way,
it's sort of like the top down equivalent to the theta gamma rhythm, where
you see these big slow prefrontal decision making regions oscillating when
you're trying to choose between a couple of different options. And then this
really fast beta rhythm, which is linked to spinal cord activation and muscle
innervation muscle activation. There's this coupling between this big slow
decision making process, and then the spinal cord bodily movements that get
enacted. And so just like cross frequency coupling sort of has this bottom up flow
of information as you're building more abstract representations moving up the
nested observer window hierarchy. There might be other frequency bands that are
really dedicated to taking the information from the tire order more
abstract regions, big slow observer windows down into the details where we
got to translate all these big abstract action plans into move that muscle, move
this muscle, you know, do this complex piano play with your fingers. But it
comes from these big abstract cartoony decisions that are being made. So what
does this feel like? Well, I think this one has a very clear experiential
analogy, right? The idea is, and I mentioned this earlier in the episode,
ideas popping into your head. This is the theta gamma experience. An idea shows
up, and it's in your mind, and it's fully formed to subtract delta beta. I
want to move my arm over here. I'm not thinking about I'm gonna use my flexor
extensor, and I'm going to use my elbow to do this thing, right? It's all just
this fluid motion that occurs. And I have very abstract ideas of what is
actually happening. And somehow it gets translated. I mean, you can barely think
about what you're doing, and you'll go and do it, right? A good analogy is with
professional sports, professional musicians, right? They they learn these
complex motor movements, but then it gets encoded into lower levels. And then
they're just activating cartoons, right? There's just these cartoonified
decisions being performed. And then and then it occurs. And I think another
cool analogy related to this is that cross frequency coupling is limited,
right? It's a weak form of coupling. You can only influence one level beneath
you, one level above you, you can't get much deeper than that, right? So you hit
a wall, and you can't go deeper. What does that feel like? I think a good
example is optical illusions, right? These undulating visual patterns that
come from black and white checkered visual effects. And so we know it's not
