Welcome back to the show that tells you you are a quantum computer with free will
at the apex of a hierarchy of conscious beings. My name is Justin Riddle and this
is episode 17 of the quantum consciousness series. In today's episode
we'll be talking about nested hierarchical consciousness, the idea that
information processing is occurring at multiple different scales in your brain
and this information needs to be communicated up and down the hierarchy.
By the end of today's episode we'll ask the question, are you a conscious being
that's composed of conscious beings that's composed of conscious beings add
infinitum? This episode is available on YouTube and an audio-only version is
available on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. If you like what you hear today then
please like this video, subscribe to this channel, leave a comment below or for
the audio listener write a review.
Hey there, my name is Justin Riddle, a little background on myself. I got a PhD
from UC Berkeley in psychology studying cognitive neuroscience. While at UC
Berkeley I taught a course on quantum consciousness for seven years and this
YouTube series is really a translation and extension of that material. Right now
I do research in humans and I deliver magnetic and electrical non-invasive
brain stimulation in order to get a better understanding of the role of
neural oscillations in cognition and how they become impaired in psychiatric
illness. So the topic for today is nested hierarchical consciousness and I'll be
talking about in particular this theory called the nested observer windows
model and this is a model that I developed in collaboration with Professor
Jonathan Schuehler who's at the University of California Santa Barbara
and we've been working on this model for many years now and at the time of this
recording we're currently in the process of submitting it for publication. So to
give you a big overview on what this model is and then speculating on some
of the implications for quantum consciousness and quantum computers in
general at the end we'll be running through the details of this model and
some of the evidence from cognitive neuroscience and some of just the
theoretical motivation for this model and this will really tie into the overall
story of this series but this one is a much more sort of based in the cognitive
neuroscience literature so I'll be doing a lot of talking about that. So here's
the pitch and I'm gonna start off by reading a quote from William James and
William James is really one of the like foundational philosophers, researchers
doing a lot of introspection in the early days of the field of psychology and
so the quote goes like this, we know what it is to get out of bed on a freezing
morning in a room without a fire and how the very vital principle within us
protests against the ordeal. Probably most persons have lain on certain
mornings for an hour at a time, unable to brace themselves to the resolve. We
think how late we shall be, how the duties of the day will suffer, we say I
must get up, this is ignominous, etc. But still the warm couch feels too
delicious, the cold outside too cruel, and resolution faints away and postpones
itself again and again just as it seemed on the verge of bursting the
resistance and passing over into the decisive act. Now how do we ever get up
under such circumstances? If I may generalize from my own experience, we more
often than not get up without any struggle or decision at all. We suddenly
find that we have got up, a fortunate lapse of consciousness occurs, we forget
both the warmth and the cold. We fall into some reverie connected with the
day's life, in the course of which the idea flashes across us, holo, I must
lie here no longer, an idea which at that lucky instant awakens no
contradictory or paralyzing suggestion and consequently produces immediately
its appropriate motor effects. It was our acute consciousness of both the warmth
and the cold during the period of struggle which paralyzed our activity
then and kept our idea of rising in the condition of wish and not of will. The
moment these inhibitory ideas ceased, the original idea exerted its effects.
William James, Principles of Psychology, Volume 2. So what's so fascinating about
this is I think it violates a few different sort of intuitions that we
have about our own experience being a human being. And one of those is this
idea that we have this narrator in our mind. And so we've kind of been told and
we kind of take it at face value that there is this narrative flow to our
minds and that we're sort of witnessing this unfolding of events. We have some
free will, some ability to change that unfolding of events, but we view it as a
single narrative self inside of us. And what this really challenges us to think
about is how when we decide to do things we are sometimes met with internal
resistance. And what is it when you have a conflicting set of ideas in your mind?
I would argue, and the nested observer window model argues, that there's
actually this debate, this collaboration, this dialogue between many different
voices in your head. And it's not really just a single narrative self, but so
much of our inner life of our cognition is really characterized by inner
conflict. Should I do this? Should I do that? That might be fun, but am I wasting
my time? You know, there's all this debate, this internal struggle that we
experience, which is really core and inherent to our lives. Another sort
of intuition that we have that the nested observer window or now model sort of
goes against is this idea that we have sort of a possessive or a feeling of
ownership over our thoughts. We think I created this thought, I am the creative
owner of my thoughts. I am generating and sort of assembling things together in my
mind. And while a lot of times there are periods where we're actively thinking
about something, and we really are assembling these big macro abstract
ideas together, and we're forming new solutions or new concepts out of sort of
more basic concepts. And all of that is going on at this very abstract level. But
in addition, we get many ideas that just pop into our mind. And we sometimes don't
even want ownership of our ideas. Sometimes an idea pops into your head and
you wonder, why did I think that? Where did that come from? And sometimes you even
suppress the unwanted thought, or you're kind of in awe, like where did this
thought come from? And so in the now model, we propose that thoughts do sort of
emerge into your mind fully formed. And even when you are assembling thoughts
together, you're doing so at such an abstract level, that there's so much
built into those concepts already. And even the basic concepts which are there
for you to assemble already have this sort of coming out of nowhere popping
into existence feeling to them, where there's so much that is entailed in
those in those basic concepts, even in the act of assembling. And then the sort
of another or like the final violation of intuition that I'll provide right now,
and there'll be more throughout throughout this episode, is the idea that we have a
limited interface with our own bodies, right? And so the idea is when I decide
I'm gonna move around in the world, that decision to move can sometimes be met
with resistance, or the movement itself might not come out like how I thought it
was gonna come out. Maybe I say, oh, I'm gonna walk over there and then I trip and
fall, you know, face first into the floor. That was not the plan, right? So we are
enacting very abstract action plans into our body. And we're not aware of the fine
motor movements, all the detailed muscle activation that needs to occur. And so
we're really operating at these very high abstract levels. And so there's
limited influence that we even have over our bodies. And another interesting way
of thinking about this is, you know, you can consciously pay attention to
breathing. But when you're not paying attention, you're still breathing. You
know, it's one of those weird flexible acts where you can simultaneously take it
under volitional control, or just let it go on unconsciously. So the argument is
that, you know, you're at the top of this hierarchy of conscious beings, and you
have limited influence on the lower levels beneath you. So that's sort of
from an experiential sense why the now model is sort of challenging the status
quo of how we think about ourselves. From a practical sense, when we do
science, we're trying to understand for the most part the human condition. What
is it like to be a mind? Who am I? What's going on? And of course, there's more
like medical applications or technological applications, but in the
field of psychology, we're trying to understand fundamentally, you know, who
we are. And so in that field, there's many different researchers studying the
phenomenon of the human mind. But some people study fMRI, EEG, these really
macro scale entire regions, activating the blood flow to different regions in
the brain with fMRI. These are macroscopic large regions. With EEG, we're
studying these big electric fields that emerge from the brain and relating
those to cognition. But then people also study neurons, and neurons are
operating at the scale of a thousand times per second, right? So while fMRI, EEG
is happening on the scale of seconds or sub seconds, you know, a small fraction
of a second, but maybe just like one tenth of a second, neurons are
activating at scales at the kilohertz range, like 1000 times per second. And
then beneath that, there's proteins, and there's synaptic interactions or
protein pathways that are that are, you know, processing information in their
own ways. And those are happening another order of magnitude faster, let's say
like the megahertz or even gigahertz range, right? A million times per second or
sometimes even a billion times per second. So there's all these different
scales, and you'll find people that are neuroscientists and they're interested
in the human mind. But they'll study the human mind at so many different scales.
And the question is, you know, we can find some relationship or correlation of
these fMRI and EEG signals to our minds. We find a correlation of neural activity
to our perceptions and our actions. And with proteins, once again, the presence
of a protein or not, or, you know, when light comes into the eyeball, it activates
a protein cascade, and that correlates with the detection of light. So that
also relates to our experience. And so the question is, how are all these
different processes happening at multiple different scales? And the nested
observer window model proposes a unique solution where you can view all of these
different levels as meaningfully processing information, and also sharing
that information up and down across these very different spatial temporal scales,
right? So we have centimeters and seconds, we have millimeters and kilohertz,
and then we have micrometers or even angstroms in the range of megahertz and
gigahertz, right? And so all of these processes seem to be contributing to
our experience. But how do we study these? How do we make sense of these? And it
would be really cool if you could have more interdisciplinary study where
people studying neurons could talk directly with like people using fMRI,
right? It would be cool to have ways in which in a principled manner, the
information or the content being created at these different scales is being
communicated to each other. So that's a lot of the big picture motivation for
the now model. So now I'm going to propose what is the now model
fundamentally. So the now model fundamentally is a way of defining
information integration units, and we call them observer windows. And an
observer window is at a certain spatial temporal scale, and it's integrating
information, and it has sort of a rhythmic processing to that information
integration, which is sort of the time scale, the integration rate at which it
operates. And then within that scale, you have a bunch of observer windows
communicating with each other at the same level. And then you also have
observer windows nested within each other, so that each observer window is
composed of observer windows, and then information is processed up and down
these different scales. And so we propose sort of a unique way of
information integration, which we call mosaic integration. And the idea here is
that we're really leveraging the nested nature of this system. And the metaphor
for what this looks like and the details will need to be hashed out by some
computational model, I would assume. But the idea is that this feels like a
mosaic image, where you can think of an image that's made up of a bunch of
tiles, and each of those tiles is itself an image. But when you're at the level
of a full image composed of tiles, you know, a single gestalt comes out, a
single representation, a single image appears. But then you can zoom into
these tiles, and you'll find that each tile has an image. And that tile is
composed of more tiles. And you can zoom in infinitely, or maybe there's
some limitation on how much you could zoom. But this this form of mosaic
integration is the way that you're able to assemble and build more abstract
representations. And a cool property of this form of integration would be that
you're sort of preserving a lot of the rich detail as you move up to the
higher and higher levels in the hierarchy. Alright, so we have these
observer windows, they have a fixed boundary, a fixed spatial and fixed
temporal boundary on where they are and what they are. And they're integrating
information from their environment. And they're also nested within other
observer windows and processing information up and down this hierarchy.
And so there's a few implications. And so first, I'm going to talk about the
implications for consciousness, where does consciousness fit into this? And then
I'll go into the the details of what this information integration might look
like, and the phenomenon coming out of cognitive neuroscience that that
motivates thinking about this model. And then I'll end talking about how
quantum mechanics might play a role in particular in one of these principles
that I'm going to talk about in a second here. So the question is, where does
consciousness come in? And so one idea is that consciousness is just at the top
level, that you have this hierarchy of observer windows, and you, the viewer are
the highest level, you are the one observer window at the top of the
hierarchy. And there's all these sort of autonomous observer windows at lower
levels or semi autonomous observer windows integrating information. But all
of those are just worker bees. And you are the only one that's a conscious
being and you're the only one that really has the the qualia, the feeling of
being a self. And all these lower levels are, yeah, just unconscious, subconscious,
pre conscious, proto conscious, whatever, you know, fun prefix you want to fit
onto conscious. And this really feels a lot like the global workspace model, or
these sort of emergentist views of consciousness, where you try to describe,
you know, at the level of the whole brain, there's some sort of emergent
property or some sort of being that comes out at this highest level. An
