alternative way of putting consciousness into the now model is that there's some
sort of threshold for information complexity, or for the integration of
information to be occurring. There's some threshold for what that looks like. And
then only once you breach that threshold, do you have a conscious being. So here
there would be some level in the brain or in the body, where you have a conscious
being. And above that level are conscious beings nested within each other. But
beneath that level, it's automaton, right, it's non conscious, just processors. The
third and final option is sort of a form of pan psychism, pan, pan, meaning all, and
psychism being, you know, a root of consciousness. So pan psychism, everything
is conscious. And now in the now model, we assert that, you know, not everything
can arbitrarily be called a consciousness. But in the now model, the observer
windows have a biological infrastructure, a boundary that limits what could be a
conscious being. But you're at the top of the hierarchy, and there's conscious
beings nested beneath you. And it goes down and down and down. And all of those
are conscious beings at various smaller and smaller levels. So not quite sure
what the correct answer is. I personally really love this pan psychist model where
all these levels are conscious beings. And we'll come back to this idea a bit
later. But it really does kind of blow your mind. And so maybe I'm just drawn to
it because it is such a mind blowing reality shifting type of way of viewing
yourself as being composed genuinely of conscious beings. You're running the show,
maybe mostly. You're at the top, probably, but there's still conscious beings
beneath you. And you're sort of the CEO of this corporation of conscious beings
directing what to do. But all of these entities underneath you still have a say
they have an input on what gets carried out eventually. And all of your
reality and perception is being filtered through these lower levels. And you're
making decisions at this very abstract higher level. So it's still sort of an
integrated interplay between all these different levels of conscious beings.
Alright, so now I'm going to dive into the three principles of the now model. And
they are synchrony. This is a zero phase lag high degree of correlation between a
bunch of components. And this forms the integration unit forms the observer
window. It is difficult to achieve a zero phase lag entirely correlated system
with high synchrony. Everything is so coupled together that it loses individuality
and it becomes a single entity, right? That is synchrony, the formation of an
observer window. The second principle is coherence. And coherence is a non zero
phase lag coupling between two observer windows. And this is two observer windows
at the same spatial temporal level. So they're both processing information. They
both have their own integration rates, you know, of how they're processing
information. But they can communicate with each other. And it's a weak transient
communication, they form these functional networks of observer windows
communicating with each other. But it's inherently unstable and transient. And you
don't lose the individuality of the of the two observer windows that are
coherent. And then the final and third principle is cross frequency coupling. And
this is once again a weak form of coupling between two observer windows. Except
the catch here is that the observer windows are at different spatial temporal
scales. So you have big, slow, rhythmically integrating observer windows. And
these much smaller, faster observer windows integrating information. And
they're coupled to each other. And once again, the coupling is more weak. And it
happens between observer windows nested within other higher level observer
windows. And this is really sort of the critical way in which information is
transferred up and down a hierarchy, right up and down this this nested
observer window hierarchy. And so we propose that electrical activity really
serves as the lingua franca or the, you know, universal generalizable principle at
play here. And so I'll talk to you today about brain regions or brain nuclei and
neurons. And we, you know, speculate that proteins are also observer windows and
potentially there's higher or lower observer windows also at play here, but
we'll really focus on brain nuclei and neurons. And we'll be talking about
electrical activity as really this universal form of communication, where
even though they're comprised of very different material, and they're, you know,
operating at very different scales, if information integration can occur, using a
common substrate, even though it's at different levels, this sort of
facilitates that communication of information. And we believe that this is a
plausible solution for the protein scale, maybe some intermediary scales and
potentially at even more fundamental lower scales, that electricity or
electromagnetism could be a very fundamental sort of substrate for
processing this information. And it's very apparent that electrical activity
plays a fundamental role in the level of neurons in brain nuclei, which we'll
talk about as examples. So I'm going to start off with our first principle,
synchrony. And synchrony is the formation of an observer window. And so a funny
example or analogy here is if you see a bunch of lights attached to the limbs of
a human, and they're walking through the night, so all you can see are those lights,
you'll witness the movement of a human. But if the human stands still, you just
see a smattering of lights and there's no human form available. And so when we're
studying the processing of information, we do really need to focus on that
process, you know, the movement through time of these biological systems. And
what's beautiful about synchrony is synchrony is really the creation and the
formation of a single unit. And so I feel like this is almost like, like it's
almost like a nuance that you accept, but you don't even realize that you've
already accepted this, is that you call things by their name, you call something
a thing. And in calling something a thing, you're inferring that that thing has a
strong degree of structural and temporal stability. And so synchrony is really
just putting a definition and a label on what that definition of a thing is, you
know. And so a good example is like a protein, we just call it a protein, but
really there's such a high degree of synchronization within the protein that
it acts as a single protein, right? neurons act as single cells. And brain
nuclei act as single brain nuclei. And so how do they do that? Well, just go
through the neuron and nuclei example. But neurons have this phospholipid
bilayer membrane, it acts as a capacitor for the neuron. And so it stores up this
strong electrical potential inside of the neuron. And you reach a point where the
neuron has such strong electrical coupling in its, you know, internally, that it
behaves as if it's a single electrical functional unit. Similarly, a brain
nuclei exhibits these synchronized electrical states, where the entire
nuclei will undergo this single electrical potential. And you can witness
these electrically vibrating fluctuations in the nuclei that you're
observing. And they have these characteristic electrical rhythms that
they exhibit. And these are enabled by a lot of structural properties in the
neuron, or in the architecture of the neurons. Typically, it's called a
phaptic coupling. Essentially, this is when a bunch of neurons are oriented
together, and they undergo their own electrical potentials or action
potentials or firing, as people usually call it. And a lot of these neurons are
oriented so that the electric fields generated within the neurons are then
propagated across a whole population. And so what you see in the wild is you see
a brain nuclei will exhibit these big electric fluctuations that are
basically enabled by all of these parallel fibers in these brain nuclei. And
then they start to serve a functional role and it begins to act as a single
functional unit, similar to these neurons behaving as single functional units. And
so what's really cool is that if you are measuring the electrical potential in
the brain, and let's say we're focusing on this slower frequency range where you
would see brain nuclei operating, you'll have this background activity in your
electrical recording. And when you found a brain nuclei that's forming
some functional area, some functional unit, you'll see this bump, this rhythmic
oscillation emerging from just the background noise of your recording. And
you can be fairly certain that when you see these electrical bumps in your
recording, after running a four-year transform and breaking it down into the
frequency domain, you can be sure that there's some sort of brain nuclei
processing information at this certain scale. And so the brain nuclei have
clearly defined boundaries, and they have a very clearly defined rhythm at which
they are operating. So what does synchrony mean practically or to cognition? And
so this was an idea proposed by Wolfgang Singer called Binding Biosynchrony. And
here we're using this exact concept in the now model. And the idea is that there's
this difficult challenge in psychology called the binding problem. I have a
gestalt representation of let's say a chair. I know what it looks like, I know
what it feels like, I know how to use it, I know what the texture is like, I know
what the color is like, how do I have this single representation of a chair? How
does all this information get bound together? And so Wolfgang Singer proposed
that synchrony forms a natural sort of neural mechanism for how you can have
information coming from different sources, and then it gets bound together
through this synchrony. In the now model we propose that there is a
integration rate that the observer window opens, it accumulates a bunch of
information, and then it binds that information into a single gestalt
representation. And once you have formed it, it exists, and you experience it if
you are that observer window, and then the next cycle a new representation is
generated. And it could be that this is some predictive coding model where
there's sort of a model of the world that gets update periodically, and so
there's an update that kicks in, and so there's sort of a continuity or a
stability through time, or you could view this as sort of these like discrete
refreshes of information with no time between them, it's just now, now, now,
now, there's just an experience now, a gestalt experience now, and another
gestalt experience now, and there actually is no time between those
discrete moments. So it's sort of an alternative framing for what this might
feel like in our conscious experience. So an example I really love is called the
flicker fusion rate, and there was a, you know, this phenomenon has been
studied quite a bit, but there was a cognitive neuroscience study that came
out in the past 10 years or so that was really interesting and impactful by
connecting it to these electrical oscillations. So the idea is that if I
present two flashes of light, very quickly, you will see them as two
different flashes of light. But as the time between the flashes shrinks, you
hit a point where the two flashes are really just one flash now, right? And
so the flashes fuse, you have a flickering light, and then you have the
fusion into a single light. The exact moment where you flip over from two
flashes into a single flash is called the flicker fusion rate. That is the
rate at which the lights switch from flicker into fusion. And there was this
really cool study by Samaha and Postal, who were looking at the visual
cortex, and the visual cortex has, it is, it can be conceptualized as a brain
nuclei with a electrical fluctuation and electrical potential. And this one is
often called the alpha oscillation, and it happens to be around 10 hertz, 10
times per second. And what they found is that there's some variation between
people at what that integration rate or what that refresh rate is in visual
cortex. And so people who have a slightly faster alpha oscillation in visual
cortex, they can actually still perceive the flicker at a smaller and smaller
time scale. So it takes, you know, they have to be much closer for the flashes
to fuse. And the idea is that every alpha oscillation is opening a window,
taking in some information. But if you have a slower rhythm in the back of your
brain, in the visual cortex, then both of the flashes are going to end up in the
same window, and they're going to get integrated together into a fused single
flash. And so this really fits nicely with the now model, where these observer
windows have these integration rates. And this is predictive of the rhythmic
refresh of information in this observer window. And so now we're talking about
this rhythmic refresh rate of these gestalt perceptions in different brain
nuclei. What does this mean for you as a conscious being? What is this rhythmic
refresh rate? Well, we argue in the now model that this rhythmic refresh rate is
equivalent to your perception of time. And so the temporal processing of this
information has a fixed rate. If you're a brain nuclei, it'll be occurring around
the scale of 10 times per second, five times per second. But if you're a neuron,
it might be happening at 1000 times per second or 100 times per second, much,
much, much faster, right? And so what it is like to be that observer window is to
feel a flow of time at the rate at which your refreshes are occurring. And so
what's really fascinating is there's a few anomalous experiences in our
experience that relate to time perception. So when you're in a life
threatening situation, you're driving down the freeway, a truck changes lanes into
you and you are feeling like an impending doom, you will have the
experience of time slowing down. What's happening? Could it be that the observer
window that is you is increasing the integration rate, that frequency of
gestalt representation generation is increased, you're tapping into more
concrete, less abstract information, you have less time to integrate a bunch of
interesting information, you have less integration time, but you can get much
more refreshes, right? You can get more static frames of what is happening. And
so time is experienced as a dilation, where it feels like time is moving slow.
But really, you're having more experience per second because your observer
window has frequency shifted into the faster range. On the flip side, we can
have the opposite, where time folds inward and dissolves away and an hour
passes in an instant and we lose track of time and suddenly we look up from our
book or we pull out of our thoughts and 10 minutes have flown by and we're
shocked that all this time has disappeared. Where did it go? So we suggest
that in this example, your observer window is shifting the opposite direction,
right? It's shifting towards longer integration times. More information is
able to enter into this open window and gets bound into a gestalt representation,
which is a large abstract integration of a lot of interesting and creative
abstract ideas. So when you're daydreaming, when you're mind wandering, when
you're lost in thought, you might have a sort of stretching of your temporal
experience as the integration windows expand to get more and more information
