So you just try to soldier through and hide it.
And, um, which is frankly, from my point of view, it's, it's better to soldier
through and then collapse than it is to just never try.
Um, but I'm glad I don't have to struggle with that anymore.
But I don't know, I guess, I guess the reason to bring it up is like, like you
said, it's, I think it's good to be aware of how much like every person is
fighting their own battle and, and suffering a lot that you don't see.
And, um, it's, I almost feel ashamed that I'm only able to talk about it now
that I'm like out of it, but, uh, I think it's worth saying anyway.
And I'm, I'm glad you did.
And I guess there's another lesson to draw from that, that, uh, how many
of the other things have you tried over the last six to 15 years?
I mean, I couldn't even enumerate them.
Right.
Yeah.
So, and that's what I was going to guess.
And so I guess this is something that if you're dealing with something on, if
someone else out there is dealing with something that they've, well, I've tried
10 things, it's, you know, maybe number 11, maybe number 12, you know?
So keep, keep looking, keep trying.
And you might find the thing.
And, you know, then you'll have the bitter, bittersweet experience of having
found the thing and you wish that number 50 had been number one, but, uh, you
know, it's, I guess it's a light message for hope.
Kind of contrasting to where I was at 10 minutes ago talking about politics.
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, I've literally had that, that like thought of, of, of, you know, in the
past been like, this, this is really, this is really rough, but like, I, I am
just going to continue to hope that someday they will figure this out.
I don't know when, but, uh, someday.
And, and I almost didn't believe it, but just the idea that it might be possible.
Kind of, I don't know.
It seems dramatic to say it kept me going, but it kind of did.
So kept you motivated at least.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, that's.
And guys, fucking someday, the entire human race, race
will be like this for everything.
Yeah.
And that, that's, that's a worthy connection to make.
Cause it's like, this is a bit of a transhumanism thing.
It's like I was broken and I'm fixed.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
I got LASIK, which is a very, that's my weak argument for transhumanism.
I've mentioned the glasses thing before, but now I don't get to make that point.
Now I get to say, I wasn't content with the eyes nature gave me.
So I got laser eyes.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
Well, it's not, not interesting.
And right now I'm seeing slightly worse with glasses, which is driving me insane,
but I've got a few more weeks before I need to go complain to my doctor about it.
So, um, but just the, the transhumanism point that, you know, it, you know, and this
is transhumanism and never literally everything else.
Don't settle, you know, if you're not happy with where things are, you know,
get out there and crush it.
Right.
So.
Life gives you lemons.
Don't make lemonade.
Get mad.
Great life.
Take the lemons back.
Get your engineers to build lemons that are combustible.
So you can burn life's house down.
Demand to see life's manager.
Or make one of those.
I really got to memorize that whole thing.
I had it all.
I have it all on my phone because I'm a complete nerd.
I have all 11 minutes of cave Johnson's dialogue from portal to
I'm not familiar with this.
Oh, portal to, I never actually played.
I had the entire speech framed on my wall up until the thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Awesome.
I think portal one was the better game, but portal two had more memorable moments
like that, like cave Johnson portal.
Portal one was fun for like the ingenuity.
Portal two was fun because it was engaging for all the other reasons.
The dialogue was insanely awesome.
They had Steven merchant do the voice of like the little robot that's guiding you around.
And one of the best things to do in that game was just like to just stand there.
If you said to do something and just, just see what he said.
They recorded so much dialogue room to sit there.
Like, well, I guess if you're ready to get around to it, we can go do this.
Are you there?
Okay.
Like there's just so many random, plenty of things like that.
And then like random, not random, just creative ways to drive home.
Hilarious jokes.
Like, you know, there's different chapters of the game and it'll show the bottom
like chapter this or whatever.
And it's like, you know, you're going along and then, oh, no, I think this is the
part where he kills us and then chapter eight, the part where he kills you.
And then he's big there on the screen.
Hello, this is the part where I kill you.
And then you get a 50 point achievement, the part where he kills you.
Just little funny meta jokes like that were hilarious.
Did you, did you play the first portal?
I played the first portal, but not the second one.
Yeah, no, I love, I love, I mean, I should, you know, I got a, I finally
got a computer that can play games.
So maybe I'll go get that.
I'm sure it's super cheap.
I'd check it out.
Yeah.
Many, many, many years late.
It's probably, yeah, a dollar.
The gaming experience is the same.
So go nuts.
Cool.
I will.
All right.
You know, we, we took a couple, your turn to do something.
So my thing.
Okay.
Uh, so I, I know that a number, a large, large, a decent fraction of our
audience anyway is interested in stoicism and stoic philosophy.
And, uh, we have a friend who was on the podcast before Thomas Elliott.
Uh, he was on the podcast about Burning Man and he talked about like, why would
you go to Burning Man when you can just go to like, to all the ancient
ruins directly and see these great cultural things and talk with the actual
masters of the stuff.
And I was like, well, some of us aren't as adventurous and awesome as you are.
Um, but, and that would take more than a week, a year, maybe.
Yeah, that too.
Yeah.
That, that was an entire lifestyle for him for a number of years.
Uh, but right now he has made it his next product, uh, product, his next project
to translate the, well, in curidian.
Yes.
In curidian.
Is that he pronounced it?
He is in curidian.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I mean, it has been translated before.
Oh, quickly.
The in curidian is a stoic philosophy manual, circa 125 AD, uh, by epic, epic, epic
Titus, epic Titus.
Thank you.
You're on top of this shit.
At a stoic phase.
Nice.
Okay.
Uh, and yeah, there, there have been translations in the past, but he was not, uh,
content with them.
And so he is starting a Kickstarter right now to find this translation thing that
he's doing.
Um, and it hasn't launched yet, but the Kickstarter will launch by the time this
episode airs, I believe.
So we'll have a link to it.
Um, as an example, he said, he gave this, my translation of lesson 40 of the
inquiry in cur, in cur, in curidian.
Yeah, I think so.
Of the in curidian is really different from the prior ones.
And I think it is a good representation of why a new translation can be important.
I think my translation is not only more suited to being understood by modern
ears, but is also actually significantly more faithful to the original word choice.
I recognize that, of course, my translation is going to be colored by my
current historical biases, but I honestly believe they're less than the previous
ones, at least in this instance.
So previously lesson 40 women from 14 years old are flattered by men with the
title of mistress, therefore perceiving that they are regarded only as qualified
to give men pleasure.
They begin to adorn themselves and in that place all their hopes.
It is worthwhile, therefore, to try that they may perceive themselves honored
only so far as they appear beautiful in their demeanor and modestly virtuous.
My translation, women as young as 14 are catcalled by men.
This can give them the impression that the only thing they're good for is sex.
And so they put all their hopes in making themselves look good.
Instead, you should compliment women on their behavior and virtue.
Yeah, one of those is a lot more understandable.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, the first one just strikes me as a really lazy translation
because it's like it seems almost verbatim.
It has the weird horrible structure of Latin, whereas his translation is like
sounds like English.
So yeah, that's awesome.
And I can only imagine that at the time the original translation was made, it was
the fashion to do it, you know, as close as possible, which there's a
virtue to that probably.
But yeah, definitely if you want someone to actually read and like it, it's better
to have it more palatable.
So yeah, he's starting the Kickstarter for that.
Thought it'd be interesting to a lot of people.
Also a slight self-interest in this.
If the Kickstarter reaches a certain stretch goal, he is going to pay me to
do the audiobook version.
It's only 8,000 words, so it's not very long.
But you know, you might be able to get to hear my wonderful voice reading things.
Well, that'd be awesome.
Yeah, I'll definitely contribute to that.
That sounds fun.
Cool.
Yeah, sounds good.
