So it's part of the same reason that your parents, when you were a kid,
would say everyone eats dinner together.
It is good for social bonding.
Yeah.
It was all, it was pretty well thought out.
And like there were some like intelligent criticisms of it, but most of it
was literally just like smearing like, like associative.
Like this, this reminds me of things that are bad.
Therefore it's bad.
I'm like, that's, and the ratio of that kind of comment to the good kind of
comment was very high.
And I was like, this is really disappointing because basically tells me
that like the actual capacity for experimentation and growth has got to be
pretty low if, if we're, if we're cutting things off the table that are basically
necessary things for forming an organization.
And most of these criticisms came from within the community.
This wasn't all of them.
So I mean, it would have been more understandable if somebody from the
outside heard about this house.
We will get together and then wake up at six 30 and work out every morning or
whatever and then do this and that.
And they do it because they're part of this online group called less wrong.
It's like, Oh, that's interesting.
I've heard of other groups that do that.
Like Zion toilet, whatever.
Right.
P 99 X.
So, right.
P nine.
What is it?
The P 90 X.
I think it'd be 90 X.
Okay.
Um, I guess it would have been our send all from the outside.
So what did happen from the inside?
Why let's, let's try and.
I, maybe that's the right word.
Try and empathize with what was going on here.
Try and model the people who would attack this very fairly.
What was, well, if you were ripping them apart for doing this, what would
you have been saying, or why would you have said it?
I, well, I didn't say anything.
Uh, I think publicly I said something along the lines of God, I don't
remember if I've commented at all, I would have said something along the lines
of their, your adults do what you want.
You know, let these people try their thing.
We got to experiment and see what works.
Um, as an emotional reaction, I was like, Oh, fuck.
No, I'm staying the hell away from this because I very much have
the, uh, disliking of authority and anyone trying to, I want to like, I want
to want a, that sort of, uh, social structure where my brother was in the
military and he says, I was such an amazing thing to have this group
cohesion, you know, and I'm very sorry for him that he was in the military.
Cause that's a shitty place to get this thing.
But, uh, I'm not really rambling.
I'm not good with that sort of feeling that I am being imposed upon by an
authority figure and whoever was in charge of this would automatically
become the authority figure that I have to rebel against and be like, no, fuck
you, I ain't going to do this cause you told me to do it.
Do you think you would have felt the same when you were like 20?
Oh yeah.
I've been feeling this way my entire life because I feel like my feeling was
like, man, I wish this had been around when I was 20, cause I would have
shaved my head and been a space monkey immediately.
But like now I'm like, I'm kind of already got my personality kind of locked.
So, so I don't know if like,
like nowadays I might even try it just to try a new thing.
As long as I knew the barrier to escape was the barrier, the barrier to exit
was really low, but part of the point of one of these exercises is to make the
barrier to exit a little higher than most things.
So I still probably wouldn't have signed up, but that's like signing
it for bootcamp at the military that like, you can leave, you know, but the
idea is that it's, you know, there's some shame involved and there's probably
some paperwork or whatever.
Lots of incentives not to, you know, you lose your, your pay and benefits that
if you actually finish the program.
But that part of that is to keep you in it, right?
And it's like a, I mentioned stick before, I think on the last episode
with two Ks, not sure if they're still around, but the idea that you could put
up your own money to say, if I don't commit to going to the gym every three
times a week, then I lose the money and then that way it's good.
I'm glad they're still there.
I think the reason I had such a negative reaction to it is because it, I was
raised in a cult and not a mild cult, not, not a hardcore one, but right away
I was like, nope, someone who thinks that they're in charge.
I am allergic to all this.
Get me the fuck out.
But this wasn't actually a cult.
And you can see that it wasn't.
So I guess I'm curious, you weren't actually impassioned to, you know, go
to the keyboard and say this is a bad idea, but neither did you come out and
defend it.
So I don't remember if I came out and defended it, but I would have said we
need more experience, go for it.
They're adults.
They can do what they want.
I just personally had squished, squeamish feelings about it and would have
never touched it.
Yeah.
I think I, I don't remember, but I think I probably didn't say anything
because I was like, this sounds really interesting, but it really is possible
that this guy is like just like psycho who, who wants to put himself in a
position to power.
And then I will really regret having said this was a cool idea, which I now
feel a bit cowardly about because what was actually happening is like everyone
who knew him personally was posting and they were like, really, people have
this all wrong.
Like you're, you're mischaracterizing this and they would have been the
ones to trust about it.
I think so part of your whole, it's easy to assassinate people on character,
assassinate people online.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, that's the only part of that.
So my, the other way to spend that though is it, so why were, why was the other,
why were other intelligent rationalists speaking out against it so vehemently
if they weren't coming from a cult like background?
I guess I can't quite sympathize because just a general background of people
who've been abusive to them and, and pattern matching this guy's behavior too.
This is a controlling individual who just gets off on power and it's going
to become abusive.
It's going to become a, a Milgram experiment or Stanford prison experiment either.
No, Stanford prison is the one I'm going for, even though that one is apparently
complete bullshit.
Yeah.
Um, but I think that's probably the pattern match that's happening.
But aren't we better than that?
I mean, are we supposed to be better than that?
We're supposed to be better than that.
And, and as the thing was described, sounded to me like it was thought out pretty well.
So that's the weird thing.
It's like we, everyone signing up for that is in the rationalist community.
And so you would think, okay, these are people who are at least familiar
with rationalist skills.
They can maybe take care of themselves.
And yet everyone's still right away jumped on the, this is a cult.
People shouldn't do it because I guess the, the urge to protect people
from themselves is very strong.
Yeah, that's well put.
Yeah, it's like an expectation that once they get into this environment,
they're going to become brainwashed and not be able to leave.
And it's like, that's a pretty low expectation of human beings in general.
And how, when were you born roughly ish?
85.
85.
Okay.
I remember in the late eighties up through the, I think mid nineties, there was
the whole satanic panic and the cult thing in the U S maybe the, you know, younger
generations coming after us won't have quite this mentality.
Cause dude, I absolutely remember the, yeah, you, if you play dungeons and dragons,
you're going to end up murdering your friends in a basement cause you're going
to get brainwashed into thinking that you're the, the, you know, people on these
adventures and when your character dies, you got to kill the player too.
Keep it realistic, you know,
but that's the average idiot.
That's not the average rationalist.
So as long as we're talking about how we're not a cult, we can say that there
are aspects of the rationality culture that are better in some respects than
culture at large.
Yeah, but I think it's so hard to internalize that that just the, the impulse
to, to, to paternalism comes so naturally to everyone.
And admitting that makes a sound culty because every, every subgroup will say
that, right?
So, and I don't know those guys.
So they could be, I mean, like, I feel like even if you're like a Mormon, which
is a fairly close knit thing, like I've, I've definitely, I've like my Facebook
wall right now is, is alive with people who were like Mormons arguing with
Mormons about this scandal that's happening.
The details aren't really that important that I could go into it.
But basically, I am slightly interested.
There's a Mormon scandal right now.
Yeah.
It's this idea that there's some interview that's part of their process of, of
going through the process of education indoctrination, however you
want to phrase it.
And the interview is always like one of the church elders alone in the room
with the kid, a teenage kid who may be a woman or a man.
And apparently there's been, um, allegations that this context is being
taken advantage of for abuse, which we've seen in other churches.
That never happened to the church.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and then, and so a lot of the Mormons are saying, like, you know, maybe,
maybe there just needs to be two people in the room for these things.
And like the response of the Mormon church is apparently like the head of
that movement is like going to be excommunicated.
So it's like, that's not a, that's not a good look.
Um, but, but like, yeah, this is tangent from what my point was, which was
just like, I'm not going to, I'm not going to vouch for some other guy who
claims to be part of the rationalist community.
Um, but I'll vouch for my community and the people I know.
And I think that's kind of how religions work is there's webs of, of smaller
communities of people that are linked by shared ideology across space and they
form a global mesh that way.
But it only works if you have the local, uh, web.
Yeah.
I, that actually brings something to mind.
Uh, I'm not aware of anybody who's been excommunicated from the rationality community.
Has that ever happened to anyone's knowledge?
You'd have to have an excommunicator.
