through time.
He uses it initially to like teleport back in time.
And then he uses it later to revert to a younger version of himself.
Does he?
He uses it in the final fight scene.
Yeah.
And he doesn't, there's not two cables in the, in the final fight scene.
The second time, there's just the one.
Oh, yeah, you're right.
And then half the time that Deadpool uses it, he, he does both.
Yeah, they were inconsistent about that.
This is a movie that rakes the fourth wall though.
So it does hard to feel too bad about it, but it, but if Deadpool had turned
to the camera and said, I know what this isn't consistent, out of
and fine with it, maybe he does.
Maybe it's one of the fast lines to get away with or something.
Maybe he does say like, why weren't there two of you?
I don't know.
Uh, my other thing that I put on the list was very, very, very fast.
Cause I wanted to get into it, but I'll be quick.
The James Gunn slash Guardians of the Galaxy three movie, uh, Guardians of
Galaxy three was put on permanent or on indefinite hiatus because James Gunn put
out some bad tweets eight years ago.
And while he was working for trauma, no less.
Yeah.
Are you familiar with trauma?
No.
Oh my God.
Okay.
So trauma is totally the sort of production company that would
want you to put out those tweets.
They made, uh, like the toxic Avenger and Sergeant Kabuki man and
Tromeo and Juliet.
And it's basically extremely bad taste, campy horror.
That was popular in the eighties, popular in quotes.
I mean, they had weird cults followings, but yeah, it was all about like gore
and boobs and just everything you think about like eighties, cheap B movie
horror, that was their thing.
And they leaned right into it.
They were like, we love this.
This is us.
We're going to have exploding tits on the screen and like in one movie,
like they found a script about, uh, about a movie and there was like tits
explode on page 97.
They're like, this is terrible movie.
What the fuck?
And then 30 minutes later in the movie, somebody's tits explode when she's
shot in the back from a shotgun.
It's ridiculous bullshit, but they're totally the kind of production company
that would want him pushing those sorts of tweets.
So that makes me more in, in his camp.
I'm, I'm, I'm, so the Guardians of the Galaxy, I'm referring to the actors
now, but I'm going to, it's no surprise that I'll side with the Guardians of
the galaxy, um, uh, in both the jokey sense and the real sense.
They all signed a letter saying, look, who he was eight years ago.
Isn't who he is now?
He's totally awesome.
And we all agree.
You guys should, this is, you know, a joke, adding to that, the fact that this
was a deliberate character assassination by an alt-right nut job.
Cause gun was insulting President Trump kind of makes this a whole dangerous,
precedent, scary thing.
Um, so it's been a dangerous, precedent, scary thing for a while now.
People have been getting
impacting the MCU.
So now the stakes are right now.
Steven's getting up and he's ready to join the fight.
Okay.
Um, uh, you know, there, I'm, it's funny that I'm joking.
It's late and I'm tired, but anyway, I thought there was something, there's
more interesting stuff to explore there.
But the point is, is like, I think that, uh, I was going to say he was an
asshole making bad jokes eight years ago.
If now I know that he's working for a place that like, you know, was leaning
into this kind of humor, granted, this dark humor, no one, no one, no one
today should find it funny.
And you know, most people, I'm assuming that sort of production
company are already the sort of edge of Lord asshole type.
There was the kind of that, like that sort of humor.
So yeah, he could have still been sort of an asshole making bad jokes,
but that was, that was part of the thing happening.
Right.
And Disney news history.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's stupid.
Yeah.
The main, the main thing was that like now that this is out there, there's
not even going to be a conversation.
We need to, we need to placate immediately.
Right.
So, I mean, you know, you were talking about using dark arts and I'm like, with
the current climate, we should just continue to whine about this forever
because it'll probably work.
Well, because like companies are, are, are actually, you know, complying
with, with Twitter mobs.
This is happening now, which is ridiculous, which is ridiculous.
And I'm not happy about it.
But if it's happening anyway, maybe we can get James Gunn back on Guardians
three.
I think that'd be great for, for not just for having a good Guardians three, but
also for the other societal benefits.
I personally am very happy that Guardians three got put on permanent hiatus
because I think stealing it from him was really wrong and it would not be the
right movie without him.
Totally.
Yeah.
That for that's, in that sense, I'm glad it was put on a hiatus.
I gave you a very angry look when you said you were glad it was taken off.
No, no, no, I wouldn't be happy if it came back with him.
Okay.
Yeah.
But I'm glad that they didn't continue on like taking it from him.
Yeah.
Right on.
Uh, I definitely want to hear about, uh, your recovery from your migraine issues.
Yeah.
Um, I don't know, I'm trying to think of what, whether to, how to frame this, but
like I basically had chronic migraines for like between six and 15 years,
depending on how you count, um, depending on whether you count from my, from when
I was diagnosed or from when I probably started actually having it, but didn't know.
And for people who've been listening for a while, um, Matt was actually on our
episode about rationally raising kids or rational parenting, uh, and had to leave
maybe 20, 25 minutes in because the migraine got so bad he couldn't stand
up without vomiting anymore.
Yeah.
Um, and that's, that's kind of what my life has been like for many, many years.
And the reason I'm bringing this up is like, first of all, I never do talk
about this normally because it's like, I don't know, you don't want to seem weak
and, and pathetic and like stigmatized, but like, I've finally found this drug
that's actually like cured it.
Um, and I haven't had any headaches in a month, which is like the first time
that's happened in, in six years at least.
Awesome.
Um, so it's kind of amazing.
And I don't know if I had any, like a point other than just like, it's, it's
really quite a, quite a thing.
We're happy for you.
You have a great quality of life improvement.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I, and I get not wanting to be, you know, talking about that sort of thing.
Um,
What is the drug?
Is it like some kind of experimental new thing?
It's newly approved by the FDA.
Um, and what it does is basically it's like a neurotransmitter blocker for a
particular neurotransmitter channel that just like stays in your body for, for
a long period of time.
And, um, it just worked like, it doesn't work perfectly for everyone.
And in fact, most people, it, it helps a little bit, but I just happened to be
someone who had basically cured and it's a, it's a really weird, it's really
weird time.
It's an early weird month.
I like one thing I was, I was saying to people is like, I kind of feel like I
just got out of prison because there's like, like you would naively think when
someone gets out of prison, that they're, that they would be overjoyed, but
actually there's like a mixture of bitterness about the time that they lost
and then like, um, paralysis at, at like the possibilities before them.
That's kind of my actual state.
I'm not trying to be negative about it cause I'm, I'm actually thrilled, but
it's a, it's a subjectively interesting experience to be cured of something
that you've had your whole life.
I can only imagine.
And yeah, I'm overjoyed.
That's awesome.
Uh, thanks.
Is this, I guess if you said it doesn't have a very high success rate for the
average person, maybe it's not worth plugging the drug, but it's called
aimovig.
Yeah.
I'm really sorry about cutting you off.
I literally thought the question was just going to be a quick, what's it called?
Aimovig.
Okay.
And back to you.
So I didn't mean, didn't mean to steer that away from you.
When, when you were saying, uh, I kind of understand about the whole not wanting
to look vulnerable.
Oh, sure.
I, I mean, yeah, I was going to raise a related thing, but, um, yeah, it's,
I think it's a big thing in our, well, that used to be a really big thing in our society.
I mean, I think up until the modern era, it was by modern era, I mean, the
past 20 years, it was a really big thing to hide any weakness you had and always
try to look as strong and, and fit as possible.
And I think that might have been somewhat toxic because it's important for
everyone to know that we're all struggling with shit.
And it's, it's good to, to be able to commiserate with other people and comfort
them and say, yeah, I got bad things too.
And you, you know, otherwise everyone feels like they're the secret loser and
everyone else is awesome.
You know, but on the other hand, I think we're also in a weird place in society
now where in some cases people are like fighting to look as disadvantaged as
possible, which is just a thing that has been blowing my mind.
Yeah.
Just, just like from my point of view, like you don't want to, you don't
really want to tell your employer how, um, uh, impaired you are.
You don't want to be the one in every social situation who needs to basically
be taken care of or, or, or, uh, no, I can't go eat there for this reason.
No, I can't do that activity because it would wear me out too quickly.
