I think if I remember correctly, this is either something they did or thought
about doing or making this all up, but they thought about, uh, paying for some
people to come.
So you guys pay, you guys are the ones who really want to come and get this.
So we'll see how you guys do and it'll pay for you to come and you guys will
come do that.
Well, guys, you'll guys will do the same thing and you'll see how you do as well.
But that's not even really true blindness because those, I mean, if, uh, if the,
um, you know, whatever church of Mormon wanted me to come join them for a
three week course, unless they're going to, you know, set me up pretty nice for
three weeks, I'd probably just say, no, thanks, right?
So that's already a pretty small self-selected group.
It's pretty interesting that as far as I know, the single most effective way to
get people into rationality has been Harry Potter and the methods of rationality.
I'm glad that came up.
Yeah.
It's like, I believe last time I was to see how they, uh, had a survey,
like 30% of the people who first found out about rationality found about it
specifically from reading that and then being like, Oh, this sounds
interesting.
Yeah.
Nice.
That was essentially me.
Yeah.
It feels like it's a great filter for finding the kind of people that do
like this kind of thing.
Yeah.
I would have been rationality adjacent back then because I was listening to
rationally speaking and you know, it doesn't get much more adjacent than that.
Um, but I was, I was in that group of people that would have, you know, like
you said, would have read it anyway.
Um, I just needed to, I didn't know it existed.
It's showing people what life is like through demonstration, which is, you
know, one of the things fiction does best, but going back to my old cult
ways, um, one of the things we often heard in church was like, just live a
good, happy, successful life.
And other people will be like, what's that person doing?
That's so successful.
Oh, he's Jehovah's Witness.
Maybe I should look into that.
And so, I mean, you were always, always on display.
It's one of the reasons that I don't have any bumper stickers on my car.
Identifying myself as an atheist because I kind of drive like an ass and I
don't want people to think, Oh, atheists drive like asses.
But yeah, my entire life, everywhere I go, I'm always under the, you know,
feeling I'm a representation of the group I'm most people, most strongly
identify me with, which has been a large part of the reason why I try not to
advertise the groups I identify with.
Yeah, that's understandable.
I tend not to advertise myself at all.
Like I tend to wear darker colors or like nothing with a brand's name on it.
I don't have any bumper stickers.
Not because I don't want to be identified as something, but mainly
because like if I got pulled over and I have a Hilary bumper sticker and
they're a Trump, the cop is a Trump voter.
I don't want to get a ticket for that reason.
So I'm going to be completely neutral to everybody all the time and I can
blend in quietly and no one will talk to me or bother me.
But I mean, the cool thing is, especially back in the days, like when
Christianity was being persecuted in the Roman Empire and stuff, if you had
some secret way to identify other Christians, all of a sudden you guys
got this really tight bond, you know, like, Oh shit, you're a Christian.
Yeah, no, go off without a ticket.
And do you need any help with this?
You know, how are your kids doing?
It is, if you can find the other people that you identify strongly with,
there's much more coordination, even just like out in the world, you know?
Yeah, maybe like a vague bumper sticker then in my car of like
something only another rationalist would get.
A big yud.
Yeah, sure.
Or just, you know, Harry snapping his fingers like that little logo or
something.
Yeah, that'd be awesome.
Um, yeah.
And then, you know, the one cop who pulls me over is like, Oh my god,
you had methods of rationality.
Oh man, you're not going to get a speeding ticket.
Here's 50 bucks.
I don't know how that works.
Yeah, I like, I like that you brought up the methods of rationality because
like that at the meetup, actually, one thing we were talking about was
this idea that number one, I feel like there should be a more concise
resource than the sequences.
Like, like there is actually benefit to having to get through millions of
words because it sinks in deeper, I think.
But also I feel like there should be like a 100 page rationality handbook.
And I, which I wrote two pages of since that meeting.
But anyway, I feel like there should be more on ramps because like methods
of rationality is a great on ramp.
But there could be many different kinds of on ramps and HPM or like it's
controversial is one thing about it.
Like it, it sucks in a lot of people, but it filters out a different subset of
people.
And I'm like, well, what if you had this other thing over here that was
rationalist propaganda, frankly, I mean, I can say that that's what we're
talking about, except in a different voice without Yudkowsky's idiosyncrasies,
which, which I personally love, but a lot of people don't.
Like, and I'm not just saying that idly, like I seriously think about like,
I've thought many times actually over that's what Slate Star Codex is, right?
It certainly, yeah, yeah, that's, that's another one.
That's a very different animal that it, but it is.
Yeah.
Um, and I've thought about like, what would I make?
And it's like, well, I never quite get there actually, but it's fun to think
about anyway.
I've thought of like pamphlets for the same reason.
And there's a PDF on the Facebook page for the group that isn't so much of
like a here's more of like a, if this is your first meeting, you know, you
can read this, I don't know how long of how many words on a pamphlet, but like,
you know, somewhere in like the low hundreds, you know, you can read this in
you know, 10 minutes and you'll be able to follow some of the lingo or something.
Um, we have something like that on our Facebook page, don't we?
That's what I'm saying.
Yeah.
Like a two page thing.
Yeah.
So we have that.
Um, but it's not a, here's why you should be rationalized to say, here's a
way to, you know, keep up with the conversation at the meetups.
Um, I don't know how you could make something that short that would inspire
people that wouldn't just be any generic, here's our cult.
Um, no, no, no, I mean that like, not, not a pejorative way.
Um, cause you know, when you're saying a hundred page thing, I'm thinking
that's way too long.
I'm not going to be able to convince somebody who has no real
interest to read a hundred page thing.
Um, and I think it's great.
And if, you know, if you have any interest in making a collaborative effort,
I feel, feel like that's something our group could do.
Yeah.
That, that, that occurred to me because basically to make it as like a
collaborative Google doc.
Um, and, but, but like, like you said, there's so many kind of design
questions, if you will, that go into it, like, okay, what is this?
Is this an instructional?
Um, does this contain rationality, rationality techniques?
Does it contain theory?
Does it contain both?
Um, is it more of a persuasive piece?
Is it more of a, this is a, this is why, this is why you should bother with this.
Like influence science and practice.
Um, have you read that?
That's literally what I started reading this week.
So perfect.
I was going to say, if you haven't, there's that.
And then he co-authored another book called, uh, yes, exclamation point, 50
ways to get people to agree with you or something.
Um, and it's just 50 little anecdotes, but yeah, that's a great book.
I strongly recommend it.
Cause I think we're all on the same page in that it's like, we don't
want to persuade people.
We want to trick them.
We don't want to trick people.
We want to portray what we actually genuinely view as the worthwhile things
about it.
Cause I don't think that document exists.
I don't think the, here is the essay on why you should actually check this stuff out.
I don't think that does exist.
And to be clear, I was shilling for influence, not for yes, the book, uh,
influenced, written by Robert Sildini.
And the fourth edition is available on Amazon for a penny.
So you just pay shipping.
I'm not sure if you can get it with prime or not, but it's, it's cheap as dirt.
Cheaper than dirt, probably.
I don't know about dirt.
Um, depending on the quality of the dirt, it can be expensive.
Right.
So the, one thing that you can do, like this brings to mind when you said, you know,
how is it, there's, um, I forget the name of the technique when you're designing
an app or like designing how to, uh, cause we're, I'm building, like I said,
a mobile app with some friends at work.
Um, you put on like user personas and you think, okay, this is as this kind of
user, here's what I want to be able to do.
And as this kind, I want to be able to do this.
And you can think of a couple, three, four types of people who might be using
this kind of thing and you can tailor it to all of them.
Um, but you're, you're doing it by thinking first, uh, kind of of your
target audience, you know, who's this four and what are they, what are they
going to use this for?
Um, so then that helps you write to that, to that, um, to that end.
Yeah.
I'm worried about being too bland.
Uh, one of the things that he did bring up in the Moscow, uh, Moscow
community hub article was that there are a lot of anti cafes in Moscow and
they generally charge about five times more per minute than he does.
And, uh, those cafes are, they have a lot more people in them and they, you
know, have a lot of like playstations and, uh, uh, soccer and stuff like that.
And, and he says, I realized that I could make a lot more money on this by
doing the same thing, by appealing to a much wider audience, but I don't want to
do that.
I want to keep this place filtered for the people who are, you know, more
like the rationalist people who spend a lot of time on introspection and
thinking about thinking and stuff like that.
And yeah, it's, it's not the financially best idea, but it also keeps the
space the way I want it to be.
And I don't know, are we trying to appeal to literally everyone?
Because I know there's a, there's got to be some cutoff as to the market that
we actually can feasibly, uh, sell to.
I don't, I don't like to use sell, but still remain who we are and have
