our, our mission be what it is.
I think those are two separate points though.
Who will buy our thing and who are we trying to sell it to?
And those should be kind of the same question, but they're not, right?
So, um, I think at the end goal, we don't want to have this elite.
Well, maybe we do this elite class of rationalists who we've become an
exclusive club with a high barrier to entry.
Um, you know, we're not going to raise the sanity waterline by staying at
being 0.08% of the population or something, right?
Or whatever we're at.
I just think that there's growth may need to be a little bit slower than
right away, open the doors to everyone because we need to open to everyone.
Yeah, they are open to everyone, but there's a lot of filters in that
prevent most people from coming.
Yeah, I think that's a really great point that like, I haven't thought
about it for five minutes, but I would say that, that our, our target
would be anyone who would have a good time hanging out with the type
of person who enjoys rational stuff, um, but who otherwise wouldn't
join the rationalist community because of any number of reasons.
Like I run into people all the time online who, um, won't name any names,
but like some people who I'm just like, man, you would fit in like this.
You would like this and, and, but you've, especially if they're an internet
person, they already have some prior impression of the rationality community,
which is negative or yeah, usually negative, honestly.
And I'm like, even for very, very superficial reasons, like, oh, it's
a bit arrogant to call yourself a rationalist, isn't it?
I'm like, come on.
But, but like that's, that's the level on which I'm like, you say, like even
you saying that makes me think that you're the kind of person who thinks
in terms that I could appeal to if, if I could get past that wall.
Yeah.
It's, it's really disheartening.
I think it was, was it Greg Egon?
I think it was Greg Egon who's written some amazing books, which are just
considered like, you know, near the top of rational, um, fiction canon, right?
Uh, and he is so anti the movement that he wrote in a less wrong analog
in one of his books as villains.
And I'm like, dude, you're right there with us.
Oh my God.
How did we miss the boat on that one?
I'm just guessing having not read any of his books or read this one in particular,
but I bet Pete, I bet rationalists loved that.
I mean, we had a rationalist analog as the best villain ever in methods
of rationality.
Well, yeah, but they were not, they were not good villains.
They were like the, they were like the, the nerd trio from Buffy season six.
I think it was season six.
I haven't seen, I've only seen most of season one of Buffy, but maybe we'll
say like Spock.
No, no, no, not at all like Spock.
They, they, they were inept socially incompetent.
Uh,
Oh, Sheldon's.
Yes.
Okay.
Well, that sucks.
Yeah.
So he couldn't even do this, the justice of not straw manning us.
Right.
Weak.
But I mean, there's, for some reason, he's coming to that impression, right?
It just drives me crazy because like, in relative to the actual overton window
of like what is talked about as mattering us and Greg Egon are on the same page.
Oh yeah.
Like, so, so it's so destructive and pointlessly wasteful to, for like, it reminds
me of all the like David Chalmers attacks on rationality.
I'm like, dude, you're, you're one of us.
Come on.
Yeah.
Oh wait, we did a, um, we haven't done this episode yet.
We did, can we do a vocab drop?
What was an overton window for anyone who's not familiar?
Overton windows is, is, um, the, the domain of political or even perhaps even
non-political topics that it's acceptable to talk about in society.
Um, at a given point in time.
And so the point is that the, the, the boundaries of the overton window shift
over time, um, to exclude certain things.
At one point it was not at all okay about talking about gay people.
Like, I mean, you basically couldn't even mention it back in the day.
And then it shifted a little and you could talk about it, but only in terms
of like those are bad people.
And, and, you know, it's gone more and more to the point where now people are
like, yeah, those trans people are awesome.
You know, which is not the same thing as gay, but you know, it's, it's, it's past
that term in terms of for the general public.
That's one step even past that historically anyway.
Yeah, for sure.
So yeah.
And, and similarly, no longer acceptable to talk about certain racial things
that were acceptable in the past.
So yeah, it's, um, but I mean, like the, the actual overton window of,
of discourse doesn't even like, like what we want is like orthogonal to that.
And as far as I can tell, like, if I have, like, I honestly think the
closest thing I have to like political convictions is that humans should
like think more clearly, figure out the truth about things and then pursue the
right answers.
It's like, well, Matt, that's not a political philosophy.
It's like, well, yeah, no, I mean, uh, apparently either side of the spectrum
is equally inimical to actually just finding out what the truth is.
So I guess I'm in neither of those camps.
That's me in half my moods.
And then last two years, my, I've developed the second mood.
I want to make a quick interjection for the record.
Uh, we had technical issues and had to stop recording for a little bit.
We have now come back and are recording again.
Uh, that is why there was sort of a disjoint in the conversation here.
Yeah, we went downstairs and politics came up.
So that's where we came back up too.
But I wanted to, uh, finish up the episode.
We've been on it for almost a couple of hours.
So it's about time to wrap it up, but we had in that note section, I mentioned
at the top of the episode, a, uh, subheading called side topics, uh, to
indulge Steven slash to stir the pot.
And there's at least a couple of these I wanted to get around to if we have time.
Um, do at least one.
All right.
Well, the one we get, this one is the one you most want to do because we may
not have time for a couple.
All right.
Well, one's 30 seconds.
Okay.
One, I saw Deadpool two, uh, for the second time, cause like, uh, someone had it on
their server and I was able to watch it at home.
And I tried to watch it this time.
Um, I had somebody critique the first one when I showed them cause they didn't
watch a lot of like movies and stuff.
They're like, yeah, I don't know.
It was okay, but you know, I didn't even pass the bedshell test or anything.
And I'm like, okay.
So I, anyway, I wanted to watch Deadpool two to see if it did.
And I don't think it did either.
But so then I, I mainly was just thinking like the bedshell test, you know,
Terminator two and aliens didn't pass it.
And like, no, no, no alien specifically did pass it.
That's the strip that invented the term bechtel test was referencing alien.
Aliens wasn't, wasn't she the only woman in that movie?
No, there was, uh, Vasquez, no aliens had Vasquez, but the original alien also
had a second female.
Okay.
Well, fair enough.
So Terminator two then.
All right.
But whatever, I was going to say that like, sir, sir, mix of lots.
I like big butts passes as a bedshell test.
Yes.
And so I, so I guess I brought that up because I think that's a bad test.
Yeah.
Well, the Bechtel test was never intended to be an, you know, a one-off test on
a single movie to determine whether it's a good movie or a bad movie.
It's more of a barometer of the entire movie seen as a whole.
And so taken in broad strokes across the entire industry, it is indicative of
something in any one given movie.
It's like taking the temperature any one given day.
You can't say, oh, global warming is real.
A global warming is fake because the temperature is higher or lower than it
was yesterday.
You look over a large span of time.
Also, I'm pretty sure Sarah Connor has a conversation with one of the psychiatric
ward women about opening the door while she's holding the man hostage.
Boom.
There we go.
Was that a woman?
All I remember was that pasty doctor.
No, you're right.
You're right.
It was, uh, yeah, yeah, the woman was she had the, the drain on his neck.
Yeah.
She, she had the drain on his neck and she's saying open the door.
Or I'll kill him.
It's they're talking about a man, right?
Oh, my God.
Do I win on pedantic points there?
I'm sure we can find another woman somewhere in that movie.
I don't know.
Um, we can't find his wife.
We can't find a bigger badass than Sarah Connor in that movie, which is kind of
the point of what you're saying that it's not, it's not a fantastic test for
judging a movie's merit.
Cause it's like, she's the like protagonist.
So yeah.
Anyway, I, that was my just random thought I had anyone.
Anyway, everyone should watch Deadpool two and add one minor quibble.
You guys saw it.
No.
Oh, Deadpool two.
Yeah, I'd loved it.
You haven't seen it.
Oh, then I'll save it.
No, no, that's fine.
You're good.
You should see it.
Is this like a big spoiler?
Um, are you familiar with the premise?
Uh, you know, just, it doesn't matter.
I don't care about spoilers.
Are you quite sure?
Yeah.
Okay.
Fine.
Cause it ruins one of the funny things, but cables watch, let them teleport
