Be sure to put that on the, on the episode.
Yeah, I didn't know you had a stoic face.
Yeah.
Was this like in high school?
A lot of phases.
No, it was probably like four or five years ago.
Oh, awesome.
Yeah.
It's good, it's good stuff.
I think it overlaps with rationality quite a bit too.
In terms of, in terms of the outlook mainly.
I think that's why there is the, yeah, the overlap that we have.
I like it.
I had one last thing from our AMA thread that I put up at the end of the last episode,
which we recorded almost a month ago, exactly.
It's been a long time since we sat down to do this, so it's good to be back.
So we have exactly one post on there so far and somebody with an incomprehensible
Reddit handle, but they said, hi, Eli, assuming that's their name.
Wanted to know if we're doing, well, this is to you, but it's on our subreddit.
Are you going to do an unsung audio book?
No, partially, well, mainly because someone is already doing an unsung audio book.
In defense of doing another one, I checked on that and it like has been
stalled for a long time.
I haven't checked on it recently, but it was, it was backlogged by a while
and the person said that they were, as far as I could tell, it was uncertain
whether or not it was going to finish.
Oh, how far did they get?
I'm not sure.
I checked back when I was reading on songs like two years ago.
Okay.
I did, I did like what they had going.
Okay.
Let's, let's double check.
Yeah.
If it, if it ends up having been abandoned, then yeah, maybe possibly in the future.
Am I doing an unsung audio book?
Assuming, of course, it's fine with Scott.
Sounds like a plan.
Oh, I did have also, what was the thing?
Oh, um, yeah.
Masain points out that the left strong study hall is $120 a year.
They do have a two week trial and if you aren't happy, there's a 30 day
money back guarantee, so it's not completely free.
Cool.
But yeah, since we mentioned that in our last episode, it was probably good
to put, uh, mention that as well, that there is a cost to it.
The guy whose name I couldn't figure out how to pronounce M-K-A-I-W-W.
And I was like, can you, uh, apparently call me Kai.
The M and the W's on the end are ignored.
So nice.
Just yeah, putting that out there.
That might have been the same person who wrote in on the last one.
I'll have to double check.
Oh yeah.
There's also someone don't recognize who that has an unpublished draft, less
wrong post titles, something like, why don't motivation techniques work?
Yeah, who would write such a thing?
I think we should motivate him to, to write that because it's, uh, it sounds
really interesting and you say that you've read a bunch of these books and
you've never found, uh, you've never found anything to be really motivating.
Yeah.
Um, that's accurate.
I, uh, don't, uh, I was basically in the post as it stands in draft form is
like sketching out this idea that like, kind of seems like your mind adapts to
every motivation technique that you learn and like finds a way around it.
That was kind of the point that I was making.
And I was like, first of all, why, why is this?
Um, and then, and then how, how could we address this?
I've honestly been having a lot fewer problems with motivation ever since I've
stopped being in horrible physical pain all the time.
So that's maybe coupled to the fact that, um, motivation techniques don't seem
to work for me in the past.
I've noticed that it's much easier for me to do things as well when I'm
feeling more physically and emotionally healthy.
Are we onto something here, guys?
Maybe health is awesome.
Yeah.
Uh, and finally, Will Landu, uh, wants to plug, uh, Deep Work, a great
book by Cal Newport, uh, he does mention a number of things.
Uh, but the, the main thing he hits on is that distractions really suck and can
destroy the, the deep focused work that you need to do a lot of important productive
things.
Uh, he says that's a problem with many contemporary workplaces, too many emails,
meetings, men's instant messages, open office plans, random interruptions, just
feeling that you're always being watched.
And it's just antithetical to productivity.
And so he is on, uh, my side, uh, says, I strongly agree with even
it's Eneosh and Steven, that it takes too much time to recover from interruptions
and would advise against tools like timers that pull you out of your work every 20
minutes.
And yeah, I've also found that I'm really much more productive when I just go
hard for a number of hours.
And to be, to be, uh, clear with my position on that, I've never tried one of those
tools, so it might actually work really well for me, but my suspicion is that it
might not, it might depend.
We also, uh, and Jess agreed to this too.
Like it depends on what we're doing, right?
You know, if it's something that requires you to stay in the, in the zone, and
like if you're, if you've got all this in your head and you're trying to get it
down, then, you know, being pulled out of it is just going to have to make you
rebuild that web again.
So it's interesting.
Even when I was doing, uh, renovations, which is not mentally taxing, it takes a
little bit of, you know, mental work, but it's mainly physical skills.
I still found it much easier to keep working once I'd started working.
If I had to like stop for 20 minutes for stop for five minutes every 20, I don't
know, man, it would have been awful.
But I, I guess I should not knock it before I've tried it.
So at some point I'll give this Pomodoro technique a shot.
Nice.
Oh, and to be clear, Kai was the same one who wrote in with the, um, unsung question.
Oh, okay.
The comment says hi, comma, Eli, comma.
I'm not sure.
Maybe he thinks my name is Eli.
That's a generous misunderstanding of Enya's, but it happens.
Uh, I, I've, I've lived with this name for so long, I've heard everything.
Eli is not too far out of the box.
I just feel like it's too short to even sound like, but yeah, it could be.
That's all right.
Anyway, thanks for the comment, Kai, both of them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Are we done?
I think so.
Okay.
We just have to thank our patron.
Yes.
Uh, you want to do this next time?
Yeah, it, we've had a couple technical issues that have delayed us and it's getting, we're
well into three hours here and we usually, this is going to be like two hour episodes.
So, um, I think we'll save the, we'll do two patrons next time.
Okay.
Okay.
So instead, thanks to Kyle for putting up with our shit and making us sound good.
Thanks for having me, guys.
Yeah.
Thanks again for coming on and, uh, everyone should read Worm and Ward by, I
know some of the other stuff, uh, wild those written, but I haven't read
Twitter packed yet.
So, yeah.
Twig is good.
Okay.
So, uh, but when you guys do read those, listen to Matt's podcast.
Uh, we've got Worm and we've got Ward.
Thank you.
Appreciate that.
Yeah.
Anything else you want to plug while you're here?
No, no, that, that sounds good to me.
Sounds good.
All right.
Thanks everybody.
Bye.
