Enthusiasts would, would say those blusters.
Lots of reasons to own guns.
So.
I think the second amendment is one of the worst reasons to own guns.
Just, I mean, so I, I mean,
you're just awesome.
That's why I would own one.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm, I'm more pro gun than my average friend, but, uh, I'm not pro second
amendment.
I, you know, there was a quote somewhere online that like, you know, the founding
fathers didn't even know what the fuck a germ was.
Like, what am I going to take their position on literally anything today?
Right.
So what, what, what do you have against the second amendment specifically?
I've, I have an issue specifically with saying these people 300 years ago
thought of literally everything that will happen in 20 2018.
I also like, like to hand away and say, Oh, I have the same issue with the,
with the fugitive slave clause in the constitution too.
Just as an example of something like, look, these guys weren't omnipotent.
If that's your actual claim that no, they were literally, you know.
Well, shouldn't you have that same objection to all of the amendments then?
I do.
Well, basically like to any, I, I don't think that's something's worth doing
because it's in the constitution.
I think, I think it's, it's important to have a, a guideline like that the
government sticks to, but to say that's the reason.
Um, I'm not a political scientist.
There's probably great reasons to say that, that we should just defer to
that in cases of concern.
But I think in any reasonable circumstance, there'll be other factors
to point to as to why that's the right reason.
Just like, just like I might say, because it's in the Bible is a bad reason.
I think that it's really good shelling fences though.
The, I mean, yeah, Bible is bullshit, but things like the, the actual government
documents, there's some things you just don't want to be fighting about constantly.
You know, it's been how many years, like 30, 40, 40 years now that with the
abortion debate has been going on back and forth and you know, every now and
then just settling something and drawing a line saying, look, this is settled
now, let's argue about something else for the next 40 years.
Sure.
And I, I'm, I'm glad that there's things like, uh, the freedom of speech
enshrined in the constitution because apparently we still have to fight
about that anyway, but, but at least it's there.
Freedom of speech is a good idea, not because it's the first amendment,
right.
But for a bunch of other independent reasons.
Exactly.
But it means that I don't have to fight as much about it because it is there.
That's, that's fair.
I mean, like I said, the fugitive slave clause was in the constitution too.
Right.
Right.
So not everything in there was literally perfect or literally everything
that was perfectly perfect.
So I, I think my, my position is just more like, uh, to the extent that
the fugitive slave thing in the constitution, it was taken out, but well, it
was taken out as, uh, after what, decades later.
Hmm.
Um, so, uh, I had this looked up before, but not in the last five years.
Um, what was I going to say?
Uh, oh, I don't know.
I, like I said, I can be on the right.
I can be on the same side of, of a, of a, uh, desire or a person
desires to own a gun, but disagree with their reasons.
Right.
I don't think that the idea that some, someone who's been dead for hundreds
of years said it was a good idea is a good reason.
Um, what they said, it was a good idea is like, have a musket that you
can shoot once every 45 seconds so that the government can't take you over.
Because that's all we have right now too.
Right.
So like, you know, people can get into the hysterics.
I think we're getting kind of derailed, but, um, I think that, that's,
that's all I'm going to say.
I mean, we should actually be allowed to own like Harriers, according to
second amendment, because we should be allowed to own weapons that can protect
us from tyranny.
And apparently, right?
So now, I mean, handguns and rifles are absolutely not going to cut it anymore.
So there actually should be these, you know, weapons of mass destruction in
the band thing store.
I've changed my mind because we have to be able to protect ourselves from
tyranny to the constitution.
They have all the bulletproof jets and helicopters and turret guns and stuff.
Right.
We need those too.
If we're going to, if we're going to withstand being taken over by the government.
Yeah.
An EMP in every house.
Oh, that's my platform.
I, I'm, I'm just trying to visualize society working when there's an EMP in
everyone's house.
Oh yeah.
Just like your five year old gets upset and he's like, fuck you, dad.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't like the result of the election.
Right.
The entire power grid of the country is knocked off line.
Oh, that big of an EMP.
Oh, I mean, like you get enough of them.
Spread around.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You think fortune would just coordinate to do the one of these like every three
hours across the country.
Right.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
So you brought up the, um, by you, I mean, Matt, brought up the rationalist
community hub in Moscow.
Yeah.
So there was a less wrong post during the last week or so.
Um, and it was a very detailed, uh, description of what the rationality hub in
Moscow has been doing for the last three years.
And I, I unfortunately read it too long ago to really give a good summary of what
it says and it's very long and detailed too.
So I don't think a summary would quite do it justice, but I found it very inspiring.
And, um, I just kind of wanted you guys to glance at it as like a basis for having
a discussion about, I don't know, for a very long time, ever since discovering
the rationality community, I had this idea of like what it could be.
Um, and that's never really left me.
Uh, so I don't know if you guys ever, you can share that image of like, wow, this
could be, this could be an important, big, unique thing.
And, um, like I, and I want to be part of that.
You know, I don't know.
Pretty much constantly.
Yeah.
That's what got me into it.
And then when we had dinner with Robin Hansen, we was in Denver a few months
ago, he asked us a couple of times, like, so what does the local community like do?
And I'm just like, fucking nothing.
Well, I think what I, what I said was, you know, it's just a place for like-minded
people to get together and hang out.
We don't really have like an agenda.
And he's like, Oh, well, some places I go, they go to meet up and they'll do, you
know, they're working on a startup or they're doing this or that.
And what I wish I had said was like, no, it's a place to enforce like good, um, the
norms that we want, but the norms that we don't get, you know, in our day-to-day lives.
Um, I, I will say that I would be sad if we swapped out what we do now for focused
directed, that directed activities.
I would be happy if we added focused directed activities.
And there's been a couple small efforts to do that at our community for the last,
in the last few years, but they tuck her out.
Cause I think it's hard to, it's hard to dedicate the work.
And like one thing I did notice skimming over the, uh, the Moscow, um, community
was it is a long post, but I think they spend like $8,300 a month on like rent
and salaries and workshops.
And so they're clearly doing a lot.
We spend, uh, 20 bucks a month on pizza.
So like, um, it's a very different scale of, of what we're trying to accomplish,
but it is inspiring and there's, there's no, there's nothing stopping us from
doing something super awesome.
Cause like the guy who wrote the post, I believe is like a crypto millionaire or
something.
So, so he basically funded this.
I may be making that up by the way, but he basically funded this himself, like,
like put in his own capital.
I don't even know if he expects to get it back.
I think this might have even been just like, I want to see this happen.
So I'm going to do it.
It's like, yeah, we don't, we can't do that.
But still, it's fun to think about the possibilities.
Cause basically he, he like created, um, what they're calling like an uncafé or
something.
What was the word they used?
Anti-café.
Yeah.
Which, which basically is, um, for those who don't know, which I didn't know is
like a cafe, except instead of paying for the coffee and then sitting there and
using the internet, you pay for the internet or for the time and then they
have like other amenities that are free once, once you've paid for the time.
So, I mean, it's the kind of thing that, that I think appeals a lot to students
actually, um, but yeah.
He, he, if I recall, cause I read it earlier today, he got a nice stock
options from the company, possibly start up, not sure that he was working for.
And so he had about $100,000, which he sunk almost entirely into this over
the past several years.
So I'm just full of shit.
Thank you for correcting me.
Oh, well, no, that's okay.
But, but I, like, I, I just want to put that out there.
Like this dude is awesome.
He's put his life savings into this and that's, that I, you know, want to
give him his props for that.
Oh yeah, definitely.
That, that's really cool to put that much of his, his net worth into it.
But yeah, so the, the, um, anti cafe becomes then the hub of the community
and it's a lot more of a solid thing because it's like a permanent base.
And it's open 24 seven.
That would be really cool to do a lot of activities.
Uh, they, they have some games they play called, um, fallacy mania.
They do a CFAR style workshops that are like three days long.
Uh, not every month, but, you know, with some regularity and they
actually do charge money for those.
He said, and just a whole bunch of both directed activities and just hang
out and do whatever activities in four different rooms.
Uh, some of them just, uh, I think the smallest one was like a bedroom
