mentioned at the meetup, I right away think that is a shit law and a shit reason.
And I am totally voting against this because I do not think we as a society of adults should
be constrained by laws meant to protect fucking five year olds.
I'm not a five year old.
Don't treat me like one.
Like a good example of that might be like residential speed limits, like adults are
smart enough to not walk in the street, but we have residential speed limits so we don't
hit kids.
Right.
Are you so, do you think that the speed limit on side streets should be 40 miles an hour?
Like they are on, on like throwaways?
No.
I mean, necessarily I also think that most streets have their own natural safe speed
limit that you say for who well, I mean, say for more or less everyone safe to be driven
on basically, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's when a street is cramped and windy and small, people go slower.
I mean, that's how roundabouts work.
They, they force you to go slow because you have to make this turn.
And when there is a large, straight, flat, multi-lane road with a concrete median or
something in the middle separating the two opposing sides and no cross traffic and the
speed limit is set at 30 miles per hour there.
You know it's set at 30 miles per hour so they can rake in the cash.
That is a 45 mile per hour zone naturally.
Yeah.
You know, there's a town there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, it's, it's a trade off between safety and, and freedom, which is like an
ageless political question.
And yeah, I think, I don't know, I'm definitely someone who would prefer things to be more
on, on the freedom end of things.
You can think of examples of stuff like alcohol where that drug should definitely be illegal
considering what other drugs are illegal.
Oh yeah.
And, and it used to be, and exactly like what you, what you just outlined about organized
crime made it so that they were like, fine, fine, we'll make it legal.
That's just sort of a microcosm for all of the, all of the ways in which the nanny state
should probably back off, let people make their mistakes and then just tax things and
everything would be fine.
Although, I mean, there are some things where you can hurt a lot of other people like you
were saying with WMDs or in my opinion, no, people shouldn't be necessarily forced to
get vaccines, but if your kids are unvaccinated, I don't want them in a school or any other
public building where they come in contact with a lot of other people because they are
fucking playgrounds.
Certainly if they don't have a medical reason for not being vaccinated.
Right.
So, you know, you shouldn't be not allowed to attend public school because you have a
genetic issue that makes a vaccine very dangerous for you.
Yes, yes.
But since you're one in 10,000 or something, then that's fine.
But if, if it's super trendy in California to not get vaccines, then you get what that
measles outbreak a few years ago at what Disneyland?
Was it Disneyland?
Yeah.
It certainly should not be a lot of Disneyland.
Interesting tangent on that.
I mean, my, me and like, my kids mom and I, when we were having them, especially the first
one, we, we were kind of like, you know, let's look into the actual science here because
it's irresponsible just to be like, well, scientists say vaccines are safe.
So that's, that's fine.
Like, so we actually looked into it and we like ask doctors and they would be so dismissive
and like patronizing and I'm, I'm a scientist.
So it's, it's very irritating to me when it's like, no, no, I'm, I'm being epistemically
humble here and trying to find out the actual reasons why and you're actually making me
feel like I'm being scammed when in actuality, everyone should get vaccinated.
But you say that to a doctor because I think if you had said that sentence, they might
have immediately changed disposition because they probably get like, doctor, should I vaccinate
my baby five times a day because they get it from people who, you know, get their medical
advice from Jenny McCarthy, right?
So they're, they're sick of answering this question.
Granted, they should definitely be more personable and deliver this better, right?
Cause you get these, you know, standoffish, yeah, I've experienced similar things with
like, I had a kid get like a whole bunch of ear infections in a row and they had to be
on antibiotics for a long time.
And I was like, Hey, I'm kind of concerned at how long she's been on antibiotics and
the doctors like real, like immediately annoyed and dismissive.
And it's like, I'm not actually wrong to be worried about that.
It's just, he has a point that it's like, it's better than the disease, but I don't know.
I, it's, it makes me feel like they can't actually explain themselves, which is a problem.
I don't know.
I really miss my previous doctor.
He quit the practice to go into policy, but God, he was good.
And he would like take, at least me, I'm assuming he did this with everyone, just take me very
seriously, explain things, talk through things.
I was such a good doctor.
That's why I didn't shop around for LASIK was the guy I talked with for my
consult, we talked for like 90 minutes and he couldn't have been more patient and articulate.
And I asked him at the end, I was like, have you ever like, you know, delivered
lectures or anything on this or taught students, you know, in this music?
Oh yeah, I've taught, I don't know, a few hundred lectures and wrote like four books.
And I was like, that makes perfect sense.
Cause you've, what you delivered here to me was just perfect.
And, uh, that granted, you know, I'm not coming down on doctors.
I'm coming down their bedside manner for sure.
And they're like patient interaction, but like, you know, the profession, we're not
anti-medicine or anything, just caveat, but I guess never mind.
We know our audience.
They're not going to think we're idiots.
Yeah.
I mean, if, if I had a point, it was that I think there's a responsibility to like
actually represent the science and not just like badger parents into doing things, even
if they're the right thing, because this is why there are anti-vaxxers.
I mean, maybe that's a strong statement.
I feel like there'd be less anti-vaxxers if there was less dismissiveness.
Totally.
I think you're absolutely right.
Um, so this gives us a, uh, an opening to segue back into the bad thing store.
And so Yudkowski had this, uh, I think it was a comment on Hanson's thread on this
that, you know, sure, but then some, you know, poor mom of, you know, single mother
fives going to go in there and buy, you know, Dr.
magic snake oil of, you know, some, whatever, tincture and acid.
Yeah.
Sulfuric acid and dye.
And people took that as like, so you're against this, you know, what the hell.
And he's like, no, that's just what's going to happen.
And so it, I love, this was, this was the post of, uh, policy debate should not be
one-sided that, uh, and it's part of the, what, um, politics is the mind killer
subsequence or sequence because the fact that he's saying, this is a flaw with
this position, I still endorse it.
I'd, if you came down at four against it, I don't think it really matters.
But the point is, is that Hanson would probably readily agree to that.
Yeah.
Some, some people are going to die.
Um,
and that makes you look like a monster, right?
Like if even one person dies from the sulfuric acid snake oil, we should
get rid of this store.
Well, it makes you look like a monster, but it also pointing that out makes it
seem like you're against it when it's like, no, that's just an accepted
cost and people aren't able to do that with positions they agree with.
Yeah.
Whereas with the current system, with, with no band things store, um, we've
accepted the costs that are completely invisible and unclear, like the cost of
people going to find things on the black market instead, which is not viewed as
a consequence of our current policy.
It's viewed as people are cheating the policy and, but it is a consequence of
the current policy.
So yeah, I mean, you know, even just, you know, you mentioned buying things
like drugs, I imagine, you know, prescription drugs are still out there
in prints and everything that you could tell them, tell what they are.
But if someone is hypothetically buying illegal psych, currently illegal
psychedelics on the black market and not at the bad things store, uh, or the
band things store, then you don't really know what you're getting.
You, you can buy at home test kits and they're expensive and they're
somewhat reliable, but they use up some of your expensive product that you just
bought.
And so for the most part, you're just taking your dealer's word for it.
Um, I'm assuming hypothetically, uh, so you get this, you know,
bag of brown stuff and you're told, yep, go have a good time.
And it's like, what was in it?
It's what, it's what you bought.
Or it's what I told you it is and say, okay.
Um, so you would, you would get rid of a lot of that uncertainty, um, with
just safe access to it.
I don't think that it would be possible for anyone to accidentally buy fake
weed, um, cause it's pretty identifiable.
I think even to people who are probably first time buyers of, assuming
they Googled it first, but you know, medical or medical first and then
recreational dispensaries, you know, we live in Colorado.
They're bringing in a fortune.
And, uh, I mean, I don't think we've ever gone to a dispensary.
I've bought edibles and stuff there before.
Um, it's been a long time.
I used to help me sleep and it stopped, but, um,
I assume they look a lot like smoke shops.
Yeah.
But they're, they're actually pretty, like they're professional, like in a way
that like is also like super heavy and it reeks a pot in there.
But like, um, they're, they're there to talk you through the products.
Like I asked, you know, Hey, what do I need for sleep?
And, you know, if I, no, no, something, you know, maybe, um, that, you
know, what to kick in later, they're like, Oh, then you don't want an
edible, you want a pill.
I'm like, Oh, perfect.
You know, and that's not like a great, you know, medical degree
diagram or prescription there, but that's, you know, professional helpful.
Right.
So if you could have that for all the stuff.
I wonder if there's anybody who's in favor of the band thing store who's not
in favor of people owning guns, probably one.
And I bet I don't know if there's a, I don't, I don't think you could have
that level of, of, um,
contradiction.
Yeah.
Well, lack of consistency.
Hmm.
I'm sure you, I would like to say that.
I don't think it'd be possible to have that lack of consistency too.
But I bet I bet because if you ban guns, then they go in the band gun store.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, the WMD, um, example is, is instructive because it's like, look,
there's no reason for anyone to own this.
Like there's like even, even heroin, you could say, well, at least someone's
going to use this for their pain or something, but there's no reason for
someone to own a WMD, except to kill a lot of people, which is, which is illegal.
So, um, but I, I mean, I don't know.
I'm pretty sure second amendment is that's the right one.
Right.
