size and largest one could hold like 40 people in a pinch.
So yeah, a whole bunch of cool stuff there.
That sounds like it'd be great.
Is somebody else did it here?
Well, I mean, the main, like, yeah, if I had a million dollars, I think
that'd be great to, you know, rent a place, you know, near down,
old downtown and probably suck up that million dollars pretty quick.
But, you know, somewhere that's easy to get to, that people are already nearby.
So that's why I was thinking downtown could start people hanging out and
they could, they could come in and do their thing.
And my biggest problem is the same.
It's the, I also have to work, you know, eight.
Well, I have to be at work eight hours a day, which means more like 10
hours of a day of my life is being sucked up by this.
And then you don't have that much energy left.
And these things really take a lot of time and energy to do.
I, I start to undersea, I start to understand why it's cool to have a priest
class that just gets a certain tide of the entire community's money.
He's like, this is my job now.
I'll take care of the community hub that has a big cross on it or whatever.
And I would do not want to actually do that.
But I see now the logic behind it.
Well, let's plant a flag in next.
We're going to talk about the culty aspects to rationality here coming up too.
So if we can work a tithing system into this, that'd be great.
Yeah, I'm wondering if we can like segue between those two, two topics,
because I actually think they're pretty related.
Like the idea of the idea of the fact that, okay.
Well, before, before we segue, he did say that he was like running out of money,
which is why he put the post up.
Okay.
And, and he like, what the things he explained that he was doing, I was like,
I would love to see this sort of thing spread and be in more places.
And like, I don't know how to start this sort of thing up at all.
Yeah.
Even, even if I had like the time and the money,
I wouldn't really know what to do.
And here he is out exploring, doing it, learning the lessons
and like putting down a blueprint, you know?
And I thought it would be a really damn shame for this to fold under right now.
And they have the Patreon going.
So I've thrown in my 10 bucks a month for, I don't know, hopefully at least a year
to, to just to keep them afloat and see if that institutional knowledge can be retained.
Because maybe someday we could implement this, this early test case on a wider basis.
Yeah, yeah, because it seems like he's basically creating a company.
And if it can support itself, especially if it's, you know, receiving ties,
which is basically what you described, then then it could potentially become,
become a thing that moves to other cities.
That would be, that would be really awesome.
It's now a good time to mention, speaking of tithing and Patreon,
that we do have a Patreon for the Bayesian conspiracy.
Oh, we do have a Patreon for the Bayesian conspiracy.
We, we speaking with Matt before the show, we were thinking maybe we should
introduce some other things as well to entice people to join it.
So maybe we'll be doing something like that in the near future.
Yeah. So keep an eye on the Patreon page, even if you're not a supporter yet,
yeah, or ever, you know, no pressure, I wouldn't call it tithing though.
And I was, I was trying to use that as the transition because, you know,
I want a lot more money from someone if they're calling it a tie.
Yeah, we're talking percentage points, not dollars.
Yeah. I mean, yeah, because like I was going to, my segue,
if that's, it's okay to do that is like, I think, I think what the
rationality community stands for and what it could be is very important.
And the fact that we're so phobic of seeming like a cult,
I think has held us back from actually like accreting any kind of identity.
We're, we're the community at large is so wary of being accused of being a cult
that we won't even, like people don't even say that they're part of the community
that because they're like, oh, yeah, I read less wrong, but I'm an aspiring
rationalist. I'm rationalist to Jason.
Yeah, I'm rationalist. It's like, shut up, shut up.
Like we're all, we're all aiming at basically the same thing.
Like why can't, and I think there's a very old Yudkowski post that's basically
like rationalists are very bad joiners, basically.
They're, they're the, the certain cluster of people in people's space
that hate to identify with things.
And like, well, that's a damn shame because we're all, we're, we all kind of want
the same thing, even if there's like a narcissism of small differences in terms
of how we can bicker about the details of that thing.
We're definitely all facing the same direction.
So it's a shame that we can't coordinate a little bit better.
And in terms of achieving the implicit goals in heading toward that thing.
I'm assuming we were all kind of social outcasts when we were younger, right?
That sounds right to me, Steven.
That checks out.
Okay. Yeah, me too.
And I, I, I get the feeling that that is a large part of it.
You don't, we don't, first of all, we don't have the social skills necessary
to cohere as a group and have that sort of mentality, but also just the fear
of having another society that can outcast us, you know, or at least that
is, that is where I'm coming from it.
I hope that's not a huge factor, although the second part makes sense.
I would like to think that the social skills are learnable by rationalist adults.
Yeah.
So, I mean, I'm, but every time I think of like the community that we have
going, I'm like, this is awesome.
And I am terrified about everything falling apart.
And right now I am very, I have learned how to be comfortable alone.
And as much as I would love the, the, it's just like the, the
Ada Palmer, Tara and Kakarita series.
Would you sacrifice this world for one that might be better?
I'm like, I don't know.
I want that better world, but this one works.
Yeah.
Can you give me probabilities on might?
Like, I can't.
That's the problem.
So if I could give you probabilities, I would have a much better decision matrix here.
Yeah.
I mean, I can definitely envision, uh, you know, if you literally take something
like the Moscow example, that just, I don't, nothing about that sounds bad to me.
No.
So, so I can't, I can't see the, I can't see the downside of that.
Um, I'm not saying that like, oh, we could just do that.
Obviously we can't, um, but we could do something better.
Can't help but feel.
I'm not sure why we're not, I mean, yeah, definitely the aspect of not wanting
to be perceived as being part of some cult, I think is part of it.
You know, we're having a conversation with a co-worker that I really respect
who's really, really bright.
I'd mentioned something about, uh, Slate Star Codex and oh, you heard of it.
It's like, I read some of this stuff, you know, I think we disagree on a lot
of things and it's like, oh, you're aware of like, you know, the less
wrong rationality community is like, yeah, I'm aware of it.
And he like, you know, like he had seen it and like, oh, they're, they're crazy.
I didn't, we didn't dive too much into it because I was kind of like embarrassed
because I don't want to lose space to this guy.
Yeah.
Um, but, you know, what I've, when I noticed that I made a point not to let
that happen again.
So, um, I, you know, some of my coworkers, it doesn't, you know, most of my
coworkers don't know anything about my personal life or they know very little.
So I don't, I'm not avoiding the topic, but I don't also bring it up.
But I, if it, if it comes up organically, I'm like, oh yeah, I coordinate
the local rationality community.
You know, it's, it's like the, uh, the, or I help coordinate the local rationality
community.
It's the, um, you know, meet space, meet up of an online community from less
wrong, uh, this, you know, online group that's been around for a few years.
And so I'm, I'm making an effort to overcome that because of that, that aspect
that I think there's not a, there's not a good reason to be worried about it.
Right.
This isn't, this isn't some weird creepy cult that we're going to be fired for
being a part of or something.
Right.
I mean, the, the only thing about it is the possible, like you said, losing of
social face, like, oh, you're one of those internet nerds.
And that's, that's some bullshit.
Luckily I work at a software development company.
So I mean, I'm like, okay, yeah, I'm one of those internet nerds.
Enjoy your three, your three times a week.
Wow.
Raids, right?
So like, yeah, I had a similar experience.
It was basically like less wrong.
Oh yeah.
The basilisk and I'm like, okay, that might have come up with this guy too.
Oh, and it's like that, that's, that has nothing to do with the cultiness aspect.
That's just a completely separate bad meme that's associated with less wrong.
And I'm, I'm just like, yeah, I, I don't have anything to do with that.
That's not, that was a thing that happened in the forums.
Yes.
That was like 10 years ago or something at this point.
So yeah, glad, glad that's still floating around.
Is that our biggest scandal?
I believe so.
All right.
Well, that's, that's not too bad as far as, as far as scandals go.
That ain't bad at all.
Yeah.
I mean, there's so far we don't have a child pedophilia ring or anything yet.
So we're not, we're not working on it.
Yeah.
We're not picking up to get tides.
We first, we got to get our own pizza place and then we got to build a basement.
Well, and I think like, to some degree, we have like a social autoimmune disease
because I mean, so did you guys, were you guys familiar with like the dragon army
thing that they tried to do in Berkeley or they did do in Berkeley actually?
Like I'm not catching me up.
So yeah, maybe you can help me summarize it.
But basically a handful of people, I don't know how many actually got together
and they were like, we're going to do one of these Berkeley group houses,
except they decided they were going to be almost like paramilitary about it.
I think I did know about this one.
Basically like this guy's in charge.
You have your responsibilities.
You have your obligations and expectations.
And if you don't stick up to them, there's consequences.
And it's like everyone who came came willingly because they wanted to be
imposed upon by this kind of like social structure with the understanding
that that's very motivating and makes you a better person.
And people freaked out about it.
Like they're like, this is, this is, this guy's a fascist nutcase.
He's probably a psychopath because you want, and it's like, okay.
Like he was just trying something new with volunteers.
It's like a trainer at a gym who's going to like encourage you to attend.
Right.
And the other people are your gym buddies.
And part, the part of the point of having that sort of that enforcement
is to keep you in it.
Right.
