Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brodsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber and we have a very special guest today.
Matt Freeman.
Matt is the co-host of one of my favorite podcasts,
the We've Got Ward podcast, where they expertly dissect the,
I can't remember the whole intro, the Wild Boas world of para-humans
and superheroes and random stuff.
That was my poor version of their introduction of their show.
Everyone should check it out.
And he's also the co-host of one of my new favorite podcasts as well,
the Doofcast, where they do the same thing with media of various kinds.
They've recently done it with Fifth Element and Bound,
which are movies I love and just did it with your name.
I listened to that one today and now I have to go see that.
Yeah, I recommend that one and you guys are going to make me blush.
Thanks for the introduction.
Well, thanks for coming. This is great.
And I love your podcast too, by the way.
Oh, thanks.
I listen to every episode.
We try.
Yeah.
Speaking of trying things and speaking of your guys' podcast,
I could tell from a few episodes ago that you guys shared notes before the episode.
And here we are, what, three years into our show and I'm like,
Inyash, we should start doing that before episodes.
We should have like a rough schedule of things to talk about.
What?
Not just fly by the seat of our pants and try to make up for it in post?
We've brought like personal notes a couple of times.
Working on this will be fun going forward.
And of course we do on an episode where we don't really have an actual itinerary
or something specific to discuss.
So now I've got hodgepodge notes for a hodgepodge episode, so buckle in.
Katrina used to be a big notes person.
Yeah.
She would always show up with like an outline and everything.
And we were like, that's awesome.
And then she left and we're like, well, I'm not taking that job over.
Well, I'm not doing it.
It can be a bit of a monster.
I think our first script was two pages and now our average script is like 17 pages.
Holy shit.
Don't let it get out of hand.
I don't think that'll be a problem with me.
Yeah.
How long after the arc comes out is it before you put out the podcast?
Well, now we're keeping up so basically every two chapters.
So once a week we put out a podcast covering the last two chapters,
the last week's source of material, whatever amount that was.
Okay.
So when we were doing worm, we would do one arc at a time
or we would do two episodes per arc.
But that was because that was all done and we were just making our way through it.
Yeah.
Which congrats.
It's fucking huge.
That was an epic journey.
Did not know what I was getting into when I started that.
Wait, I thought you'd already read it.
I mean the podcast.
I mean, yeah.
Oh, you didn't know what you were getting with the podcast?
Yeah.
No, those things surprise you.
Yeah.
You're like, it's an hour.
How long could it take really to put it out an hour podcast?
And in our starting, our first episode, we were like,
I think eventually we'll pick up the pace.
We'll do maybe two or three arcs per episode with the opposite direction.
But as Stephen was saying, very in-depth and insightful shit.
Well, thank you.
Yeah, it's things that I don't pick up on at all because I'm working.
I'm trying very slowly.
I should have gotten this in primary school, but I didn't read those books because I was
a bad student.
You guys dissect stuff in a way that you notice motifs and themes that I never would have
noticed on my own.
I've watched Bound a number of times and I never picked up on the focus on the hands,
which after you said it, oh yeah, totally true.
Nor on the fact that everyone is in boxes, both visually and metaphorically, and it's
about breaking out of those boxes.
It's like, oh my God, I have to listen to all your stuff now.
That little analysis completely escapes me on things, so that's why I find it really interesting
when I'm reading stuff on my own.
Yeah, okay, right.
That's why we have these podcasts.
Exactly.
It's usually being forced to think through and talk about the thing that makes these
things jump out.
A lot of these, Scott's actually better at noticing stuff like that than me, but almost
nothing jumps out at me when I'm watching a movie.
It's always later when I'm like, okay, I know I have to talk about this, so I have to think
about some of our things to say, or when we're actively talking about it, things will occur
to me.
How can I trick people into thinking I'm smart?
Exactly.
That's my whole life right there.
My way of doing that at work is there's enough people there that sometimes I only see some
people once or twice a week, so if I can say something smart in those five minute conversations,
then I'll just leave them for a couple of days.
Yeah, and they just assume you're always doing that every five minutes.
That's the trick.
Yeah.
That's what you're like.
Leave on a high note like a comedian.
Exactly.
What are we talking about today?
I don't know what order you guys wanted to take this in.
According to our notes here, I thought we brought this up at the meetup on Tuesday, which
was three, four days ago, about a day, so it's been a long week.
It's been three days to go now.
Gotcha.
That makes sense, because it's Friday.
There was the, I guess, thought experiment, or I don't know if it was a thought experiment,
or an actual proposal by Robin Hansen.
Probably an actual proposal.
But no one's listening.
He's not proposing this to anybody, just like to us.
Well, to anyone who'd listened, he put it on the web and it was like, hey, here's
just a thing.
Who wants political suicide?
I think it's a genius idea.
Yeah, but we're not the main voting bloc, right?
So yeah.
Fucking voting blocs.
All right.
So what's the idea?
I think we talked about this once before on the podcast, maybe, but it's the band of
things store, where anything that is banned by the government, there's a special store
in every city or every state or something, but not too terribly out of the way that sells
all the band things.
It's called the band of things store and there's skull and crossbones and it's like, buy these
things at your own risk, you could die and et cetera, et cetera.
But anything that is banned everywhere else, you can get there legally, because then you
cuts the feet out from under the black market.
And you know, sometimes people have a legitimate reason for wanting things.
Other times they just want their drugs, but that, sure, there's your banned things.
And it's, I mean, I would go there so much for prescription drugs, honestly.
He draw a caveat for like, obviously bad ideas like WMDs or, you know, bio weapons or big
bombs.
He didn't, but I think that goes without saying because those things, are those even like
banned?
Yes.
I'm sure that there's a law somewhere saying I can't have a nuke.
Okay.
I would certainly hope so.
I mean, at that point, you're committing an act of war, which is technically banned.
Is it though?
Or do they just fight you?
Would we go to prison?
You'd probably be killed by the army.
I feel like we're digging our way to find this.
So let's assume that there's no WMDs to stave off that obvious thing.
So yeah, I think a lot of it comes down to the price too.
Like if you're going to go to the banned things, like another thing is you automatically think
of like, okay, well, if you have it all in one centralized place, then you can keep track
of the people who are buying the banned things.
You can tax them heavily, which also helps and is better than that same, you know, funds
going to the black market, obviously, for what like you mentioned.
So you're simultaneously like defunding the whole criminal underworld and keeping tabs
on the kinds of people who want the kinds of things that the state doesn't like, which
could be viewed as a downside, actually.
Yeah, if you're going to go to the store to buy a WMD, everybody knows you did that
and they're just going to follow you.
But I think more than anything else, I like the idea because of all the, not even, well,
obviously I think the drug war is awful and recreational drugs shouldn't be banned at
all, but-
Inyosh just came back from Burning Man, so.
And I've held that opinion for a long fucking time, even before I ever did any drugs.
But just the amount of medical interventions that are banned, I think because, you know,
this might be harmful to people or that you have to go through a big ol' process to get,
I'd be like, sometimes I just want to take my chances, you know?
Yeah, I'm trying to organize my thoughts here.
So yeah, we'll get into the fun backlash that Yudkowsky got and that he responded to
in his last wrong essay.
Policy debates should not be one-sided.
But yeah, I'm in support of the idea too, at least in broad strokes, maybe.
I like, I'm not rejecting it out of hand anyway.
Like, I don't like the idea of having to go get a permission slip to go get a prescription
if I feel like I need it.
You know, like I'm not a medical professional, but if I feel like I need a sleep aid or an
alertness aid or, you know, to drugs and stuff or a painkiller, whether for pain or for fun,
I can get it.
It's just like, do I want to, or you know, psychedelics or something that you can't
tell what they are by looking at them.
Like the vast majority of things that are, not the vast majority, but a lot of things
that are banned are banned for the people's own good, you know?
Right.
If you take this, it would harm you, so we must ban it.
Or if you were to get this loan, it would take advantage of you, so we must ban it or
whatever.
And I am really, I'm a fucking adult and I can make my own mistakes.
And if I really look into something and I'm like, I can see how this is harmful for a
lot of people, but I want to do that harm to myself or I think if my situation is good,
fucking let me.
That's what the ban store is for.
It's for the things that protect, supposedly protect people from themselves.
I, whenever I hear someone say something like, do it for the children, which I also
