Well, so I mean, you know, other than being banned by Yudkowsky on less
wrong or something, um, or on the Facebook group or something.
So to that extent, I do actually know somebody has been banned from the Facebook
group.
Me too.
Yeah.
Uh, I think we talked about that on the show.
It was, it was a complete misunderstanding, but it was so plausibly not a
misunderstanding that I totally get it.
Yeah.
Um, so, you know, to the extent that we're not, well, A, we don't have the hierarchy
in place to do that.
So that's, that seems like a point in favor of us not being culty.
Um, but there's also not even like a social banning that I'm aware of, right?
I wouldn't mind if we had a hierarchy, that's kind of where I am.
Like, I wouldn't mind if we had a hierarchy, we had leaders, we had like, uh,
like a level system, you know, of like, of like, you've taken the CFAR classes and
that entitles you to like a certain rank.
I mean, I know that, I know, like, this is probably setting off alarm bells, but,
but like for me, it's like, why, why cut things off the table, um, that could
potentially actually cause it to be something that people would want to join
instead of just like, oh, it's just a bunch of people who talk about a topic.
I think my, my initial, I, you know, having just considered this for the
first time, I only have one or two quick thoughts.
And one of them is that I think one of the appeals of the community is that
it's okay to say that, Hey, you'd cast me.
I think you're right on these things.
I think you're wrong on this one.
And that's on a banable offense.
Sure.
But so I'm pretty sure you can make an organization where that was the case too.
Like I can say the president of the United States is wrong about everything.
And I don't get kicked out of the country.
So you just have to have a good system of, of power instituted.
What is the point of those ranks though?
I mean, so in response to this whole, to a CIFAR class, I mean, that gives you
some status among your peers, but you don't, there's no churches or anything.
Well, I think it means a surprising amount to have that feeling of belonging.
So, so like I was in response to this whole, like I had a, I had like a bad
online argument a few days ago and I was like, I want to learn how to be more
persuasive.
So I really like a book on persuasion.
And part of it is like how much humans enjoy and are susceptible to the feeling
of belonging and group norms.
I mean, we, and we all know this already.
Like this is part of our community kind of literature anyway, is how, how
powerful that can be.
So it's like, if, if your goal, and then maybe this is not, maybe you guys
don't have this goal, but like if your goal is to spread the ideas of clear
thinking, um, arriving at the truth more effectively and pursuing our goals in an
effective way, spread those ideas as goods unto themselves, then you should
want to make an organization that can actually do that.
In order to have that, it would help to have some kind of actual, um, structure
such that human brains would be like, oh, that's a, that's an organization.
That's not just a bunch of like minded people.
Like, and I totally understand if people are like, no, Matt, I do not want that.
I do not want an organization.
I want, I want a loose band of like minded people because that's my thing.
And I'm like, well, I actually empathize with that very much.
And, um, everything I'm saying is very take, take very lightly, take what I'm
saying very lightly and as just like blue sky thinking about potential, not,
not like I want everything to be the way I want it.
Cause that's the opposite of what I'm trying to say here.
No, no, I think I get it perfectly.
Um, you know, I don't know what, what about all these microphones and recording
equipment would make you, would make you think that we want to spread these ideas.
Um, but, uh, no, I think, um, I think I heard you perfectly.
And I think everyone's going to enter.
I mean, I, maybe I'm biased, but I think I interpreted that, uh, generously
enough to not think that you're wanting to, that you're arguing for this so
that you can essentially yourself as the one, two dictator and, and, uh, although
if it worked out that way, you know, uh, well, if you say so, there
could be worse dictators out there, right?
But I think, um, I remember back when I go to skeptics, uh, like I was more
involved in the skeptic community and went to a few conferences.
Um, I can't remember if this is one of the talks that I went to or if it was one
online, but Richard Dawkins talked about how he was at a skeptics conference.
Cause he had said something about how getting skeptics, maybe it was atheists.
It doesn't matter getting, you know, woke folk back in the day.
That meant something different rights, you know, um, uh, to all cohere and work
together in a, a focused way was like, like hurting cats.
And he said, and I think that's a compliment.
And in a way, I could totally see where he's coming from.
And I think, I think you can too, but in a way like, sure, it's a compliment
and that we're hard to corral, but in a, in a totally also legitimate way.
That's the way that we, we, since we can't corral and, and coordinate, that's
why we don't get anything done.
Yeah.
That's why I never go to the moon.
If you're all bunch of cats everywhere.
Well, yeah, but I mean, focused effort to get to the moon.
He used the example of like, you know, politicians climber to get the Jewish
vote, even though they're like 2% of the United States population or something.
And there's no one trying to get the atheist vote of 15% right.
Because we're hard to coordinate, but if, if, and, and part of that's,
but it would go against the whole point.
Yeah.
It would go against the mindset of the, the atheist in general, because at
least back in the way, the way most people got to atheism was by not going
along with society and by breaking out of those organizations and being like,
fuck your social systems.
Fuck your sense of belonging.
I care more about being right about this thing.
Yeah, but, but that, I think it's, it's an over general, over generalization
of that instinct to not be a joiner.
Cause it's like, if we're talking, I was talking about Dune earlier.
Sorry to anyone who doesn't read Dune, but like, if there was such a thing as
the Ben A. Jesterit or the Mentat, I would join that, even though it's cult
like, because it's like, well, the thing they turn you into is an amazing
godlike thing.
So like, if, if there were a rationality community that actually made you like
Jeffrey Sy from, from Malaysia's stories, I would join that in a heartbeat.
Even as a like person who wants to be free thinking, cause it's like, well,
you've, you've got the proof.
You've demonstrated that what you do is actually valuable right now.
We don't really have that.
So, and I don't know, and it's actually pure conjecture that we could even have
that, like it's, it's science fiction of me to think that, you know, if we
had a rationality organization, then we could train people to be, to, to
perform better and et cetera and be Mentats.
It's like, well, maybe not.
Maybe, maybe you teach people rationality and you improve their
performance 4% on specific things and not, not otherwise.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Hmm.
What do you think about Mentat, Steven?
Well, actually, I haven't read the books, I haven't read the books, but
Mentat is what they call the smart drug and follow games.
So, if there's anything like that, then I'm a big fan.
Um, I'm assuming that's on purpose.
Probably a reference.
Yeah.
I mean, Mentat is just someone who's been trained to serve, like to be so good
at thinking that they can serve the function of a computer at need.
So.
That sounds dope.
Yeah.
Now, I'm sure there's great drawbacks because it's a book, but.
Well, Dune is just about, like it's about human potential.
Like that's what, that's the whole theme of the book.
So it's like, if we're riffing on the idea of like what, what you could be if
you were more rational, that's kind of where my mind goes.
That all sounds appealing.
I think, I think people don't necessarily, like, unless you're familiar
with like the sequences, I think people don't necessarily understand what.
It would mean to be more rational.
Like they don't understand how not rational they are.
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
Or what the perks are.
Yeah.
I'm getting by, I pay my bills, I've got a job and stuff, people might say, but
I mean, the hard part for me is like, I didn't get to live the counterfactual
where I didn't get involved in any of this stuff, but my life's a lot
better than it was five years ago.
And I think that's because I have more tools to make better decisions and
come to realizations that I wouldn't have come to otherwise.
So I, I've got a selling point for myself.
I could, I could probably convince myself of 10 years ago that I should
get started on this earlier, but I don't know how, you know, this is obviously
a hard, harder problem than I've given enough thought to, but I don't know
how you go to somebody who just isn't really interested and say, look, here's
why this is worth, you know, uh, reading 3 million words and studying some stuff.
Yeah.
Well, and I haven't succeeded.
Like the friends that I have who've read the sequences are the people who
are going to read them anyway.
And the people who I've tried to convince who aren't in that class for
whatever reason, I, I, a variety of reasons, probably they're just, you know,
no, thanks.
It's like, if you had a book on the shelf of Barnes and Noble that was like,
this book will make you smarter.
I would, I would first of all, just doubt the premise of the book.
I'd be like, this book sounds like a lie.
I'm not giving you my $10.
And I think that's a great point.
Like, like there's, there's a certain incredulity to the whole thing where it's
like, uh, you say that it made you more rational or whatever.
You say you get a lot out of it, but everyone's, a lot of people say things.
Maybe that's why people think of us as a cult.
Cause they're like, this doesn't really help your life at all, but the
fact that you keep saying it does makes you sound like you have been, you know,
you've drunk in the Kool-Aid.
You have bought into this system where now you have to tell everyone how much
better it makes their lives, though I don't believe it does.
Unless you look at the content of it, it's, it's just like the secret or
something where it's like, no, no, really trust me.
Like, well, no, I don't, I don't trust you.
On the plus side, I'm not saying, you know, trust me, read these and give me
$10,000, right?
So we have, we have that going for us, but I think that's part of what
Seafar was trying to do and maybe still is, but I, I don't know if they've
published anything, uh, certainly nothing that's come trickle down to us yet that
has shown the only downside too is that because of, you know, how small they are
and how necessarily small their sample sizes are and how hard it would be to, you
know, do, um, any sort of controls.
I know they've done some, you know, they'll, uh, they'll call some, you know,
they'll do follow-ups and stuff, but for the most part, it's self-selected people
who want, who want to do this.
