so if I can rephrase what you said in terms that are more native to me, when you are wired to seek,
you know, the umami taste that tends to be very tightly correlated with meat,
you will tend to get a lot of nutrients along with it in the ancestral context. In the modern
context, we can figure out how to just trip the circuit that tells you to be rewarded. And it's
no longer a proxy for the things that it was supposed to lead you to. And as you just said,
you can now look at that across every domain where you have these dopamine rewards and understand why
people are, you know, living in the world that pinker correctly identifies we are living in,
where we have just a huge abundance, and yet are so darn unhealthy, certainly unsatisfied,
right? It explains that that paradox of being better off in many ways than any ancestor could
have hoped to be, and yet being effectively ill across every domain.
Yeah, I will say something about this that's important. I mean, briefly, the fact that
life expectancy started going down in the last five years in the US in certain parts of
developed world is really important to pay attention to. But the deeper point I want to
make is the Hobbesian view on the past, I think is one of those like mistake theory information
theory things. I mean, mistake theory conflict theory. I think the dialectic of progress is
such a compelling idea. And we're oriented to the opportunity and not the risk in the same way
we don't want to look at the risk moving forward that would have us avoid an opportunity, we don't
want to look at good things in the past. And we don't want to look at good things of cultures that
we want to obliterate. So we want to call the Native American savages so that we can of course
emancipate them. Historically, and we want this Hobbesian view that people had brutish, nasty,
mean short lived lives in the past so that we don't have to face the fact that advanced
civilizations failed. And that is what our own future most likely portends. I think
that is a convenient wrong belief system in a similar way.
Well, I hope you don't hear me doing that. I certainly don't. I just I have to say it.
You have to say it. So it's clear to our listeners. Well, I appreciate you doing that.
I did want to go back to a couple things you said. And, you know, of course, this happens
every time you and I talk where every every thread, you know, takes on multiple possible
directions we could go and there's no way to cover them all. But in any case, you pointed to
survival and mating being the primary mechanisms to get your genes into the future. And I want to
point out that this is one of these places where our wiring, which is biased in the direction of
those places where our ancestors had agency that was meaningful
upends us. And in fact, this is something I think you and I are struggling against
as we try to compel people of the kind of danger we're in and the necessity to upgrade our system,
you know, before we run into a catastrophe too big to come back from. And so in any case,
within your population, survival and mating makes sense as an obsession. But probably the biggest
factor in whether or not your genes are around 100 generations from now is whether the population
that you were a part of persists. And so, you know, my field has done a terrible job with this.
We have gotten pretty good at thinking about individual level adaptation and fitness. And,
you know, when I say lineage, people still don't know what I'm talking about. And they're
confused about why I'm focused on it. And my sense is it's like two components to an equation.
And, you know, you're either aware of the lineage thing, but you misunderstand it as group selection,
or you're not aware of the lineage thing, and you think group selection is a fiction,
and it's all about individuals. And, you know, both of those are ways to misunderstand
the point. I'm so happy to hear you saying this because
I'm sure in this conversation, I would love to go deeper and understand the
distinctions between lineage and group selection, the way that you see them.
But if I just even take the concept of group selection as opposed to just individual selection,
and take a species like sapiens, and say there was no such thing as an individual that got selected
for, that was not an effective part of a group of people. And the tribe, the band,
was the thing that was being selected for. So there was fundamentally kinds of pro-social behavior
that were requisite. But then we get bigger than the Dunbar number, only like yesterday,
evolutionarily. And that whole, the whole evolutionary dynamics break because that
pro-social behavior only worked up to that scale when everybody could see everybody and
knew everything, right? Like there's, when we start looking at how do we solve collective
action problems, you start realizing, well, how do, if we make some agreement field as to how
nobody does the near term game theoretically advantageous relative to each other long term
bad thing, there has to be transparency mechanisms to notice it. So the beginning of
defecting on the whole, defecting on the law, the agreement field, the morals is the ability to hide
stuff and get away with it. Well, you can't hide stuff in a tiny tribe very well. Even if you
can do it once, twice, 10 times, sooner or later of hide is your instinct you'll be revealed,
and the costs will exceed what you've built up by pulling it off however many times you've done it.
And so there's a forced transparency in that smallness of evolutionary scale.
And when you start to get up to a large scale, and now there have to be systems where everybody
isn't seeing everyone, and I'm smart enough, I can figure out how to play it and fuck the whole
while pretending that I'm not hiding the accounting of it and getting ahead, that's the evolutionary
niche for corruption, for parasitic behavior. So one way I would describe, and as you've
described done here before, if there's a niche with some energy and it's going to get exploited,
we have to rigorously close the evolutionary niches for human parasitic behavior,
humans parasitizing other humans. And the first part of that is a kind of forced transparency
that if someone were to engage in that, it has to be known. And now the question is, that's
all the versions of that we've explored at scale look like dreadful surveillance states.
So how do you make something that doesn't look like a dreadful surveillance state
that also doesn't leave evolutionary niches for parasitic behavior that ends up rewarding and
incenting sociopathy? Absolutely. So a bunch of different threads. One, the L and R Ostrom work
is important, because it does point to the fact that you can scale these mechanisms up. In fact,
selection has scaled up these enforcement mechanisms beyond a tiny number of people who
know each other intimately. Now, it hasn't scaled them way up, but it's proof of concept
in terms of the ability to get there. And it's a model of what these systems
might look like. The other thing though, your focus on corruption I think is absolutely right.
And one way to just detect how stark the difference is, is the recognition of how many times
in an average day you encounter bullshit. In other words, how many advertisements do you
encounter in an average pre COVID day, let's say? These are all cases where somebody you don't know
or almost all of them are cases where somebody you don't know is attempting to manipulate you
into spending resources differently than you would otherwise spend them. So this is an
overwhelmingly dishonest interaction with your world. And there would have been some dishonesty
for an ancient ancestor. You know, obviously there are creatures that attempt to look like
what they are not. But in general, one could see the world as it was, and the deception was the
exception, not the rule. And in some sense, we live in a sea of bullshit, right? And we're so used
to it that we don't even recognize that that's abnormal, that it is the result of a gigantic
niche that has opened up as a simple matter of scale, as you point out. And that restoring a
state where you can actually trust your senses, you can by and large trust the people who you're
interacting with to inform you rather than lie to you, would be a huge step towards
reasonability. Oh, I really hope that we follow all the threads here, because this is getting so
close to the heart of what we have to do. As scale increases, the potential for asymmetry
increases. And as the asymmetry increases, the asymmetric warfare gets more difficult to deal
with. So let's think about this in terms of market theory. Let's think about an early hypothetical
idealized market, like literally people just took their shoes and their cows and their sheep and
their service offerings to a market, and they looked at exchanging them. And then because
trading cows for chickens is hard, we have some kind of currency to mediate a barter of goods and
services, but we're talking about real goods and services. Maybe there's two people, maybe there's
five people that sell shoes, there's not 5,000 of them. And I can go touch the shoes myself,
I can talk with them, I can see what the price is. And there is no hypernormal stimuli of advertising,
it's like somebody yelling from his thing. So there's a symmetry between the supply and the
demand side. The supply side is a guy or a few guys selling something, and the demand side is
a person or a family trying to buy something, and they can kind of tell each other's bullshit
to some degree of symmetry, buy or beware becomes an important idea. But now when this becomes Nike,
and then still one person, there's still a symmetry between supply and demand in aggregate,
meaning the total amount of money flowing into supply equals the total amount flowing out of
demand, but this side is coordinated and this side isn't. You don't have something like a labor union
on all purchasers, where like all Facebook users are part of some union that puts money together
to counter Facebook and lobbying and regulation, you have Facebook as like a close to a trillion
dollar organization against me as a person. And I'm still the same size person that I was in those
early market examples, but there wasn't like a trillion dollar organization. And now when that
happens, manufactured demand kills market theory and classical market theory, which is the idea of
why a market is like evolution, right? It's like some evolutionary process is that the demand is
based on real people wanting things that will actually enhance the quality of their life. And
so that creates an evolutionary niche for people to provide supply and then the rational actor will
purchase the good or service at the best price and the best value. But of course, as soon as we
get to a situation where, and you look at then a reality and all the behavioral economics saying
the homo economicists, the rational actor doesn't exist, we end up making choices based on status
that's conferred with a brand based on the compellingness of the marketing based on all
kinds of things that are not the best product or service at the best price. But you also get
that I want stuff that will not increase the quality of my life. I desperately want shit
because the demand was manufactured into me. So it's not an emergent authentic demand that
represents collective intelligence. It's a supply side saying I want to get them to want more of
my shit. And I actually have the power to do that using applied psychology like actual and as soon
as you get to split testing and the ability to AI split test a gazillion things, we're talking about
radically scientifically optimized psychological manipulation for the supply side to create
artificial demand and then be able to fulfill it. And most of that ends up being of the type
that is actually bad for the quality of the life of the people, but you have the plausible
deniability. They're choosing it. Hey, I don't want to be patriarchal and control what they're
doing. The people are choosing it. I'm just offering the source of supply that they're
wanting bullshit. That's like offering crack to kids. And then when they come back for more of it,
like saying, Hey, so this is that was one of the threads I wanted to address.
Well, I love it. Back in must have been 2013, when Game B was actually a group of people who
met in a room and talked about things. One of the points that I was making in that context
was this inherent asymmetry around unionization and that the problem is unions have gotten a bad
wrap because of the tight association cognitively that we have with labor unions, right? We think
of unions and labor unions as synonymous, but union is actually a category. It's potentially a very
large category. And effectively, management always has the benefit of it. The question is, will
workers have a symmetrical entity, right? That's the labor case, but you can make the same case
with respect to, you know, banking credit unions don't work. They're very bank like, but if they
were structured in such a way to actually, you know, unionize people who utilize the bank,
could be highly effective, could be a complete replacement for the insurance industry, which
doesn't even make sense in a market context. But as a risk pool, you could do a very effective
job. So anyway, yes, the question is, how do you scale up the collective force? And especially,
how do you do it in light of the fact that the entities that are already effectively unionized
see it coming and they disrupt it with all of their very powerful tools? And so,
well, anyway, go ahead. I want to say the beginning of an answer to that, because I think it brings
us to what you've been largely exploring in this show of late of the breakdown of democracy and
open society and what do we do about that and how that relates to breakdown in culture and
breakdown in market. We can look at those, the relationship between those three types of entities.
So, a way of thinking about what the architectural idea of a liberal democracy is,
and why, say, the founders of this country set it up not as a pure laissez-faire market, but as a
state that had regulatory power and the market together, was the idea is that a market will
provision lots of goods and services better than a centralized government will. So, let's
leave the market to do the kind of provisioning of resource and innovation that it does well.
But the market will also do a couple really bad things. It will lead to
increasing asymmetries of wealth inexorably. This is what Piketty's data showed,
but it's just obvious. Having more money increases your capacity to have access
to financial services and you make interest on debt and on compounding interest on wealth.
And so, you end up getting a power law distribution of wealth. So, then a few people
in just the market dynamic would be able to have way outsized control over everyone
else against everyone else's interests. And the market creates opportunities for things
that are really bad. We all know that we want there to be a thing called crime where you don't,
where even though there's a market incentive for child sex trafficking and whatever else,
we say, no, we're going to create some rule of law that binds that thing and
not just have market drive it. So, the idea is that we create a state
that we actually give a monopoly of violence to. So, it has even more power at the bottom of the
stack of what power is than the top of the economic power law distribution. So, the wealthiest people
and the wealthiest corporations will still be bound by this rule of law.
And the rule of law is an encoding of the collective ethics of the people. The ethics
are the basis of jurisprudence. And there is some kind of democratic process of getting to say,
what is it that we consider the good life and important that we want and trying to rule of law?
We give that a monopoly of violence. And really, then the goal of the state is to bind the predatory
aspects of market incentive while leaving the market to do the things that it does well.
But pretty much every law is where someone has an incentive to do something, which is a market type
dynamic that is bad for the whole enough that we make a lot of bind it. Okay, so the purpose of a
state is to bind the predatory aspects of a market. That only works as long as the people
bind the state. And the people bind the state, if you have a government of for and by the people
of an educated populace who are who had a quality of education that were capable of understanding
all the issues upon which we are governing and making law. And a fourth estate, where the news
that they are getting is of adequate quality and unbiased enough that they're informed about what's
currently happening. If you think about that, that's what a republic would require. And you
realize that both public education and the fourth estate have eroded so badly for so long. It's not
that we're close to losing our democracy. It's dead. We don't have a republic. We have a permanent
political class and a permanent economic lobbying class. And the people who aren't really actively
engaged in government in any way at all beyond maybe jury duty now and again, if they can't get
out of it. And if the people to be engaged in government in any meaningful way had to tell the
DOE what they think should be done about grid security and energy policy or tell the DOD what
should be done about nuclear first strike policy or tell the Fed and Treasury what they think about
interest rates, they have no fucking idea how to have a governance of for and by the people.
They don't have that education. They don't have the media basis. So if the culture, if the people
can't check the state, then the state will end up getting captured by the market. And so you'll
end up having the head of the FDA be someone who ran a big drug or a big ag company and the head of
the DOD being somebody who ran Lockheed or some military industrial complex manufacturer. You'll
have just lobbying, just straightforward lobbying gets paid for by somebody who's it get paid for
those who have the money to pay for lots of lobbyists. And so then you end up getting a
crony capitalist structure, which is worse than just an evil market, because now it has the
regulatory apparatus of rule of law and monopoly of violence backing up the market type, the dynamics.
