Hey, folks, welcome to the Dark Horse podcast.
I am very pleased today to be sitting with my good friend, Daniel Schmockdenberger,
who is the founder of the Consilience Project.
There's a lot more that I could say about you, Daniel, but I think we will leave it
at that for now.
People can look up your bio if they want to do so.
I should probably start by telling people that when I say that you are my good friend,
I really mean that.
You and I are good friends, although, to be honest, we haven't spent all that much time
together.
This is one of those cases where you meet somebody, somebody who has started from a
very different place, and you discover that you have all kinds of thought processes that
have reached similar conclusions, and every discussion is fascinating.
The more I learn about what you think, the more I realize I've got a lot to learn from
you and that there is essentially infinite ground to be covered.
So welcome, Daniel.
Thank you, Brett.
It's really good to be here.
I feel the same way we were introduced by our friend, Jordan Hall, and we never had
a conversation where I didn't learn something and where I didn't appreciate the good faith
way that you showed up when we had a disagreement to talk through, which is always fun.
It is always fun, and I must say I did a little bit of poking around seeing recent interviews
you'd done, but I deliberately did not overly study for this.
My sense is that the audience will get a great deal out of hearing you and me go back and
forth and finding out what we agree on, where we disagree, and maybe most tellingly, there's
a phenomenon in which anybody who has learned to think more or less independently tends
to have their own language for things, their own set of examples that they use to explain
things that recur over and over again.
And so in order to have high quality conversations, there is this period in which you're effectively
teaching the other person how you phrase things, and seeing those things line up is great.
And in the rare case where they don't line up, it's even better because you know there's
something to be learned one way or the other.
So I'm hoping that will emerge here.
I'm looking forward to it.
All right, good.
So let's start here.
When I say that you and I come from different starting points, I mean to imply something
in particular.
You, as I understand it, were homeschooled, and as you have described it, that was actually
closer to what most people would probably refer to as unschooling.
Somehow this did not mess up your motivational structures, your parents were alert about
what they were doing.
And so you ended up pursuing what you wanted to pursue.
And it did not, you did not get in your own way.
And lo and behold, you end up a wickedly smart, independent first principles thinker.
Now that's not my story at all.
My story is I went to school and it didn't work.
I had something that most people would call a learning disability and it got in the way
of school functioning for me and more often than not, I got dumb tracked.
And basically that complete failure of school to reach me accidentally worked like some
kind of unschooling, I would say.
And so there are maybe many paths, I don't know, but I'd be curious for people who have
traveled some road to the land of high quality, independent thought.
What can they expect the experience to be like when they arrive there?
The experience of high quality, independent thought.
Yes, if you imagine that, well, it would be lovely to think independently and to do so
well.
And the world is going to be a paradise if you start doing that because of course that's
a very desirable thing to do and people will appreciate it.
You're going to be surprised.
That's not necessarily what happens when you arrive there and certain experiences show
up all over the place.
And without telling you what my experiences might have been, I'm curious as to what you
might have encountered and whether or not those things will be similar.
Ah, yeah, that's an interesting question.
I think you will experience, most people will experience a higher degree of uncertainty
than people that are part of any camp that has figured most things out and they can
cognitively offload whoever the authorities or the general group consensus is.
And certainty is certainly comfortable in a particular way.
And if you're really thinking well about what is my basis for what I believe, what is the
epistemic grounding, what's the basis of my confidence margin, and you really think about
your confidence basis clearly, as you try to find more information to deepen the topic,
the known unknowns expand faster, like at least at a second order to what the known
knowns do.
And so you keep being aware of more stuff that you don't know that you know is relevant
and pertains to the situation.
So there's a complexification of thought.
There's an increase in uncertainty.
There's an emotional development and kind of a psychological development where there's
an increased comfort with uncertainty so that you can actually be honest and not defect
on your own sense making into premature certainty that creates confirmation bias.
And there's also a, and I think that's why one of the reasons you use the term independent.
There is a certain aloneness of not having a whole camp of people that think very similarly.
I don't find that to be a painful thing, but it's a thing.
No, it's actually in its own way, it's freeing because the fact is if you follow logic to
natural conclusions, you'll end up saying a lot of things that are alarming or discordant
with the conventional wisdom and the world neatly divides into people who will be so
enraged or thrown by what you're saying that they disappear or maybe they become antagonists
at a distance and the people who have a similar experience and therefore aren't thrown by
the fact that you're saying things that are out of phase and so editing the world down
to those who are comfortable with what they don't know, who are interested in following
things where they lead, irrespective of who that elevates and who it hobbles, those people
are interesting people to hang out with and so yes, the alienation may be a blessing in
disguise in some ways.
There's two other thoughts that came up as you were just talking, one is I wouldn't call
myself an independent thinker.
I'm being particular about the semantic of the word independent, I wouldn't call anyone
an independent thinker because I think in words invented by other people, I think in
concepts invented and discovered by other people.
I don't necessarily have a specific school of orthodoxy from which I take an entire world
view but almost every idea that I believe in I did not discover and so I think that's
a very important concept because I think the ideas we're going to discuss today regarding
democracy and open society have to do with the relationship between an individual and
a collective and I think the idea of an individual is fundamentally a misnomer.
Without everybody else, I wouldn't be who I am and I wouldn't think the way I think,
I wouldn't think in the language I do, I wouldn't have access to the knowledge that came from
the Hubble telescope and the Large Hadron collider and so many things like that.
I can say that there's a certain ultimate authority of what I choose to feel that I
believe in and trust that has an internal locus of control but the information coming
from without and my own internal processing of it are part of the same system.
So this is a perfect example of what I was suggesting up front where two people who do
whatever we're going to call this will have their own separate glossaries.
So if I can translate what you've just said, I Daniel Schmockdenberger am not an independent
thinker because such a thing is inconceivable in human form and I totally agree with that.
The fact is not only are you interwoven with all sorts of humans who are responsible for
conveying to you in one way or another conclusions that you couldn't possibly check, these are
thoughts that would be familiar to Descartes for example.
But you are also building from the entirety of cumulative human culture, all of the tools
with which you can think are almost all of them are too ancient to even know where their
rudiments originated.
So anyway I don't disagree with any of that.
So to me I would say there is such a thing as an independent thinker and in your schema
it has to do with whether or not they are thinking a la carte that is to say using that set of
tools that is most effective, irrespective of the fact that those tools don't all come
from one tradition and you would say there is no independent thought because all a carte
is the most you can do or something like that.
I might say that I like a term like interdependent better because it doesn't mean that there
isn't an individual involved but it means that the individual without everyone else
is also not a thing.
And so the recognition that sovereignty and individuality is a thing and it is conditioned
by, affected by and affecting other groups of people are both necessary in the Hegelian
synthesis to understand what is the nature of a human.
Are they fundamentally individual and then groups emerge?
Are they fundamentally tribal and they are formed by the tribe and it's very much both
and a kind of recursive process between them?
100%.
In fact, I once wrote something I called the Declaration of Interdependence.
It was a sort of proto game B attempt to define what the rules of a functional society would
be like and I also frequently say that the individual is more an illusion than it is real
and what I describe is that an individual is a level of understanding that evolution
has focused us on because historically it has been sort of the limit of that where we
might have some useful control, right?
Evolution might ultimately care about whether or not you are successful, your genes are
still around 100 generations from now, but your focus on 100 generations from now is
unlikely to have any useful impact whatsoever, whereas your focus on your life and your
children is likely to be useful.
So we have been delivered a kind of temporal myopia in order to keep us focused on that
which could be productive for an ancestor.
But of course, we are now living in an era in which we can have dramatic impacts on
the distant future.
In fact, you and I are both quite focused on the strong possibility that our foolishness
in the present will result in the end of our lineage and that that is something that evolution
weren't capable of upgrading would certainly have us concerned about because the hazard
is very real and our tendency not to think about it is a big part of the danger.
I think temporal myopia and the collective action, collective coordination problem is
a good way to describe all of the problems we face or one of the generator functions
of all the problems we face that you have a bunch of game theoretic situations where
each agent within their own agency pursuing the choice that makes most rational sense
to them pursues local optimums where the collective body of that drives local global minimums.
And if anyone tries to orient towards the longer term global maximum, they just lose
in the short term.
That's an arms race.
That's a tragedy of the commons.
And so how do we reorient the game theory outside of those multipolar traps?
I would say is one of our underlying questions that when the biggest harm we could cause
was mediated by stone tools or bronze tools or iron tools or even industrial tools.
We didn't have to cause it immediately because the extent of harm was limited in scope.
When it is mediated by fully globalized exponential tech running up against planetary boundaries
with many different kinds of catastrophe weapons held by many different agents.
We actually have to solve the problem.
Yeah, I of course agree completely with this as well that effectively maybe it really is
every single important problem is a collective action problem of one kind or another.
We've got races to the bottom, we've got tragedies of the commons, we've got these things intermingled.
But once you start to see that on the one hand, it is you could take from it a kind
of reason for despair because these are not easy problems to solve.
On the other hand, the discovery that effectively it's not a thousand distinct problems, it's
a thousand variations on one theme and that that theme is solvable.
In fact, we have for example, Eleanor Ostrom's work, which points to the fact that evolution
itself has solved these problems many times, that that is hopeful.
So I don't know where you are in terms of how hopeful you find yourself about humanity's
future, but I'm quite certain that you and I will align on the idea that yes, if we could
focus on the problem as it was, it's more tractable than many people think it is.
Yeah, I mean, you mentioned hopefulness, you mentioned a bunch of good things there that
rather than a bunch of separate problems, you have a few problems with lots of expressions.
This was a big chunk of the kind of work I engaged in and with a number of people you
were part of looking at when we inventory across all of the catastrophic and existential
risks ones involving AI and problems with biotech and other kind of exponential tech
and environmental mediated issues and things that escalate to large scale war.
Is there anything in terms of the patterns of human behavior that they have in common?
So this kind of race to the bottom collective coordination thing is one way of looking at that.
But there's a few ways of looking at what we'd call the generator functions of catastrophic risk.
And it really is simplifying if you can say are there categorical solutions to those underlying
generator functions?
They're hard, right?
They're hard.
Now, when you talk about hopefulness, I noticed that the way that I relate to the optimism,
pessimism thing is there's an optimism, which is almost like a choice to say,
I'm going to have optimism that there is a solution space worth investigating,
even if I don't know what it is.
And if I'm wrong, it's the right side to be wrong on as opposed to there was a solution.
