not P and hold on to that belief, that lets us represent the world such as P,
not be spineless in the face of disagreement or counter evidence, and again, it can underlie a
commitment. Laura Bouchac argues this. She has a cool recent paper about disagreement, how this fits,
but also in her 2014 paper, she argues that this could also underlie certain kinds of moral or legal
verdicts. So I think beliefs are useful both for this efficiency and simplification role,
but I think also they kind of just let us take a stand, which is important for various reasons,
including keeping our commitments, maybe including underlying moral legal verdicts,
and just being able to have a view of the world, take a stand on the truth of something.
That said, credences are useful as well. Credences give us a precise and accurate representation
of our level of evidence, and when rational, they sort of track our exact level of evidential
support as we kind of update them by conditionalization, and they also help us keep track of
counter evidence. So when we have this commitment and we're like, I believe P, I'm committed to P,
you know, whatever, and then you get some counter evidence, you know, it's good to a certain extent
to keep that belief, but if your counter evidence just keeps going down and down and down and down
at some point, you should give up your belief and your credence can help you track when you
should give up that belief. At the same time, it's nice to be able to continue in your commitment
in light of the non-decisive counter evidence. And so your credence can track that non-decisive
counter evidence, but you can kind of keep that belief. So you can keep something,
even though your credence goes down in light of the non-decisive counter evidence.
Okay, cool. So just to kind of sum up, basically, I have hopefully accomplished or at least begun
to accomplish two goals. And that is to carve out a unique role for credence that beliefs cannot
play, which is a cognitively less demanding way to represent uncertainty. But also,
you know, I think I've sort of discussed these two main answers to the Bayesian
challenge. One has to do with simplification and efficiency. And the other has to do with,
you know, remaining steadfast and having a view of the world. And I've hopefully,
what I want to do is sort of unify both of these camps into this fundamental role for belief,
which is that it closes off the possibility of not P. And so I think this has actually pretty
plausible result, which is that agents that are more cognitively sophisticated than us,
they would have some beliefs, but less beliefs than we have, because they wouldn't need these
beliefs that are only there to just simplify reasoning. There's sort of two outstanding
objections. Maybe I'll just go through them super briefly. So the first is why not acceptance? So
when you accept P, you act as if P is true. And you might wonder, especially for this kind of
efficiency role, why can't we just accept act as if the proposition is true, rather than believe it?
And part of the answer is that I don't think, again, it's not this like pretending thing beliefs
aren't there to just like, let us pretend that P is true, whereas I think acceptance is much more
of this pretending thing. But beliefs have this mental and representational component. So it's
not just I'm going to act as if P for some practical purpose, but I'm actually mentally
representing P as true. And so I think beliefs plays roles that acceptance cannot, which is this
representing the world such as P, letting us mentally take a stand on P,
and also helping us not be spineless when we get counter evidence against P.
The second objection is when I'm actually kind of still mulling over and thinking about, I think
it's a really important objection. And that's the question of when we act on a belief versus
acting on a credence, like beliefs, maybe they close off possibilities, credences leave them open,
but when do we act on one versus the other? And I do think when we talk about the simplifying
role of belief, there's a really good answer. And that's that you act on your beliefs when
the stakes are low, or you have to make a quick decision, but credences are useful when the stakes
are high, or we have a lot of time to think through something. And so I think a further
interesting question here is, what about these cases where we want to take a stand on something?
And I think those could actually be really high stakes cases, but cases where it is appropriate
to act on our beliefs, maybe that belief underlies an important philosophical or political or ethical
or even a religious commitment. So I don't want to say that beliefs are just only associated with
low stakes and credences are just only associated with high stakes. But I think it's going to be
a complicated story here, where some beliefs, it probably is going to depend on the content of the
belief, will be more associated with low stakes, but other beliefs where the content is really
important to us, those may be beliefs that we can kind of maintain even in the face of high stakes.
So either way, I hope you have a good sense of kind of what my dissertation was about,
and why I think beliefs don't just reduce to credences. And I don't think credences just
reduce to beliefs. So thanks for listening.
