Hello, everyone. So, today I'm actually going to be talking about a topic that is really
at the heart and center of my dissertation. So, if you're interested in my dissertation
and want to know a little bit more about what that argued, then hopefully you'll find this
interesting. It is going to be a little bit more of an academic talk. So, just, you know,
keep that in mind. So, the paper is titled, How to argue for belief credence dualism.
I'm going to explain what that is, but the main point of my dissertation was to defend
belief credence dualism and then also kind of explore different implications of belief
credence dualism. And I did, you know, graduate a couple years ago, but a lot of my research
sense has also really focused on belief credence dualism. So, just a brief background. Many
epistemologists, traditional epistemologists basically see belief as a three-part attitude
you could take towards a proposition or there's three, maybe a better way of putting it, three
different attitudes you can take towards a proposition. You can believe it, effectively
saying it's true, you can withhold belief on it, you're agnostic, you're undecided on
whether it's true. So, you know, I would hold belief on whether there's an even number
of hairs on my head, or you can disbelieve it, which effectively amounts to saying that
it's false. And so, we have these three attitudes, but look, you know, I believe maybe that my
coffee is cold right now, and I believe that it'll be sunny tomorrow. And I also believe
that one plus one equals two, right? But I'm more confident that one plus one equals two
than I am in either of those other things. And so, some epistemologists have said, look,
just saying there's only these three attitudes that we can take towards a new proposition,
that's not going to capture the full story. So, some of you have probably, you know, heard
me say this before, but that's why epistemologists bring in credences. Credences are basically
our confidence level, or you could think about it like a subjective probability, and they're
measured from zero to one. Zero is certainty of propositions false. One is certainty that
a proposition is true. And you can have all these various credences in between. So, my
credence will be sunny tomorrow is probably about 0.9. My credence one plus one equals two is one
or very close to one. My credence that there's an even number of hairs in my head is 0.5, right?
So, we have beliefs, and we have credences. And there's been a lot of questions about the
relationship between these two attitudes, partially because sometimes people will just sort of adopt
one framework or the other and kind of ignore the other one. And, you know, there's this whole
formal epistemology program built up around credences, traditional epistemology program
brought up around beliefs. And I want to see these two different sort of branches of epistemology
talking to each other more. And so that's one reason I think this is a really interesting
question. And sort of just setting things up here. As you can see on the handout, basically five
views of the relationship between belief and credence. And there's these four questions,
and they'll all answer at least some of these questions differently. So, the first few is
belief or limitivism. I'm going to go through these pretty quickly. That's the view that beliefs
don't exist at all. They're just sort of this leftover from folk psychology. And most belief
limitists might say, I mean, some people are limitists about all attitudes, but for our purposes
here, most of the people we're thinking about think we only have credences and not beliefs.
So, beliefs just don't exist. Then there's the credence first view. So, the credence first
view thinks that beliefs and credences both exist. However, they argue that beliefs reduce to
credences. So, there are beliefs. They're just a certain kind of credence. And the credence first
view, as I note here, really splits into two further views. One view says that belief is
credence one. So, when you believe something, what it is to believe something is to have credence one
in it or belief reduces to credence one. And then the threshold view says that belief is credence
above some threshold. But that threshold is less than one. It's often greater than 0.5,
although I guess it doesn't have to be. Some people think the threshold could change with context.
Okay. That's the credence first view. And there's dualism. So, dualism is actually the view that
I'm going to be defending and that I defend in my dissertation. And that's the view that beliefs
and credences both exist. And they're not reducible to each other. They're equally fundamental. So,
we have beliefs. We have credences and neither reduces to the other. Then there's the belief
first view. This is the view that credences reduce to beliefs. So, credences are a kind of belief.
Often, on the belief first view, credences are beliefs about probabilities.
But they could be beliefs. There's ways that that view is tweaked, which we'll get into later.
And then finally, there's the credo limitist view. So, on the credo limitist view, credences don't
exist. Some people that are against this view are like, oh, the formal epistemologist just made
this thing up. Credences, no one actually really has credences. They're totally psychologically
unrealistic. All we have is beliefs. Okay. So, my goal today is to argue for belief credence dualism
based on the functional roles of belief and credence. So, I want to argue that beliefs play
certain functional roles that credences can't. And credences play certain functional roles that
belief can't. Before I get into that, I'll be giving some quick arguments against belief and
credo-eliminivism. But I'm really going to be focusing on this idea that we shouldn't try to
reduce beliefs to credences and we shouldn't try to reduce credences to beliefs. So, I will,
you know, at the beginning kind of be providing some counter examples to the other five views,
but I do want to kind of give a positive case for dualism as well and sort of try to tell a story
about why dualism is true. And that's, again, going to have to do with these different functional
roles that belief and credence play. So, I will note this is kind of a big picture paper and it's
kind of combining a lot of my previous work sort of giving a bird's eye perspective on a lot of my
research. It's actually from the second chapter of my dissertation, which I published like little
parts of. I actually took like sections and like expanded them into papers. But I actually never
really published like the main kind of argument of the chapters. This is probably the paper that's
closest to kind of mimicking that main argument. So, you could see the title of this paper as like
why Liz is a dualist if you wanted to. So, briefly as I wrote ahead, section two will
briefly examine some reasons to reject a limit of us views and also reject the belief is credence one
view. And then in section three, I'll just sort of explain a little bit more about the reductionist
views. Section four will explain why I reject the belief first view and then section five will
explain why I reject the credence first view. And in both of the sections four and five, I'll be
kind of explaining I think there are actually cases of irrational agents that I think actually
serve as counter examples to the belief and credence first view. But I do want to make a positive case
for dualism. And so it's not I'm not just going to be interested on in in rationality and irrationality,
but also, you know, in the roles that belief and credence play in a rational agent as well.
Okay, so let's move on to section two. Whoops. Okay. So I'm just going to kind of briefly talk
about these limit of this views, but I'm not going to spend a ton of time on them. So note,
belief, eliminabism just requires a very extensive erythry about our common sense psychology,
much of our everyday discourse. It's very common to say like I believe this or I don't believe that
or I'm undecided about that. And so it just really just saying there's no beliefs at all.
I think it's just, it's going to be a pretty radical view a pretty radical revision of kind
of our common sense view. And it does kind of seem like there are things that we just
straight up believe it doesn't seem like every single belief is just a credence,
like there's no beliefs at all. So that was super brief, but that's all the time I have to go into
for that. Feel free to comment if you have more questions or want to hear more about why I don't
like belief, eliminabism. I'll spend a little bit more time on credo, eliminabism, but not
too much more. And the thought behind credo, eliminabism is kind of similar to what we already
talked about. If all there is is belief with folding and disbelief, we can't capture this idea
that we're more confident in some things that we believe than others. Beliefs are just super
coarse grain. There's really just three belief like attitudes. And this just seems too coarse
grain to capture all the nuanced things that are going on in our heads are various levels of
confidence, probability judgments, all of that. And I think too, it's easy to see credence in a
very narrow way. It has to be this precisely point valued subjective probability. But I actually think
it's better to interpret credence in a relatively broad way. So credence can include things like
confidence levels, what some philosophers call partial beliefs, you can have fuzzy or fuzzy
credences or interval credences or imprecise credences. So your credences don't always have to
be precise, you could be more confident in A than indeed, even if you're not, you know,
be able to say the exact probability of either one of those. And so I think given this kind of
broader understanding of credence, I think it's pretty plausible that we have credences
and also I don't think actually anyone really defends credo limitivism, because they'll say
we don't have credences, but we have partial beliefs. And then I'm like, okay, well, for my
purposes, that is credence, you know. And I also think some people think we don't have any precise
credences at all. But I think we do have precise credences. And this is often when we have precise
evidence. So you can think about a coin flip, you have a point five credence, the coin will end
heads, rolling a dice, you know, you have a one in six credence, that the dice will land a five.
And then you can also think of cases where you proportion your credence to a specific statistic
that you're given, whether that's, you know, you check Amazon, and there's like an 85% chance
your package arrives today. So you have 0.85 credence or, you know, support sports statistics,
I think there's a lot of examples of cases where we proportion our credences to a specific statistic,
and then we have a relatively precise credence. So I think given this kind of broader understanding
of what a credence is, and this need to have an attitude that's a little more fine grained,
I think it's very plausible that we have credences. Okay, the third view I wanted to address here is
the belief as credence one view. So this is the view that, you know, we do have credences and
beliefs, but beliefs just are credences of one. You know, there's things that people say in favor
of this view, and, you know, belief and credence one are similar in certain ways, they have similar
kind of functional profiles. When you believe something or have credence one in it, you tend to
rule out the alternative possibility. So if I believe it will rain tomorrow, that attitude is
associated with ruling out the possibility that it won't rain tomorrow, similar with credence one.
However, there's a number of standard objections against this view. First of all, I think there's
just some intuitive counter examples to it. So there's lots of things that we believe we're
not 100% sure of. We already talked about some examples of this, that it, you know, will be sunny
tomorrow, that my car is parked in front of my house, that, you know, this number one seed in
this tournament will beat this number 16 seed. You know, there's, there's lots of things like that
that I believe, but there is a chance I'm wrong. I'm not 100% sure. And it also similarly, it just
can't capture this really intuitive idea that we're more confident in some things that we believe
in another. So you can believe two things, but be more confident in one than the other.
The belief is credence one view can't capture that because all beliefs you have the same credence
and them credence one. Furthermore, it does seem to conflict with decision theory. So according
to decision theory, you should have a credence one, if you have a credence one and something,
you should be willing to take any bet on it, no matter what the stakes are. But there's lots of
things we believe that we wouldn't take any bet on, right? So I believe I was born in Kansas,
but I wouldn't take a bet that would give me a dollar. If I was born in Kansas, and I'll be
tortured for the rest of my life, I wasn't born in Kansas. So I believe I was born in Kansas,
that's not changing. But I'm saying I do still believe that, but I'm not taking that bet, right?
The main response that the credence one people give to this is that
there's some kind of context sensitivity about belief. So in the context before I'm offered the
bet, I do believe that and being offered the bet basically changes my belief because I'm
not willing to make that bet anymore. So basically in general, you give up a belief when
you're confronted with certain kinds of bets, even if those bets don't constitute evidence against
that belief. I'm just going to leave that there as a reductio. I know some people like this
contextualist view of belief, but I really am not a big fan of contextualism. So for the sake of time,
I'm going to say I'm not satisfied with that response. But that is a common response that a
lot of people like. It's also maybe worth noting that some people like to have this view in which
belief is certainty, but certainty is different than credence one, saying the subtle distinctions
that they're making. I think two things here. So I think first of all, this view does suffer from
many of the same issues. So there's many things that we believe that we're not certain of, right?
I gave a lot of examples. I think similar examples to the credence one also work for the certainty
thing. And we're more confident in some things that we believe than in others, but you can't
capture that if belief is certainty. But I think furthermore, unless you're really clear about
what the relationship is between certainty and credence, this question, this answer doesn't
really even give us, it doesn't give us an answer about the relationship between belief and credence.
It just tells us something about belief and certainty. But if we don't know what the
relationship between certainty and credence is, other than certainty doesn't credence one,
I don't think this really helps. Okay. Here is a newer objection to the belief is credence one
view. I actually stole this from my paper that I refereed, but I really think this is a really
cool objection. So, and that objection is this, the belief is credence one view. It actually
undermines many of the motivations that are given for positing credences in the first place.
So I started off by saying, we have beliefs, we have credences, both kind of when I was
explaining what those are. And then also when I was kind of arguing against the element of this
views, I was giving these kinds of motivations. And I've given these spills a lot, like look,
we're more confident in some things we believe than in others. You could also think about a case
where you believe P, but then you get some more evidence for P. And then your belief doesn't
change, but something changes presumably like your credence, right? Or you believe P and you get a
little bit of evidence against P, you keep believing P. Again, what changes your credence?
So credence can help us capture these like subtle changes in evidence that don't change our beliefs.
And so I think the thought here is like part of the reason we even say that we want to say that
credences are a thing is because they're this fine-grained attitude that helps us distinguish
between various kinds of beliefs. Beliefs are maximally confident, beliefs are moderately confident
in, etc. But if belief is credence one, we don't need these distinctions, right? We're equally
confident in everything we believe. So, you know, I'm not going to sit here and just write a paper
on why belief is credence one is false. That's not the main point of this video. So I'm going to kind
of leave it at that. I realize this is short, but I really think it's there's something that is a
really big cost to your view. If you're reducing beliefs to something, and then you're undermining
many of the reasons for pausing that thing, you're reducing beliefs to in the first place.
So that's kind of the main reasons I reject the belief is credence one view.
Okay, moving on to section three. This is about just briefly about reductionism and some of the
reductionist views. I probably won't go into this a lot here, but one kind of question is what do
we mean by reduction? We're talking about basically these two views. Credence is reducing to beliefs
or beliefs, reducing the credences. But what does reduce mean? And I think there's there's
really three main options. It could be identity. So a reduces to be if and only if a is numerically
identical to be the main problem here is that identity is symmetrical. So if, you know, I am
identical to the philosophy professor teaching the second certain section of critical thinking this
semester, we're the same person. There's not we're like, like, there's a symmetry right there
between us. But reduction is supposed to be asymmetrical. One thing is reducing to another.
So one is more fundamental than the other. So some people still really want to try to make this
identity thing work. But I do think that's a problem. So two other views that are not symmetrical
would be reduction as supervenience. So a supervenes on B if and only if there's no difference
in a without there being a difference in B. And then there's also grounding, which is supervenience
plus basically. So a reduces to be if and only if a is grounded in B. So it's normally like the
supervenience plus metaphysical fundamentality and explanatory priority. You know, maybe the
grounding option is the best option. I'm not really going to take a stand on this here, but
just sort of note those as options. And if you think there's other good options for how we might
understand reduction, you can let me know in the comments. But yeah, I do think it's worth kind
