The following is a conversation with Eric Weinstein, the third time we've spoken on this podcast.
He is the wise turtle, Master Ugue to my Kung Fu Panda, one of my favorite people to talk to in
this world. A complicated and fascinating mind that I'm grateful to have the chance to accompany
in exploring this world through conversation on this podcast and on his, the latter called The Portal.
Quick mention of each sponsor, followed by some thoughts related to the episode.
First is Grammarly, a service I use in my writing to check spelling, grammar, sentence
structure, and readability. Second is Sun Basket, a meal delivery service I use to add
healthy variety into my culinary life. Third is SEM Rush, the most advanced SEO optimization tool
I've ever come across. I don't like looking at numbers, but somebody should, it helps you make
good decisions. And finally ExpressVPN, the VPN I've used for many years to protect my privacy
on the internet. Please check out these sponsors in the description to get a discount and to support
this podcast. As a side note, let me say that wherever this life takes me, I'm drawn to the
possibility of having many more conversations with Eric through the years. I think we have just the
right kind of contrasting worldviews and a deep respect and appreciation of each other's life
stories that creates for this magical experience in the realm of conversation that feels like we're
always looking for something that we never quite find, but are always better for having tried.
I'm not sure how or why the universe is connected to Eric and me, but it did,
and I would be a fool not to trust its judgment and enjoy the journey. If somehow you like this
podcast, please subscribe on YouTube, review it with five stars on Apple Podcast, follow on Spotify,
support on Patreon, or connect with me on Twitter at Lex Freedman. And now here's my conversation
with Eric Weinstein. Who's the greatest musician of all time, would you say? We were just off
camera talking about Eddie Van Halen. He unfortunately passed away. Who's the greatest musician of all
time? Yeah. Jonathan Richmond. Who's that? It's a weird question, so I'm going to give you a weird
answer. It's not because- Thank you. Okay. Jonathan Richmond, the reason I'm picking on him is that
he had a quote. He was the frontman of a group called The Modern Lovers, and his quote was
something like, we have to be prepared to play music when our instruments are broken,
the electricity is out, and it's raining, something like that. And I thought that that
quote was very interesting because what it said was, you have to be able to strip this thing down
farther and farther back to get to something that is intrinsically musical. So we were having
a conversation just now about virtuosity, and we're talking about Eddie Van Halen and his
recent passing, and that affected me emotionally. I don't know whether it affected you. I was never
Van Halen, the group fan, but I revered Eddie Van Halen's capacity for innovation. I saw him like
Rodney Mull in the skateboard. I had dreamed of having the two of them on the same podcast,
just to talk about what it's like to totally discontinuously innovate.
And he posted a video of Spanish fly, I think, and saying, I didn't know the guitar could make
those kinds of sounds. Like, what is this voodoo? How is it? Well, this is the thing,
the arpeggios that he did on a single string are so fast, and the attacks from the hammer-ons,
when they go at light speed, as he did, particularly, and the reason I chose that was,
is that I wanted to strip out the electronics, because part of the claim will be is that he's
a rock musician, and a lot of the innovations had to do with things peculiar to sort of the
electrified setup. His use of the whammy bar, for example, or the Frankenstrat that he built
from different pieces. All of those aspects, in my opinion, are just dwarfed by his
innovation and his musicianship. And that's why I chose Spanish fly, because everyone,
of course, will go to something like your eruption or running with the devil, which is the first
things that they heard that let them know that there was a new force erupting out of Southern
California that was Eddie Van Halen. I'm in love with the story of it.
You're often so poetic about music. It clearly touches your soul on many levels.
What is that? Is it deeper than just rocking out in your convertible Corvette 69?
I imagine Eric Weinstein is driving down the California highways, blasting some kind of music.
Is it just being able to be carefree for moments of time, or is there something more fundamental
that connects the theory of everything in physics and life and all of that?
How often do you have the chance, for example, to hear mathematics performed, as you do in Bach?
Something with that kind of precision and elegance that can't really be grasped,
to go back to Leonard Cohen's famous line, the baffled king composing.
It's such a good song.
It's such a good song, but it's also like individual verses of that song are insanely
important. The baffled king is how we often make music. We don't really understand what did we
just do that broke that person's heart sitting on the couch. It's a very strange thing that you
should be able to have. Think of it like you're a computer. You've got this weird open music port.
Port 37.8. It's not even supposed to be there, and suddenly somebody starts playing a guitar
and they're making you feel things. In particular, particular instruments like the violin,
it's so difficult. It's so unforgiving. When it gives up its secrets, it wraps its fingers
around your heart and won't let go. Sometimes I talk about head, heart, and loins. When something
can grab your head, heart, and your loins at the same moment and integrate them,
there are very few opportunities to live like that. If you think about Eddie Van Halen,
as far as your head, the musical innovations and the fact that he was drawing directly from
the classical canon really speaks to the idea that maybe rock is what somebody like Jimi Hendrix
saw it as being an infinitely extensible medium. In terms of heart, I always notice the smile on
his face. It's painful to look at an Eddie Van Halen solo now. Sometimes you'll see the
cigarette dripping off the side of his mouth, and you're like, that's going to fucking kill you,
and I'm not even worried about it for you. I'm worried about it for me. I don't even need to
hear you play another note. I just like knowing that you're in the world, that there is somebody
that everyone looks to that know, but I've never heard a guitarist say, eh, I don't know. I think
he was okay. I've never heard it. You can hate him, but you still think he was a genius. There are
very few people like that in the world. Then loins, those leaps, that guy was incredibly good-looking,
skin tight pants, super athleticism. He completely owned the male sexuality of the stage,
both being the completely dominant sort of mythical alpha male. I hate that expression,
but there you are. But also this kind of little boy with this mischievous smirk and the sense that
it all came together. How could you not eat that up? You could just imagine the millions of young
teenage boys who were just playing air guitar in their room, basically dreaming of being that kind
of God, the most perfect example of what a human being can be. It's fascinating to think.
It is. Then as in many of the cases with these bands, you get these multiple talents in the same
outfit. I think that the original configuration with David Lee Roth is such a hot mess at all times.
I would love you to talk to David Lee Roth. That dance would be just gorgeous.
I don't know. Can you handle it? Can you ride that?
Probably not. Probably not because I get the feeling that he's very smart and very
dysregulated. I don't know that I could bring him down to earth for a moment.
Well, I can also get pretty dysregulated. I don't know whether it could be magic.
It could be a shit show. I don't know what you thought of his appearance on Rogen. That was
an interesting one. I loved it, but Joe does this sometimes. Sometimes he just sits back
and listens and he just lets the music play, which works really well. I think you have a chance to
kind of jump into the chaos and then you'll just start. The places you will go, you may not even
talk about music for hours. It might just go to this because he I think lives in Japan.
Like there's a weird. He's been an EMT after he was a rock star he chose to be.
There's depth to that man that hasn't been explored by him either. That'll be an exciting
conversation. Can we go back to Leonard Cohen? The things I feel when I listen to Hallelujah
by Leonard Cohen or anything by him really, but that one.
Do you really want to get into it? Let's go. What does that song mean to you?
Is it love? Oh boy. Well, first of all, it's mystery. It starts off about mystery.
So what are you doing? You're doing this alternation between the two chords. So three notes at the
same time. One is called the tonic or you have the major and the relative minor and he's alternating
between them. There's only one note of difference between those two chords. One of them would be
feeling sad. One of them would be more joyous, typically described. And so by altering one note,
it's the minimal amount to take you back and forth between joy and happiness as that's encoded
in us. So he starts off with it. I heard there was a tune. David played the please a little bit.
You don't really care for music, do you? That's really interesting because he's using this technique
called bathos. So the alternation between the sublime and kind of the guttural or ridiculous
or the mundane, right? So he's like... There's a bitterness to it too. Is it just play? Well,
the way I hear it, again, a great song allows for different interpretations. You happen to be asking
me, so I'm going to impart some stuff that probably isn't in the song, but why it speaks to me. That's
what makes it great. The way I hear it is he doesn't believe the audience. You don't really care for
music, do you? Then what are you doing listening to this? You stupid idiots. Of course you care
for music. You're too cool to care. So I see through you and screw you. That's the energy
I get at it. Then he does this weird thing. It goes like this is where he should put the description
of where he is in the chord progression, which is the tonic, right? It goes like this and then he
hits the fourth and the fifth, which are the two other major elements, the subdominant and the
dominant in functional harmony. So he's describing the chord progression in real time in the lyrics.
There's two ways this can come about in other songs. We had this example of
every time we say goodbye. Do you know the song? Every time we say goodbye? No, I think it was a
Cole Porter, maybe, or Gershwin, maybe Porter. I don't know. I cry a little. There is no love song
finer, but how strange the change from major to minor, right? It's beautiful use.
Nice. Then there's times when it's duplicitous. So for example, you'll have,
I guess my favorite examples of this are Johnny Cash's Ring of Fire.
I fell into a burning ring of fire. Then what does he do with the lyrics in the tune?
I went down, down, down. He goes up. And so the idea is like, oh, okay, that was a head fake.
Right? And another one of these is Nina Simone's Feeling Good.
Oh, okay. So what do you get?
That woman's voice. She doesn't give a damn. And I was feeling it, but then what's the
thing? It's like heavy stripping music. You're not in a good place. You're probably in some
strip club with your money. You're drinking lousy beer, some bad situation. And she's feeling good?
No, it's funerial. It's oppressive, right? I never thought of that song that way. Wow.
Well, you think of it as joyous? Yeah. No, no, no. If you think about it, contrasted with Ray
Charles, for example, you know, do you know Lonely Avenue? Well, my room has got two windows,
but the sunshine never comes through. It's really depressed. It's the same sort of vibe as Nina,
but she's claiming that she's in great shape. So she's like a good case of the unreliable narrator.
Leonard Cohen to me is talking about the unreliable audience that's too cool to be with
the performer on stage. There are things that go with the music, like the Cole Porter stuff that
go against, like the Johnny Cash. I think these are the games that musicians play that the rest
of us only sort of notice subliminally. Okay. Fourth, the fifth, then he should say something
about the relative minor or the, he's giving you the secret, the baffled king. In other words,
he doesn't know why it works. Did Pockelbel know why Pockelbel's Canon would work? It was a discovery
and that's the whole thing. Like some music is discovered and some music is invented. And
he's talking about a musical discovery. He's talking about the Pythagorean power of the wave
equation and then superimposed. Like there's two genius intellectual concepts behind music,
one of which is the wave equation. Usually we solve it for a one-dimensional medium because
we're talking about strings or air columns. Occasionally, you're talking about things like
handpans or steel drums or metallophones or gamelons, whatever. And those have a wave equation,
too, that's much more chaotic. The other equation is this crazy thing that two to the 1912 is almost
exactly equal to three, which is what gave us even temperament. And so the tension between
those two things is, in fact, one of these most beautiful stories inside of that system.
That formula of the baffled king is a discovery. He's not really composing it. The reason he's
baffled, it's imagine that you took a little brush and you started brushing off a pyramid under
the sands. You might think that you created the pyramid by your brushing, but in fact,
somebody else did it. That's why you're baffled, right?
That's beautifully put. You're right. And as creating one of the greatest songs of all time
and as he's doing it, he's baffled. And he's within the song.
And he Leonard is baffled is my my contention, but he knows enough to know that he's baffled,
right? And so the idea is that he is composing. He has the audacity
to compose as David. He's echoing David at a minimum. And then in a later song,
which I really wish we would discuss that's totally dystopic and you will not like it at all,
is the future, which contains this line that I think I used in my episode with Roger Penrose on
the portal. Note the subtle plug. The portal, the portal. I'm the little Jew that wrote the Bible.
So there is this way in which Leonard Cohen, I think, is constantly coming to the idea of being
a biblical like scribe. And I think this is one of the great things that you see Dylan doing this
with all along the watch tower. You saw Warren Zevon, who we should talk much more about doing
this with a song called I was in the house when the house burned down. Do you know this thing?
No, this is embarrassing. Sweetheart.
It's a great day.
Warren Zevon is one of the most important songwriters of our time. And he's been largely forgotten
by this generation. But Bob Dylan would sing one of his songs in tribute. I've heard Bob Dylan
very small number of songwriters really move him. Woody Guthrie, Gordon Lightfoot,
and Warren Zevon. By the way, Bob Dylan, if you're out there, appear on either one of our podcasts.
We need to get your voice into a new medium for a new group.
Definitely.
This is a time for Bob Dylan, my friend. Honestly, you've been doing an amazing job in this space.
One of the reasons I'm super excited to do this podcast again is that I've learned some
things about what I don't do well. And I also have struggled with the question, should I do
those things better? Because I always use the same example of the fitted sheet when you're
trying to put a queen-size fitted sheet on a king-size mattress. He's like, okay,
I got that corner squared away, and then you get another corner that pops off,
and they have to go back around. I wonder whether I can improve my style in the ways in which
I think it's just a recognition of a difference. You do a better job of getting to the soul
of a really top intellectual guest and making them accessible and presenting them as themselves
for a huge number of people. And I'd give my eye tooth to be able to do that.
Do you ever think about this? Because I think about what is the greatest conversation I'll
ever have? In a sense, the portal, not to reduce it to anything, but there will be the greatest
conversation. You may have already had it, but it's very possible if enough people like me can
keep twisting your arm to keep doing the portal, please. There'll be an amazing conversation.
And one of the questions that I ask myself is, who is the person that I'm especially equipped
for some reason I'm convinced on Putin? There's something in my head that says,
I can do this man better than anyone else in this world. I got this thought in my head about it.
I don't know why, and I'm convinced, but I think the universe works in that way. If it tells you,
it's going to happen. The way I would say it is that almost everybody who becomes a Supreme
Court Justice believes at a very early age they're going to become a Supreme Court Justice. Many
people believe at an early age that they can do it, don't get there. But of those who get there,
almost all of them had this sort of, well, I call it pathological self-confidence. And
I do think you have pathological self-confidence, and you also have humility. And most people would
hear those as a contradiction. I think that you would not be able to get away with what you do
if you didn't have the humility. And so I think the great danger is that your equation becomes
unbalanced, that you either lose the humility or you lose the humility overwhelms the ego and the
