They asked him this question.
Like, what's the greatest thing that ever happened in math?
And he says, Tartaglia's solution of the cubic.
It's just like the weirdest answer.
So you're like, okay, I'll bite.
Why is it Tartaglia's solution of the cubic?
And he said, because it was the first time a modern person had done something profound
that the ancients had failed to do.
I was like, oh, I got it.
It's the thing that opens up new psychology that says maybe things are possible again.
It's a new orchard.
New orchard.
New farmers, new people who can find fruit that they can pick.
And once you have one person do that, very often you get many.
Like one of the things that we were talking about with Eddie Van Halen,
the reason that he created a revolution in somebody like Roy Buchanan did not
is that you could follow Eddie Van Halen.
You couldn't pioneer it.
And maybe you couldn't play as well and as cleanly and as fast and as inventively.
But you could follow.
Once you understand that there is a tapping principle,
it was just the beginning of something called percussive guitar.
My belief is that once we start innovating in the present,
everything will come because everything that around us is screwed up.
On that, let me with one last question bring back Master Oogway,
the probably the most famous quote of his, right?
With yesterday's history, tomorrow's a mystery, but today is a gift.
That is why it is called the present.
It's very beautiful.
Although I would have gone with quit, don't quit, noodles, don't noodles.
I feel like people need to know way too much context to make sense.
It's so absurd.
It's your audience just to hell with context.
Yep, they'll figure it out.
Well, let me ask, what are you grateful for today?
What is your present?
We've talked about a lot of dark things, but what are you brings you joy to your heart that
I can't believe I'm lucky enough to have this?
No, Nyla and Zev, my wife, Pia.
The fact that we've got our health, all the little things, saying grace after meals.
You're coming over for Friday night Shabbat dinner, so we'll bench together and say grace.
It's important to just like this bottle of water in front of me.
I made a point of just thinking about how wonderful it is that there's a quenching
bottle that happens to be placed in front of me because somebody cared.
That small thing made a difference to me.
I still have strength for the fight so far.
I think that's something I'm grateful for.
I can't believe that I'm not more beaten down after all of this nonsense.
I have the most interesting set of friends.
I really do.
I'm not that rich by monetary standards, but if there were friend billionaires,
Forbes would be all over my ass.
I just can't believe who I can talk to at the drop of a hat.
I'm really grateful.
I think this is the end of something profound, and it's the beginning of whatever is next.
Whatever is next could be terminal.
Whatever is next could be amazing.
Whatever is next could be a return to the horrors of the early 20th century that doesn't
manage to go totally catastrophic, but takes hundreds of millions of lives in the process.
I'm grateful to having half of my life in the rear view mirror.
Maybe it took place in a bubble, and maybe it was unsustainable, but it was nice to be able to
move around the world without a mask.
It was nice to be able to see a little bit of the world, even if it was from a
cot in a hostel in some country.
To fall in love.
Absolutely.
I mean.
It was a good life.
Find the last Indian Jewish girl left?
Who knew?
You're a lucky guy.
Well, let me just say.
Actually, that's something I wanted to just say before you get to that.
Yes.
I forgot to say something.
Falling in love with an intellectual collaborator is a special thing that not
everybody gets a chance to do.
I think when I met Pia, I fell deeply in love with her, all her normal characteristics.
She and I had an antagonistic relationship around geometry and economics.
Then weirdly, just like in a buddy picture where in the first half of the film they hate each other,
the two fields were fighting with each other, cats and dogs.
Then finally, the sexual tension clearly was so thick you could cut it with a knife.
We came up with geometric marginalism, which is this other theory, not geometric unity,
which allowed me to inhabit space with somebody who I already knew intimately and had fallen
in love with and to see the quality and beauty of their mind and to play and to dance.
It's sort of the intellectual version of the tango.
One of the most romantic periods of my life that doesn't fall into most people's
experience, that was a chance to see something totally unexpected,
haven't really had it since because she doesn't want to revisit the material,
but something I'm super grateful for that's very particular and unique.
But to flip the tables on you for hundreds of thousands, I think millions of people,
I can speak, me and them, are really grateful, one, that you exist, and two, sorry, for your podcast.
And I do hope your voice in some form continues to reverberate, I think, at least in the 2021s
and beyond, even if it takes a brief pause.
We're pausing at the moment. We've recorded some for future episodes and I'm recording for you.
I really appreciate that. I mean, earnestness trades at a discount at the moment because it's
easy to make fun of it. And one of the things I like best about you is that you and I are both
fairly earnest. We may joke and jab, but honestly, there's a project here in a world to win, as they
say. The thing that I want my and your listeners to know is that I'm not stepping away from the
podcast because I don't appreciate that people really want more. This is hugely financially
costly to me. I want to make sure you guys are getting the best that I can do and destroying
myself right in front of an election. I think Lex is incorrect. I think that the forces that are
trying to make sure that there aren't any planes in the sky that aren't either colored red or colored
blue is a big danger given how angry I am at the system. And I don't want to be removed from the
chessboard because if nobody's going to talk about Jeff Epstein, there need to be people.
If nobody's going to talk about various things that we've talked about on these programs,
I want to make sure that I'm there. Do I think that this is potentially an existential election?
Yes. Am I positive that I know that my way to bed is the right way out? No, I'm not. I don't
know people. I just don't know. And where we are right now seems so dumb and so catastrophic in
terms of how it is chewing up smart people that I decided it's really not about cowardice because
it's hard for me to restrain myself. I have so many reactions every day.
This is really about trying to plan for all of our futures to make sure that I'm around.
I had a huge concern that what happened to Brett's articles of unity was going to happen
to Brett. It was going to happen to the YouTube channels. I want to make sure that we don't have
all of our eggs in one basket. So if something goes wrong over there, that's the whole idea of
the Intellectual Dark Web, which is at some level a loose confederation. It can become a
strong confederation if somebody wants to back it and make it work. It can dissolve so that
there really isn't anything. The thing is to be hard to kill because ultimately,
when the hit pieces come, they don't come for what it is that they're angry at you about.
They come for where they can get you. And so it's very important that right in front of an election
yeah, I think that the desire of the old system to defend itself through reputational destruction
is one of the most pernicious aspects of the new America. And we have to fight
the ability to destroy reputations as a means of institutions keeping individuals with podcasts
and the ability to reach millions like through Substack out of their domain. I don't surrender
this domain to them. They have plenty of weaponry with which to fight us. And I believe that they
could remove you or me in an instant. By the end of today, if they wanted us off the chessboard,
we would be off the chessboard. I know that's not your perspective. My goal is to stay here as long
as possible to make sure that you have enough of a counterbalancing set of ideas and to let
and help other podcasters start. And my hope is that that works. But
long heroism, short martyrdom is a good motto for anyone. And I try to remember the short martyrdom
part of that. First of all, beautifully put. Second of all, way to end the conversation
and the disagreement, which is how you hook them for the next conversation to be continued.
When Lex says, Eric, it's a huge honor. Thank you once again.
Lex really appreciate every time we get together. Thanks buddy.
Thanks for listening to this conversation with Eric Weinstein and thank you to our sponsors.
Grammarly, a service I use in my writing to check spelling, grammar, sentence structure and
readability. Sunbasket, a meal delivery service I use to add healthy variety into my culinary life.
SEM Rush, the most advanced SEO optimization tool I've ever come across. I don't like looking at
numbers, but someone should. It helps you make good decisions. And finally, ExpressVPN, the VPN
I've used for many years to protect my privacy on the internet. Please check out these sponsors
in the description to get a discount and to support this podcast. If you enjoy this thing,
subscribe on YouTube, review it with 5 stars on Apple podcast, follow on Spotify,
support on Patreon, or connect with me on Twitter, Alex Friedman. And now, let me leave you with some
words from Leonard Cohen in the song titled, Hallelujah. Well, maybe there's a God above,
but all I've ever learned from love was how to shoot somebody who I'll drew you.
And it's not a cry that you hear at night. It's not somebody who's seen the light. It's a cold
and it's a broken hallelujah. Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.
