You know, I'm roaming that orchard and wondering how the hell you kind of bring back like the ant
that finds a new source of food. I'm trying to find an apple I can bring back to the...
Great. So you're in an explorer idiom.
And do you have faith that there's enough of those?
I don't think there are very many of us. I mean, I'm one of them too.
How many does it take? It takes one ant. It takes one ant.
What are you talking about? How many eelons does it take to screw in a light bulb?
Let's imagine that we went... Imagine some ant goes and finds a new source of food, right?
And then it comes back to the colony and it says, hey, I think I found a new source of food.
And the initial reaction is, you're not authorized to find new food.
What? Why would you try to go find new food?
We're going to remove you from Twitter.
And by the way, I think the fact that you think you're allowed to go find new food shows how
privileged you are as an ant. Get out of the colony. Kill him. Kill him.
Well, that's probably not a great model for finding new orchards.
And I think that what we find is that where there's a system that allows somebody to ascend
without a lot of gatekeeping, you can have that. But I saw this happen in hedge funds.
Hedge funds for a while hoovered up a lot of talent because they were places that had funding
and had freedom. And in general, really smart people want to be free and they don't want to
think a lot about how they're going to feed themselves. They want to get lost in their minds.
So you can either give them productive places to play, dangerous places to play.
You know, they're either going to break into computers or find vaccines for you
or build bombs or build companies. And we're not providing for the people who have to disrupt and
have to innovate and trying to channel that effort. We're so focused on this other thing,
which is like fairness and safety. And fairness and safety, by the way, are really important.
I don't want to denigrate them. But the singular focus on fairness and safety in the same breath
being focused on growth and discovery and creation is going to doom us because what we're
talking about is we're always talking about divvying up the pie that is as opposed to
the pie that will be. Imagine that you spent all your time trying to divvy up the 13th century pie
and you destroyed your ability to get to the 20th century. You'd be an idiot.
But one place I think I disagree with you is I don't think you need that many people to empower
the geniuses, the innovators, the people who refuse to spend most of their days in meetings about
fairness. This is good. Let's have a disagreement. I think podcast and whatever you call that medium
is just one little example of a tool that you can give power to. Like you and your podcast can have
the next Elon Musk and make them a star. Now I see where you're going. Okay. There has been a
series of places for people to play and be free. And we've lost them successfully.
What's a good place you remember? Because I just agree with you there, too. I think they're still
there. You can still play. You interviewed Noam Chomsky. Yes. Okay. Noam Chomsky comes from an era
where you can play. Where you could play. At MIT. At MIT. And you can't play. This is where I
disagree with you. We've already had this, but go check the clips channel for the Lex Friedman podcast.
I think I wasn't brave enough at that time and I'm not really brave enough now. Come on. Because I don't...
Where's the vodka? It's a feeling and the people are going to tear me apart. Oh, what are you and
you speak from emotion? In fact, the feeling... My podcast is yours. Yes. Okay. Tell the people who
are currently editing your brain because I saw that move right now. They should go find another
podcast. Right? Let's get rid of some of your audience right now. Please go find another podcast
if you're editing my brain. Nevertheless, all the self-doubt, they're sitting in that brain.
Oh, I can't stand to watch this, but all right. What is the self-doubt loop that you're in? The
thing is, when I walk the halls of MIT, there's bureaucracy. There's administrators that never
have done anything interesting in their entire lives. There's meetings. There's all the usual crap.
But there's, in the eyes of individuals, there's this glow of excitement that has nothing to do
with career. I understand this. And it's still a playground. There's little pockets of playgrounds
from which genius can emerge still. And they're unaffected by diversity meetings or fairness
meetings or blah, blah, blah. I love to hear that. Yeah? You don't think so? I don't believe it.
Because I've watched the change, Lex. I've watched people edit. We are all editing ourselves all
the time. I remember my old mind. I liked it better. All of this relentless focus on critical
race theory and critical theory, post-modernism, fairness, social justice, it's making many of
us into worse people. Do you think the mad daemons of the character is paying attention to any of
that? You think that has an effect? Have you seen what happened to Matt Damon himself? Matt Damon
has tried to say various things at various times. It seemed to be relatively innocuous. He can't
speak. Okay. Well, let's not mix up. Matt Damon is just an actor. Well, I don't know. He was just a
Harvard student who came up with his own genius screenplay, acted, and made it happen. No. We're
somewhere else. You don't think you can build a rocket company out of MIT still? No, I do think.
I think that there are things that you can still do, but we're losing them. We lose them. We keep
losing them. I would say the biggest problem here, let me just say what I think the solution would be
is to fire anybody who's not faculty, especially young faculty, should have way more power
and administration should have much less power. Because right now, the administration,
which used some of the whom used to be faculty, but they've lost the fire, the spark that gave
them, they've lost the memories of the playground. The people that admire and love the playground,
like you could see it in their behavior, should have way more power. We should create
a systems that give them power. Lex, you're very idealistic. You've got a huge heart.
It's a weird time because I don't want to dissuade you from believing beautiful things
because I see how potent you are. You do all these things, jujitsu, guitar, podcasting,
programming, computers, et cetera, et cetera. I don't think you're right. I think we're in a
really deeply screwed up place where even the tiny number, let me give you an alternate version
of this dystopia. I do think that there are people who are capable and there's still places to
play and cause things to happen that progress the story forward. But if you look at the fire that
some of the people are in who fit that profile, how much crap has Elon Musk taken? Quite considerable.
Right? And not much admiration from the- Craig Venter.
Jim Watson. These are very difficult people. Steve Jobs is a very difficult guy, you know?
Yeah, it is a bit heartbreaking to me. I mean, everybody is different generations. I just,
my mind is a little focused on Elon Musk because he's the modern person.
Well, you know him. I mean, he's a person to you.
It hurts my heart to see how few faculty and people with Nobel Prizes and so on
admire Elon. He gets a lot of fans from people who buy his products and young minds just excited.
But why don't we as an institute, why doesn't MIT say that somebody amongst us will be the
next Elon Musk and we want to encourage them? Say that. Say that in meetings. Say that. That's
success. No kidding. For us as MIT. Instead, there's this jealousy. It's like, did you hear what
Elon Musk tweeted? How responsible is what he's doing? He's just saying all these things that are
just dripping with jealousy and basically- I want what he's got. That's the thing, right?
Here's the weird thing. Rivalry has a different signature. You see, when you know that you're
never going to make it, that's the position you take. What is it in Kung Fu Panda, which you've
watched now? Yes. Yes. What does Tai Lung say when he's looking for the Dragon Warrior and the Furious
Five come to defeat him on the bridge? One of them gives up Poe's name accidentally and Tai Lung
hears it. Poe, so that is his name. Finally, a worthy opponent. Our battle will be legendary,
right? He's excited. Why is that? Well, you learn about this in boxing. Sometimes you'll see a division
or an MMA, which is lousy with talent. You can't swing a cat without hitting an amazing athlete.
Sometimes you'll have a division, which at that particular moment has one star and no real competition
in that weight class or something. That person is in bad shape because you can't build a legend
without the other. When you think of Muhammad Ali, what are the names that you immediately
think of? You have to phrase your- You have to think of the other. Listen. Listen. Right?
Yeah. So, those opponents are in part what made Muhammad Ali Muhammad Ali. That's why the
Mayweather McGregor revelation that this guy has got his opponent's picture in his house.
How weird is that? Well, because without the opponent, you may not be able to get there. Now,
I am not a huge fan of the wrong kinds of rivalries. Do you have examples in mind?
Well, there are rivalries where people take each other's credit and screw each other over. And then
there are other rivalries like the RNA Tie Club, where these guys were so in love with what they
were doing that they couldn't wait to share everything. And Nobel Prizes were so abundant
that most people got Nobel Prizes just for being a member of the RNA Tie Club and doing cool stuff.
And yeah, that's the golden kind of sweet spot. Most of these people can't do what Elon's doing
because they can't break rules. They can't take the pressure. I'll tell you what really concerns
me about your perspective. I think that there are a lot of genius ideas inside of people who don't
have the stomach for conflict and derision. And I think a lot of those people are female.
And I think that until we come up with a world in which we can swat down the trolls,
where we can actually cause the trolls not to ruin everything. And I don't necessarily mean
by shutting them up. I don't necessarily mean by being brutal to them, but somehow separating off
people who are working and people who are trolling. I think that we're losing a huge amount of human
genius in part because women in particular are not necessarily going to push an idea if it results
in 10 years of being derided. Very few men are willing to do that either. But there are some
of us who are so dumb that we will pigheadedly stick to an idea for 10 years, even if the world
collapses. I don't think that there are as many women who are going to make that calculation,
even if they know the idea is correct. And one of the things that I believe technology can help
us fight the trolls of all definitions of troll. I believe that a better Twitter can be built.
Interesting. I do not. I don't believe that a Twitter successor can be built that solves
most of the problems. I think you can always improve what we have. But I don't think that converges
in something that really works because I think ultimately the problem isn't Twitter, the problem
is us. For example, I recently made a very disturbing realization, which is academics and trolls
have very many similar behaviors. Absolutely. It's largely a trolling community.
I tend to believe that the trolls are not, it's like the Peter Teal mini-mind idea,
which in all of the trolls, there's the possibility of goodness. And all you have to do,
not all you have to do, what you have to do is create technology that incentivizes
them to embrace, to discover, to embrace, to practice the better angels of their nature.
And I believe that people actually want to do that. The trolls is a short-term dopamine rush of
childish toxicity that all of us want to overcome. I believe that deep within, we want to overcome
that. I try to keep myself from believing what you believe.
Because you'd be disappointed if it's not true. Because it's dangerous because a lot of these
people are implacable foes. And there aren't many of them, but when you meet somebody, it's like,
yeah, I just like screwing people up. I'm here for the pain.
I just believe even in them, there's a good... There's a wonderful book that I'm going to recommend
to you where I hope this comes from. Maybe I've got the source wrong, but in any event,
it's a great book called Maximum City about Bombay. And I believe the conceit is that the author
leaves Bombay as a kid and comes back as an adult, and he realizes he has to rediscover
the city because he can't live in the city he left. So he gets in contact with all of the
weird areas of the city, and one of them is the underworld. He hangs out with the police, but
in the underworld, he's talking to contract killers. And he says, you know, it's really
weird. Everybody pleads for their life right before I kill them. And they always say this thing
about, I've got two kids at home. He says, never say that to a contract killer because we have
terrible relationships with our parents. Doesn't it dearest you? And I was just thinking, oh,
wow. So there's a minus sign in front of that statement. You're sitting there saying, I've
got a three-year-old. It's like, okay, well, I'm going to take this
POS out of that kid's life. Maybe I'll have a chance. You don't know how people are wired.
And as much as I hate to say it, there are people whose wiring is so disturbing and so
different from yours that you will never guess why you can't reach them or how much pleasure
they may have gotten because they may have gone over a point of no return.
Nevertheless, you are just a smart guy who is using his intuition to make a hypothesis. You
do not know this for sure. And I'm a whatever the hell I am that has a different hypothesis that
even in the darkest human beings that seem to be only full of evil, there's a good person
there that could be discovered. One of the reasons I love doing your show is that you have
these beliefs even as a Russian. The Russian special. As you know, there is a weirdness
which is a total cynicism and total idealism locked together. That's very much a part of
the Russian character. The reason I was kept bothering you, kept bothering you to have this
conversation is I'm really worried about the next couple of months. No kidding. And if there's
anybody in this world that could help alleviate my worry by at least walking along with me through
this worry of mine, it's you. Do you think we're headed towards some kind of civil war?
Or some kind of division that explodes beyond just stuff on Twitter, but something that's
really destructive to the fabric of our society? Well, I believe we're in a revolution,
as you know. I've called it the no-name revolution or n-squared revolution. I've
been talking about it for years. I think waiting for this to be called a civil war is not smart.
Only history will call it such. Fine. I think that the problem is that you're encountering
things that you've never seen, trying to fit them into things that you already know.
But history repeats itself. Yes, ish. You don't see lessons from history? I do.
We see today. But I don't see it repeating itself. What about violence? The famous quote is that it
rhymes. It rhymes. I mean, the thing I guess I'm speaking to is violence. We're in there.
The abstraction of violence. Imagine you were coding up violence as an abstract class.
Thank you for speaking to the audience. Trying to lose these people. Come with me.
Go on. No, no, no. I've dealt with your audience and your audience contains the smartest people
around. I guarantee you, if I say some stuff, first of all, any wrong thing that I'll say,
they're going to detail. That'll be a little bit of catnip to bring in the smart people.
But they'll also digest it for each other. It's one of the great lessons of long-form
podcasting. If you don't waste all your time explaining things that's the job of the audience
to do amongst themselves, they're happy doing the work and those who aren't, they leave. Isn't
that great? They'll leave. The people who don't want to struggle will leave. You can get rid of
them. I think that the point is you would want to say violence is defined relative to a context.
Let's call it meta-violence so that we don't get into the problem. We already have a term for
physical violence. We have meta-violence and physical violence. I would say that physical
violence is subclassed for meta-violence. Meta-violence is the disruption of a system.
If a cell dies, it can die through apoptosis or necrosis. Apoptosis is controlled,
programmed cell death. Necrosis is just like, okay, this didn't work. That was a violent
disruption of the system. This meta-class is presumed in the documentation. Is it all negative?
No. What are you talking about? This is part of the problem in the madness of our age. If you
open up a drawer in your cabinet, in your kitchen, and you see knives, spoons, and forks, do you have
a sense that the spoons are good utensils and the knives are forks or bad utensils because they're
mean? If you start thinking in these terms, that knife is there to do violence. That's violence
you want done. When I cut a mango, I'm doing violence to the mango. The mango expects that
I will do violence to it because otherwise, I won't be able to get the meat and it won't get
its seed spread somewhere else. In part, violence is absolutely part of our story.
Okay. There's this meta-violence class. The meta-violence class is already,
it's a multiple inheritance pattern. Whatever's going on right now inherits from meta-violence.
No, but there's certain subclasses that allow evil to emerge. What I'm specifically worried about
is that- What's on your mind, Lex? What's really going on?
I worry that amidst the chaos of these protests or the chaos that could be created by
