now shuttered the thing, right? I would say that the case to be made that he was correct was that
by doing this in 2020, we found out what we were up against. It's good to know that Twitter can turn
this off at the drop of a hat. Great to know. It's good to know as we learned that you cannot
have meetings of presidential candidates in a primary that are not approved of by the party.
They've got this thing figured out so we don't have any way in. Now, Unity 2024
makes sense because Unity 2020 was tried. I don't know that we get to 2024 under all
circumstances. In some we do and some we don't. There's a game theoretic thing that I'm not sure
you're counting for, but you probably are. Let me just make an argument. Is Jack Dorsey very likely
listens to your podcast? This is the power of these words. Something deep went wrong,
but we can change it with the power of words. Something went wrong at Twitter.
They have so much division on their platform. That's what I'm trying to say. They've gotten...
It's not wrong. They just don't know. They're understaffed. No, they have an insoluble problem.
Difficult to solve. They have an insoluble problem. The argue and I disagree.
Or I'd like to create a competitor. Give it to me. Create the competitor. Show me
that you actually have understood this because my guess is that most of the things that you'll
think about... I can tell you things I've talked to Jack about, which I know would make Twitter
much better. However, I think that this problem of instantaneous communication across the planet
and you subtract off all sorts of context and mutual self-knowledge. The problem is us.
It's not the platforms. You're thinking about a technological solution. I'm saying the problem
is that we are ultimately the product. I just disagree with that. That's probably
you could save that for tomorrow. I look forward to spending summers in your villa
when you debut this product. I would love to angel invest in it.
By the way, in terms of money, I'll never have a villa.
No, I will always give away everything I own.
No, sorry. Invest into things like you mentioned. Awesome things.
Invest fine, but a little bit of avuncular advice.
Don't pledge to be the person who disgorges themselves
of security. Money is freedom. That's what it is. It's a big hunking pile of freedom.
You can choose to use it as the freedom to imprison you if you don't. You can use it as
freedom to make yourself a prisoner of your money. Generally speaking, Lex, money is freedom
and your voice is important. At least retain the amount of money, security you need
to follow Joe's advice. What is the point of FU money if you don't say FU? The number of people
who have FU money who don't say FU indicates the number of people who chose the freedom of their
wealth to create a prison. They built a prison with the freedom they had and they walked into it,
locked the door. I think it's too difficult not to create. The reason I want to give away the
money is because I just know my own psychology and you create prisons. Our human mind just creates
those prisons. The FU money is enough for basic shelter and basic food. That's the optimal FU.
You don't have kids yet. Okay, this is the problem. This is why I'm sitting. So this is me,
single Lex speaking. Future Lex, I'm talking to Future Lex. Single present Lex, please don't
listen. Don't be an ass. You're going to need some money and don't make these pledges to say
on a podcast. I want to save you from yourself. You need money to do many of the beautiful
things that we're counting on you to do. Don't eff it up.
Can I talk to you about Roger Penrose? Sure. You've talked to Roger on the portal,
but also in between the lines and offline, just everything you've said about Roger Penrose. For
people who don't know, he just recently, a few days ago, won the 2020 share, the 2020 Nobel Prize
for Physics. But it's clear to me that he had a deep personal impact on you, a connection with you
in terms of both your love of mathematics, just the way you see the world. This is the
Eddie Van Halen conversation. This is clearly somebody who's profound in your worldview. Can
you talk about Roger? Can you talk about what it means that he won the highest of prizes? Just in
general, let's celebrate the man. Yeah. Okay. So first of all, there are two other people who
won this prize. I'm sorry, I just didn't happen to know who they were before they won.
Roger is a very, it is not Roger in particular, but the class from which Roger comes that is so
important. So I would put Roger in the class of Feynman, Einstein, Dirac, Yang.
Put Witten in there? I mean, Witten's a special case, but Witten is weirdly the reverse of the
Roger Penrose story, because Witten is the first physicist to win a mathematical fields
medal, the highest honor in mathematics. Penrose is in some sense a mathematician who's now won the
Nobel Prize. So it's a perfect sort of a couplet. Roger's class means everything to me. That's
the highest achievement of the human mind. I'd probably throw Bach in with Feynman and Dirac
in company, right? I think that he was so inventive. It was very frustrating to watch this
career. It was a little bit frustrating to watch Feynman's career. Feynman was so good,
and had he been born at a slightly different time, I believe his claim on physics would be
far greater. I feel like Penrose in some sense came up a very difficult path because, you see,
Einstein effectively solved most of the most important problems in general relativity right at
the beginning. As a result, the children of Einstein are impoverished because there wasn't as much to
pick off of the trees and sell at the market, whereas Bohr and Planck didn't do nearly as good
of a job with quantum theory. So there's lots to do in quantum theory. I think that Roger
affected me personally by a diagram that I saw in a paper of Herman Gluck at the University of
Pennsylvania. It was the first picture I'd ever seen of the hop-fibration sketched. Weirdly,
I brought that to the Rogan program in order to sort of convey the wonder. I was recapitulating
my own journey. I think I probably saw that at age 16 or something. It just flipped my mind.
Roger is incredibly visual. He's incredibly geometric. He's incredibly
sui generis. He just does his own thing. He's got lots of bets. None of them had really come
through the way you would hope, and I think they stretched the rules to be blunt about it.
To give him the prize. Yeah, I do. You said this thing on Twitter, which is beautiful,
that every once in a while comes a human being that gives value to the prize versus the prize
giving value to the human. Two different kinds of prizes. The reason that we care about the Nobel
Prize isn't because of Alfred Nobel. It's because it came along at the right time to reward
Einstein, Dirac, Schrodinger, Feynman. Most of the people who should have won
most of the awards are not good in the sense that they don't really follow.
The prize is used to rewrite history. That's the problem. You should have a love-hate relationship
with it, because on the one hand, it does focus the world on what really matters,
and on the other hand, it distorts what really matters. Both of those functions take place
simultaneously. In this case, I think that they violated their own rules slightly. It wasn't really
clearly a case of a prediction and a discovery in the typical fashion, but we better give this award
to somebody of that highest caliber to make sure that the prize is fully funded with prestige going
forward. That's my weird speculative guess as to what happened. Roger's getting on in years,
and the person should be alive. I think they've bent the rules, and I think they couldn't have
bent it for a better person. I hope they will not bend the rules out of weakness, but out of strength
in the future. It would be great to get Madame Wu and Emmy Nerder, a posthumous prize along with
Doug Prasher, George Sudarshan, and George Zweig, as well as Ernst Stuckelberg Nobel Prizes. There
have been some terrible omissions, the first two being females who revolutionized our view of the
world. I take a very dim view of people pushing for prizes for people from ethnic groups or genders
or whatever in order to make it plural and inclusive if it's not following the work. I feel
very clear that in a few cases, we know there was a real problem with the Nobel Committee because
we have stunning accomplishments. I'm going to try to get through a day as a physicist with that
Nerder's theorem and try to imagine the universe without Madame Wu's discovery that left and right
don't appear to be symmetric. These are terrible omissions, and they're a huge blot on science for
not being more inclusive when it matters. Just like you said, the Nobel Prize is plagued by
omissions as much as… Distortions and dilutions. For example, Dirac and Schrodinger, where I believe,
given the prize in the same year, there's no reason that those two people needed to dilute
each other. The same thing with Dyson was an omission. Tomonaga probably got included in part
because we had an opportunity to show that something had happened on both sides of the
Pacific after the war. I don't think we needed to dilute Weinberg or Feynman or Schwinger.
It makes me somewhat sick. All of these people are such important giants, and it has to do with
the field, I think, not wanting to create luminaries and superstars who could have defended the field
from budget cuts and worldly pressures. I think it's really important that we have absolute superstars
because we produce superstars. We acknowledge them, we don't dilute them,
and that we bend the rules to make sure that the prize stays funded with the prestige that comes from
giving it to the Roger Penrose's Albert Einstein's and Paul Dirac's of the world.
Can we talk a little bit about evil? Sure. I haven't actually talked to you about this topic,
and it's been sitting on my mind mostly because everybody at MIT is quiet about it,
which is Jeffrey Epstein. I didn't get a chance to experience what MIT was like at the time when
Jeffrey Epstein was part of this, but I'd love to try to understand how evil was allowed to flourish
in a place that I love. Whether you think, maybe let me ask the question this way,
was it the man evil or was the system evil, or is evil too strong a word?
Because what I see is the presence of this particular human being
in the eyes of many destroyed the reputations of many really strong scientists, and also
weaken the institution of MIT by making everybody quiet, almost making them unable to say anything
interesting or difficult. Yeah. What is that? What am I supposed to? We don't know. Why is everyone
quiet about Jeffrey? We don't know. Obviously, I want to scream about it too. I probably have
said too much about Jeffrey Epstein. Look, something horrible happened. I don't know what it is,
but something horrible happened. The first thing I need to do is I need to get rid of this woke
crap about power differentials. In general, you can talk about
hypergamy and power differentials are Russell conjugates of the same concept.
Just the way particular proportions and symmetries are mathematically provable to be attractive
in females to males. Male attractiveness is largely determined by male competence and
ability to amass power and success and all these sorts of things. The relationship between
consenting adults is, quite frankly, not something I want to sort out. The relationship
between the sexuality of adults and minors and particularly the 17-18 issue,
that's very different than 12-13. We're talking about really sick depravity with respect to what
it appears that Jeffrey Epstein was involved in at some level. I believe this story is super
complicated in part because I think one thing which Jeffrey Epstein was doing was providing
money, encouragement, and support to scientists. Another thing he was doing, I believe, was giving
tax advice to very rich people. I believe another thing he was doing was hooking very wealthy people
up with young adult females. Another thing he was doing, I think, was doing stuff with children
that will curl your toes. There's an entire spectrum of different stuff. At the moment,
nobody can pull apart or deconflate anything because the woke thing comes over it and says,
I think it's disgusting that a 43-year-old billionaire would be partying with a 23-year-old.
I don't want to adjudicate that. I'm worried about 12 and 14-year-olds that we're not talking about.
I don't think MIT was deep into pedophilia. My guess is that that did not happen. I don't think
that the scientists were the targets of the really sick depraved stuff. It's my guess.
My guess is that what you're looking at was a government construct. It may have been our government.
It may have been a joint government project. It may have been somebody else's government. I don't know.
I believe that, in part, we don't really understand Robert Maxwell.
Sorry, who's Robert Maxwell?
Gilane Maxwell's father was very active in scientific publishing.
I don't know where peer review came from. I would love to run down the relationship
between peer review and Robert Maxwell. I would love to run down the missing fortune of Robert
Maxwell and the mysterious fortune of Jeffrey Epstein because I don't think Jeffrey Epstein
ever ran a hedge fund. I don't think he was a money advisor the way people claimed.
There's two things I want to talk about. One is the shallow conversations of
woke identity politics that you're referring to seems to be
removing everyone's ability. No, everyone's willingness to talk about what the hell is this
person and how is he allowed, most importantly, to how do we prevent it in the future?
From the individual perspective, the question for me is the same question I asked about 1930s
Nazi Germany. I've been reading way too much probably or not enough about that period currently,
is if I was in Germany at that time, what is the heroic action to take? When I think about
MIT with Jeffrey Epstein, what is the heroic action to take? We're not talking about virtue
signaling action. You wouldn't know what you're up against. You're not hearing me.
The problem here is what was Jeffrey Epstein? That question might be the heroic action to take.
I'm just trying to get my first question. You have to map the silence with Jeffrey Epstein.
What you're describing is a map of the silence at MIT. Is there a map of the silence in Washington
State around Jeffrey Epstein, the Bay Area, New York City? The amount of silence around
Jeffrey Epstein should be telling you everything. The number of dogs that don't bark is like nothing
we've ever seen. You're exactly correct, but I want to know what is it telling us,
because what it's telling me is not some kind of conspiracy, but more a disappointing weakness.
Not some kind of conspiracy? It's not some kind of conspiracy.
You've got to be kidding. You're so afraid of saying the word conspiracy that you don't think
it's a conspiracy? Personally, I just think it's people who I thought were my heroes just being
weak. No. Be of good cheer, sir.
A cheer? Be of good cheer.
Of good cheer. You think that there is a conspiracy?
I think there is a conspiracy.
That'd be a very impressive one. That's the scale of it. I tend to believe that large scale
can only be an emergent phenomena. Really? I find this so fascinating, because I always see you as
like a logic and love drive your soul. You're very logical. You're relentless. You've got a lot
of love in your heart. I believe that if you would review the video, where is it from? Dubai or Abu
Dhabi of the mysterious hit on the hotel guest? Have you ever seen this thing?
It's the assassination in 2010, 10 years ago, of Mahmoud Al Mabou, something like that,
in Dubai, where I believe 26 separate individuals on multiple teams are shown
converging, coming in from all over the world on false passports, pretending to be tennis players
or business people or vacationers. All of these teams have different functions,
and they murder this guy in his hotel room. The Dubai, I guess, chief of police,
security officer was so angered that he put together this amazing video that says,
we can completely detail what you did. We caught you on closed circuit TV.
We don't know exactly who you are because your disguise is in your false passports,
but yeah, 26 people converged to kill one. No, I don't believe you. I don't believe
after Cointel Pro, an operation paperclip, and Operation Mockingbird, I don't know whether
I should even bring up Rex 84. To not believe in conspiracies is an idiocy.
So you have a sense that evil can be as competent or more competent than-
First of all, when evil wants to operate at scale, it needs to make sure that people don't try to
figure out evil. When evil operates at scale, from first principles, you have to realize that
evil must not want it investigated. That's correct.
The most efficient way to keep yourself from being investigated, if you are an
evil institutional player who needs to do this repeatedly, is to invest in a world in which
no one can afford to say the word conspiracy. You'll notice that there is a special radio
activity around the word conspiracy. We have provable conspiracies. We have admitted to
conspiracies. You have been invited to conspiracy. There is no shortage. Conspiracies are everywhere.
Some of them are mundane. Some of them are price-fixing cartels,
or trade groups are generally speaking conspiracies.
