That sounds like a pretty damn good deal.
You've said this.
No living heroes, my friend.
No living heroes.
No living heroes.
It's just difficult. You just have to be good at it.
I mean, if you just say generic political things,
you're going to be taken down.
The more heroic you are, the more beautiful you are,
the more you will be made to suffer.
And if they cannot get you on reputation, if Jesus himself came down,
I don't know if I ever read, I probably have never read to you the hit piece I did on Jesus.
You don't know about this?
No, I did not know.
I did hit pieces on all of the best people in the world.
So whoever it was who cured cancer, discovered new particles, whatever it is,
I did a hit piece against them to prove that I can do it to anybody around anything at any time.
Except Eddie Van Halen is what we're talking about.
Well, Eddie Van Halen is now dead. But if this was a situation hot for teacher, canceled.
Disrespectful.
Absolutely. Also, packaging female objectification for young men,
clearly Eddie Van Halen is one of the worst people alive.
But the skill, the incredible inspiration that is just
radiating from his music inspires so many millions that they will fight those cancel pieces.
They will fight those.
This is your thing.
Yeah.
You have this idea that there's a war between good and evil and the good has already been
designated the winner. It's not true. But your belief that it's true.
Take it till you make it, no?
It's motivating both of us. I also believe that we're going to win.
Because if I don't, then I can't get out of bed and it's pretty heavy at the moment.
Do you think 2021 can make us feel good about the trajectory of society?
Where we emerge from this year, feeling good. There's a smile and there are questions on his
face. And the next time we talk, we'll be doing some kind of duet on guitar and not having this
worried look on our faces. No.
Okay. But you've also promised that you're going to somehow end this in a positive.
So how do you turn the no around? What's the you turn from the no?
Until we get some actually decent people in the right chairs who are not constantly
thinking about their next paycheck, I don't see a solution.
Let me just say what the prerequisites for a solution are and to let you know why I don't
think it's coming. First of all, both of these political parties, the leadership of them
is disgusting and has to go. They're tearing us apart. They lack the will to be Americans.
They don't understand the subtlety of the project. They're simply the people who figured out
how to inhabit the seats and that is their great achievement.
I believe that in order to solve this, you need people who can integrate who are not partisan
at the level of the partisan warriors that we're seeing. People who believe in dividing
the pies of the future rather than the present pie as our main task as Americans,
because we are built around growth. I'm sorry to say it.
You need an ability to have subtle conversations and you need the ability to exclude.
At the moment, everyone knows inclusion is good, which it isn't. It's like saying,
well, water is good. If I say water is good, everybody will agree with me. It's not. People
drown. People need to get dehydrated. It can be lifesaving or life-ending. It isn't good or bad.
Inclusion is not good or bad. Inclusion is just inclusion. Exclusion is part of inclusion.
We've taught people that they can reason through the world as sub-cocker spaniels.
They just bark things at each other. I'm for safety. I'm for inclusion. I'm for growth.
Oh, really? Do you guys use verbs, dependent clauses? Are there compound, complex sentences?
Where are we in this sea of nonsense? You have to be able to build a place where you have smart,
talented people who represent a diverse group of correct opinions. You need to get rid of almost
all of the people who have opinions that are antithetical to what we're trying to accomplish.
You need to give them insulation, which we're terrified because we don't trust anybody. Everything
has to be transparent. If you're going to the bathroom, I want those walls to be plexiglass
so I can see what you're doing. It's like, that's too much transparency. We have too much and not
enough at the same time. In essence, you need to ensure that people aren't worried about feeding
their family every four seconds for being real. None of that is happening. Our billionaires,
our billionaires are pathetic. What is the point of billionaires if you're not going to do
billionaire-type cool stuff like saying FU? I'm going to throw $3 billion at the project of
restoring the national conversation. I don't grasp this. What is the point of creating
obscene wealth if we don't have anyone smart enough and caring enough to use it?
I agree with that last part for sure. Let me slightly push back on the idea that the leaders
themselves are broken. I feel like this goes to Joe Rogan, Joe Biden, and Trump having a debate
on that program. I feel like Joe Biden has a lot of really interesting ideas that he's almost
forgot how to communicate. He's been fake for so long within the system.
Hillary was fake for too long. I'm sure she had real ideas at the beginning that she
still was campaigning on decades later. If the system, if the platforms empowered you to search,
to be honest, to be real, to search for those ideas within yourself like long-form conversations do,
then even the Donald Trump and Joe Biden leaders we have now would take this country to a better
place that would unite people. We can keep the current Congress. We just need to create better
platforms. This is going to the intuition that there's good in Donald Trump. There is depth
and complexity in intelligence and the same with Joe Biden.
There's good in Joe Biden. We're not incentivizing.
There's several things I think are broken. One of them is Twitter. The other is journalism.
It's just the platforms of us communicating with each other.
One of the reasons that I try to come up with unifying explanations is that if you look at
the number of wildfires in California, let's say that we've just seen, if you treat them all as
spontaneous uncorrelated instances, it feels like, oh my god, it's just whack them all. Every time I
send a fire truck here, there's a fire over there. You want to come up with something like a central
theory, which is why do I suddenly have a problem when I hadn't had a problem before?
I look for these unifying explanations. I found one the other day that really speaks to me.
I mean, people are very frustrated because they've been trained to think about this incorrectly, in
my opinion. But here's the graph that you need to look at. On the x-axis is time by year,
and on the y-axis is something like average age of a human. The title of the graph is
any desirable situation involving institutions. That could be CEO. It could be tenured professor.
It could be who's getting grants. It could be the age at which people win Nobel Prizes.
University presidents, all these things go up. In other words, for a long period of time,
the average age of the person in a desirable situation has been increasing something like
nine months for every 12. Those graphs have to go down at some point. The specter of having
five people all born in the 1940s as the final entrance in the presidential context,
that makes no sense. Think about how bizarre a thing that nobody's even really talking about.
The last five people were all ancient by presidential standards, not one, not two, but five.
We are talking about a contest between somebody who is the oldest of the baby boomers,
at the very beginning of the baby boom, summer of 46th birthday,
fighting somebody who is in the silent generation. The silent generation guy in a town hall in Florida
gets this question from a Gen Z guy saying, what's going on with my future? Joe Biden has
the audacity to say, I'm a transitional president. You guys are the highly educated one.
When has any generation in history needed a transitional 78-year-old person to take office?
It's bizarre. It's preposterous. That graph is the graph we can't talk about. That graph is the
graph of our destruction. Because you can make a one-line argument, which sounds like ageism,
which isn't a very good argument. No. But what it does is it muddles the conversation.
And you always have to ask yourself the question, if this conversation becomes muddled,
who wins as a result of the muddling? It's a battle. Let's just win it. Let's win the battle.
Are you running? Sure. I'll run. I was born in Russia. But we Russians can hack elections,
so we'll figure it out. This is me officially announcing my run for president.
I was born in St. Petersburg, Florida. Lex, what is it that you really want to ask?
I want to put some responsibility on the portal that the portal gives
power to the people in that graph. Because you put it quite brilliantly, that the people that
move the world, their age has been going up. And not move the world, but put in the position where
they get the chance to affect the world. These new platforms, I think Twitter falls in them,
give power to the younger people. It doesn't have to be about age necessarily,
but the younger thinking people. So that's a promising thing. And you are like Gandalf.
You get to pick your photos, whatever. I'm not very good with the analogy, but the whole point
is for you as Gandalf. I don't know that I make that much sense. Gandalf makes sense.
I don't know if people know how to fit me into this ecosystem. I think there's something in my
presentation that people find very confusing. No, figure it out. I disagree with you,
but you need to look at the mirror and think, what is it? Maybe you need a mustache. I don't know.
But there's something about figuring out how to be a charismatic communicator.
And that's the responsibility. You said finishing sentences with the LOL is painful for your soul.
That's just how somebody lets me know. I don't have to take their opinion seriously.
Yeah. It's still the language, the way that people are communicating. And you're swimming
that wave. You have a big platform. I have a growing platform. It feels like this is the
place to give power. I agree. I agree. But we're going to get swatted down. I just don't think so.
You're wrong. Why are you afraid of the big... Because I've studied it.
Because I've studied... Let me ask you a question, Lex.
I believe that every society is supposed to have a collection of what I call
a break glass in case of emergency people. Yeah. These are people who are universally
loved and trusted by your society. For example, David Attenborough, the great British naturalist
and presenter, recently came on Instagram. He's worried about the planet. And I said,
you know, look, there are very few of these people left. Let's pay attention, find out what
he has to say. Maybe he's going to be an ass. Maybe he's going to be in it. Maybe he's going
to say wrong things. Don't know. Tell me about your top 10 universal American heroes.
This is not a rhetorical question. No. Give me five. Everybody looks to that person and says,
yep, the best of us. Not divisive. Well, everybody's an interesting concept. I mean,
Elon Musk is very divisive, right? I'm talking about overwhelmingly people would follow that person
if that person gave a rousing, intelligent speech that said we must act now because we're in dire
strides. I think a lot of people have fallen in that category. For me, it would be in the tech
world, in the engineering world. No, no, no. Elon Musk. Elon Musk. Elon Musk.
The rock. I'm thinking like, who is the most eloquent actor? So like, you think celebrities,
so people with platforms. I didn't say so everything. It could be well known.
I believe like, yeah, so this goes to Joe Rogan.
First two did not really impress me as being what I said, but okay.
Elon, several years ago, would have. Joe Rogan. Why do they fail? Why is
lots of people treat Joe Rogan as if he's some sort of right-wing racist because
they've never watched his program. They don't know who his friends are. I don't know.
Oh, but when I thought you said everybody, I thought you meant a large enough people where
huge change can happen, not actually literally everybody. Because I think.
I mean people who've pulled off, like people who've pulled off something where everybody's
convinced that that person just deeply. I mean, I think I've told you the story before,
but the one time I've seen the power of a figure like this. I mean, very few times I've been in
a large crowd and I've seen people just moved where they would do almost anything good, bad,
and different because they were primed. One was a Rolling Stones concert. The other one was Nelson
Mandela coming to Boston. And man, you've never seen anything like this. You check out the photos
from the banks of the Charles River when Nelson Mandela came. There are people that you need in
your dark hours and we can't agree on who they are. And as soon as they emerge, we tar them with
shit. We get out the shit breach. I just disagree with you. So I think.
What do we disagree about here? I think it doesn't matter who it is. I think
really good speeches are needed. I saw Killer Mike try to give a good speech.
Yeah, he did. In Atlanta, right? That was something. Very impressed. Even Killer Mike
immediately gets into this sell out. Yeah, but he didn't take up the responsibility,
I would say. He didn't. Of going bigger. So he was speaking to the community.
He was doing what he was doing. On this particular moment, he's exceptional at it.
And he was speaking to this particular moment. He didn't take it a step farther, which is
like giving the same speech, but bigger than race, bigger than this particular moment.
But more about the American project. You know the guy who landed the plane in the Hudson?
Yes. Yeah, there you go. That's a good example. So that guy until we screw him up.
Is the kind of thing that I'm talking about. Yeah, exactly. I mean,
Jocko maybe. That's another. Jocko's pretty good. Jocko is pretty good.
Can't really tell. Is he a Democrat? Is he a Republican? I don't know.
He's an American. That's for damn sure. Yeah. And I think there's a lot of folks.
And then, you know, no, I think Jocko, there aren't. That's one of the reasons why Jocko is so important.
Yeah. Your podcast, The Portal, is something in my little universe, is something a lot of people
really love. And it moves them. They draw a lot of meaning from it. And also, especially in difficult
times. And they, it gives them a comfort of through like this kind of, it's not just nuance, it's
there's like, even when you're talking about chaos, there's love underneath all of it. And I
think people draw a lot of meaning from it, which is why they are wondering why you haven't been doing
that many podcasts or you haven't done it in maybe a month and a half or two months
in this most difficult of times. Is there a good reason?
Yeah. There are lots of good reasons. So the first one is kind of weird, which is everybody assumes
that everyone wants to be famous. And if you say, I don't want to be famous, it's like,
oh, you're just saying that because you want to be, everyone to think you're famous,
you're not that famous. You know, okay. I don't love being as well known as I've become.
There's lots of things that are fun about it. It's wonderful that you can go to, I can go to
any city in the world, there are portal listeners there. All I need to do is put out a tweet and
20 people show up for a drink. And they're amazing people. And they're almost, I mean,
you can see my live Q&As on my Instagram page. If you go to Eric R. Weinstein,
I'd just pick somebody randomly. And I was really worried about it at first. And,
you know, maybe I should be worried about it. But in general, people all over the world are
just so positive. And thoughtful and deep and never story. Because they're self-selected.
But I don't like the fame. The thing we just described comes with the fame. It's a beautiful
thing. You don't, you're worried that it's getting. It's ephemeral. It'll, look Lex,
it'll turn on you in a heartbeat. It'll turn on you in a heartbeat. And the other
