The first thing you have to realize is that all of us are in a mimetic complex where you can be
taken off the chessboard by saying, conspiracy theorists. Good done. It's like a one-line proof.
We don't have to listen to Rex. He said he was a conspiracy theorist on this show.
That is partially distorting our conversation. If you want to ask me about Jeffrey Epstein,
you have to agree with me that that is a logical description of what you would have to have if
you wanted to commit conspiracies, is that you have to make sure that people are dissuaded from
investigating this. It's a very fascinatingly difficult idea then because the world with
conspiracy theories and the world without conspiracy theories to the shallow glance looks
the same. Well, my point, there is responsible conspiracy theorizing where you look at the
history of unearthed conspiracies. Just like you would with any other topic, just think about
how different the rules in your mind are for conspiracy theorizing versus X theorizing where
X can be anything. It's like if I say to you, I can say the statement that average weight is not
the same between widely separated populations. You'd say, yeah. I'd say average height is not
the same between widely separated populations. You'd say, yeah. Then I say, in fact, no continuous
variable that shows variation should be expected to be identical between widely separated. Of
course, Eric, like IQ. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold on. We have a violent reaction to specific
topics. The first thing I want to do is just to notice that conspiracy has that built into
everyone's mind. That's really important to state. Yeah. It's very interesting
and as a prerequisite as you're saying, that would be the first step if you wanted to
pull off a conspiracy in a competent way. You would have to first convince the world of that.
I just watched the film 1971 about my favorite conspiracy of all time. I highly recommend it.
1971? Well, the film is titled 1971. It's about the Citizens' Committee to Investigate the FBI,
which was run by a student of Murray Gelman, a physicist, and broke into FBI offices in Pennsylvania
to steal files which allowed freedom of information requests that discovered a huge
conspiracy. It was a conspiracy that unearthed a conspiracy inside the federal government.
A double conspiracy story, which launched multiple conspiracies. I think that the problem with
modern Americans is that they are so timid that they don't even learn about the history of conspiracies
that we have absolutely proven. With that done, Jeff Epstein, in my opinion, represented somebody's
construction. It's kind of scary to think about. Yeah. Well, what part of the story isn't scary?
I in part did something which I imagine may get me destroyed because I was more worried about
being destroyed by somebody else I had a conversation with around Jeff Epstein.
Let it be known that I don't know anything more than I've already said.
Now, your friends at MIT, their problem is that Jeff Epstein showed up as the only person capable
of continuing US scientific tradition. You see, the US scientific tradition is a little bit like
the Russian. It's combative. We're a free society and we act like a free society.
We're a rich society and we research like we're a rich society. That is historically. Then came
the 1970s. William Proxmire and the Golden Fleece Awards and the idea that we're paying too much
and these are welfare queens and lab coats and blah, blah, blah, blah. We need more transparency,
more oversight. Everything went to hell. The national culture of US science was lost.
The thing that produced all this prosperity and security and power was lost. Then Jeff Epstein
shows up. A tiny number of funders, maybe Fred Cavley, maybe Yuri Milner, maybe who else would
be in this category. Peter Thiel, to an extent. Howard Hughes would be the largest of these
things, which has different grant structures than the NIH, gave people a modicum of risk-taking
ability. When Jeff Epstein showed up, everybody wanted to take risk in science. Suddenly, a
charismatic billionaire says, hey, I can make that work for you. Here's $100,000. Go research
something crazy. Well, that money was supposed to be provided by the federal government under the
terms of the endless frontier compact between the federal government and the universities.
The federal government and the taxpayers welched. That's one place to lay the blame for Jeff Epstein
as the failure of the federal government to honor its commitment. The university's
became psychopathic. It's not like everybody doesn't remember what we're supposed to be doing to be
moral, but the point was there wasn't enough money to be moral. It was time to eye each other as a
source of protein, as I like to say. In that process, Jeff Epstein said, hey, come to my world.
We can do it like we used to do. In part, my point is that almost none of your
colleagues at MIT have that religious commitment to science that they're willing to go down with
ship science. The Galileo Galilei thing became very important to science because occasionally,
you just have to say, look, this isn't about me and you. There isn't enough money in the world
to buy the legacy I want to leave to this planet. This is one of the great things about science.
Potentially, it's worth dying for.
Yeah. I'm glad you said it. Science is one of the things that is best that's worth dying for.
I mean, I'm not eager to murder myself, but I've certainly risked my health, my fortune.
I've destroyed myself economically over science. My need to oppose these sons of
bitches in chaired professorships who are destroying our system along with everyone else.
Let me bring in Grandmaster Oogway into this.
Oogway.
Oogway.
Master Oogway.
I think he's a grandmaster.
Oh, that would make him a chess-playing turtle.
So I've read some Wikipedia.
Uh-oh.
A Shifu's a master. There's apparently only one grandmaster. That's Oogway.
Anyway.
Is the phrase grandmaster ever uttered in the script?
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
But there's a story.
Oh, there's off script canon.
I'm going to call Glenberger right now and find out if any of this is true.
All right. You're not supposed to call out my journalistic integrity.
But Master Oogway.
Master Oogway.
He says a couple of things I'd like to bring up with you.
So one, as part of a longer quote, recommends that you should find a battle worth fighting.
We've talked about several battles just now.
What is the battle worth fighting for?
For Erich Weinstein in the next few months in the next year?
There's only one.
Oh, it's the Moses. It's the Moses thing.
It's time to go. It's time to leave.
This place is over.
To get off the planet.
Yeah, I freak people out when I say that.
But look at your world.
You just got introduced to the problem of a virus.
Wait until it's fusion devices and you understand what it means to have one interconnected planet
with no uncorrelated experiments happening anywhere else.
So do you see the foray, your work in physics and maybe the echoes of it in ship Elon?
Everybody who has a possible plan to avoid what is coming if we don't have one
should work on the plan that he, she thinks best, right?
So Elon wants to do rockets.
People misinterpret me.
Meta Erich says, I don't think that's a smart plan.
Regular Erich says, all people who have hope should do that thing.
Yeah, at least it's Mars, man.
At least it's the moon and Mars and maybe Titan and whatever.
And I don't think it'll work and it doesn't make sense and it looks silly.
But that's exactly the kind of fight or it's fighting.
But it's the kind of, it's for the same reason that I went on Brett's Unity 2020 thing when I
didn't think it had a hope in hell and people are making fun of it.
It's like, we got to do things that make us feel dumb and silly and childish
that possibly have a hope of working.
So everybody should do something.
My version of this, I'm the most hopeful about because
I wouldn't have chosen to do if I thought that Daniel Schmockenberger's
wisdom project was a better hope.
I'd do that.
It's more down to earth in a certain way.
I just think that it's more probable.
Look, we got from a powered flight with the Wright brothers and wind tunnels
to sending back images from the surface of Titan via Huygens Cassini in less than a century.
Okay.
What we can do if we can change the laws of physics
is something we can't even conceive of.
It may be that it buys us nothing.
And at least we will know why we died on this planet.
As a small aside, I think this is not the right time to take the full journey.
But I feel like you'll guide me like Master Wei did.
And I'm the Kung Fu Panda at some point.
They only have one conversation.
We're on our like, what?
Widdens?
Well, we're Jews and they weren't.
So we talk too much.
But the guide doesn't have to be with words.
You don't think Poe is Jewish?
It's debatable.
We'll have to go back to the Wikipedia.
Really like food.
Yeah, okay.
Is there that you would guide me through
some more intuition about the source code of our universe?
Can you comment on where, since we last spoke, where your thinking has been,
has roamed around geometric unity, around that work in physics in this fight?
I'm trying to figure out when to release it and how.
I mean, I've released the video.
And the video, quite honestly, I think it has a very bizarre reaction.
I think one of the things that I've learned from the video,
because the video is coming up on half a million views on YouTube alone to say
nothing of the audio.
But yeah, it produced a very strange reaction.
One of the things I don't think that I properly understood
is that most physicists don't talk in this geometric language.
I thought that more of the physics world probably had converted over into manifold
bundles, differential forms, connections, curvature tensors, etc.
And I saw a lot of the comments would say things like,
I have a PhD in theoretical physics, and I'm not even familiar with all of these concepts.
And I think that was probably a distortion coming from living in Cambridge,
Massachusetts for almost 20 years.
So what's the solution to that?
I can make this make as much sense as anybody needs to.
My problem is that my calculation is that as long as the boomers are still in charge,
the same people have these perverse incentives on them,
where they've invested in these programs that didn't work.
So they're extremely hostile and kind of difficult to deal with.
The fact that I'm not a physicist has its own set of issues,
which is that effectively it's like the Hermit Kingdom, they don't get any visitors.
And they don't necessarily want somebody rolling up and saying,
I know how to do physics.
So I'm always very clear, I'm not a physicist.
That said, if I wait too long, I don't know that theoretical physics is really going to exist
after the boomers, because everyone in you, I think you had Wolfram on your program.
I don't remember whether he said this to you or Brian Keating,
but he said something like everybody got discouraged.
It was too hard.
We can't do that, guys.
We cannot do that.
There's something about the renormalization revolution that
innervated the physics community, because it taught them,
just because you can see in this energy regime,
doesn't mean you can extrapolate somewhere else,
unless you understand how a coupling constants run and what kind of UV fixed points exist,
blah, blah, blah.
Somehow that discouraged people from guessing, from believing.
Everything became an effective theory.
The beauty of the effective theory wasn't taken to be really the beauty of the universe,
just the beauty of an energy level.
So I think that renormalization was one of the most important
revolutions that ever happened in science,
and also its interpretation by the physics community was catastrophic.
Well, the story I'm telling myself is that, in part, I'm waiting for them to get weaker.
But on the other hand, I don't know that we have any time left.
Are you also thinking about ways of, you know, the podcast medium is revolutionary for
public, for discourse, for what?
I mean, I don't even know the right words for it.
Are you thinking of revolutionary ideas for re-energizing the physics community?
So basically, for communicating geometry.
Look, I have a fantasy, okay?
My fantasy is that all of these things are the same problem.
And it goes back to this thing that I read about in Feynman's books,
about Tartaglia.
