the feeling that the election does not represent the voice of the people saying that whoever gets
wins the election according to some kind of reporting of the numbers that come out that's not
going to represent what people actually want to be the leader. Something in that narrative
will create so much division that people will resort to literal violence, like protests that
really, that the United States loses its united aspect. Because of that, because of that chaos
and tension, evil people, evil forces, that my definition of evil is just cruel human beings
use that moment to attain power, the kind of power that ultimately goes against the ideal
of the United States. That could be Donald Trump. That could be another human being. It
doesn't really matter. My worry is that love doesn't win out in this. The unity doesn't win
out in this. I feel like you and I have responsibility. No kidding? Yeah, I know.
How do we let love win in this moment of potential chaos? We're going to have to fight for it.
You're going to have to become a fighter. You're going to have to throw some serious punches,
if that's what you want. You have to be Muhammad Ali here because the moment you start
criticizing anything, you have to be a masterful communicator because that's why you're here.
Look, Lex, in part, your decency is allowing you to do things that you couldn't otherwise do.
I saw that you had Michael Malis on your podcast. Now, Michael Malis is, I think,
of somebody who, at his best, is extremely shrewd and insightful, yes?
He's also got this trolling game, which he's quite open about and you talk to him about,
which I can't stand. This is the idea, oh, Grandpa doesn't get the internet. Well,
I'm Grandpa. I don't get the internet. I don't love the trolling. There are trolls of the past
who were incredibly good. I don't see any of the modern trolls as being that kind of genius level
trolling the people who deserve it in the way that they deserve it. Right now, what I see is that
anything that stands up gets cut down. It's like anything earnest. You have to turn into cynicism
and a meme. It's this idea that the people who believe that the world is chaos and has no point
are constantly trying to let you know, don't try to use the internet for meaning, for decency,
for goodness, because we are going to find out that that's all sanctimonious hypocrisy,
and we will make you suffer. I do think that there's a lot of sanctimonious hypocrisy in the
world, some of it mine, some of it yours, but we all have it. The trolls somewhat remove that,
but it's not a judicious, kind, constructive, compassionate, caring version most of the time.
A lot of those trolls, and I have this feeling about Michael Malis. I don't know whether it's
right, that there's somebody who deeply cares and loves beneath it, and that that's motivating
some of the trolling behavior. You and I don't seem to be doing that. I don't see you as almost
ever trolling. You and I, I'm very much against trolling. I'm very much against trolling. It
doesn't mean that it's selective. I'm not even, it's not even true. Everything we say, we say,
forward, I'm against it. This isn't my native language. I speak nuance. I don't speak this
internet shit. The more I have to communicate through internet shit, I almost never take
a tweet seriously if it contains the letters LMAO, LOL, R-T-F-L, F-O-L.
There's an interesting effect where people say stuff and then finish with LOL. You put it
beautifully that it indicates to me that this is a person, we've talked about why I wear the
stupid suit. This is to fight the LOL at the end of sentences. It's like stand out for the words
you're saying. Don't finish stuff with LOL, removing completely the responsibility of the
content of the sentence that preceded it. Also, choosing the outfit that worked both for Men in
Black and the Blues Brothers, not a terrible choice. We're not in a position to do this.
You need to be seated in a different chair. Your chair is the wrong chair. You're in the wrong
chair. It's been so long. I want to talk about you and Joe Biden. Joe Biden was a 29-year-old guy
with nothing particular going on so far as I can tell. I know people as impressive at age 29 as Joe
Biden. 12 rows back, 3D, doesn't matter. It's a huge number of people. None of them, my age,
can get to where he got to. We're all morons. Anytime somebody takes out, if you found Eddie
Van Halen in a guitar shop, you'd be angry. What is this guy doing repairing guitars?
Then somebody will say, maybe he loves to repair guitars.
Yeah. I mean, what is your Russian piano tuner doing?
What is my Russian piano tuner? That was the whole point of that story,
which is what is it that happened in that life that converted somebody? I find this, for example,
with Russian doctors who are technicians in offices now, there's a huge amount of talent
in the world that's not sitting in its proper seat. Quite honestly, I've gotten to the point
where my feeling is we've got to take the seats. Maybe we don't sit in them. Maybe the idea is
that we take the seats and we put some smart Gen Z person in the seat and say, look, no chanting.
I don't want to hear you say, no justice, no peace. If there aren't verbs, if it rhymes,
it's wrong. I used to have this thing, things that rhyme are more true. But in general,
if something starts at one, two, three, four, I don't want to hear what the rest of your sentences.
Yeah. But I feel like the responsibility that you carry that I carry,
this is where Joe Rogan generally removes himself from being, I'm just a comedian,
this idea of I'm just a comedian. I'll do that. But at this moment in history,
like history literally can pivot on the words of a tattooed,
ripped 50-year-old comedian. And I think the same is true with you.
Okay. Well, I'm interested and I care. Speaking of lyrics, there are many here among us who feel
that life is but a joke. That's not us. The hour is getting late. That's not us.
In the song, the joker and the thief are on opposite sides of Jesus having this conversation
over Jesus. You and I, we've been through that. That's not our fate. That's somebody else's fate
to throw spitballs at the internet. That's not your fate. You're in earnest sky. You're filled
with love. You're getting the most amazing podcast. Yes, you're broadcasting this.
But you can win over the internet. This is the point I'm trying to make,
that you're saying I'm just a grandpa. I don't get internet.
No, I'm telling you, you're going to get bigger and then you're going to get cut down.
You're going to keep ascending for a while, Lex. And then you're saying naturally there's-
I'm telling you, I watch the same process. People get up to a certain level.
And one of the things that's going on in my opinion with Joe Rogan is that when Joe Rogan
starts to talk about his misgivings about Joe Biden in a way that you find at any bar in America
about cognitive decline in a 77-year-old who's about to be 78, I believe in November.
We have never had anything remotely as insane as a 78-year-old person slated to win the White House.
And you're saying when that idea is being communicated, is there something about the disc
concept you talk about, the system naturally starts to-
Some bad thing happens to Joe or one of Joe's close associates.
The ability to destroy people who become inconvenient has been documented.
This is what we have done in the past. Whether we are doing it now,
we don't know because we are not doing this church committee too.
In order to know whether or not you are currently destroying American citizens
as we did in the past and as we have documented, as we found out in 1976,
the federal government destroyed Americans who had political beliefs that the government didn't
want to continue. And I don't know whether you are grasping that. One interpretation of why John
Stewart and why Joe Rogan and why Bill Maher, all these people, to some extent, hide behind.
It's a joke. It's because they're trying to find a protected class.
Is there some place I can stand and speak the truth which does not result in my being garbage
collected? Interesting. I guess you're right. My intuition is you can stand.
As you gain more power, you can stand behind Joe Rogan right now.
I mean, I've talked about it for a few years now. People did not understand how big that
program was. People didn't understand long-form podcasting. I was derided by people who I think
of as being very shrewd for believing in these podcasts as a major force. Most of the people
who derided me have said, wow, did I not get things? It's like if you started to propose,
you wanted to do the Sopranos in the era of 30-minute sitcoms. It's like, you don't get it,
man. The American people, they're not interested in these long plot storylines. That's your weird
thing. Nobody cares, dude. Everybody just wants short, fast, memorable. If you do that, you totally
miss the opportunity. The savvy people used to say, kid, let me tell you, nobody ever lost a dime
underestimating the intelligence of the American people. Well, that was totally wrong because
they didn't calculate opportunity costs. I have been talking about the problem of Joe for a long
time. The problem is that when the system wakes up, they're going to want to control it.
They come up with new different mechanisms of doing that. I guess one interesting one is
cancel culture. Well, look at the number of people around Joe who they've come after since
they've realized that Joe is really big. Joey Diaz, Brian Callan, Crystalia. Now, I'm not saying
that those are all related, but I do notice that there are at least correlations between when Joe
says something, when something bad happens in Joe's universe. It's easier for me to believe
that that's happening when it's happening around Joe himself. But I'm worried about my friend.
I don't necessarily want to push him towards being more if he doesn't want it. I don't want
to conscript people. He's got a great life. He's got a great situation. He's done a huge service.
How much do I owe Joe just for what he's done for you, to say nothing of what he's done for me,
or for Brett, or for Sam, or any of these people? I'd like to think that we all
try to give back. But I'm worried about Joe. He's not worried.
One of the inspiring things about Joe is, I mean, he's in this war alone, and the way he fights the
war is by just enjoying life. Well, that's his thing. As long as he stays close to things that
he loves. One of the things, he's honest about his drug use. He loves to hunt. He does a certain
amount of semi-vice signaling up front. And then you just also know him. This is why every time
they try to take him down, you use the N-word. Unfortunately, everybody knows who Joe is,
and yes, he doesn't act as if he went to a fancy finishing school. That's not his energy.
The fact that you've got some super smart guy who always pretends to be a meathead,
just like, hey, I'm a comedian. All these defenses and disguises. You've got this super smart guy
who he's admitted to most of the things that you can take him down for. And because everybody's
been effectively in his den or his basement, think about that studio as his basement,
people have hung out with Joe so many hours that you can't tell them something about Joe
or they're going to say, wow, I'm going to believe the New York Times and not the
hundreds of hours I've spent on the Joe Rogan experience.
But the cool thing is that this is what inspires me is that the way he's waging war against the
system is just by being a good person and talking enough hours in a week where that message
like bleeds throughout the words and the gaps between. And that's so inspiring to me that
the good people can win by just being good. And he's kind and he's tough. And he's no push
over. I always worry a little bit when I sit down in that chair.
You still get scared that he'll call you on some kind of bullshit that you weren't even aware of?
The first time I was on the show, the energy wasn't great between us. And it was in a sober
October situation. So I think I hadn't understood that. And maybe our egos got a little bit off.
I don't know. I mean, I was having fun, but maybe it was just too complicated life forms
getting to know each other. The first one was probably, yeah, that made me a little nervous
for the future. But then Joe and I become friends, although sometimes we have miscommunications,
like on Yom Kippur, I texted him and I said, Joe, I want to apologize for
ways of let you down as a friend that haven't been there for you and appreciate everything
you've done for me. I get this text back, like, what the fuck is your problem?
You're great, dude. I don't know what bad place you're in, but cheer up.
It's like, Joe, don't you have any Jews in your life? Apologize for what they've done.
He was just like, dude, if you lost your mind, what the hell's gotten into you?
Yeah. What do you think about the Spotify thing?
What about it? Ask me a question.
He's now, as opposed to being just a comedian with a podcast, he now is just a comedian with
a podcast who stepped in the middle of the center of cancel culture, which is like, I know Spotify
is in Sweden, but they represent Silicon Valley, they represent the very kind of structures they
contain and represent the kind of structures that threaten to destroy the elons of the world.
Hmm.
And he just, like, stepped, like, with his Alex Jones and his Joe Ideas just strolled
right into the middle of it. Yeah. I think it's awesome. I love it.
But do you think he's strong enough to?
Well, I don't know. I mean, I don't even know the right way to ask this, but
is he strong enough to persevere?
It's a bit interesting. It's like when Alliance decides, wow, that honey badger looks tasty.
I'm going to swallow it whole, see what happens.
Because I talked to him offline, he really seems to be willing to give away the 100 million,
which gives him so much power.
Oh, I don't.
It's a powerful thing to be able to say, I don't, yeah, to the honey badger.
He just strolls in, but he's willing to walk away from anything in this.
Well, he's going to walk out the other side of the line. I don't think he's going to go out the way
he came in. Yeah. Well, you know what it is? It's Tommy Lee Jones entering the bug.
This is like a giant alien. He just walks into it.
He just, he gets swallowed by the bug and he blasts out from the inside.
I have it as Tommy Lee Jones. Yeah.
But anyway. That's Joe Rogan to you.
Yeah. Is that my feeling is that Spotify doesn't understand what they're messing with.
I could be wrong, but I'm not. No, you're right.
I'm right.
Because Joe doesn't need anything, man. I mean, this is the weird thing about it.
It's like, I'm sure that he loves all his toys, whatever, blah, blah, blah.
He's a rich guy. Yes. He's got a few money.
He had a few money a long time ago. And you're not, you know, the other thing about,
it's a bit weird being friends with a dude like that. It just is.
Because like you call him up or he'll call you up and he's like, what's going on in your life?
And I'm like, I don't know. Kind of depressed, trying to get some math done. What are you up?
Oh dude, I can cheer you up. I just came off of a 29,000 person stadium.
It's like, oh, cool. How'd you do that? Oh, I don't know.
I just announced it on Instagram a few days ago and it's filled up. Just like, oh, damn.
Yeah. I mean, that thing is powerful.
So much love in that guy. That thing is so powerful.
Yeah. So there you go. I mean, you could be that too.
The instant Joe takes an interest in politics and saving the world.
You might destroy all that.
It's going bye-bye. I promise.
I just disagree with you.
Okay.
Because you have to do it. You've said this many times before.
I'll bet you. I'll bet you a bottle of Stoli that you can get,
if you get Joe Rogan to get highly politically active and call out the system for all the
bullshit that it is in a very pointed and determined fashion.
And he doesn't get destroyed. I'll give you the vodka.
The vodka?
Yeah.
