problem is I don't, I don't like my audience being my audience. I want to get closer to them.
I want to talk to them. I want to find out what, what is this doing in your life?
My house fills up with art that people send me. The lightest thing is an effects pedal
called something like, I don't know, it's a bow tie overdrive from a guy in Mexico.
Right? Yeah. You play electric, by the way, in a tiny little tangent. Did you play electric?
I have a Stratocaster, but it doesn't have a strap and I don't know what to do with it.
And I have a bad amp. So you should, you should, you should hook me up with the...
We'll find it a home maybe. Okay.
You're starting to sense that this is too much?
No, I want to be, I want to be here. I want to do the work very simply.
I don't have an ability to fully explain myself. I don't want to claim that I don't love the fact
how much love do we get from these programs? Generically, people are incredibly generous.
People have begged me set up a Patreon account and I haven't been able to do it. I should do it.
I've said to everybody, it's a business, it's a business, it's a business.
But they're so used to being defrauded when somebody starts thinking about monetary incentives.
My goal was to say, I'm going to keep talking to you about... You want to know why I started doing
ads on my show was because I wanted people to think from the get go, this is a business. This
is what I sound like when I'm selling. But you see, I've lost weight. A lot of that is due to
athletic greens. Athletic greens. Code... What's the... I don't know what my promo code is for
athletic greens. Probably athleticgreens.com slash portal. But doesn't advertise. But Fitbit,
who doesn't advertise, has also been instrumental as well as a guy named Steven Cates, who was a
fan from the show, found me on the street and just said, I'm a trainer. I want to help train you.
He's got me on a good path. So that's one paid advertiser and two people that I'm calling out
just because two outfits, Steven Cates and Fitbit, have changed my life. I wanted people to say,
you don't have to be afraid of advertising. If I do it in this way, this is powering your show.
But the whole issue of money is weird because people have these crazy feelings like,
oh, wow, I knew he was a shill. He's a grifter. I didn't love that. I didn't love the issues.
So I didn't set up a Patreon. The security issues for talking and being me are significant.
And I don't have the kind of money to hire around the clock. I mean, I desperately want to get to
a level of wealth where I don't have to think about money. I don't think it's... Some people want
money because they need it for status. I think I can handle status if I want it doing this.
I don't want the status necessarily, and I don't want... I'd want the status, but I don't want
the fame that goes with it. I want the money. I don't want to be seen as this is about money
because it's about a substance. All of those things. That's part of... I haven't solved these
issues. I've been feeling bad because people say, where's the Port Award? We're desperate.
These are difficult times. We have an election coming up. And it's just like,
do you think for a moment that I want to explain that I actually got really uncomfortable being
as well known as I was? And then what is it that I want? Because I want to be better known and less
well known at the same time. There's nothing the audience can do. I don't want the audience to be
the audience. That doesn't make sense to people. I want it to be a business, but I don't think
people need to fear a business if the business is open about being a business. And then that's
all to the side. What you're seeing now in front of the election is an incredibly
meta-violent period in our online existence. And I believe that anybody who attempts to say
these two parties are completely screwed at the moment the leadership of these parties is
unsalvageable, unworkable, everyone hears that from inside the two-party system.
Oh, I get it. He's trying to subtract votes off of Biden. Oh, I get it. He's trying to scuttle
Trump. Oh, I get it. This is a play for his show because he's trying to plug in to discuss.
There's a Bill Hicks routine on marketing. Have you ever seen this? Brilliant. I recommend it to
everyone where he comes out on stage and he says, are there any people in marketing and sales in the
eyes? Okay, great. Can you do us all a favor and die? And like everybody laughs. He's like,
no, I'm not laughing. I'm being serious. He talks about how marketing is horrible.
So you're like, where's this act going? Then he gets to the point where he's like,
oh, I know how you marketing people think. Bill's going after that resentment dollar.
That's good dollar. Let's get that resentment anti-marketing dollar. It's like, no, that's
not what I'm saying. I really hate marketers. Oh, that's good. It's the authenticity dollar.
You can't escape this kind of negative marketing thought. And I guess
that gets to the issue that I don't want to be destroyed in advance of this election.
I don't think it's a good use of my relationship to my audience
to be broadcasting how completely ridiculous Donald Trump and Joe Biden are as candidates for
the president of the United States, full stop. None of this makes any sense. These moderators
of these pseudo debates were in the wrong format with the wrong people. No part of this makes
a wit of sense. Can I try to push back several claims? One is I don't believe the systems as
they stand now can destroy the Eric Weinstein voice, the voice. You're a child. I'm sorry to
say that. Well, let me, well, it's also possible. Let's fight. It's entirely possible that you're
the child, okay? Because a child would say you would call other people a child. Yeah, get in the
first blow. It's a big reveal. It's a tell. Because the only power they have is to attack
you psychologically. No. Well, I believe that the army of people that love you is much more
powerful than mainstream media, than people that you might hear it say ridiculous things that you
just said, which is try to reduce you like the marketing thinking, I just believe there's an
army, maybe there's a better term, of people that see you for who you are and are hungry.
I'm not disputing those things. That's what I'm saying. I would venture to say as your therapist
that you're actually, the battle is all in your mind that you have found these demons in the system
and they're just a tiny minority and it's all in your mind. They cannot actually
remove, they're not strong enough to remove the voice of Eric Weinstein, to silence the voice.
I love this. This is some of the best fiction writing I've ever heard. Let me tell you,
I have relatives who've known me my entire life. Yeah.
We're one article in the New York Times. They will believe that over me.
My contention is that there has no power except to affect your psychology. What you have to do
is the Rogan thing, just laugh. You're not hearing me. Just laugh. I am laughing. I know, but more.
No, I'm telling you something. Yes. Okay. The way this works is through ruin.
Ruin can come to anyone. There's no one who cannot be ruined. Every single person
is signed up right now to be ruined by the system.
But don't you understand that you have more power than the system? You can ruin the system.
Your Twitter account, the podcast, that's not telling you about the army.
I agree that my Twitter account, my podcast, but what we've seen, for example,
you saw what happened to Brett's Articles of Unity project? Yes. Okay, what happened?
The unit on the Twitter side. On the Twitter side, what happened?
What happened? Well, actually, it's not an answer. Say the word.
It was blocked or removed from Twitter. Suspended. Sounds suspended.
And... Okay, I have a direct line to Jack. Yeah. Okay, so I'm talking to the CEO
who I am crazy enough to still believe in. Good. I do too. I believe it. Somehow,
there's a very strange thing going on with Jack Dorsey. I cannot possibly reconcile the actions,
but the person I've... That is a next level mind in there. I don't know it well enough
to say that it's all next level. I'm not claiming he doesn't have any blind spots.
Every smart person I know has blind spots. I don't know what he's up against, blah, blah, blah.
There's no way that the Jack Dorsey that I've talked to and the Jack Dorsey that interacted
over Articles of Unity can be the same person. He is constrained by that company in some way that
doesn't make sense to me. Either that or he's the most deplicitest person on earth and I'm not
believing it. I just don't buy it. Okay? Yeah. Something horrible is happening.
I... My claim is I can remove you functionally from the chess board in a tiny number of moves.
No matter who you are, no matter how virtuous or how much of a bastard you've been your entire life,
it doesn't take more than three or four moves to basically neuter you as a force.
Yeah. And I disagree that if that's possible, that means I'm not very good at chess.
Like Unity 2020 was removed from Twitter because it's not good enough. Not within the system.
Like the army of people that feel the brilliance of the idea was too small there.
Okay. But fear, uncertainty, and doubt is the name of the game, the coin of the realm.
Psychology, though. It's not real power. It just affects the mind.
Okay. I have a reading assignment for you. Because you're Russian, you'll really enjoy this.
As part of the Great American Tobacco Settlement, the Tobacco Institute had to
discourage its archives of all of its strategies, all of its skull-duggery,
and put it on the web for all time so that we could all understand how the tobacco companies
got together and destroyed people. Right? You see, tobacco destroys people. You can see,
Scientology destroys people. There are various vindictive organizations that will not tolerate
reality in opposition to them. Let's take them down.
Okay. That's what I'm trying to tell you.
So why aren't you doing the podcast or return? Because that's one of the weapons of war.
Well, first of all, if you're at war, I don't want to discuss strategy on a podcast. Right?
But what did Montgomery say about Rommel? Wasn't his line, I read your book,
You Beautiful Bastard? It's like, why are you using the tactics that you already explained?
Okay. So one of the things I'm doing is I'm not having a strategic conversation with you in a
several hundred thousand of our closest friends.
I pulled back because this is not the battle that I know what I'm doing. I do not feel passionately
enough about defeating Donald Trump to elect Joe Biden, even if that's the way I'm going to
ultimately vote. Right? I don't believe in the Biden Democratic Party. I don't believe in the
Trump Republican Party. So yes, it's an incredibly consequential election. But to me, it's like
the Crips and the Bloods and the Latin Kings fighting over the right to extort, you know,
a business and the business trying to figure out who it wants to do the extorting.
But don't you think, listen, there's very few people that are as good with the English language
as you? Don't you think it's possible to draw a line that in between, that finds how we
find our common humanity that ensures a better 2021 without having to say like
Donald Trump is evil or Joe Biden is incompetent or any of that, just somehow draw beautiful lines.
I am seeing people in so much pain. This election is chewing up the integrity of
everyone who comments on it, Lex. Maybe they're not good enough.
They're not good enough. No, but that, okay. Do you believe in me? Yes. You do? Yes.
Listen to me very carefully. My spider sense, my intuition that has allowed me to survive in
the space, I've been mouthing off since the 80s, tells me this is a super dangerous time
for smart people to be spending the dry powder because the election doesn't make sense.
Doesn't mean that I don't have a sense that one outcome would be better than the other,
probably, but the variance on that. I'm not even positive that I'm right.
These two options are so completely inappropriate to the world of 2020.
What we need is so diametrically opposed to more boomers and more silent generation people,
trying to sort out a highly technical world being mediated through social media.
We need more exclusion. We need more actual elites. The people we've called the elites are
not the elite. They need to go. We need excellence, competence. We need people who can be trusted
behind closed doors, and we need to close the doors so we can't see what those people are doing.
Here's the thing. Imagine that you had a bunch of people who'd all seen action in combat,
had all volunteered to be part of the armed services, had all come from backgrounds where
they didn't need to. So you were convinced that these people had put their lives on their line
for their country, not for a payday. Imagine you had 10 of these people with technical backgrounds.
Men, women, black, white, Muslim, Jew, doesn't matter. I would trust those people and I'd close
the door. I don't want to know what they talked about. I don't want transparency into all of
their negotiations. I want to know that they're patriotic, that they see something in the world
bigger than themselves and their family fortunes. I want to know that they're courageous. I want
to know that they've got all of our well-being and I'm willing to roll the dice, and if they
screw us over, I'd rather go down like that. I disagree with you there because there's a
difference between those and Jaco because you're not speaking to people with credentials.
No, I'm talking about self-credential people. I view Jaco as self-credential.
But the powerful thing about Jaco is he's not only self-credential, but he's
been real with people. The magical thing about Jaco isn't his book, isn't his life story. He's
been talking on a podcast for a long time. There's something real that happens.
I agree. Okay, so if you took Dan Crenshaw and Tulsi Gabbard and you took Jaco Willing
and maybe Jesse Ventura, you can take Bernie Sanders, who's a lone voice.
You can take all of these people who've really just risked. Why is Catherine Hepburn the best
that Hollywood ever produced? Because she told Hollywood to go fuck itself.
Hard. They gave her four Academy Awards and she said,
Love you, sweeties. I'm going to use them as the doorstop for the bathrooms in my house.
See, that's skill. That's what you were talking about. Be Catherine Hepburn.
Audrey Hepburn is pretty amazing, but Catherine Hepburn is next level.
That's what you're trying to say to me. I'm trying to figure it out. I don't have the answer yet.
What I do know is that this election is chewing people up. I mean two separate things. One,
that parties don't have enough integrity, that if you comment either for or against,
there's a short sequence where you make a comment that's nuanced, you get referenced
to something. Take this thing about find people on both sides. That is non-resolved after in years,
whether the context should be reported or not. We are in some situation in which
Democrats and Republicans are primed to fight each other the way introducing two ants from
two different ant colonies always produces a battle. I don't want to be in that fray
because those people are going to kill each other mindlessly like robots. Until the election is
concluded, do I think this is dire? Yes. Could it be make or break? Absolutely. I'm not saying
that. Do I know which way this goes? I can make an excellent argument that we need to elect Joe
Biden right now. We've got a situation which can only be cured by voting for Joe Biden.
I can make another argument that we can have a situation that can only be
cured by defeating Joe Biden right now and all of the things that the modern democratic party
represents. It's not the lady and the tiger. We're choosing between the tiger and the tiger.
It's the Sumatran tiger versus the Siberian tiger. I'm trying to think, well, which tiger do I have
a better chance against? The key problem for us politically is that we have to divorce the concept
of the center and moderation from kleptocracy. Every time we try to say something like we need
more moderate solutions, we need more pluralistic solutions, people will say, wow, you just want
to hand us right back into the swamp, don't you? Those swamp people because the moderates and the
swamp people are the same people. Then we have these two crazy wings. We can't have crazy right
wing people. I don't want any tiki torch BS. We can't have crazy left wing. Don't attack my
courthouse. Really don't attack my courthouse. We can't have moderates. It's like, okay, how do we
install our children and rape pillage and get these speaking fees when we're out of office and
become cozy with the things when we're supposed to be regulating them and then become their lobbyists
immediately when we leave office. All of this stuff. We need an entirely different system.
I can't talk about that at the moment. When I talk, people say, oh, wow. You're going to sit
this one out because you're a pussy, because you're a coward. Great to know, Eric. We thought
better of you. Bye, click. I don't know what to do. Are you thinking of what to do?
Yeah. Oh, you better believe it. Brett had this idea of Unity 2020 and I told him it was a wrong
idea. I didn't tell him that Unity 2024 was a wrong idea. I didn't tell him that Unity
2028 is a wrong idea. If I were to make the case that he was right and I was wrong because he's
