drive. Because right now, you've got a Mexican standoff in your mind, and the rest of us are just
benefiting. That's beautifully put. My Mexican standoffs aren't as stable as yours. It's all
reservoir dogs all the time. But actually, the person who that describes is Peter Thiel.
Peter Thiel thinks more, people always say like, what does Peter think about X, Y, and Z, P, and
Q? It's like, well, do you want communist Peter? Do you want hypercapitalist Peter?
There's a couple of minds in there. Oh my God, right? On everything. That's why
he's successful is that he's got all these minds fighting each other. And so when people say,
Peter is this or Peter is that, I just laugh. Because nobody who knows him would describe him
as having thoughts at the level that people are claiming. And I do think that in my case,
you know, there's also pathological epistemic humility. Like just, I know what I know how
little I know how little I can do in one life. I know how many things I've screwed up. I know
how many things I've got wrong. And on the other hand, I know that if not, you know, it's like
Hillel's questions, you know, if I'm not for myself, who will be for me? And if I'm only
for myself, what am I, if not now when? You know, at some level, there's a question about
if I don't decide that someone is capable and that somebody is me. And if I apply that to
everyone else on the planet, then nobody's going to do anything. And so I do think that one of
the things that people like you and I get is who are you to say that? F that, man. Just
just sign me up for some Dunning Kruger. Yeah, but it's multiple minds. Like you said,
like this morning, I was feeling so good and confident about I couldn't think no wrong.
And I remember last night clearly thinking that I'm the dumbest human who's ever lived and nothing
I've ever said is worth anything. What the fuck am I doing with my life? Why am I scared? I was
terrified of this conversation. Who the hell am I? Because I'm an idiot. And because, you know,
Lex, it, but no, no, no, but this morning, I was the baddest motherfucker who's ever walked this
earth. So I was, I was very conscious. I think it was the coffee. I'm not sure. Maybe some sleep.
This sounds very Russian, and it involves multiple beverages, some of them being alcoholic,
others containing caffeine. There's, in fact, I can't share the story behind it,
but there is a bottle of vodka in the fridge. Okay. So I mean, I should have hit you for coffee
because this is a morning show here. So I put out a call that we get a chance to have this
conversation and people ask these wonderful questions. A few people asked about depression
and suicide. This is a Russian program, so we have to go there. And I think about Leonard Cohen
and one of the things that always kind of broke my heart and kind of suffocated the hope I have for
just, I don't know, for love in a person's life is to hear how much depression was a part of
Leonard Cohen's life and how much he suffered. I guess one way, I'm not sure where we can go
with this question, but do you think about the places that the mind can go, like these dark places?
Yeah. Is there something like where the only escape out is suicide, for example? That's the
darkest version of it? I really think suicide is a big place in suicide,
allidiation and self-harm. And we don't talk a lot about it. It's a similar problem to trying
to talk about trans. These are umbrella categories. And if the commonality is that somebody harms
themselves, but we don't know whether that's coming because of a problem in brain chemistry,
because of an event in their life, whether evolutionary programming for suicide is
weirdly normal, whether or not it might have a religious motivation. There's too many different
forms of self-harm. It's something like the 10th largest killer thereabouts.
And I think that you can look at it from different angles. I'm old enough to have
had Pete Seeger come to my college when I was at university and to watch his good humor in the face
of all adversity. I used to go to Odetta concerts. I don't know who she is. Okay,
this is going to be one of the better days of your life. Check out Odetta when we're done with
the interview. She was a civil rights figure, but also just had a profound voice and great
musicianship. These people were in the struggles, right? And they saw lots of bad things happen,
and they kept their humor about them. And the thing is that you can take on the Veldschmerz,
the pain of the planet, or you can try to do something else, which is to be a happy warrior,
even if the odds are terrible and the cost of failure is catastrophic.
So even once surrounded by darkness, but the thing is with Leonard Cohen,
is he created such beautiful music. And yet it's like Anthony Bourdain, the same.
And yet they go to this dark place. And it's easier to say it's just biochemistry.
No, there's a linkage between this highly generative creative
side and in some cases, dark depression. In other cases not. So you can't say that it's
tied. The genius and madness are always co-traveling, or that beauty and pain are one and the same.
What you can say is that there's a cluster of people that tell you that for that cluster,
there is a relationship between the darkness and the beauty. And I do think that in part,
it's squaring circles that can't be squared. We were just talking before about the inability
to serve two perfect systems, the perfect system of the wave equation and the perfect system of
even temperament. They're both perfect. They're not compatible. And once you realize that there is
perfection and an inability to make contact with perfection, I think you recognize that
there is no solution to this world. Yeah. That's weird with the poets and musicians.
Do you want to say this is a particular thing that you do? But then there's Spanish fly by
Van Halen. And then you realize, oh. Well, what do you get out of Spanish fly by Van Halen?
I think it's very singular because of the fact that it's purely acoustic.
For some reason, I couldn't imagine Eddie Van Halen separate from the band in front of thousands
of people just screaming and rocking out with lights everywhere. And Spanish fly made me
think like, you made me imagine him sitting alone in a college in a room.
I think that's who he was. I really do. Believe me, I get it. He was a rock star. He was a rock
god. Got it, got it, got it, got it. I'm almost positive that you can't get to where he got to
without being a complete introvert. Yeah. It made me imagine that there's some
half naked supermodel walking around hoping that they can do their thing together. And Eddie's
completely disinterested. He'd be with the guitar. He'd be with the guitar. Right? Yeah.
Because honestly, at some level, in one case, maybe you're conquesting, maybe you're pursuing
love and romance. In the other case, you're talking about a relationship to the order,
the creator, the almighty, whatever it is you want to call that substrate that is reality.
I believe that Eddie Van Halen and Jimi Hendrix and Paganini and Heifetz jacked into the
true essence of the world. Yeah, they did. I don't think it's as good as differential geometry.
I'm sorry. I do think it's amazing for other reasons. And thank God, because it's very
difficult to communicate differential geometry at scale. But the thing about eruption, for example,
what level do you want to come into eruption? Do you want just the sheer majesty and pageantry?
Do you want the theatrics? You could put them on wires and set his pants on fire or whatever.
It'd be totally in keeping with it. On the other hand, you want to have something completely
precise that shows off the virtuosity of what's possible with the Stratocaster.
Everything works, multi-axis. But there's a precision to it, which is very different than
Hendrix. There's a messiness to Hendrix that to me, somebody who has OCD has always been struggling.
How does Hendrix affect you? I mean, let's have the Jimi Hendrix conversation. I don't know that
we can do anything to it that hasn't already been done to it. Maybe that's not true. Maybe the idea
is that every generation has to have its Hendrix conversation, and this is a long time.
It's Jimi Hendrix experience. So funny. I hear you sold it from Joe Rogan.
There's so many details. One, it hurt my soul on so many levels that you can put a thumb over the
guitar to play a note, to hold a note. Because I wanted to be the Russian
virtuoso that sits with his classical guitar in perfect form, plays really fast with the fingers,
and then you want the thumb to be perfectly relaxed and supporting the neck.
That's the Russian conservatory student. Conservatory student, yeah.
Then there's the Russian wild man. Which one is that? Well, I haven't...
They're different Russian archetypes. So the completely idiosyncratic Russian is very different
in a weird way from the... I can do this backwards in any key, in my sleep,
and in any time signature that you just snap your fingers. We've discussed my
piano tuner in previous episodes. No, no. That was offline conversation. You told me the story.
I should tell you the story. You should retell the story. There it was in Darkest Manhattan,
with the world's shittiest... It wasn't even an upright. It was a spin-it piano.
A friend had given it to me. The piano fell out of tune and I would have to tune it. The only
tuner I knew was this Russian guy and I hated dealing with him. There was something about
his attitude that just really rubbed me the wrong way. Anyway, my wife says, tune that thing.
So we get the piano tuner to come and he's tuning this. He's like,
are you sure you want to tune this piece of shit? Okay, fine. He's like,
okay, it's your money. The phone rings and I have the phone ringer set on a landline to
Paganini Caprice 24. Immediately as the phone rings, he figures out what key the phone ringer is,
and which is not the key that lists composed the variations on Caprice 24. He starts going
into theme and variations on Caprice 24. At some level, I've never heard before, just jaw dropping.
The phone stops ringing. We have this awkward silence. I said, I didn't know you were such a
great piano player. Then he says one of these things that in Russian accent in English,
hurts in a way you can't imagine. He said, no, you are the piano player. I am merely the piano
tuner. It's just like, oh man, through the heart.
You know, it's kind of reminiscent. I'd love to hear actually your opinion. This is reminiscent
of the Goodwill Hunting story. What do you think about that?
That movie?
That movie. It's MIT. I guess when I think of that film, I think about Matt Damon as a young guy
risking everything, giving up Harvard. I think probably the most accomplished group of people
in the world are people who choose to give up Harvard voluntarily.
It's beautiful.
Right?
Bigger than Harvard. Ives was one of these people. Bill Gates, of course.
And then oddly, you know.
Zuckerberg.
What? Zuckerberg. But then Steve Jobs gave up a read, and read is like the weirdest,
craziest college in the world. People should pay much more attention to read. I'm sorry,
it's going through a hard time at the moment. But what it was before the current craziness is
really an interesting story. Irregardless, as we say in the 617 area code, I think that a lot of my
reaction is to the real story of Matt Damon having this vision and being the young guy to pull it
off. And you know, I also think about Robin Williams trying to explore heart through this
lens of acting. And you know, as you and I, you've hung out with comedians,
they know that they are a screwed up bunch of people. They do. They're proud about it. They
really are. The idea that Robin Williams, who I saw many years ago when I was in LA,
in the comedy clubs around here, you know, he was a straight up crazy, dysregulated genius in
tremendous pain. And his desire to do it earnestly through acting, rather than constantly by just
sniping, you know, or being a clown or showing us how fast his mind worked relative to ours.
I was really moved by that. I thought that he brought some authenticity and took a huge
risk for a comedian to be that real. And again, like you said, it doesn't always have to be,
but in that case, the madness and genius were neighbors. That one couldn't have been any other
way. Yeah. No, because his mind, the thing about seeing him in a comedy club was that he would
react to random stimulus in the environment. You know, it could be a heckler. Sometimes you
almost got the feeling that he wanted a heckler because it was, it gave him something to play
against, right? He was just, he was infinitely, instantly inventive. But I actually, to me,
the best Robin Williams is as he got closer and closer to the end of his life, because there was
a sadness and he's almost fighting the sadness with this improvisational, like the weapons he has
is this wit and humor and his dancing that he does with language. But and then sometimes when
you just fall silent, you can see the sadness. And I don't know, there's something so beautiful
about that. It's like this bird with a broken wing that's like trying to fly, you know, and it's
getting older and older. And I mean, those, he would have made a one hell of a podcast guess,
I'll tell you, I'll tell you that that's a sad. Yeah, I have some sadness that I really do think
that part of what we call podcasting is actually just getting to know a soul
over and over again. Like, yeah, maybe the idea is that this is talking about depression and
sadness and heavy feelings is not an American specialty. Seeing that in context with the beauty
of life is a Russian specialty. Like it is very much sounds like a diner menu. What the Russian
specialty? A big scoop of ice cream with tons of depression. I do think that we're in a really
terrifying and depressing time. And I think that part of it is that we don't know if something huge
is about to get started. And we don't even know what this is. I mean, we just sit here in this
weird world that is falling into some new state. And we're not even super curious. It's like,
what the hell just happened? Everybody's got an answer. And I'm positive that all of those answers
are wrong. Let's try to at least sneak up on the good answer. So the central core of the answer
is that the US seemed to be the greatest thing in the world in large measure because we hadn't
noticed that we were getting a benefit from having no plan, not having to make a plan for low growth.
As long as we had growth, we were in great shape. Let's imagine that you could run an
experiment. You have a billion copies of Earth and you start the initial conditions slightly
different. On some giant number of planets, a lot of the things that were discovered from the 1800s
through the end of the 20th century are discovered in a period of time because
a lot of that just has to do with once you crack the puzzle of getting better instruments,
you can see more. And the more you can see, the more you can make use of what you can see. And
it turns out there was lots of stuff to do with like germs or electron orbitals or spectrum,
electromagnetic spectrum. And so we got to do all of those things. And the US roughly
corresponded for a good chunk of its history with this bonanza. And so of course we look like an
amazing, genius country. We have no plan. Imagine that you could sell a car, you don't have to put
in seat belts, you don't have to put in airbags, you don't have to put in rear view mirrors or
sensors or rear view mirror. You could save a lot of money on a car by not putting in all of the stuff
to keep things from going wrong. And I think that's what we had. We had a machine
that as long as growth was insanely good, we plowed it back, the riches and spoils and
treasure back into the system and made more genius stuff. And we carried along a good chunk of
humanity, hundreds of millions of people. We did not have a plan for what happens when the
growth goes below the stall speed of our society. How confident should it be that the growth has
slowed in a way that is permanent rather than a slap in the face where we...
It's not the right concept. The right concept is I try to use the same words over and over again
in case people see mold because then the perseveration actually gets somewhere. So I use this analogy
of the orchard because everyone talks about low hanging fruit. They know the concept of
low hanging fruit, but they don't think in terms of orchards. So they say things like,
you think we've picked all the low hanging fruit, but I believe in the infinitiveness of the human
mind. It's like, okay, that doesn't even work as an analogy. What if the idea is we only picked
all the low hanging fruit here and then we're having this stupid argument about low hanging fruit
and we're not going and looking for new orchards. We're not planting new orchards. We're not looking
for forests. We're just sitting here arguing about low hanging fruit. So my claim is there's
probably a lot more low hanging fruit and it's not here. It's in other orchards. It's in other
orchards. One of those turned out to be the digital orchard. The digital orchard has not
been as stagnant as lots of these other like the chemical orchard. I have faith that there's a small
percentage of the population, but not zero that's looking for those other orchards. I'm excited
about one of those orchards, which is, I believe there'll be robots in everybody's homes and that
will unlock some totally new thing. Totally new set of technologies, ideas, the way we live life,
the productivity, everything. It'll change everything. So I'm excited about that orchard.
