And I think, anyway, it occurred to me at the time that we were doing it.
It's ripe for a long discussion.
Yeah, I do also want to say that you're speaking as a mono person.
Yeah.
Well, I think that there's been a bigger, that people have been embracing polyamory and open
ethical nonmonogamy more so over the years.
It has always existed in Fort Collins.
A variable may have.
I guess what I'm getting at is that it was hardly out there, you know, so.
And to be perfectly clear, I'm speaking as a fan of monogamy, but not a not someone who's
disfavorable towards any other preferences that people have.
Right.
So, you know, this isn't coming from, oh, people in my group weren't like that.
We were very careful to have our token monogamist on the podcast.
I guess.
Yeah.
What?
So, Inesh, why are you telling your grandma about why rationalists tend to be more
more fiscally conservative and.
Did she ask about your sex life?
No.
Yeah, what's up with that?
I don't know.
It's just part of the culture.
Like the another one is that we're very a religious generally, not necessarily anti-religious,
but just religion is silly.
And it's not a thing we bother with anymore.
I want to just different or I want to distinguish that from how the skeptic community treats
religion.
And I notice a lot of the mean word is circle jerk.
The polite the polite word is patting oneself on one's back of, yeah, I shook off my religion,
you know, man, really.
And so there's a lot of fun and I went to that phase.
It is a lot of fun to argue religion with people.
Oh, God, I went through a several year phase.
Yeah.
And but then it gets really dry.
Right.
But the thing is, is that I don't meet a lot of rationalists who congratulate themselves
on shaking their faith.
And I think I saw a talk with it might have been Eleazar Yudkowski.
I forget who it was, but it was somebody, one of the major figures, probably Eleazar.
And he was like, it's a lot like answering the werewolf question.
All right, cool.
Werewolves aren't a thing.
Let's not spend a lot of time patting ourselves in the back for getting that question right.
Like it's really if you shake off all of the baggage that comes with it and all the indoctrination,
it's really a really easy problem.
And all of these, I just want to say, are also things that are not like hard rules.
There are religious rationalists.
It's just more prevalent in the rationalist community than in the general populace,
which is why I bring it up.
For sure.
Yeah.
And if anyone who like if you are the religious rationalist, you're the guy that sticks out.
Right.
People are like, that's kind of weird, but okay.
That's that come comment.
We're not going to bite your head off.
No one's rude here.
That is the other thing as long as.
Try not to be rude.
I think that that's.
That actually is a pretty big one too.
Try not to be rude.
That was one of the things I was going to mention that.
And so, Ines, are you officially wrapped up or almost wrapped up?
I have the one last one.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
I was going to say that all those other ones are just general tendencies,
but I think this last one is actually kind of a cultural norm.
Like it is actually a thing that we try to encourage this last one that I'm about to talk
that a social norm is that no ideas are taboo.
And as such, people aren't shunned for advancing arguments on reprehensible subjects.
And I don't mean that there's no ideas that we don't think are terrible or reprehensible,
but there's nothing that we can't talk about.
Like the joke form of this is you make a compelling case for infanticide.
But the more serious case is that racists, for example,
are allowed to present their arguments.
And in the general populace, if someone started coming in saying racist things,
it'd be like, fuck you, you're racist.
We don't care.
Get out of here.
We're not going to tolerate this.
Whereas oftentimes in the nationalist community, you'd be like,
okay, what you're saying sounds kind of racist, but give us your evidence.
If you can back it up, we'll hear you out.
Right.
And then we will argue with your evidence as to why we don't accept it
or why we think it's wrong, because that's important.
Or equally important.
Accept it if you will.
We might change our minds if your evidence is that compelling.
Yeah.
Bring that evidence to us if you want.
I'd be curious.
This isn't necessarily an invitation for racists to bring their evidence to us right now.
No, it is not.
Unless you can do so politely.
But yeah, please, yeah, scratch that.
Honestly, I probably wouldn't bother to engage it because I have too much on my plate already.
But there are some people that will.
Would depend on the claim for me.
I expect, you know, if they're going to.
So it wasn't evidence.
They bring was it Francis Crick, one of the Crick or Watson, Crick or Watson,
whichever one it was, got a bunch of flak a few years ago for suggesting the possibility
that native Africans might be genetically inferior to other subsets of the human species.
I made a joke about that genetically inferior.
Let's say have a bell curve that is slightly to the left on IQ spectrum.
Is that what his claim was?
Yes, that's what his claim.
Oh, but but he did he claim it was genetically based.
He did.
So that's what I meant.
Yes, to qualify.
But the thing is, is that I would hear him say that and I'd say,
can you show me your test results?
Rather than be like, oh my God, I can't believe you'd say that because that's a strong claim.
That's terrible.
But it's either true or false.
I think it's probably false.
But let's let's see what he has to say.
If it is true, then, you know, it's already true.
And knowing that doesn't make things worse.
Exactly. If anything, knowing that is the only way to make things better.
Yeah, that's the whole thing.
That's the takeaway.
And there's there's also, you know, does this actually have any implications on the real world?
Because you still can't judge individual people by what a general, you know, racial profile might be.
Yeah, bell curve anomalies exist.
And that whole thing is not really productive anywhere.
Unless we're going to talk about eugenics.
So again, that's a whole episode.
Yeah. Well, it's all it's one of those fun topics when I try to explain to people, you know, at work or whatever.
Hey, so, you know, what is this whole rationality thing about?
What do you guys get together and talk about?
Don't tell.
No, no, I'm just going to say that in general, it's the kind of thing where you can get together
and raise any topic, however contentious, even sometimes deliberately inflammatory,
and have it be a jumping off point, and no one's going to crucify you
for saying whatever it is that you want to you want to bring up.
So I'd say it's a place where it's okay to be wrong.
Yeah, yeah.
It's okay to be wrong, and it is a moral good to be less wrong.
Yeah.
Aha.
And the only way you can get to that point is if you explore the places where you are wrong.
If you just wall them off and say, we're never going to talk about them, you don't make your map any clearer.
Yeah.
In fact, I would add that when I talk to people about rationality, I talk about
how it's a great thing to try to disprove yourself.
Yes.
And that's a good rationality tool.
And it's an important one in your toolkit is to try to prove the other options.
I will say it's been a hard one for me personally to put into practice often.
My brain does not typically go to how can I prove myself wrong?
I mean, I make an effort to sometimes, but it is an effort.
I think it, I don't think there's a person who's natively built to flinch into looking
towards the what if I'm wrong question, right?
There might be some.
I'm imagining the person on the Savannah, just petrified in self-doubt about whether or not
that rattling of the bushes was a tiger or not.
The one who, well, that's not the best example.
But I can't imagine strong self-doubt being a selected feature.
But it's one that we can now select for ourselves.
Ideally, a good scientist would want to try to prove what they call the null hypothesis,
but look at other options, see how reasonable they are instead of trying to prove themselves
right.
And again, that's a whole other conversation about publication bias and the file drawer effect,
but why that doesn't actually happen in science.
But it's, again, a moral good.
So Stephen, my grandma knows a lot about rationality now.
What are you going to tell your grandma about rationality?
I would tell my grandma to listen to your explanation.
It was quite comprehensive and covered almost everything I was going to say.
So we don't rehearse these beforehand.
We don't.
We will sometimes share notes, but not every time.
So part of it I already talked about being able to discuss any idea fairly and honestly,
and whether that's someone else's idea or your idea.
And this section is something that you did miss that I think is more integral than any of the
utilitarian or whatever.
The celebration of changing your mind.
You don't typically get applause.
But the if you look at any politician, oh, they voted for this in 1992.
But now they think the other thing that they that's seen as a bad thing in the
rationalist community that's seen as a good thing.
It means that you're amenable to changing your mind.
A good deal of effort is put into making yourself open to revising your beliefs and
possibly changing them completely.
There are some fun techniques that people work on.
Like this is an important part of the project.
So people give a lot of thought on how to make that happen more fluidly for you, etc.
So it's a fairly key feature.
Yes.
Since I joined the rationalist, since I learned about less wrong and the rationalist
movement, I have changed my mind on incest.
So a great technique is to find things that really are icky to you or upsetting to you
