I suspect because everyone states all we want is the best player, like so the music sounds
the best.
And this helps them get that.
I suspect that's not all people actually want when they go to an orchestra.
They want to see performance, which I think why more attractive people get hired more
often, because that's part of the whole performance aspect, right?
I'd never been to an orchestra.
Oh, wait, yes, I have, but I maybe not close enough to see the people play.
I can't comment on that on personal experience.
My favorite example of that is there's piano competitions often where people, you know,
play piano and judges decide who's the best piano player.
Afterwards took the recordings of those performances and they played, there were five competitors.
They played them for a group that only heard the music and didn't see the video.
And they chose who played best.
And then they also played it to people who only saw the video and didn't hear any of
the music.
It was muted.
And they chose a different person who was best.
And without fail, the person that the visual people chose matched who the judges chose
that were, you know, supposed to judge you as the best player.
Huh.
Yeah, because when you see someone play, what you really want to see is you want to feel
something and the music helps you feel something as what music does.
But also part of that is the performance, the passion, the banging on the keys, the
hair flying as you're going.
So if you, the visual aspect turns out to be incredibly important.
I would not have guessed that I am not very music savvy, but I would have thought that
it would be more how it sounds, not how it looks because it's music.
Well, think about food.
Think about your enjoyment of food.
It has a lot to do with how the food looks.
That's true.
I have seen the pen and teller bullshit episode where they dressed up like salads from McDonald's
and charged 30 bucks for them and people liked them a lot more than they would otherwise.
So yeah, okay.
Well, that's that's different from the look.
That's more the perception of price and value.
Well, they also put it in a nicer bowl and not a plastic shell.
Yeah, yeah.
So a number of things can, can have an impact when you don't expect it.
Yeah.
But yes, you try to, you try to correct for your flaws, your biases.
So the way, the way I always thought of it is that for the, if I were to wrap up to my
grandmother, that formal, if she knows about formal logic, which I hope she does, because
that's taught in school nowadays, right?
Anyways, assuming it was.
Nowadays.
Grandma, you know what formal logic is, right?
Of course.
Excellent.
She spawns the best children.
My grandma grew up in a small city or a small town, rather, and she didn't have electricity
in her house till she was 13.
So I don't think she was taught her formal logic tables in primary school.
All right.
Well, I would say that formal logic is a systematized method for retaining truth value between statements.
It's generally what it's accepted to be.
And rationality is a systematized method of making your beliefs more closely match the
reality around you.
That is, that is primarily what rationality is to me.
That is the epistemic rationality.
There's also the second, what I consider secondary, which a lot more people consider
the primary part of rationality, but to me, it's slightly less important, is instrumental
rationality, or as the term is, rationality is the art of systematized winning of finding
out what you want and then using the skills of rationality to get better at achieving
your goals, then includes things like getting the cooperation of other agents, knowing what
the payoff matrices are, and just knowing decision theory in general.
How to use rationality to come to a better decision.
And I think my favorite current example of this, which I don't know if you guys will
agree with me, is Pharma Bro.
Martin Schrelle, is that your name?
Shkreli?
Shkreli?
Yeah, Martin Shkreli.
Something.
Age drugs that only his company can produce and jack the price up from $15 a pill to $700
a pill?
Well, that was the whole basis of his business.
Yes.
Yes.
The thing is, only his company makes it and people don't want to die.
And this pill is what keeps them alive.
So he's like, hey, it's worth $700 a pill to not die, right?
So yeah, and everyone hates him right now.
He's been called in front of Congress.
But it is, it is my contention that if you wanted to lower prescription drug prices in
the country, because right now there is prescription drug prices are pretty fucking crazy.
And there's some systemic reasons behind this, which I won't get into because I'm
sure just having a brief conversation with my grandma.
But if you wanted to lower prescription drug prices, his current actions may be the most
rational course to take.
You play the villain and you exploit the fuck out of the system so badly that no one
can ignore it.
And they hate it and they finally get some motivation to change the fucking system because
all he's doing is playing within the rules that the system has set up.
So I pictured him as being a really bad, bad guy as in not being good at being a bad guy.
And no, he's terrible at being a bad guy.
Well, now I'm really hoping that like in two years, he comes out with some timestamped
footage of him saying that was his intent the whole time, was to, was to shout out,
I know he won't, but wouldn't that be, wouldn't that be a great cartoony resolution?
Yes, it would.
But I, this is, this is the same reason I loved Professor Quirrell, because he, you
know, was, he was trying to unite magical Britain against the next dark lord.
And you know, he was doing it in a bad way, but no, it's sometimes if the system is fucked
up and the only way to fix it is to unite people in opposition of a cartoony villain,
you become the cartoony villain to fix the system.
And sure, your own reputation sucks and people hate you, but your, if your goal was to fix
the system, that is the rational pursuit of that goal.
Cupcake.
Yes.
It sounds like you might be going to that, to that crazy conclusion because it's exciting
and fun and not because it actually has anything to do with the truth and reality.
I know.
But it's a nice fictional.
So what are we supposed to be focusing on as rationalists?
Reality itself.
Oh, but that is my example of a thing where instrumental rationality might tell you to
do things which you would not normally think is a good idea in the pursuit of your goals.
A counterintuitive solution to a problem.
I probably wouldn't get more into it than that because, you know, there's a lot to
systematize winning and to me, it's, it's the epistemic rationality is the more important
part of it.
I would also tell my grandma, because I do think this is relevant, that there tends to
be some cultural trends in rationalist circles due to partly due to founder effects and partly
due to the conclusions rationality brings you and partly due to the fact that it is
kind of a youth movement.
That'd be one thing I would tell her right off the bat.
It's sort of a youth movement.
And so it has a younger culture.
Rationists generally subscribe to utilitarian ethics or a derivation thereof.
Wait a second.
Yes.
Are you saying that elderly people like me can't be rational?
No, I'm not saying that at all.
I'm just saying that it's a fairly new philosophy.
And so, like most such things, it, you know, grabs the fiery youth and, and slowly filters
its way throughout society.
I will say if you're about to make a list of things rationalists believe to choose your
words carefully.
No, I know.
I'm just saying in some of the cultural things behind it.
I agree.
And I think you're probably, I can imagine being too inflammatory, but I'm, I'm eager
to see the response.
Please go on.
If I were, if I were to clarify what you were talking about, it's more that you're talking
about a rationalist movement.
So a community of people who are interested in a certain kind of rationality and who are
talking to each other rather than rationality in general.
So what somebody on the street or grandma or maybe not a five year old, I think that
maybe we aimed a little bit too low on age and introduction, but what they might think
of as what is rationality?
Yes.
Because I think the rationality system itself is the main thing we're interested in.
But if my grandma wants to know what rationality is, these cultural things are part of that
as well.
I want to take a step to explain two things.
One, they explain like I'm five, comes from the subreddit name, explain like I'm five,
which isn't meant to talk to somebody like they're literally a five year old, but it's
to presume virtually no background knowledge.
And so to that, to that note, you mentioned that utilitarianism is popular among rationalists.
And utilitarianism is the ethical subscription that consequences are what matter and maximizing
the well-being of them, depending on which consequentialists you're talking to, but more
or less it's about maximizing as much happiness as among as many people as possible or as
many sentient beings.
And would you agree with me that that is much more common in the rationalist community than
it is in the world at large?
I would definitely agree that it's common in the rationalist community.
I'm not sure how uncommon it is in the world at large.
I don't think it's uncommon, but I think it's less common.
That could probably be true.
Yeah, I don't know that we have any evidence to back this up.
I will dig up one of Scott Alexander's survey results.
Sounds good.
Again, come to the website.
Look at our links.
We're trying to be as detailed as is practical with our episode description and links for
since it's sort of impractical to explain everything we talk about like like I'm five,
like you're five, we want to be as as detailed, as I said, as is practical in the descriptions.
We don't want to give you two hours of reading every two weeks, but it's there if you want it.
I think the culture also is a bit economically libertarian ish and that in it's generally
more sex positive and poly friendly than the rest of the world.
I was going to say that was the first thing I noticed when meeting more rationalists.
For listeners, I want to explain what Inyash means by poly.
He's referring to polyamory, not poly nucleated or many pointed squares.
Yeah, not polygons, although we like them too.
So polyamory is simply people who have multiple partners, multiple romantic partners.
I want to dive this into a whole episode.
We totally should.
I had a friend call me a couple weeks ago and in four columns where I'm from,
this really wasn't a thing, which is weird because it's not a small town.
There's 130 something thousand people, but I don't think I knew anybody who knew anybody
who was into the poly community and a friend of mine who lives there called me a couple weeks ago
and he was like, so are you familiar at all with this thing?
And I was like, actually, yeah, as it turns out, it's kind of popular down here.
And, you know, we recorded at a Denver.
I'm not sure if we've mentioned that.
And, you know, it's not a far drive, but the fact that there's this kind of big gap
between that relationship schema that groups have.
But anyway, so I was trying to explain it to him to the best of my knowledge.
