Because a lot of times emotions steer us wrong.
It's part of that human bias that we were talking about earlier.
But emotions are also wonderful and a part of the human experience.
I would say that yes, it's true that Spock does say that, but that doesn't make it right.
Spock is not your your go-to rationalist guy.
And I was actually just explaining this to somebody today about,
and I think the there's a lot of wrong post on this as there is on a lot of things called
feeling rational or feeling rationally.
And I'm not sure if this is his wording or not.
I don't think so.
But the way I explained it today was that it's not about not having feelings.
It's about having your feelings line up with what's actually happening
and to an appropriate degree, you know.
So if I'm trying to think, I had a high school,
my high school biology teacher told me about at the time that his wife
woke up from a dream where he was being something doing something mean to her
and woke up mad at him and she stayed that way for like an hour.
And I thought that was anywhere both, you know, laughing about it.
This, you know, it wasn't a terrible thing for him.
But that was funny because that was absolutely not feeling rationally.
She woke up, knew it was a dream, but she still felt pissed.
And, you know, it's one thing to shake that, you know, to have that and then shake it off
a few minutes later.
But it's another thing to like stay mad for an hour after having a bad dream.
Yeah, I think that having having rationality and having rationalist tools in my life makes it easier
for me to feel the way that I feel like I should feel about things.
To reflect on things if I'm having an outsized emotional reaction
or if I'm having, honestly, the wrong emotional reaction given the circumstance.
Actually, I think it would be a great idea to do a whole episode on emotions at some point,
both emotions and the whole Straub-Vulcan fallacy, which is what I was trying to
point out. A lot of times rationalists get the whole, well, I guess you can never feel
any emotions thing. And you're like, no, that's not what rationality is.
Yeah, the Straub-Vulcan is the TV tropes definition for the Hollywood rationalist.
And I think, yeah, I'll save what I was going to respond with for that episode,
because that is a big topic and it's fun.
And it's a popular misconception, but we'll save it for another day.
I don't want to be like Spock, even though Spock's pretty cool.
Yeah.
Am I the only one who didn't love Spock? Yes, I guess.
Spock was cool. He was also just a really cool character. He made for good stories.
For sure.
So even if he was a bit of a caricature, the fact that you got good stories out of that made you
like him having the character in the show.
Let me qualify. I never saw the show. I saw the new movies with the fun guy from Heroes.
And in fairness, original series was kind of hit in this. It wasn't nearly as good as the next
generation.
And which one is Spock in?
Original series.
Okay. My main exposure to Spock was from some clips that Julia Galev played during a
talk on the straw bulk and which we'll link to in this episode or the next one or both.
And there was one where he is on some planet and he, I don't know, some flower spores or
something getting his head and he falls in love. And then he realizes at the end that it was all
irrational and that he gets away from it and like, you can still have feelings, bro. Come on.
Love is great. Love is fun.
Yeah. I want to hear what you changed your mind on.
What did I change my mind on?
Yeah. So many things.
I've never been wrong about anything, Stephen.
Yeah. I still, I've never had to change my mind.
Oh, shit. What have I changed my mind on? I've lately been worried that I'm not,
this isn't something I've really changed my mind on, I guess, as much as it's been a worry that
I'm not feeling emotional enough about certain things.
Like, I just recently saw the John Oliver episode on abortion, which I think was or abortion laws.
Which I think was two episodes ago.
That was a good one.
Yeah, it was. And I, you know, I'm one of those people who believes that abortion should be
available on demand without apology in all cases. Like, I am far to the left and I don't care.
I think it's a goddamn right and it always should be. But when I watched that episode,
I felt like I should feel outraged and I recognized that me from six years ago would be
having an emotional fit. And I didn't really feel much of that anymore. And I don't know if I'm
like just, if I'm feeling outraged fatigue, or if I'm really insulated because now I'm finally
at a place in my life where I'm starting to reap the privileges of being, you know, a white male
in America. And so I'm not, I don't have that visceral feeling that laws impact my life a lot.
And I don't like that. I feel like I should have a greater emotional reaction to these sorts of
things. And yes, you should feel the way you feel. It's okay. It's okay to feel the way you feel.
It's okay to not feel strong emotions about something like if someone dies or if abortion
laws or if abortion laws are stopping women from getting the care that they need or, you know,
it's okay to not have that all the time. Also, I mean, they call that stuff outrage porn for a reason.
And I was going to say, as far as outrage fatigue, it is election season. I'm sure that
a lot of folks are experiencing outrage fatigue. But that said, I do sometimes I just cry. I want
to see if I understand exactly where you're coming from, because if you know, isn't driven
emotionally by this problem. And I didn't see the episode, I'm sure it was good. And I'm sure that
it was horrifying. If I'm reading this right, right? And no, it wasn't actually that horrifying.
It's just a bummer. Well, in so much as it was, people are having their lives ruined
for absolutely shitty reasons. So but the thing is, if you don't feel an emotional reaction to
that, there's very little other reason for you to get involved trying to help.
Well, there are other ways to elicit a better emotional reaction in Eniash. For example,
we could have a movie about a specific person who wasn't able to access a safe abortion. And so,
actually, they mentioned this on John Oliver. So she asked over the phone,
these are the things I have in my closet. What can I do? Because I'm not going to be able to
make it to get a safe abortion. So they told that story. But they didn't tell it in a way that was
emotionally compelling. And this is something else is our emotions don't necessarily have to do
that much with factual input. They have to do a lot with anecdotal input, right? So there are ways
to tweak your emotions. They could have added different music. You can do that for yourself if
you want to inspire yourself to action about things that you're passionate about. It's not like
hearing about something that that you're not okay with, it's not cool, doesn't need to whip you into
a fury every time. In fact, that can burn you out. And you can knowing what tweaks your emotions
can give you the power to to motivate yourself when you need to be motivated and rest when you
need to rest and make the difference that you want to make. I think I see we're coming from
better now. And I my my confusion was that you were saying that you shouldn't be swayed by everything
that comes across your path because I'd be exhausting. And that's that's I think that's
absolutely true if I understood you correctly. But I do worry that people don't have enough
emotional response to things that actually do matter. You know, so you you can show people
the numbers of you know, do whatever for me calculation you want for the the number of
things that could cause the world to end in the next century and people like oh, wow, one in four
or one in or three and four that sucks. Well, I'm gonna go back and you know, finish my whatever
I was working on people should care about that. So that's one of the reasons I try to get people
not to use hyperbolic language too much. Like I saw recently a thing about the Amazon Mechanical
Turk program, where people would do basically very simple tasks for very low pay could be
sometimes it ended up being as little as like four bucks an hour for things that are just
mindless and repetitive and no one wants to do them. But you get four bucks an hour for it, right?
But someone commented that is basically modern slavery. And I was like, dude,
okay, this is a shitty situation. But if you use the term slavery to describe it, what you're
really doing is making the actual slavery out there less horrific by comparison. People will
be like, oh, that's slavery. I guess slavery isn't all that bad then. Like save those words for the
things that actually are good examples of what slavery is and why we hate it. People who can't
choose not to do that. Yes. People who get absolutely nothing in exchange people. Yeah,
who don't get to make those decisions. So three year marketing background. Unfortunately, what
we're talking about is human biases here, what people respond emotionally to what people don't.
And if you are working for a cause, you have to have somebody you're working with who is good at
exploiting those emotional triggers. And unfortunately, that's all there is to it. And
it's kind of a sad reality that I found out early on that people will not donate money to the cause
that saves the most animals, they will instead donate money to the one animal where it's super
expensive to give it the surgery and also that animals from a privileged class of animals pet
dogs. So it's definitely something that's difficult to grapple with. But it's not just true of people
who don't know about all of these horrible things going on in the world. It's true of me.
It's true of me. I wanted to give it to that one dog so it could have the surgery knowing that my
money could do much better things saving many, many, many animals. So I guess part of being a
rationalist is discovering these biases and maybe in your own life realizing them,
but also realizing that they applied other people and there are ways that you need to work around
that. Anyway, grandma, I hope that you understand rationality the way that I use it a little bit
better after we had this discussion. I think that you didn't do yourself justice when you said you
couldn't do a good quick synopsis. If you threw that together in five days, I feel like that was
I haven't seen such a succinct crash course. So I think that was great.
Well, I mean, I threw it together in an hour, but it wasn't really a crash course. No one
knows how to do rationality any better. They just kind of know what I like about it.
That's true. This wasn't so much of a crash course and how to do rationality. This was a
crash course and what is rationality. Fair enough. I liked it. That was great. This was a lot of fun.
All right. Thank you for joining us again for another episode of The Bayesian Conspiracy.
You can see links to this episode at TheBayesianConspiracy.com.
Email us at BayesianConspiracyPodcast at gmail.com and subscribe to our podcast on iTunes.
And we do have a subreddit as well, The Bayesian Conspiracy. Check it out.
We'll see you again in two weeks. Thanks for watching. Bye.
