Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy.
The topic for this episode is how to explain rationality to your grandmother or explain
it to me like I'm five.
You didn't introduce us.
No one introduced us.
I'm going to introduce us now.
Oh my god.
I'm such a fame whore.
I need my name out there right away.
My name.
My name is Katrina Stanton.
I'm Iniasz Brodsky.
I'm Iniasz Brodsky.
Oh, there's two of me.
Yes.
I'm multiplying.
And I'm Stephen Zuber.
So let's dive right into it.
Okay.
Iniasz, how would you explain rationality to your grandma who is Polish?
She...
Is she live?
Yes.
I don't know.
Because I don't really talk to her because I can't talk to her because, you know, she
only speaks Polish.
So I'm going to pretend I have a grandma that speaks English for this episode.
Okay.
Sounds good.
But before we get into that, I want to do a little preface like disclaimer thing here
for this thing.
Okay.
Because these two already know this, but none of the listeners do.
And I was talking about this yesterday with Shelley, I believe, at our meetup.
People have several times...
Sorry.
Am I getting off the topic?
We named names and she points out that we named her last time.
Yeah, but she was okay with it.
Yeah, she was.
Okay.
Is that why we exchanged a look?
Okay.
Yeah.
But she's fine with it.
Okay.
So we got a number of emails saying, why don't you do a crash course in rationality episode?
And that was something that I had not wanted to do from the very beginning.
And it was actually one of the reasons I hadn't done a podcast ever aside from the, you know,
Harry Potter methods of rationality, even though people kept asking, hey, why don't you do something
explaining rationality in general?
Because I am of the opinion that if you are going to create something, it should either
be something new or something that is an improvement on what has come before.
And I couldn't do that with an intro to rationality, because an amazing intro to rationality already
exists out there.
And it's LDIser's series of posts over at lesswrong.com.
And anything I would do would just be a pale imitation of that.
And really, it would be a disservice because it would distract people from the good explanation,
you know?
I would be making the world worse by putting out a shitty explanation, so I wasn't going
to do any of that.
When I was finally talking to doing this episode, it was like, oh, it's just a conversational
thing about rationality.
And I'm like, yeah, okay, that's fine.
I can do that.
Not this episode, but this podcast, rather.
So I didn't think I had anything to add.
And if you want to actually get a good intro to rationality, I would say go to lesswrong.com
and read through some of those earlier sequences.
Go on.
The only thing I would add, the full length of the sequences is something like the length
of the Lord of the Rings trilogy.
So if you're kind of just like, I wonder what this whole thing is about.
You don't want to spend three months reading, and that's like a really good speedrun of
those lesswrong sequences.
But that said, there are some summary pages, some intro pages.
Click around the wiki and find whatever word you're looking for, rationality, bays, and
check out some of the summary posts, and that can give you a good quick crash course too.
Or you can follow the link on our blog and go through a Bayes' Rule Guide.
Yes, but that was actually one of the things that convinced me because it was pointed out
that that is a ton of reading.
And sometimes people just want a little summary of what is this rationality thing and why
should I care.
So I thought, okay, if my grandma were to ask me, what is this rationality thing, what
would I tell her?
And this is what I came up with more or less.
Oh, and also you don't have to read the sequences of Balog posts on the website if you don't
want to.
They've also been collected into a book in which is a much more structured format called
Rationality from AI to Zombies.
And we'll put a link to that up too.
Yeah.
Indeed.
Fantastic.
It's available on Amazon, I think, for a minimum payment of $0.00, but it's a just a donation
of five bucks.
Yeah.
So what is rationality?
What would I say to my grandma?
I would start off with two axioms.
The first being that reality exists and that it's possible to know things about reality.
And we can have our own series of episodes about those questions if we want.
But I thought that generally, grandmas agree with those two things.
You don't have to argue them into agreeing that reality exists and it's possible to know
things about them.
So I'm just taking those as axiomatic at the beginning.
I have never met a solipsistic grandmother.
Okay, I like the grandmas, you've met them.
So the primary thing about rationality in my mind is the map versus territory distinction,
which is a aspect of epistemic rationality.
And to me, that's really what rationality comes down to.
So I'm going to go into that right now.
I would say to my grandma, grandma, you know how if you have a map of New York, that is
a really good tool to have.
And the closer your map of New York is to the actual territory of New York, the more
power you have to do things.
You can plan your actions, you can decide, well, if you're a city planner, you can decide
what buildings are going to go.
But the better the better a map you have of New York, the better your ability to interact
with the city of New York.
But they're two very distinct things.
The map can be wrong.
The territory New York itself is never right or wrong.
Just is.
It's there.
So in this analogy, reality is the territory.
Reality is New York itself.
And our beliefs are the map.
And that's not even completely accurate, because it's not just our beliefs that are the map.
It's what we view reality as that's the map, like everything that I think is the map.
It's not just like, oh, I believe this and this.
It's the fact that I see Stephen here in front of me as part of my map of this room.
And hopefully part of the territory.
And hopefully part of the territory.
What would you say to your grandma if she answered, well, human beings are all so different
and we all have a different experience of what reality is?
And you were going to say something?
I was going to jokingly say, can you do that in an old lady voice?
One moment.
No, you didn't really.
What if, no, no, I'm going to try.
What if she said, Emy Ash, honey.
Oh, God.
What about how different human beings are from one another and how we all have a different
idea of what reality is and the way we perceive things with our unique brains is pretty different?
And I would say, yes, that's part of the problem that we all have slightly different maps,
but there's still only one reality out there.
And the closer we can get our maps to match the reality, not only will we have a better
ability to handle reality, but we will be closer to each other as well.
Because if both our maps correspond more correctly to reality, they will also correspond more
to each other.
I apologize to all the senior women out there.
We have lost our entire senior audience.
Oh, God.
And I apologized to everybody else for making that recommendation.
I'm not sure how it was kind of creepy to me because I laughed and cringed.
No, I mean, like as a general old lady voice, it was great, but like I saw my own grandma
and she doesn't sound like that.
And so I had this weird uncanny valley.
I don't think many grandmas actually sound like that.
I don't know.
I've not met very many grandmas, honestly.
But stereotypical Koreanis do sound like that.
Cartoon grandmas.
Cartoon grandmas.
I think of stereotypical grandmas.
I think of Betty White.
Oh.
Yeah, she's kind of badass.
That's pretty good.
Yeah.
That's good for grandmas.
Don't live in sliced bread, famously.
Seriously?
Sliced bread came on the market in like 1927 and she was older than that.
Yeah.
Okay.
Fantastic.
So part of this distinction is that your map, I mean, the territory is what it is.
But your map, if you know ahead of time that it is not exactly the territory, it is just
your representation of the territory, you don't have to believe it is completely accurate.
You can have various degrees of belief.
You're like, I know this part of the map is really good and spot on.
It's got every little stare and crack.
But this part of the episode of Fuzzy, I know there's some kind of building here, but there
may be dragons, you know.
And so that is the whole degrees of belief thing, that you can be very confident of some
things like the sun will rise tomorrow morning and be very anti-confident of other things
like there is no such thing as supernatural magic.
But you can also accept things with some degree of probability that's less than that.
And you also know that despite how extremely confident you are that the sun will rise tomorrow,
if it doesn't rise tomorrow, that means there was a flaw in your map, and you shouldn't
have been quite that confident.
There is no flaw in reality.
Inyash, honey, cupcake, I'm your grandmother.
You can do the grandma voice.
I don't want to anymore.
No, you should, because then if you call me cupcake in your normal voice, it's like you're
flirting with me.
Okay, cupcake.
