large, large, expansive forms like war and peace. So all of a sudden we can create Dostoyevsky
on a TV screen or on Netflix screens or whatever. Of course, the situation has become more precarious
with the advent of the Internet. But of course, there are forces that have started way, way before
the Internet. We cannot blame it all. For example, people who would read have, the numbers have
declined considerably since 50 years or so. And today in universities, even in humanities or even
in classics department where they should read ancient Greek and Latin, they do not read anymore
and they have a hard time and I've witnessed it. I've witnessed it in person. They are not
even capable of writing three coherent signs and expressing one coherent brief argument.
And that's alarming. That's alarming. And that's why I tell young aspiring filmmakers,
yes, watch films and do whatever you need to learn in technical terms, but read, read, read, read,
read. If you don't read, you will be a filmmaker but mediocre at best. If you really want to become
somebody of significance and everyone who is around at this time of significance is reading,
they're all reading, everyone. And you are not. And it's not only for filmmaking, it's probably in
your profession the same thing. You cannot lose yourself in algorithms and in software questions
and articulating of things without conceptually being up to a very high standard of evolution of
not only technology but civilization per se. We have a very, very deep task and reading in my
opinion is the thing that is absolutely needed. And what I keep saying sometimes, but nobody
will understand it, but I say it anyway, traveling on foot and irrespective of the distance. And I've
done very long distance traveling on foot gives you an insight into the world itself. And I can
say it only in a dictum and I've repeated it before. The world reveals itself to those who
travel on foot. Nothing else does with such clarity and such transparency. Nothing, nothing. And yet
nobody travels on foot. It doesn't matter. Stay where you are, but I just say it as a sign of hope.
If you really want to understand the real world and also conceptually where we are standing as
human beings at this very moment in history, travel on foot and read. It's a fantastic advice.
Let's see if we can, anybody can follow it. And I would love to open it up to questions. What
questions do we have for an answer? If there was one vote or two votes, you would wish for the
generation to read. What will it be? It's, I don't want to give you one or two books because
anyway, sit down and you would read them and you think, yeah, you have done it. So you should not
read two books but 2,000 books. But I give you, for those who are into creative things and including,
I would say including even creative forms of mathematics, it's a book written by an obscure
British writer published in 1967 and it's called The Peregrine about watching, its diaries,
watching Peregrine Falcons at a time when the Falcons were almost extinct. J. A. Baker, I think we
now only after a few decades, we even know what J and A stands for. I even don't know what his
first names were and his middle name. And it has prose that we have not seen since Joseph Conrad
and it has precision of observing a small segment of the real world with a precision
and also with an emphasis and the passion that is unprecedented in literature. So and whatever
you are doing, whether you are a musician or a filmmaker or into mathematics or into computers,
this kind of very, very deep, relentless passion for what you are doing, very specific.
And it's a great, wonderful book. And what else? Well, there are many but I have a list of
mandatory books for my rogue film schools, some guerrilla style antithesis to film schools.
And there's five or six books. What comes to mind is Bernal di Astel Castillo,
The Discovery and Conquest of New Spain. The original title is much, much longer.
He was a foot man of Cortes and when he was old, he wrote from his apparently some diaries and
reminiscences. He writes down an incredible story, incredibly rich in details and insight into the
heart of men. Anything else? Read the Russians. Read Haldeline and Kleist, the Germans, Büchner,
also German. Read Hemingway, read Joseph Conrad, the short stories in particular.
So but don't believe that this would make you into a different person. It's the
permanence of reading, the insistence of reading.
Is it more fulfilling for you to expose people to nuance where they thought there were extremes
or the reverse? Is it more important to expose people to nuance or?
More fulfilling when you expose people to nuance where they thought there was extreme
or is it the opposite? I have never asked myself this question.
It doesn't factor in my work. Well, I follow a very, very clear vision. I see a film very,
very clearly and of course it has a big story and it has extremes in it and it has nuances
and of course I would never want to touch a story that was not really big,
where I was convinced this is big and it has excesses and it has all sorts of things. At the
same time, the real life comes from the nears and from the details. But I cannot even separate it.
I cannot give you a satisfying juxtaposition of both. But it doesn't function in the way I make my films.
Hey, I heard you like hearing bolt cutters. Have those ever gotten you in trouble?
Bolt cutters. Well, that's bolt cutters. I have to take metaphorically,
I have a whole list of things. Does anyone have the book, A Guide for the Perplexed?
Here, because I see it here. Can you give it to me, please? Thank you.
A guide for the perplexed, and we spoke about before,
the title is so beautiful, I had to steal it from my monides. The great Jewish philosopher
Middle-Ace Spain. I think Seville or Cordoba, I don't even remember, but anyway. And here at the,
on the back end, by the way, it's a real bear, it's no photoshop. My wife, who sits back there,
did this photo. So, and here on the, I don't know how it was put together, but it gives,
it sums a lot of things up. Always take, and it speaks of bolt cutters, always take the initiative.
There's nothing wrong with spending a night in a jail cell. If it means getting the shot you need,
send all your dogs, and one might return with prey. Never wallow in your troubles, this spare must
be kept private and brief. Learn to live with your mistakes. Expand your knowledge and understanding
of music and literature, old and modern. That roll of unexposed celluloid you have in your hand
might be the last in existence, so do something impressive with it. The laptop in front of you
may be the last one in existence. Do something good and impressive with it. There's never an
excuse not to finish a film. Carry bolt cutters everywhere. Sword institutional cowardice. There's
too much institutional cowardice in the film industry, and I do believe the computer industry
and software and so has bolder designs. I think there's not too much institutional cowardice.
It comes now after things like Facebook have been established. How do we stop
excesses on Facebook? How do we stop excesses on Instagram? Do we show, do we have to stop
a real beheading of a hostage in real time or do we not do it? The institutionalization of content
is coming post-festum after it has been normally, but in the film industry, for example,
the institutional cowardice comes before you even make a move. They ask you, do you have,
do you have, for example, E&O insurance? Do you have a, how do you call it,
some sort of insurance completion bond? No, I don't, and I make a film anyway.
And there was, but in that case, I had to finance it out of my own pocket. And
can I move in a wild way back to a very early question about something that is fabricated,
like WrestleMania has a lot of truth in it. They get away with bruises and dislocated elbows.
The last film I made is a feature film called Family Romance, LLC. Romance is a business in
Japan, in the Japanese language, where you can hire a missing friend or a family,
father of a family during a wedding ceremony, because a real father allegedly suffers from
epilepsy. In truth, he's an alcoholic and cannot be shown to the groom's parents and family.
And there's an interesting thing that happens. The man who actually, in reality, founded this
company, Family Romance, who sends out 1,600 agents and actors to help you and to feel less
lonesome and replace a family member, he was filmed by Japanese television.
They interviewed him and they interviewed one of his clients who had rented, in his solitude,
had rented a friend. And he's in the film as well. It turns out that the client was actually
not a client. He was also a rented member from Family Romance. He was an imposter put in front
of the NHK cameras. NHK apologized profusely in print and on the air. And the founder of
Family Romance says something very, very significant now. He says, I do believe that the imposter
that was sent out from my pool of actors tells you more of the truth than a real one. The real one
would lie to the cameras because in Japan, in their society, you have to keep face and you
cannot admit that your life is miserable and you were lonesome and you were crying at home in
your pillow. And so this person, the real person would not say that. He would lie to the camera.
But my man who was put in front of your camera, my man who has done it 200 times comforting
solitary people, he tells you the gist, the real truth about what is going on. And I think he's
right. I'm sure he's right. So the imposter has more truth in him than the real person who wants
to keep a facade of whatever well-behaved behavior in public.
If you could make a film about our generation or the generation that sits in this room,
what do you think the log line would be? I wouldn't know any log line, but I have done a film
on the internet, Lo and Behold, which has appealed very much to your generation or even the younger
ones. You're already a veteran. It's a 15-year-old who probably come up and have to teach you the
35-year-olds or 25-year-old. No, I wouldn't know a log line, but I have made a lot of films that
apparently were for a general audience when I made them 40 years ago, 45 years ago.
The enigma of Casper Hauser. All of a sudden I get emails of 15-year-old young kids from Missoula
Montana, because today they can have access to the film by streaming or other ways through the
internet. Piracy, for example, which is a successful distribution system. And all of a sudden it's
a very, very young who respond to my films. And it's not foreign to me that I have always made
films for those who are mentally active and who are in turmoil and who are looking out for
organizing their lives. So I've always been, in a way, I've been young. And now the film in
Japan is a return to the times when I was 23, 24, 25, when I made Aguirre the Wrath of God.
You wouldn't know what would come after the next bend of the river. Would there be rapids or not?
So in this kind of readiness to face whatever is going to be thrown at you,
and you just face it and you deal with it.
Actually, in terms of the generation that might now be rediscovering your films,
do you have any thoughts about the way in which we are going back and re-evaluating
cinematic work based on our new feelings about the directors? So I'm thinking of Tarantino,
who put Uma Thurman at risk in Kill Bill, which I thought was a fantastic film,
and Woody Allen, of course, with his difficulties having his work re-evaluated. Are we, how do you
feel about bodies of work being reprocessed through the lens of the alleged failures of the creators?
I think there will be a renaissance, and we see it already, for example, classical music
all of a sudden has, I just read yesterday or today, has new platforms on the Internet that's
all steered towards mainstream pop. All of a sudden, you can access it. For example, in movies,
the Criterion Collection, which is a very, very fine collection of films, had disappeared
and reappeared apparently as it's either independent streaming label or within
Amazon, I have to find out, I don't know yet. But all of a sudden, these things are back,
and the 15-year-old from Missoula Montana is not just back, he's just emerging.
So now I have no doubt that we are going to see films that are outside, outside of the regular
mainstream, but have depth and vision and wonderful stories. They will not disappear.
The shallow will disappear. The shallow of yesterday, when you look at talk shows or at
at pop shows of the 1960s, it's just stunning how shallow they are, and they disappear very quickly.
You have some other questions?
Thank you. You mentioned that technological utopianism will end just as social utopianism
in the last century. What do you think that looks like, or perhaps what occupies the minds of men next?
Well, when I'm speaking about technological utopias that inevitably will come to an end,
what comes to mind is immediately space colonization. Not only is it an obscenity,
it's also a undoable obscenity because it hints at us, the human race, like locusts
grazing our planet empty and then moving on. We can move on to Mars, for example, but it should
be contained and it's doable for a few scientists, a few astronauts who have a small tiny little habitat,
where they have enough drinking water, enough shelter against radiation, and enough air to breathe.
Yes, we can create that. We will not put one million humans on planet Mars. It's not going to happen.
It's technically not really doable and unwise. And a part of Mars, we cannot reach anything
outside of our solar system because it's simply too far. It would take you 110,000 years to reach
the next one, which is only three and a half or four and a half light years away. We just won't
be able to do it. It's a period. And this kind of illusion, this kind of utopia, technical utopia,
will come to a fairly quick end in our century or other utopias that come to mind,
immortality. Of course, we can stretch out longevity to a certain point, but that's about it.
We are going to die. That's what the entire creation, everywhere and not only on our planet,
everywhere points to the same thing that there's an impermanence of what is around everywhere.
So that's one of the things I have to think about other utopias, technical utopias, but
you are much closer to approaching technical utopias than I am. So you have to find out
what we should do and what we should not do and what is an utopia and what is within realities
of human beings.
You have time for one or two last questions.
Mr. Herzog, I would like to ask about the way you think a camera changes a real situation,
the way in which you talk about the real world when you interject camera into it,
how it affects the perception of people who are aware that a camera is there.
Yeah, it's an old philosophical question and a physical question of how deep do you insert your
camera or your position as an observer. Does it change the reality that's out there?
Hopefully it does because I'm a creator. I'm not an observation camera in the bank
that waits for 15 years and no bank robber ever shows up. So we are not the fly on the wall.
I want to insert myself. I want to create. I want to mold. I want to influence my story,
even the documentaries. And I do change facts. And I'm quoting now André Gide,
the French writer, who said, I change facts to such a degree that they resemble truth more
than reality. And it's a wonderful way to say it. And you see, if you are seriously asking
the question with an indignant undertone, it means that you are very much fact oriented,
which I don't believe in your case. But many people are too fact oriented and cinema does not
have to be even documentaries, have to only partly be fact oriented, because the facts do not
equal truth. They do not. And it's the same thing like with family romance imposter gives you a
deeper truth than the real person. And my simplest of all explanations is, and I have used it many
times. So if you have heard it from me, my apologies, Michelangelo creating the sculpture of the
pietà. Jesus in the arms of Mary is the face is a 33 year old man. And when you look at Mary,
she is 17. His mother is 17. So of course, it's not factually correct. But he didn't want to
cheat us or lie to us, or whatever. He just wanted to point out an essential truth was something
that resembles more truth because I do not know what truth is nor do mathematicians. I think only
deeply religious people know what it is. So they they have an easier life than those who are not
religious. Do we have the last question?
Yeah, I worked years ago with David Blaine and Harmony Corrine on a film from Chicago and they had me
watch a film for the passion of the woodcarver Stein. The passion of the woodcarver Stein.
And there's a scene at the end of the the rave and they wanted you very much to focus on that.
And find who the raven was in Blaine's life. And we couldn't really find them. And the implication
being that the raven maybe wasn't real in your film or his life. So I guess I've waited a while to
ask you this, but was the raven real in this matter? And with all these questions about truth,
are there any things in documentary film that would be verbose for you? Like, for example,
Barty Scorsese was recently accused of putting a fake character in his Bob Dylan film. Is there
anything that wouldn't be okay? No, I think putting a fictitious character in a Bob Dylan
documentary congratulations to Scorsese, who is normally cowardly when it comes to expanding forms
he follows. He follows very much the norm. He's a wonderful filmmaker, but but not really
extravagantly courageous in into creating new things. But I have not seen the Bob Dylan film,
but I welcome what you are saying. What you are saying about Harmony Corrine and David Blaine,
the magician. He seems I don't like David Blaine at all. He's repulsive in everything he's doing.
