And and but but what seems to be significant is he tries he started as an illusionist
doing card tricks and illusions. He seems to be moving away from the illusionist into trying to
strain his body to its utmost limits to the brink of death, which is stupid. It's outright stupid
to immerse yourself in a water tank for for a whole week. It can't get any more stupid than that.
And he's just making a living out of something that is definitely obscene. So do you not have
a cactus needle stuck in your kneecap now still? No, it stayed for a few years in my knee in my
knee sinew. I jumped for a cast of midgets. I made a film even dwarf star is small. And one of
them was run over by a by a car that was driverless going in circles, one caught fire. And so at the
end, I said, you throw yourself on a midget to put out the fire. Sure, you better do that because
everybody else was was just looking at like it at a Christmas tree burning. And the first thing
you do throw yourself on him and extinguish the guy. I didn't bother him. I didn't squish no one
saying that. Yes, but but I said, if all of you come out unscathed at the end of the the movie,
I'm gonna from this ramp, I'm gonna jump into this field of cacti and you all have your at that time
eight millimeter cameras and your photo cameras and you can take your picture. And I take off and
I leaped and yeah, sure. Some some of them got stuck in my knee sinews and and they don't get out
easily would be an honor, sir, to take you to lunch with David Blaine to work this thing out.
Yes, no, no to the next parking lot. Not not for dinner. I don't I wouldn't like to have a dinner
with him. I do not want to ruin my appetite. But I would gladly take him to the men's room or to
to fight it out to take him to the parking lot. Ask us to settle this however you want to ask the
valets to step into obscurity and and just let us sort it out. Yeah, men. Okay, Werner, I gotta tell
you, your life has been an inspiration to me since I was 16. And it doesn't even feel like you can
meet a Werner Herzog in real life. This is a very special day in my life. I want to thank you for
coming bringing your stories, your wisdom, your views on arts and your admonitions, which no one
is following. I think that probably there's some in our audience who are going to make a special note
that this is this is the advice that's hard to get. But it's your life. You don't need to listen
to me. You will find you will find your own guidance and your own vision. Best of luck to
all of you. All right, a huge hand for Werner Herzog, people.
