Hello, you've found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and this will be our
second interview episode to be released. I think we have something really remarkable
for you today because we have a human being who has led a life that, even though he makes
movies that are fictional, I would say that his actual non-fiction life is more interesting
than any movie he's ever made. This is a person who has been shot on camera, a person who
has stolen, who has forged, and who's taught other filmmakers to steal and to forge. The
person I'm talking about is Werner Herzog. Now, I first became aware of Werner Herzog
when I was 16 and just entering the University of Pennsylvania, and a friend of mine said,
You've got to see this movie, Fitzgerald. I said, what is Fitzgerald? He says, if nothing else,
it's a story about a man so possessed by an edifics that he drags a boat over a mountain in the
jungle in order to somehow build an opera house. And the whole thing sounded incredibly mad. And,
in fact, what was so interesting about this film was that the director actually had to do in real
life what the crazy fictional character did inside of the storyline. This led me to a fascination
with today's interview subject, Werner Herzog. This is a man who has lived so richly and so
profoundly that I actually started to get a different idea about what he was doing as a
filmmaker. The idea that I could not shake was that Werner Herzog needed to live so deeply
and so profoundly that he had to make movies simply to justify what it meant to be Werner Herzog.
Now, I've often asked myself this question. What does it the great generals do between wars?
It's hard to imagine, let's say, a Patton or a MacArthur in normal times. Do they just sit around
and open dry cleaners? Do they write essays for their local newspaper? What does a Winston Churchill
do if there's no World War II to win? In such a situation, I think it's very hard to come up with
an answer. But I think that the best answer that I have is that these people would make movies.
The following interview was recorded in front of a live audience. We joined the conversation in
progress. May I just ask, first of all, before I try any theories of the kind, do you see any
clear organizing principle that unifies your output that is sort of subtle and non-obvious to
your audience? Yes, I do believe so. People are quite often puzzled about the range of the subjects
that have attracted me. There's a world champion ski flyer from Switzerland and there's a
Paleolithic cave and there's a man who moves a ship over a mountain in the Peruvian jungle
and there's a film on the internet and there's a film, you just name it. It looks perplexing
at first sight, but I do understand, although I don't like to look back at my films too often,
I do understand that there's some sort of an architecture of concepts and you would immediately
understand there's a common worldview. Very much is about a worldview and you could
probably spot it very, very quickly if you walked into a room and the TV was playing
and there was a film within and you didn't see any credits, probably within two minutes you would
understand this must have been my film. People see it, they understand it. How they do it,
I don't know. And how I do create this common worldview, I don't know either, but it doesn't
really matter. Now one of the things that I've been very struck by, which is what we all get
wrong about Verne Herzog and because many of the stories that come out of these films and these
undertakings involve tremendous, seeming danger, physical risks, chaos, madness, all the things
that are usually associated, I was trying to figure out what it was that those stories might
cover up as if sort of cheap icing on a very rich cake. And one of the things that I saw was what,
correct me if I'm wrong, it seems like you have tremendous concern for the people that you bring
out onto these crazy projects for their safety and well-being. Am I getting that wrong?
No, we shouldn't waste any time of what some people get wrong about me, it doesn't really matter,
let them be wrong. But one of the things that comes up quite often seems to be an identification
of the creator of a story, a creator of a character, namely me, with the qualities that the creator
automatically has to have. In other words, if I do a film like a Gary the Wrath of God about a
demented, crazed conquistador 1560s in the Peruvian Amazon, people quite often are misled
to point out Herzog must have these qualities obsessive and demented and borderline paranoia.
And so now they are, I understand them, but they are not my qualities, their inventions.
But you picked an actor in Klaus Kinski who might, I mean, I would venture to say,
did have some of those qualities, is that wrong? Of course he had it, a part of being
an actor who was really under the grace of creation to make things that we have not seen before,
after on a screen. So, but otherwise he was the mildest I could express would be,
he was the ultimate pestilence, but he was also destructive. He would destroy a set.
He would, when we had a, we actually had two plane crashes on Fitzkaraldus, small aircraft.
And we didn't know what had happened. We had a very sketchy shortwave radio connection with
Iquitos about 1,100 kilometers away. And garbled messages would come in
plain is down and we desperately tried, was it nearby? Could we send out a search party or what?
Who was on board? What had happened? And we had a habit in our camp, sometimes on days where we
would start in the afternoon and shoot into the night. Breakfast would be served from hut to hut
and so the last hut would have cold coffee. This morning by coincidence, Kinski was the last hut
and I heard it from 150 yards away screaming out, I mean a complete, not just a tantrum.
It was just an outburst of rage because his coffee was lukewarm and he stormed at the place where
we were checking on the radio and trying to figure out and he kept screaming and screaming.
I could not calm him down. I could not get him away. I tried to tell him there's a plane down.
You have to keep quiet. We must listen to what has happened. It wouldn't help at all.
I would scream and he would scream. He could scream a glass into, he could shed a glass,
a wine glass. Really, I mean, I do not exaggerate. And so the only way I could after an hour and a
half when he had already froth, hardened froth at his mouth, I went to my hut and I had a little
piece of Swiss chocolate left which people would murder for such a treasure in our camp
and I stepped in front of him and ate this chocolate and that silenced him. There was something
which was stunning. And you knew, you intuited that this would have that effect?
I should have had the intuition after five minutes. It took over an hour.
So, but probably me said quite often, qualities of the characters in my films
have been superimposed on my own character or, for example, I have acted in some Hollywood films
and some independent films, Jack Reacher, for example. And I'm playing the real, real dangerous
bad ass, bad guy. And I'm very, very dangerous and I'm unarmed and I have no fingers left
and I'm blind on one eye and yet I had to spread terror from the screen and I did it so well.
I did it so well that my reviews were much better than the reviews for Tom Cruise.
No, it's true. I'm not exaggerating. I was good, but not that I can say this kind of
vile, dangerous character is really in me. Really? And it came very easy. I did it unprepared,
you see, and I have learned that when we did Fitzgerald in the first round of shooting,
there was Mick Jagger as a sidekick of the leading character and Jagger spent some six weeks with
us in the jungle. We shot half the film, had to stop because the leading character became ill.
We had to send him to the States and doctors wouldn't allow him to return to the jungle.
So I knew I had to start all over again. And on Jagger's contract, there was not time enough left
for doing the whole film all over. I shot the film actually one and a half times.
And what is strange about this recasting and restarting the whole thing, I knew if I did not
find an actor quickly, in such a case I had no alternative but playing the part myself.
Because I would have been credible and I would have been good. Not as good as, let's say,
Mick Jagger and Jason Robarts or Kinski. And I learned one thing from Mick Jagger which astonished
me. He took me once backstage when they were recording. And I was there and he was arguing
with somebody about some totally trivial things, completely and utterly trivial things.
And also on my set, he was arguing about the mineral water, about the per diem or something.
And I said to him, Mick, the camera is rolling. And he looked at me and he sees we are already
doing it. And he steps three steps in front of the camera. And within three steps, he becomes a demon.
From a trivial, trivial, little bickering, mediocre kind of character. His steps in front and
he's a demon. And in a way, I learned that from him. And I didn't prepare myself. When I stepped
in front of the camera, I knew there was only one thing. Be calm and be frightening. And I
can do it. And I would accept it only because I knew I could do it. So you're really not the ultimate
badass? Maybe I am but unbeknownst to me. Well, okay. It feels to me like I was just watching
video of you being interviewed by the BBC. And then probably you're shot in the abdomen
while being interviewed. And you seem to be somewhat irritated that the interviewer is
treating this as a big deal. And otherwise, how would I know that you wear paisley underwear?
I mean, you take your pants down. You're bleeding. And it's not that big of a bullet.
That was your edit? No, actually, I said something more beautiful. I said,
this is an insignificant bullet. Yeah, that's true. And I knew it. It had not perforated everything.
It went through my jacket in the catalog in the pocket and everything but didn't perforate into my
intestine. So that was insignificant. But they immediately hit the ground and the camera flat.
And I had the feeling, stay, let's finish at least the sentence. Because it was great video.
For them, it was great video. It would have been. But what I'm trying to suggest, sir, is that you
are the unreliable narrator. You are actually the ultimate badass. No, no, no. I made sense. No, no,
I'm the one who makes sense. I'm the one who puts order into a chaotic situation.
That's what you did. But what I'm saying is that when your autonomic nervous system is triggered,
it barely registers. You've been shot in the abdomen. It registered. It hurt. It hurt a year
because when I was laughing hard, it was still hurting. Yeah. Yes, but there's a sense of duty.
I very much appreciate it. But that's very unusual. Yes, but it's part of being a good soldier
of cinema that I tried to be a sense of duty, a sense of you have to be reliable. You have to
hold an outpost that others have given up its loyalty and its loyalty to the entire crew that
was there. However, they argued, we should call the police right away. And I said, let's not do
it because do you want to spend the next six hours in a police station to file charges? And do you
want to see helicopter circling there? And do you want to see a SWAT team in 10 minutes flat?
Right. Do you want to see that? My answer is no. But it's okay. Let's move out of the danger zone
because the man with a rifle was still somewhere hiding on a terrace and hiding now
inside the building. Get out of there, but let's continue. Let's continue this. All your team has
come from the UK and you have to return tomorrow. Let's get over with it. So it's a sense of duty.
I appreciate that very much. But what you're talking about is the highest levels of discipline
and military style leadership. I mean, this goes far beyond. Yes, but you should be careful about
confusing it with military discipline, where there's some sort of blind adherence to given orders.
I do think I do think what I'm doing, and I do not ask anyone to do blindly something in front
of the camera, but there's a safety margin whenever things are difficult and let's say borderline
dangerous. I would always do it myself first for the actor. I would go through the rapids
with a small raft to see, does a raft survive these three consecutive rapids?
Or a very simple thing. Christian Bale in Rescue Dawn, he plays a German-born Navy pilot
who is shot down 40 minutes in his first mission over Vietnam or Laos. He actually was the only
American POW who managed to escape from Patit Lao and Viet Cong captivity. An incredible story and
Christian Bale who plays a part of him and they are starving to death, almost starving to death,
and they get some food that is infested by hundreds and hundreds of wriggling maggots.
And we used maggots that native people would eat, but they would roast them, not alive and still
wriggling. So, and I said to Christian, that was what Dieter Dengler, the real character, told me
they had to do. There were nutrients, a lot of nutrients in these maggots, they ate it.
And I said to Christian, you know what, give me the plate and give me a spoon. I'm gonna eat a few
spoonfuls, which I did. And he said, oh come on, stop it, stop it. Let's roll the camera and I'm
gonna get over it quickly. So he did. And that was one of the very, very few moments of
controversy between the two of us, because I told him and he didn't hear it, apparently. I
told him, Christian, you know what, you stop eating when you really have, when you had it.
And he kept eating, eating, eating until the plate is empty. And then I say, cut. And he said,
why didn't you say cut before? Why, what happened? And I said, Christian, you are the one who should
have cut, said cut, but he didn't hear it. And he was kind of miffed. But those moments say they
do happen and they are unexpected on a set. That's movies. Yeah. Right. I guess those moments
do happen. So it does strike me though that. But I tested it first. You see, I would always
test it first. It seems like that's, you know, the Israelis have a theory of leadership, which is
called follow me, where they take the highest value person on the team, the general or the
colonel, and he goes into danger first, because the morale of the troops is so much heightened
when you see a leader saying, I will actually take that kind of a risk. That seems to be a part of
how you guess the fanatical law. It's a very long tradition. Alexander the Great, for example,
always on foot with his soldiers. He would not ride on his horse. He would be on foot thousands
of miles. He would be the first to climb the ramparts on a ladder. He would be the one who,
when they were thirsty and almost dying from thirst, one soldier collected a helmet full
of water bit by bit, drop by drop. And when the thirst was at its worst, this foot man
comes and steps in front of Alexander and says, I saved this for you. Drink this. And Alexander
looks at it and spills it away. And he says, too much for one, too little for all. And March is on.
So that's leadership. Or Hannibal, who crossed the Alps on elephants. He would sleep with his
soldiers at the outpost wrapped in his coat. And he would lose an eye crossing an ice cold
river south of the Alps. And he would do things that nobody else in his army would ever do.
Do you feel that this aspect of leadership of putting oneself in the greatest
situations of risk and harm is? No, you avoid harm, if possible. Of course. But you eliminate
harm before it even appears. You see, you have to be prudent. And in any kind of business,
including the business of warfare, you have to evaluate a situation. And you have to try to
avoid the danger for anyone, the leader and the troop. You better stay out of it. And you
you use all sorts of military trick trickery, deceit, right? You use ambushes, you use the so
called cowardly things. And before you really put anyone into very grave danger, eliminate
whatever you can. Sometimes you can't eliminate everything, but cheat. Of course, of course,
a lie and lie and trick. I liked, by the way, comes to mind Jesse Ventura,
who used to be a bodyguard of the Rolling Stones, by the way, and he used to be a studio wrestler
who played the bad guy, by the way, in the ring, completely stylized. And he became governor of
Minnesota. And I always liked him for his down to earth approach. And he said once about his
time in the ring as a wrestler, he's just one of these WrestleMania people. And he said,
win if you can, lose if you must, but always cheat. So I really like him for that.
Yeah. So this is one of the things that I found most endearing about your approach,
is that you teach film in this completely different fashion. It's, let's be honest,
you're an outlaw before you're a filmmaker. And you say to your students, you have to be prepared
to steal, to forge, to pick locks, to do whatever it takes. Forge documents, but steal. You see,
I wouldn't say steal. I have stolen once in a while, but more expropriation than stealing,
than theft. Like my first camera was expropriated from an institution. But
do anything that's outside of the legal norms, as long as it does not hurt anyone. And forging,
shooting permit in a country that has a military dictatorship is something fine. And you should
do it. Forge, forge, you must. Yeah. So you have to do it sometimes.
Let's definitely try this at home. All right. So you're, and you break into countries as a,
on a student visa that might severely punish you if they found out that you were filming,
you did this in China? No, not, well, yes, I did in China filming in the western most part.
Kashgar, near Kashgar, where there was an extremely high military and police presence.
And I was filming with Michael Shannon, but we had no shooting permit, no working permit. We
just went out to a local market, a very traditional market of Uyghur tribesmen, a cattle market.
And there was the real obvious thing was that we had a contraption built on the body of
Michael Shannon, a tripod that held a camera in front of his face. So when he walks into a crowd,
everybody who walks by would inevitably turn around and look after him. I wanted this effect,
everybody staring at him once he's moving through a crowd. And he said to me, when I'm gonna do it,
as long as you're around next to me, because if I get arrested, you should be arrested as well.
