And I said, fine, let's do it. And, and because it was so brazen, it was so brazen that nobody
actually stopped us. There was a lot of police. And when you have one or two police people,
then it's dangerous because they would arrest you. They would stop you at least and check you out.
But if you have 17, 18, 20 of them, there's a strange psychological reflex. Everybody thinks
I am the other one will stop you. And you walk straight through the middle weather. And I keep
saying where the enemy comes at, at its thickest, walk straight through there and I look it into
some sort of a vague distance as if I had spotted a friend 50 yards away and I walk
with his gaze upon them. And while I pass him, I say something in my Bavarian dialect. I say,
hos to an hartig sing. Have you seen my friend harti? And they step aside and I'm out.
So you have to you have to understand the heart of men. And you have to understand the way police
would would react and what would they do. It's so brazen that nobody of the Chinese
Han Chinese police would ever suspect we were working without any permits at all.
Yeah, now, in our time, there's this mania for truth and authenticity. And
for acknowledging that it is always the group and never the individual that matters. The so-called
great man theory of history is certainly at its cultural low. And yet here you are
talking to us about the need to deceive to break the law and to affirm the violent act of creation
in a very strong leadership context in which you're taking on all of this additional risk just to
in part inspire and and protect your people even. You seem to be a man completely out of
out of time with the current era and it seems to suit you fine. Is that wrong?
Not really. There are a few others, but I wish there were more. But of course, what what we are
doing in filmmaking is not always based on boardroom decision, the way we've shaped the dialogue today
in the Hollywood industry is determined by boardroom decisions. And that's why
moviemaking has become so stale and so uninteresting and so predictable. So if you do the
the wildest of the stories, and that's always that counts, you see, I do not step outside the
boundaries of legality. It has to do with a with a caliber of your quest, with the depth of your
story, with the vision that you are pursuing. If that has real, real depth and you know it has
enduring depth, then you have you have the task and the duty to do the things that are necessary
as long as I said, as you do not damage or hurt anyone.
Yeah, but you are taking a fair amount of responsibility. We had Jim Watson come to this
office and he he's he the co discover of the three dimensional structure of DNA of Watson.
Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah. Yes. But he he said something which was, you know, I found very
disturbing, but also very sensible. He said, you're given about five opportunities to really level up
in your life. This is how he saw it. And he said, you have to take each one of those,
even though sometimes each of them comes with an opportunity where somebody may be put at risk or
hurt. And I was curious, you have a very strong relationship with risk, where you're both putting
people at risk and trying to make sure you put them at risk as little as possible. If both of
those are true, do you believe that, let's say, Watson was correct that you have to take these
opportunities, even if they do put others at risk, or do you really have a no harm?
Well, I think it's more than five opportunities. These things have, I've seen a hundred times
these moments. And risk taking per se has no has no great value. It depends on what you are doing
and what kind of purpose it serves. And it's not a quality per se to take risks. I try to
avoid risks. And you see, my proof that I have been prudent circumspect and well organized is that in
over 70 films, not a single one of my actors ever was hurt. Not one. I was hurt sometimes. Sometimes
it has happened that some very close collaborator physically next to me, like a cinematographer
with a 20 kilo handheld camera at that time, heavy flies through the air on the deck of a
ship that bangs into a rock. And yes, and we were flying some 10 meters and he bangs with his hand
on the on the deck and the camera split his hand apart. So yes, it happens. And he didn't mind,
by the way. Well, he volunteered. Am I right? Of course, yes, every, every single one. You said
who's coming with me. Do nobody has to. Yeah, sure. And actually, in this case, when we went
with cameras through the rapids, that and we had shot the sequence with cameras on,
on the, there's no real choice, but in the rocks on either sides of these rapids,
I was even pushed by some collaborators, we should have a camera on board. I said, really,
yes, of course, I see that, but, but we do not know what's going to happen. It may sink.
What happens then it, the ship probably is not going to sink because we established it with a
lot of very, very solid air chambers in there. It's probably wouldn't have sunk,
even under the worst of case scenarios. Let me ask a very, very difficult question.
Assume that you were trying to make Fitzcarraldo in which you drag this steamer over a mountain.
And it's not the year 1982, but it's some year, maybe around now, maybe a few years in the future,
where it's possible to do this completely with computer generated imagery. So you could do
it in CGI. Now, my question would be this, would, if it produced the same visual effect
as you did in Fitzcarraldo, would it be worth doing if it could be done cheaply and safely?
No, it doesn't. It doesn't create the same effect. And even the five year old, six year old
viewers know it. This was a digital effect. And, and you will always know it. I don't think that
digital effects will ever create some sort of, of an equal experience, maybe to some degree
visually. But you see a moving a ship over a mountain means you're exposing yourself to
things that are unthinkable and unexpected. You incorporate in your approach,
the, the totally unknown. And the totally unknown invades you and the unexpected and the
unthinkable invades you every hour. And you create something, an authenticity of story,
not only visual effect. You create an authenticity of event that is unparalleled. And it's unparalleled
by anyone who is sitting in on a computer and creates a steamboat moving up on a hill.
It does not. And it will not do so in the future.
You're quite confident of that?
Because the, the experience of a thing in rooted in reality cannot replaced. It can be
substituted. It can be somehow paralleled in a way by, by an artificial world, by digital effects.
Until today, I would, I would still insist. I should, if it's me who does it, I should move
the ship as in one piece, 360 tons. And let the others do their stuff. And it will be inferior
to nine. Well, this, this is just it. I mean, you, you, you mentioned professional wrestling
in Jesse Ventura. And, you know, there is a theory amongst our group that maybe professional
wrestling is a lot more real than anyone really wants to believe that it's commonly thought to be
fake. One interpretation of your work, sir, is that you are making many more documentaries than
you claim to be. Because in fact, in something like Fitzgerald, it's a fictional story about a
man moving a ship over a mountain made by a real man who moved a real ship over a real mountain.
And I remember when it came out in 1982, I was in college, we were electrified by this
concept that if it had been done in CGI, and we had known that it would have been in CGI,
we would not have been that interested in the story. But it was the fact that there was
an insane man moving a ship over a mountain in reality.
Clinically sane man to move a ship over a mountain.
I don't want to cast any aspersions. But, but functionally, sir, it's a, it is a crazy quest.
And you, and you spoke about it in turn. No, no, it's not a crazy quest. There's a bit.
You speak of it in those terms at the time. No, no, no, it's not a crazy quest. It was doable.
Yeah. And you, and I do the doable.
You see, you do not go out and, and try to, let's say, go to Mars and spend the
half a year on Mars and, and covering and getting footage. You will fail. It's not going to work.
And we will see the technological utopias coming to an end in our very century.
Well, in our very century, like we saw, social utopias coming to an inevitable end in the last
century, communism, paradise on earth, Nazism, a master race dominating the planet and on.
So we will see. So do the doable, do the doable. And I knew it was doable because I had figured
out how to move a very, very heavy object in one piece on top of a hill, for example.
Trying to figure out how the ancients move. Yes. Neolithic people.
Say more about how you saw that. You saw that as a puzzle.
I was searching a coastline of Brittany for a completely different movie.
And I end up at night when it was already dark at Karnak. It's 4,000 many years.
These slabs of stone erected in parallel lines, hill up, hill down, hill up, hill down. It's,
it's stunning. And what I saw in the headlights was stunning. And I slept in the car and next
morning I, I see there's a little kiosk. They sold brochure. And in the brochure,
it's written that this couldn't have been done by Neolithic people. They didn't have any technology.
Yes, I had a rope and things like this. It could have been only alien astronauts.
And I thought, bullshit, I can let, I will not move from this place until I,
as a Neolithic person, could do it. So what I would do is, let's assume I have the rock already,
300, 400 tons. I would need disciplined men to build a ramp, but maybe one kilometer ramp,
which has hardly any inclination, which is almost flat. At the end, it would end up in a
10 meter high hill. And I would dig a crater hole into the hill. And then I would move,
then I would move the, the stone on oak trunks, on hardened oak trunks. And it's very easy to move it
either with turnstiles and ropes or pushing it in a way with levers. And at the end, it would
drop into the crater hole. And then you would have it erect with the heavier part up. And then
you would remove the hill until, let's say, it was sticking only into two meters of, of ground
and hardened the ground. So you would have it erected. And I, I kept puzzling about
one minute, the heaviest ever, 1100 tons heavy near the coastal place, Loc Maria Caer,
not too far from Karnak. And this stone, this slab was broken into four pieces. And the major,
the biggest of all pieces, at least 6,700 tons heavy, was aligned in one direction. And a little
bit further out, the rest of the fragmentation was perfectly aligned in one line. So why does
this happen? If a, if that stone falls and breaks, it will align the fragments, but it didn't.
So I think what has happened is that they moved the, the stone, dropped it into a hole and it broke.
It broke at the rim and, and the, and the smaller fragments aligned. And thousands of years later,
due to erosion, some of these mineers fall over, topple over, and they toppled over in a different,
in the wrong direction. So an accident, a neolithic accident, which must have happened,
spoke to my, as if it was proof of my way, how I would do it. And that's how I moved the ship
over the mountain. So, and I knew it was doable. If it was doable for neolithic people 7,000 years
ago, I can do the same thing as well. I have no doubt whatsoever. And, and in an ideal case,
you would, according to primitive laws of physics, you could have one single child pulling it over
the mountain. Let's say you introduced a pulley system of 10,000 fold returns. You pull on a string
five miles until the ship moves 50 yards and the child could pull it over a mountain.
So you have to think, you have to think the bold ideas, but also those that are outside the common
trend. It can only have been the, the alien astronauts. And I showed you, because I'm very proud of it.
You should try to get hold of it because it's very interesting. It's called the vanishing area
paradox. I keep it in my agenda all the time. And it was published in the Scientific American.
And it's very strange. You have, you have a configuration of elements of, of pieces.
And when you rearrange the configuration of these, all of a sudden there's an empty space
of something that has filled out the entire space without a millimeter in between.
And I kept thinking about it because it defies all my experience with reality.
So within my reality, it is unthinkable. It is impossible. So, and I kept thinking about it and,
and I was misled. The whole thing is a hoax. It turns out it's a hoax. It's fraudulent.
And it gives it a certain veracity because it was posed this vanishing area paradox.
The question is posed in the Scientific American. You do not believe that they are cheating you.
And they cheat you. And what, what, what is happening is when, when you look at it very,
very precisely, the area where all of a sudden in the middle, there's an empty space has been
artificially made slightly larger by giving slight, slight more anguish in, in the, in the
straight lines and summing up creates a little empty space. And, and I, I, I solved it myself
because I thought I cannot solve it because it defies my sense of reality and the sense of
reality of everyone around me. Something is wrong. What could be wrong? What could be wrong?
And I, I started to check in one of the questions I asked myself, could it be that this is a hoax,
that this is a fraud? And if it's a fraud, how do they cheat you? How do they cheat your senses,
senses of observation in this case? Well, that touches on something that fascinated me. There's
a quote of yours where apparently you were facing a booing audience, booing at you. And you had the
sense to say to them, you are all wrong. Sure. And they were all wrong. They were all wrong. Yes.
What is it in you that has the courage to stand up to seemingly, I don't know, arbitrary levels of
negativity to problems of that other people think are insoluble, where they have to invoke
ancient aliens. There's something so disagreeable about your personality that you're capable of
shepherding an idea through that much negativity. What, what, what trade is that?
Well, it was a specific case when I was filming the, the fires in Kuwait in the first,
in the first Gulf War, when Saddam Hussein's retreating army set every single oil well on fire.
And I filmed it in a way that it looks as if it was shot on a, like a science fiction film. It
cannot be our planet. And yet we know it must have been filmed on our planet. And so it's highly
aesthetic, highly stylized. And in the immediate outcry was aestheticizing of the horror. But it
wasn't really horror. It was not horror for any human being. Nobody got burned. Of course,
it was a crime against creation itself, obscuring the sky for a wide, wide area and,
and something that should not happen. Not only a
crime against the human race, it was a crime against creation. And, and, and, and this
scream and people actually spat at me when I walked through the central aisle and that somehow
reinforced my resolve. And I stepped up and I said Dante in his Inferno has done exactly the same.
Hieronymus Bosch has done exactly the same in his hellish visions. And Goya in his Disastris de la
Guerre has done the same thing and, and, and, and then the, and I said, and you are all wrong.
So do we have to burn the book, the divine comedy now? Do we have to? Of course we don't.
So indeed, there's a, there's an amount of certainty in me that, and it's not really
anything that I can say was bold. It was totally natural to say that.
Yeah. I mean, to me, it sort of strikes me as we need people to inspire us by showing us that it's
not only possible that it's necessary to stand up to large numbers of people inside of a crowd. Now,
one of the things that I could have, it was literally the entire crowd, the entire print.
Well, that's how I perceived it walking down the, the central aisle. There probably was
an amount of well wishes and there must have been also some applause, but it, it was overwhelming.
And it was so overwhelming that some, some very credible reviewers like Amos Vogel, who wrote
for The Village Voice, describes the scene. He described it. So it's not a figment of my fantasy.
You know, that there's this very strange story with the reviewer, Joe Morgenstern,
when he first saw Bonnie and Clyde, he gave it a terrible review because the violence was so
disturbing and it was set to up-tempo happy music. And he said, well, this is an abomination.
And then strangely, a week or two later, he said, I have to review this film again. I was totally
wrong. The film is a masterpiece because it took a while to just understand that that wasn't an
error, but it was actually a brilliant artistic choice. Do you find that? You do not find it
nowadays anymore. It must have been 40 years ago that somebody had had the nerve and the guts
and the caliber to declare himself wrong and taking a new fresh look at it.
So you hardly see it at all. So let me ask, I would love to ask you one final question
before opening it up to the audience. You've spoken quite a lot for a filmmaker about the
importance of reading and the written word. You've written, obviously, beautifully, and so
many of your thoughts in this guide for the perplexed. And you have previously spoken about
how television was turning us into idiots and dumbing us down and that reading would be the
key quality that determined who would inherit power in the future world. What do you see in the
21st century as having changed in this equation with television having gotten much better and the
Internet having seemingly gotten us into a state where we weren't even able to get there with the
idiot box as it was? Well, television hasn't gotten that much better in some segments. Yes,
in this long limited or many season big stories that all of a sudden you can narrate
