steady, right?
And one of the things the self does is help us with homeostasis, right?
I mean, if you, if you use the model that Seth talks about or some other people,
um, that we're processed, we're always processing signals from our body and
we're looking not to depart from certain, um, you know, temperature, blood gases.
I mean, there's a whole range of things that we do want to stay in a very narrow range.
Well, yes.
And I think that's the part of this firmware that I'm talking about.
However, um, you know, from the perspective of the child's body, the adult's body is
way off on homeostatic, uh, you know, homeostatic properties, um, from the
perspective of the caterpillar, the butterfly, you know, the butterfly is a terrible
caterpillar, like everything is off, you know, all of the, all of the, and I think
this is true in embryonic development, you know, from the, from, from the
perspective of the, of the, um, you know, gastrolyte, the blastula is a birth defect.
In fact, I think, I actually think that's how development works is a, it's a set of
repairs activated towards a fast moving target morphology, which is encoded in
bioelectrics and various other things that basically what happens is, you know, you're,
you're, and we've done, we've done work on this.
This is going to come out later, later this year.
We have some super, super cool data around this stuff that, but basically development
is a whole bunch of repairs.
I'm not even sure I believe in embryonic development anymore.
I think it's all regeneration.
I think it's all repair that basically what happens is your target is, your target
moves faster than the anatomy is trying to catch up.
So the target information is here.
The anatomy says, oh my God, I'm all wrong.
And so all these repair processes kick in and you make the metamorphosis.
By the time you've done that, guess what?
The pattern has moved on again and, and you're wrong again.
So again, you have to change, right?
So it's a set of repairs.
So you just keep going from stage to stage.
And so you catch up and that's adulthood needs sort of, you know,
maturity and then you sort of catch up.
And then, and then you get a different issue with aging.
But, but, but, you know, keeping steady.
Yes.
But everything is transformation, at least, at least until you hit aging,
everything is supposedly a positive transformation, right?
You're trying to, you know, change into whatever your next form is supposed to be.
Do you think, and I'm asking you to speculate again,
there are advantages to giving up on this idea of a stable self?
I think so.
I think, I think there are major advantages.
Well, let's see.
One advantage is that I think that it actually has implications for, for ethics of behavior.
Because if, if you can, if you, if you can sever that sort of hard wired link between
your current self and your future self, then one of the things that happens quite naturally
is you start to think about other beings' future selves as having similar status.
So, so normally you can be selfish into the future in the sense that, well, that's still
going to be me.
But if you can understand that future self isn't quite the same as your current self anyway,
then you say, well, for the same reasons I care about this future self,
for exactly the same reason, I ought to be caring about other creatures that really exist.
Future selves, right?
Because, because, because your future self and all the hard work you're doing to prop
up your future self in many ways is not as tightly connected to your current self as we think.
And I think breaking that a little bit would be helpful because then it would make it,
it would make it, it would make it seem much more rational to then be, be compassionate to others.
You know, right now, right now, it's very natural to invest everything in your future
self. But once you realize that, you know, your, your, your future, your future self is,
is a different being in many ways.
And it's like, there are, there are a number of crazy ways to,
okay, like, like weird intuition pumps around this stuff.
Like, like, here's, here's, here's a few examples.
One thing that people think about, and I think this was maybe Anthony Flu's argument
about reincarnation, he said, okay, if I don't remember, if I'm not going to remember the current
life, then what's the difference it might, you might as well just tell me that I'll be dead
and some other kid will be running around somewhere on earth and like, good, but there's
plenty of kids running around on earth, what do I care?
And so, so he was trying to say that, that memory is, is what keeps it going, right?
And the continuity of memory is what keeps it going.
But you can imagine things, things like this, if somebody says to your current self,
we're gonna, you need some surgery and you could save some bucks if you, if you instead,
instead of having real anesthesia, which you just have as a paralytic.
So you'll be paralyzed, we can do our thing.
And in fact, I mean, that's a real, like that actually happens to people, right?
That like, it doesn't always work, right?
So, so, so then you can save, you can save some bucks.
The current self is going to go, well, absolutely not.
But, but, but, but the future self, once you come out of it, and they say, oh, by the way,
oh, and the other thing to know is that when you do get the anesthesia part of the components
is a memory wipe, that's a short term memory wipe.
That's also a real thing, right?
Because they don't want to remembering this stuff.
So, so, so you come out of it and somebody says to you, you know what, I think that actually
happened. And, and, you know, when you saved $1,000, but I think you were actually there.
I know you don't remember a bit of it.
But, you know, and at that point, like, all right, I mean, you know,
now, now, realistically, it's an issue because actually the trauma can, can carry forward.
But let's just, let's just imagine that, you know, let's imagine the memory wipe actually works.
The future self of like, yeah, I mean, fine, good deal, right?
So, so there's an interest, so there's an interesting thing here.
And I think to the extent that we kind of understand that our future self
is, is a construction that is going to sort of try to make sense of these memories and whatever,
I think it helps you be, be kinder to others, future selves, because they're in the same boat.
So I think for that, because I think for that reason, it's useful.
I mean, it's also useful more broadly, because to the extent that we understand what we are
and how we, how the biology works and everything, I think it really helps us have a more ethical
relationship with other, other beings. Because right now, a lot of people are walking around
with this very magical view of what, you know, they, they say, the humans, you know, humans do
this and they say, well, which humans, you know, the, the, you know, for a hundred thousand years
ago, you know, a million years ago, like, which, which humans, right? And or during embryogenesis,
where does this magic sort of kick in? So, so I think having a better understanding of the biology
and what's actually going on is going to help us understand that, gee, there can be other minds
that are not the, you know, the conventional modern human, you know, mind and, and help us,
help us have better relationships with other systems, both, both biological and also synthetic,
you know, artificial, all that kind of stuff. Yeah. I mean, it would probably make us better
people. But on the other hand, this idea of the future self being continuous, that's what gets
your work done, right? I mean, this is going to, I'm embarking, I'm writing a book, it's going to
take me X years. It's going to be really hard, painful. But my future self is going to benefit
when it comes out, you know, when I get my advance, whatever it is. It seems to me there's a,
there is some adaptive value. And I mean, as you were pointing out on the Savannah of having a strong
sense of self continuity, even though that might make you a, you know, an asshole.
Yeah. Yeah. No, no, I think, I mean, it's, it's true. There probably is some competitive
survival value to it. I think that, you know, if, okay, I think back to some things I've done in
the past, some, some, let's, you know, so much, let's say some achievements that I've done in the
past. Yeah. I, I, and maybe it's just me, I have a, I find it really hard to, to visualize that
that was me, like really, like, I know, I know historically, like, if I look in the record,
everybody says it was me and everything. So I know it's me. But, but, but thinking back, I'm
like, wow, that's, you know, that's amazing. I don't remember what it was like. I don't really,
you know, it was years ago. So I don't really remember what it was like to do it. And the
feeling between me having done it and somebody else having done it is just a historical record
at this point, just a matter of historical record. You know, I did things before that I
probably couldn't do now. So what does that mean? Do I still keep the credit for it? It's, you know,
in, in, it's just, it helps society to maintain records and to write and to reinforce these
things. But, but really, you know, it's sort of like, it's been a long time. Like, do I really,
you know, do I, is it still me that did that? And I don't know, because I don't think I could do it
again. You know, that, that kind of stuff. So that's so interesting. I mean, to embrace this
idea of selfishness is constructing a creative act based on interpretation and misinterpretation
of memories. It's, I mean, it's a very exhilarating idea, I think, in many ways, in that people are
very stuck on either the positive case for selves, which is a myth, or the case against them, which
is just demystification without any sort of positive benefit.
There's, you know, there's an, there's an even, well, you just, just to put on the radar in case,
in case you want to talk about it. There's an even weirder, if you think all of that was weird,
the bit that I only mentioned in that paper that we could talk about is erasing the distinction
between thoughts and thinkers, because that I think, that I think is even, even more of a, of a
profound sort of trash talk, unpack that a little, because you kind of raced over that idea. And
I think it's really interesting. I mean, I was actually asking this question, I was talking to
Anil, and I was saying, can you have a perception without a perceiver or an inference without an
inferrer? And he was saying, yes, you can. But I had a lot of trouble getting my head around that.
Yeah, yeah, let's, so let's, and so, okay, so, so just to kind of fair, fair warning, these, these
ideas are pretty new. So I'm still kind of chewing all this around. So, you know, to take
everything with a grain of salt. But let's, let's, I'll start, I'll start with a little story,
just a short, this, this is a real science fiction story that I read years ago, and only now I'm
sort of understanding the significance of it. And I wish I could remember who's it was. I don't,
I don't remember. The deal is that down the drain. Yeah, exactly, right? Like I knew at one point,
I don't know. These, these creatures come out of the center of the earth, they're, they're,
they're incredibly dense. Yeah, they come out of the core, they're just incredibly dense, they use
gamma rays for vision, like super dense. So they come up here, and everything that you and I see
here is solid, it's just gas to them. You know, they see, they see because, because they're so dense,
as far as they're concerned, the crust and everything up, everything up here is, is a very
rarefied kind of plasma around, right? And so, and so one of them is, so they have some two,
one of them is a scientist, and he's got some tools, and he says to the others, as you know,
I've been watching this gas that surrounds this planet. And there are some, there's some patterns
in this gas. There's some, there's some persistent patterns in this gas, and they look like they're
doing things. They, they look kind of a gentile. And so the other one, the others of course laugh at
them. And, and they say, no, no, look, we're real, you know, we are actual thinkers, you can patterns
can't be thinkers, the patterns in gas can't be thinkers. And he says, no, I, I'm pretty, like,
it looks like they're doing things. And I've done some experiments, you know, when they look like
they have certain cognitive properties. And, and then they ask, well, how long these patterns last?
Well, they only last about 100 years. Well, that's ridiculous. I mean, 100 years, what could, you
know, what could happen, you know, we live millions of years, what could happen in 100 years, right?
So, okay, so, so, so right away, and you can sort of take this, this further, you right away,
you start to get the idea that the distinction between a temporary but somewhat persistent
pattern and excitable medium, and a real solid thing that we, you know, this is a thing, you
know, this is the cognizer, that's a bit of that's in the eye of the beholder quite a bit.
And people who study metabolic will already say that, of course, we're temporary metabolic patterns
that exist in of there's flux that is sort of self, you know, people who study, you know,
kind of these these emergent self, self-reinforcing energy patterns, right? That's, that's how they
would describe us anyway. So, okay, so, so once you start thinking about that, then you can start
asking about further about the distinction between thoughts as patterns within a cognitive system.
And what does it take to spawn off to have thoughts? What does it mean to have thoughts?
So once you go down that road, you start to think about imagine this continuum. So here's a here's
a continuum. Fleeting thoughts. So these are patterns that come in and they're gone, right?
Persistent intrusive thoughts. So these are thoughts that once you've had them,
they are hard to get rid of. And not only are they hard to get rid of, they do a bit of niche
construction. I'm sure you know all about this is certain kinds of thoughts actually change
the brain to make it easier to keep having those thoughts, right? So, so they're doing a little
bit of niche construction, they're, they're, they're modifying their environment to allow
themselves to persist and multiply and things like that. You go from there and there's, there's
some kind of exotic intermediates, but the next thing we for sure know about is multiple personality
alters. So, so it's not just a single thought that hangs around, it's like a, it's like a bundle of
thoughts that has some dynamics to it and can actually, you know, do some stuff. And then, and then,
of course, there are, you know, things that we call full blown personalities, which are like
really consistent, at least for some period of time, they're consistent sets of thoughts.
So, so the thing about the right side of that continuum is that these are, they've done two
things. One is they've closed the loop in that they reinforce themselves. So they, right, they,
they, they, they, they prop themselves up over time. But the other thing is that they can spawn
off other thoughts. So by the time you get to a, to an altar, you've got a, you've got a cognitive
pattern that's complex enough that can spawn off other simpler patterns.
And so now, now you try to draw a distinction between the thought and the thinker, and it's
real hard now, because, because, okay, all we're talking about is cognitive patterns. And some
of these patterns are, you know, in the language of dissipative systems, right? Some of them are
just, you know, fleeting. Some of them are self perpetuating, like the red spotted Jupiter and
things like this, they sort of keep themselves going. And other patterns,
spawn off smaller patterns, and other patterns hang around for a hundred years, and we give them
names and we, you know, but don't they need the, I mean, but as you suggested, they need the host
of brains, right? I don't think they, well, so, okay, so this is like very speculative stuff,
