right? So, so here we go. First of all, I definitely don't think they need brains,
because these kinds of things go on in all sorts of media. So they go on in, in protoplasm,
and nor in cells, in, in, I think, I think there's lots of, lots of media that they can.
They're different substrates, not necessarily just brains. Exactly. Lots of different. Well,
we call the substrate living, because it's a substrate that is capable of hosting
self-reinforcing, goal driven patterns, patterns that have agendas. That's what we call living.
But, but I think you could have, and I'm sure in the, out there in the universe, I'm going to guess
there's all kinds of substrates that are capable of that. I think we're going to end up making a
whole bunch with, with different, you know, both software and material science that people are
working on. I don't think there's anything special about brains per se with, for that aspect. But,
but here's the, here's the craziest thing, and this is just the latest thing I thought of,
that I have, I have zero kind of details to back this up, but I'll just throw this out as a, as a
crazy thing. You know, at the, at the beginning of the 1900s, it was thought that self-perpetuating
electromagnetic waves, so a pattern that perpetuates for long periods of time, required a material to
be waving. You needed, you needed an ether that you could say was something was waving in order
to have a wave. Right. We did, we did away with all that. We don't, you can have a pattern propagating
with nothing waving. You don't need a material. You got rid of the luminiferous ether because,
because you found out that the two components, the magnetic and the electric component, you know,
they, they can, they can sort of reinforce each other and this thing sort of, sort of propagates.
So I wonder, and again, I'm not saying I believe this, I'm just saying this is something I'm toying
with at the moment. I wonder if you could make a move like that, you could get rid of this cognitive
ferrous ether, aka brains or whatever else, and you could have patterns that are actually self-reinforcing
in the absence of all of that. I don't know what specifically what physical model you would have.
I think we need to think more about this. It doesn't seem like you need a physical model.
Correct. The reason, correct. The reason you, well, the first thing that'll happen is people
say, we'll say this is dualism and fair, idealism actually, or idealism. Yeah, fair enough. I, you
know, I think that's true. And I think some of the stuff we talked about before about the practicalities
of Platonic space and those, the patterns that are there, like, I think this is in that same,
in that same vein. And I think yes, those things are not physical. And I think the real in the
sense that they make a huge difference about what happens next and so on. Yeah. The reason you need
some kind of a physical story at some point is that you need to flesh out a story about the
interaction with physical bodies. So what is it that happens when evolution produces or an engineer
produces some kind of physical machine? What's the interaction between those patterns that come to
resonate? And so some people, you know, some somebody will say incarnate, I will say, you know,
Richard Watson will say resonate, who knows, but when it comes to when it comes to these
kind of patterns that are embodied in a physical machine, we need some kind of story about what
happens there because because otherwise, you know, they sort of remain off in this. So they have to
encounter something. They have to, yeah, yeah, and we're actually doing work. So this is again,
this is not published yet. But we're actually doing some stuff on how you could basically basically
at this point, I think that the idea of a of an unchanging permanent sort of platonic space where
everything just is sort of fixed there. I think that I think it's much more it's much more interesting
than that. I think there is a chemistry of these things in that space. And I think we have a
computational way to start doing experiments there. And we have I have a student working on
on some stuff. So stay tuned, there will be that it is it is completely wild.
Looking at looking at agentic properties in sets of logical sentences, just you know, just
sentences, some of them are passive. And some of them are not some of them do things by themselves.
And and it's and it's really interesting. But but that's you know, that's that's that's what I
want to you know, going back to the whole butterfly caterpillar thing. I think that you can you can
think about this thing as you've got the left side of it's it's it's a it's a book, you know,
it's an hourglass slash bowtie where right where you've got you've got the there's intelligence on
the left side that takes all of these different experiences and generalizes and abstracts to
some sort of compressed ngram. You've got the creative intelligent part on the right side that
has to reinflate it into whatever the current context is and figure out what what what the
what the memories mean. But again, all of that that that first way of telling the story assumes
that the information is passive, and that all the intelligence is on the is in the hardware.
What if what if the data itself is not actually passive, what if these are patterns,
as as we were just talking about, and patterns that are using the medium of the physical
process from caterpillar to butterfly, right, to perpetuate to perpetuate and transform themselves.
And what if they're doing a bit of niche construction to make sure that they perpetuate
and actually, you know, do better, right, as a butterfly, you've got some advantages that
that you can have. So, so I don't know, you know, that that goes back to our
the sort of the self sorting data in the algorithms, right, the sorting algorithms,
where the distinction between the data and the and the algorithm is really very much in the
eye of the beholder and and you can vary and if you look for it, you can find the data doing
things, you know, how could you prove that that there's agency in in information?
Well, the way you prove agency in anything, I think, is you show again, and this is this
is kind of an engineering take is you show how doing so helps you do something new.
How how right so so how does it help you, right? It's it's the you know, my argument is that
back in the olden days when people said there's a spirit under every rock versus now,
where the scientists say there isn't any anywhere, but both of those things are wrong
because they're just you have to do experiments and you have to say, here's my theory, here's what
it does for me, you know, I, I, so so what so so here's what we're doing for this for the
for the sorting algorithms thing. What we found, and this was just the first thing we looked for,
so no, I gotta think there's more, but we just haven't found it yet. The first thing we found
is we found these algorithms doing stuff that are with that that are that is not explicitly in
the algorithm. They are they are doing things specifically they've they're doing this clustering
behavior that are not in the algorithm. So there are no steps to do that in the algorithm now now
now you know when you're looking at an algorithm, it has a cost to every computation costs something.
So what so what we see is that there's an algorithm, the computer's carrying out this
algorithm that you pay you pay an energy toll to do all the, but it's also doing something else and
it looks to me like it's doing that for free. So so so here's how I would do it. And I have a
I have a somebody in my lab who's who's who's working on this right now is to harness that
to some other task that's actually useful. Because if you can do that that second task is getting
done for free without paying an energy bill for it. Now I mean obviously that sounds impossible,
I understand that and it may well turn out to be impossible, but that's the kind of thing
you you you have to show an example where okay I took seriously the idea that this thing had its
own goal directed activity. I harness that goal directed activity to you know it's like the donkey
with the carrot on the on the stick right. By understanding what what the drivers of this of
this agent are, I can harness it to do useful work. And if I can do more useful work per unit of
cost for compute than somebody else who doesn't believe in that I mean that's it there's there's
no more to be had than empirical success. So so that's the kind of thing that I think we're gonna
have to do. That's great that's fascinating. So you need memories to have a self yes? Can you
have a self without memory? You can have a you can have a selflet. You can have a you can have a
slice. I you know I do I do think and this is like going beyond anything that I can usefully sort of
show there's just the thoughts there that thin slices are they do have experience and they probably
do have you know some some sort of consciousness associated with them but but but if you don't
have carry through then then you become fleeting thoughts you become a set of fleeting thoughts
basically as opposed to a coherent reinforcing pattern. Right that you could make a story out of
yeah. So you did you just used the C word and you used it several times in this paper
after last time years ago when we met you were like conspicuously avoiding it
and there's a really provocative sentence if maybe you could just unpack a little for me
could consciousness simply be what it feels like to be in charge of constant self-construction
driven to reinterpret all available data in the service of choosing what to do next.
Yeah are you thinking about consciousness? Yeah and so and so I still I still largely
avoided because what I don't have is a full-blown new theory of consciousness that you know I'm
prepared to defend strongly working on it. Nobody does well I mean a lot of people think they do
but exactly right because there's a lot of people who are willing to sort of get up with it get out
with it I'm I don't have anything like that yet but but but but here's here's what did strike me
you know Mark Solmes whose work on this I really like he too has this he has this interesting
point of view that he thinks that he says that consciousness is palpated uncertainty about the
future so the idea is that consciousness is the is what it feels like to have to be in charge of
knowing what to do next this idea that right this so this leads to connected to active inference and
you know what what do these patterns mean what can I expect next how do I minimize my surprise
these things so here's another hypothesis what if yes all that is true but there's an even deeper
problem which is that as a conscious agent not only do you not know what to do next you don't
even know what your own memories mean you have the constant burden of having to reinterpret your
own memories all the time and of course it's subconscious if it was if this is something
we had to do consciously you know we wouldn't we would never make it but it's a little bit like
you know people who um have a brain damage and can't form new memories you know you wake up in
the morning and there's a there's a there's a notepad next to your bed and it says hey guess what
you can't form new memories here's where things stand and by the way before you go to bed tonight
right right you know right right you know write the next note and so right so I mean that's what
all of us do but for for all of us that scratch pad is internal but for ant colonies and certain
kinds of patients you have to externalize you have to externalize those memories somehow so
I think that we're all kind of in that boat in that every so many milliseconds you have to be able
to you have to be you have to reconstruct the story of who you are what you are what your plans
were right and and no and we don't notice it because it's I mean it has to be automatic
otherwise we notice it when we wake up in the morning yeah yeah there's an interesting moment
of reconciliation of self yep yeah there is and I wonder if I wonder if this is the problem with
trying to make sense of our dreams too is that and I'm not I'm a no expert on dreams but but but I
wonder if part of the issue is that at night you don't really do a super good job of memories
in a way that your future self is going to decode them and that that's the the crazy dreams that
way you can't even figure out what what the heck it was it's basically because you're looking at
these zangrams going I can't make heads and tails of this and and it's just it's just more difficult
than than than waking you know waking memories I don't know that that's that's a hypothesis but
I wonder you know for consciousness I think that I think Mark is right but I also think that there's
an even deeper task facing selves you know conscious selves which is that you can't even
really rely on the past it's you know you have to you have to reconstruct it all the time you
have to figure out what you are and you're gonna recommit to being an agent doing things so that
that was that was my hypothesis yeah I think it's a fascinating idea of course and we haven't
talked about the social world but that that is helping us in a funny way and and constraining
us right I mean you're being told who you are all the time by the people around you yeah you know
who who kind of keep you in certain roles and limit that your ability to change
yeah yeah there's a softening of selves that happens when you're not in a social environment
it seems to me so I thought about this too with regard to psychedelics which have interesting
effects on the self and on memory all sorts of stuff comes up people people talk about a period
of ego dissolution a complete loss of sense of self yet they're still conscious
and then this kind of putting things together in a new way you know I mean especially with
the trauma victims who are treated they they take out their memories difficult memories
and when they reconsolidate them they're not the same they've got they've lost the emotional charge
or whatever it is I mean there's a kind of very interesting process of playing with your memories
in psychedelic experience so that you end up being a slightly different self when you come out
if it's working I mean that's kind of the theoretical model is is get you out of your
habitual ways of looking at things and your and and those kind of you know rumination I mean
those sort of the thoughts you were describing the take-up resonance in your brain that you
might not necessarily want that's super interesting and I wonder if there is a clinical path here
by taking seriously the idea that some of those thoughts may not want to leave like literally
right yeah you know and and there may be some that is trauma I mean that's you know part of drama
yeah yeah but but but I wonder if you know taking taking seriously their ability to process information
maybe not in the same way as a full-blown alter but but but still not passive data but actually
a pattern that can you know a a dissipative system that can actually process information
you know it may not I mean I don't I don't know anything about this so so maybe this is totally
nuts but I've heard various kinds of alternative therapists and whatnot you know wanting you to
talk to your different yeah but so that may not be that may not be crazy there may be
right there may be if if they can if these patterns can process information to some extent
there may be stimuli you can give them where where basically you're not you're not just
treating the brain to somehow take care of this although that may work too but you're actually
maybe maybe maybe there is something to be said for communicating well yeah this is now this is
the theory in treating schizophrenia you know yes you are hearing voices why don't you talk to them
or why don't you let me talk to them and if you think about it trauma memories of trauma do process
information because you get you know you hear a gunshot or something now and it's processed as that
or a siren or whatever it is so they are still active in your brain in an interesting way yeah
yeah that's very that's very suggestive um I'm gonna let you go in a second just have
one or two more questions um well this kind of relates to that psychedelic point but
it's interesting that we we cherish ourselves and we talk about um self-esteem and building
up the self you know with our kids um and we're very wedded to the idea of as I said earlier this
unchanging enduring self yet at the same time we spend a lot of effort trying to transcend it
and escape ourselves um whether it's through drugs is one way but also um travel uh experiences of
awe that we know kind of diminish the self religion giving yourself over to the group
why do you think we also want to transcend selves
I think again I don't know but I think that probably there are competing drives so there's
the there's the evolutionary firmware that says uh defend yourself at all costs right that's I think
that's gotta be in there but there may well be an opposing component that says yes but if you stand
still you're also not going to make it so it's like um you know with active inference there's
this thing you you know surprise minimization right so but the easiest way not to be surprised is to
stick your head in the corner and not look at anything and then there will be one final surprise
at the end when somebody eats you but that's it until then you're not surprised so you know so so
there's gotta be I think in biology there's gotta be two competing drives one is surprise
minimization and one is exploration where it says you know if you haven't seen anything new
in a long time you might be stuck in a corner you better do something else right and so so
maybe it's something like that maybe it's like yes defend yourself but also if you're too stuck and
you haven't learned anything new and you haven't improved and you haven't whatever then um and I
don't know if that's something that's uh comes from the biology itself or meaning just you know a
drive with actual selective advantage or whether that's some sort of a consequence of being an
advanced being uh that you know has some sort of semi-spiritual drive to um to improve over time
or something right right you're familiar with the decot this is another binary between exploring
and exploiting yeah um it kind of reminds me that idea that there is a desire I mean we spent a
lot of time in exploit mode as adults um but we also need to do the exploration and that and that's
the exploit mode has the strongest sense of self yes um psychologists would say yeah yeah I think
that makes sense and and I wonder if I wonder if aging on the cellular level if aging is is a part
