So it varies from where you're at as the agent too.
I know this is an understood problem.
I'm just kind of reemphasizing it.
So yeah, I like the idea of a large group of people eating happy above average lives.
That's a good goal to aim for.
If we end up higher than that, that's cool.
But like even if we just achieve that, that's still winning in our book.
I had a last quick one that we can phase out if we want to take it longer.
Because neither of us watched the 20 minute video on the AMA post on the subreddit.
User Fidel, I don't know, P-H-E-I-D-L, said thoughts on Patreon's decision to ban Carl Benjamin.
And I watched the first 10 minutes of it and I didn't finish it.
So I didn't get the full context.
But I thought that I know that Patreon and other places have been banning some users over the
last year or so.
I know nothing about this.
I don't know who Carl went.
Benjamin.
Yeah, I don't know who that is or what's going on, so I cannot speak to it at all today.
Yeah, let's save the big one for later.
But I think my thoughts and this will probably generate some kickback.
I'm okay with Patreon banning some people.
I liked when Alex Jones was de-platformed.
I think that he should be allowed to pay for his own website and host his own stuff and say
whatever he wants.
And he can go to a street corner and hold signs or shout or whatever he feels like doing.
But it's not up to iTunes or YouTube or whatever to host his belligerent nonsense, right?
I have some qualms.
I see how it's like it's like silencing somebody if they're not allowed to use the platform
that everyone else is allowed to use.
And yet how bad do you have to be before someone's like,
I'm going to take your microphone away that I own.
Well, I mean, maybe you have to be like not a Christian.
That's pretty bad, dude.
I see what you're doing.
You're right.
So, but the, all right.
So we'll say that later.
Yeah, we'll talk about it next time.
Deal.
Or the time after.
Yeah.
All right.
Our patron that we're thinking this week is Ivan.
Thank you, Ivan, for helping contribute, keeping this going and, you know, making us feel appreciated.
Thanks, Ivan, you rock.
Thanks, Ivan.
You're awesome.
And we love you.
Trying to think of something to say besides thanks name.
Yeah.
But that might have just been creepy.
Sorry, Ivan.
We know your full name and address and a thank you gift is on its way.
Right.
I don't know.
That's even creepier.
That's even creepier.
That's even creepier.
That's also not true.
Totally not true.
People might subscribe more if we like give them random thank you gifts.
I, you know, I thought about doing stickers or something.
They're just super easy.
I don't know if anyone wants them, we could make them.
I could draw stickers.
We've got, we've got your awesome drawing that we could put on stickers.
The podcast art, right?
Yeah.
That's true.
Then I won't have to draw anything new.
Or if you want to, you're obviously welcome to.
But yeah, I don't know if, if there's literally one person who says,
I think it might be interesting.
I'll look into it.
How's that sound?
Sounds great.
All right.
Well, in that case, you know, keep an eye on posting review on iTunes if you want.
You know, you can join the discussion on the website.
You can look at the subreddit or email us directly at the Bayesian Conspiracy Podcast
at gmail.com.
Or wait, no, Bayesian Conspiracy Podcast at gmail.com.
Yes, that's right.
You'll be in that one.
It's also on the contact us page on the website, which is the Bayesian Conspiracy.com.
Yes.
And, you know, you don't even have to do any of those.
You can just tell a friend about it.
Say, these guys are cool.
Listen to this thing.
Yeah.
Maybe, you know, have them trapped in a car and then turn it on.
Inflict us upon your friends and family.
It's always my go to.
Yeah.
No, don't make yourself unpopular among people on our behalf.
But, you know, if you, if you, I'm done now.
Okay.
Goodbye, everybody.
Thanks, everyone.
Good night.
