second Jesus. Yeah. I was surprised that Jesus wasn't one of the most successful people, but
well, because Jesus may not have really existed. Yeah, kind of. But Jesus was always like kind of my
number one counter Genghis example before William Penn. And I was like, you know, Jesus or the
rough ideology that centered around a Jesus like character. I always liked this, like my,
my opposite of like, all right, if I want to be remembered, and I'm not going to go like the
whole, you know, conquer a route, I'd rather be like an Aristotle or Pluto kind of character,
right? Yeah. I didn't think about Jesus as an example, maybe because his legacy is not
depending on who you talk to, well, no matter who you talk to, it hasn't been clear enough to be
awesome, right? So, and I mean, it's so, there's so many different branches now that from like
the really militant Christians to the people that are more like the turn the other cheek,
you know? Yeah, very few people are actually following what Jesus says in the Bible. So
I saw a picture a few weeks ago, veteran Thanksgiving, it was like Jesus standing over
a crowd of hundred people with like a bunch of food or whatever was one of those fancy pictures.
And the caption was like, or it was at the top, it was like Republic and Jesus. And it was like,
I can't just give you this food, that'd be socialism. Yeah, not trying to give up all your
possessions and follow me. Not trying to be aggressively political, but that was something
I saw recently. On the other hand, yeah, like you say, his advice to sell everything you own
and follow him is not really good long-term life advice. It wasn't even sell. Well, it wasn't
also like they ended it with like the end is coming. Yes. That was the shtick that literally
you got maybe a few decades left here on this planet. He really seems to think that like the
world is going to end during his lifetime. Yeah. Or like during the lifetimes of people
listening to him, right? Yes. Absolutely. And they've managed to keep that going for 2,000 years too.
That's quite the commitment. I was going to say like, if you showed me a meteorite
40 years out and it's like, that's definitely coming. I'm like, all right, well, I'm not going
to work, right? Right. I can totally see if I really believe that, sure. But if you told me it's
coming in 2,000 years, like I should probably keep going to my job. With 40 years, I'd still go to
my job. My savings ain't going to last me 40 years. Yeah. But like then, I don't know, I feel like
well, you know, anarchy is going to happen. Exactly. Yeah. What are you going to buy when,
you know, you can't eat the money that you saved in your bank when, you know,
everything's gone to shtick. But now I'm getting too far a field. So, yeah.
Yeah. I want to come back to what Inie Ash was saying about the Quakers basically being modern
people. Scott actually warns us. Well, actually Scott quotes, this is a quote from the book review
Fisher warns against the temptation to think of the Quakers as normal modern people.
But he has to warn us precisely because it's so tempting. Where the Puritans seem like a
dystopian caricature of virtue and the Cavaliers like a dystopian caricature of vice. The Quakers
just seem ordinary. I find the Quakers particularly interesting because I'm descended from them.
I have an ancestor named Consider Wood. They mention all the fun Quaker names. Actually,
I think they did Scott mention the like fun names of each of the sects. Wait, you personally? Yeah.
Oh neat. And I also just sort of like them. Yeah. If I had to pick a sect of Christianity,
I'd probably be a Quaker. They're kind of like basically Christian Buddhist. Yeah.
If you're just skimming history books for aspects of their beliefs and culture,
they do seem to have highly modern values. Like people are all equal under God,
including men and women could both preach. That was pretty cool.
And way ahead of their time. Yeah. You married for love. You loved and took care of your children,
which was also pretty rare at the time. Violence is bad. But if you do any deeper reading or God
forbid try reading any primary sources, Quakers are still pretty alien compared to us. They're
like insanely bureaucratic. They have these lengthy religious and social rituals that somehow
managed to trigger all of my this is a cold red flags while I also pretty much agree with what
they're actually doing in those rituals. For example, in the interesting Quaker facts, Scott
mentions their wedding process, which has 16 stages, one of which is obtain a certification of
cleanliness. Anyway, all I'm trying to say is if you're a sci-fi writer looking for ideas,
not nearly enough sci-fi has been written about space Quakers. So there you go.
Of these like 15 minutes total, I've seen a Star Trek. It seems kind of like Space Quakers.
I meant like explicitly like Quaker. But yeah, no, that's kind of a good point.
I'm sure there's a thousand counter examples from someone who's actually
Well, there's violence.
But I mean, it's not a bad comparison at all, especially the TNG kind.
Good. Yeah. All right.
Alrighty, the borderers.
That's hard to say.
Borderers. Borderers.
Yeah. Borderers. The borderlanders.
There we go. Borderlanders.
The border. Okay. So this is they came from the border area between what was it?
Scotland and England, where there was constant invasions going back and forth between the two
countries for about 700 years. The border area was one giant cesspool of robbery and murder.
Life consisted of farming the lands of whichever brutal warlord had the top hand today,
followed by being called to fight for him on short notice, followed by a grisly death.
He also goes on to say about how since there was all this border raiding back and forth,
people started getting, you know, pissed off at the other side and they would
capture who they could and torture murder them and just the whole area was
completely fucked for 700 years.
It's a really long time.
Yeah, seriously.
The border people dealt with it as best they could and developed a culture marked by extreme
levels of clannishness, xenophobia, drunkenness, stubbornness and violence.
Eventually 250,000 of these people ended up in America.
And by comparison, there were only like 20,000 of the Puritans and I think 50,000 of the Quakers.
They were just a huge group. Nobody, nobody wanted these people around.
All three of the previous groups saw them and were like, no.
Apparently the Quakers tried to integrate them at first and then after a while they also said,
no, you can have these mountains.
Exactly. So they kicked them out to the Appalachians, which were far away from everyone
and full of fun Indians to fight.
Yay, question mark.
So they, it turns out that the Appalachians, not the Appalachians, the borderers really
liked the Appalachian Mountains.
They were already used to not having very fertile areas.
They liked having all the Indians to fight and they just took to them like fish to water.
And they were the first, one of the first groups, I think he said the first group,
to really just abandon all their previous roots and like, yeah, we're Americans.
This America is the best place for Americans now.
And we still kind of see that today.
Yeah, there was a follow up to this book review called Albion Seed Genotyped
where they did actually do questionnaires on the groups.
You can actually like divide them by genotype and trace it back to which group of
Englishmen people were descended from.
And they, one of the questions on the questionnaire was
what ethnicity are you and people would answer, you know, like I'm Irish American.
And but the borderers were always the ones that said American and completely ignored the like,
where did you come from?
Like, no, I'm American.
I don't have much doubt there that I'm just counting my lucky stars.
I wasn't born in some society where my highest calling was killing the hated enemy.
Yeah.
And apparently it was mostly the borderers that once the while the western frontier was opened
or out there be like, yeah, let's settle this land and, you know, kill off the Indians and
expand westward and do what we can do.
Yeah, I'm just picturing like it would sure be nice to imagine like, oh,
finally we're free of all this, you know, quote unquote necessary bloodshed.
Now we can finally chill out there like, no, fuck that.
Now we can finally just keep kicking ass.
Well, I mean, that's been their culture for 700 years.
Yeah, it's just, that's what I'm saying.
I was like, I'm really glad that I wasn't born there.
So it's what a bummer.
I don't know.
I kind of, it is not a society I would ever want to be a part of,
but I kind of like have this sort of romantic glow about it.
Oh, totally.
Like I am free.
I am just going down to the west and staking my claim and putting up this house and,
and Scott mentions that the towns that they that they found all had names like
shit Creek and and just all these things that sounded down like orcish, but were real names.
And there's something about it that is like that that sounds like fun.
That reminds me.
Season five of shit's Creek comes out, I think in a couple of weeks in January.
So there's a TV show with that name.
Oh, really?
It's does it take place in the border town?
It's it's in the middle of bumfuck nowhere.
It's a completely different premise.
Basically, it's Eugene Levy is like the dad and these of this family.
And they were like these multi, multi millionaires and they they're counting
fuck them or whatever and they're out of all their money,
but they bought this small town as a joke some years earlier.
So they moved there.
And it's just this little podunk.
You know, they live in a motel there and it's it's a it's a funny thing.
But when he said shit Creek, that's kind of funny.
I had something I was going to say before that that was much more relevant.
Oh, the romanticism of the whole thing.
Well, haven't you ever played like games where the orcs?
They're just fun.
That's what I was going to say.
Red Dead Redemption is a very popular video game right now.
Every like there's something, you know, a lot of the a lot of good fantasy books
take place right in that kind of time frame where it's like, sure,
you know, some foot pad could just run up and take your coin purse
and stab you in the alley.
And there's something about like that lawlessness vibe, you know,
before fingerprint identification, maybe before like, you know,
where all this before surveillance cameras and fingerprint identification
where it's maybe 50 years ago, where, you know, the idea that like
romantic might be not the right word for it, but something, you know,
you had your boys, you guys were always out together.
Yeah.
If I was filling time traveling, you know, between stars while in like
not full crowd space, because I'd be super boring unconscious, but like
playing full immersion Skyrim, I could imagine playing a full immersion
Jack Thripper era London or not being Jack Thripper.
That'd be all of you fucked up.
Unless I knew they were all not sentient, which case, go nuts, right?
I'd still, no.
I don't know.
It'd be, it'd be gross.
You've never, you never save like outside of a town in Skyrim and then
mask everybody and then.
Okay.
So like in fallout and shit, I would totally do that.
Yeah.
You blow up Megaton, admit it.
Right now, but I mean, that's slightly different from like if it was fully immersion
and I'd like some woman where I was like pulling her guts out while she was screaming.
No, that's, that's a completely fair point.
I didn't mean to misrepresent that.
I'm fully of the opinion that if you play in Westworld, you're a monster.
Right.
Unless you're just there to go hunt treasure and, you know,
I guess fight operators or something, right?
You could play a white hat.
Yeah.
Totally there.
Yeah, I'm with you.
I'm defending this and then in circles.
Now we're getting sidetracked.
All right.
So moving forward.
Okay.
Fisher puts together the argument that nowadays the Puritans and Quakers sort of merged into
a group, which is now like the Progressives or the Blue Tribe or the educated coastal elites.
And then the Cavaliers and the Borderers kind of merged into what now would be like the
Conservatives or the Red Tribe or the Rednecks.
And that is where our modern culture war, at least in the U.S. comes from those two cultures
going at it.
And it does map out on the genotyped essay as well.
Like scarily accurate map that you can draw of the genetics of each of those groups.
And I believe it was people's voting record as well as their political beliefs.
The voting map was really interesting how well it mapped onto where those places were settled.
The horrifying part is the genetic part.
