really have a good grounding on like to me as a kid kind of made sense, like let's kill the bad
people. And by the time I was in my late 20s, I think I was sufficiently utilitarian to be against
it. But this this might have given me my one sentence. And I've used this sentence to target
against couple capital punishment in the last few years, or in the whatever year since I've
read this, which is like, if you're dead, you can't get better prison system aside, whatever,
you know, how bad it is, how expensive, whatever, if there's no hope for you to ever become a better
person, that's the most that's the biggest tragedy there is, right? So speaking of tragic universes,
Birch's law is our next less wrong post. All right. The law is a quote from a guy named Birch,
he was talking about SUVs. He says, I think people should have a right to be stupid. And if
they have that right, the market's going to respond by supplying as much stupidity as can be
sold. Eleazar says Birch's law is a special case of a more general rule. Just because your ethics
require an action doesn't mean the universe will exempt you from the consequences. If the universe
were fair, like a sympathetic human, the universe would understand that you had overriding ethical
reasons for your action and would exempt you from the usual penalties. The judge would say justifiable
homicide instead of murder and exempt you from the usual prison term. Well, the universe isn't fair,
and won't exempt you from the consequences. That was always my thing. And this, this is
kind of maybe part of the transhumanist manifesto, but the, the punishments seem to really outweigh
the crimes in the universe. For one second, I was checking my phone and then I get plowed over by a
bus. Like that's hardly fair. I'm usually very attentive, right? Or, you know, I am a peasant
in the 16th century who hasn't invented the smallpox vaccine. Now I get to dive smallpox.
Thanks, universe. It's just that the, the punishment scale is so severe in reality,
1.0, that I like the inspirational message from the last one. Like, all right, fine,
we'll see which one of us is still here. Yeah, it's also decoupled from, to some extent,
what you did wrong. I mean, like, in a just universe, there will be karma as well,
where if you did good things, good things would happen and bad things, bad things would happen.
But that would be dope. Yeah. I mean, to some extent, it does, but only to the extent that
you're either like, you know, building things that pay you back later or, you know, doing good
things and then the people that you helped are helping you in return and vice versa. But like,
only to an extent. Yeah, the universe isn't doing any of that and it doesn't care, you know,
what you did while no one's watching. Right, now that's a good point. And if the people are around,
like you said, I, there was somebody, somebody I know who was, he's been wheelchair bound for
35 years. He's got limited use of his hands, like enough to be online and I think do some online
gaming, but he was driving a drunk friend home and got hit by, I think somebody who, you know,
ran a red light or something, whatever it was, like this guy went out to go stop his friend from
driving drunk and he's been in a wheelchair for the rest of his life. Yeah, so it should be nice if
like, instead of that, he like found $50 the next day. Or something commensurate to being hit by a
bus, like something really awesome. Oh, yeah, totally. Yeah, right. So I guess I was trying to
think of, I mean, I was thinking of something commensurate until like picking up a friend,
right? Right. So, yeah, it'd be kind of cool if, I don't know,
he realized he was whatever, sitting a half of an oil well or something. I do like that the
example he picked is where we were literally just talking about people have a right to be stupid.
We cannot interfere with everyone's lives to that extent. And then the very next post is pointing
out, yeah, as if you're really believe that and you're going to stick to your ethical principles,
the market's going to sell people all these SUVs or homeopathic remedies or homeopathic remedies.
Yeah, like you can't escape the consequences of sticking with your ethical views here.
Yeah, as much as you don't want it to result in homeopathy, that's what you're going to get.
So that's why we sure you're good with those ethics. Yeah, that's why we should have classes
in school that teach you that homeopathy doesn't work and that faith healing doesn't work. And
this is, you know, they don't explicitly do that. Maybe they do now. They probably don't.
They don't. At least, yeah, it depends. Maybe if you get a nice private school education or
something, but I feel like private school tends to teach you about every single thing that is going
to be predating on ignorance like that. There's just too many of them in school. That's what they're
supposed to do. Who knew about Nigerian Prince scams when we were in school, right? We know about
them now. Yeah, I mean, you do know about them now, but I might have gotten some cursory guarding
against internet scams when I was in school. I got it from somewhere. The internet wasn't really
a big thing yet when I was in school. Certainly, there were no Nigerian princes yet.
It was budding when I was in school, too. I mean, this was right around the birth of Wikipedia,
maybe. So in any case, yeah, I'm torn on this, right? So here's another good quote to pull out
here, which was like, we don't send automobile manufacturers to jail, even though manufactured
cars kill an estimated 1.2 million people per year worldwide, roughly 2% of the death rate.
If you're going to do the response from the first post, while those idiots drive better,
he very quickly points out, not everyone who dies in an automobile accident is someone who
decided to drive the car. The tally of casualties includes pedestrians, includes passengers,
it includes the people you hit in the other cars, right? So really, all you and I are guilty of,
if we get hit by a car, is being dumb enough to live in a society that has cars. And that's to
really try and swallow the pill of, well, all the victims are stupid, is getting harder and harder
as the bodies pile up, right? We have so many cars in America because we value individual
freedom so much. Yeah, that's the thing. Sensible countries have trains. Yeah, he has this line
in here. He's like, well, oh yeah, it includes minor children who had to be pushed screaming
into a car on the way to school. He's good at driving some of those emotional beats.
But he says, and yet we still manufacture automobiles because, well, we're in a hurry.
And you're right, it should be nice if we had easy access to transportation or something.
In fact, even in Denver, they're raising the rates for the light rail, not much,
but it's going to be like seven or eight bucks for a day pass instead of, what, 580?
So almost the cost of a lift or a little under the cost of a car. But that's just kind of an
aside that, well, you'd be nice if we were going the other way and we're getting more
towards free transportation. Again, I like how even he is here, quote,
I don't even disagree with this decision to drive cars. Yeah, I drive a car myself. The point is
that the consequences don't change no matter how good the ethical justification sound. People who
died automobile accidents are still dead. End quote. I guess I'm now more hemming and hawing on this,
the distinction you brought it from the last post. It super pisses me off that I could be killed
because someone else says I have the right to be an idiot, right? Cool, you can buy all the
homeopathy you want, but you shouldn't be allowed to drive a car that's big enough to kill three
cars with the people in front of you on the highway. And yet you are. Yeah, the comments of
this less wrong post kind of devolved for a bit into an argument about whether SUVs are
particularly unethical. Yeah, I don't know enough about the safety. I know that all I know is that
my fiance drives a Forester and when my previous car was totaled by a Forester,
the guy who hit me cracked his license plate cover and he was completely fine. I don't think he
needed to take his car to the shop and my car was destroyed. So that SUV seems like a great
safety choice for him. Not so great for me. I turned out to be fine because he had the back of
my car, but I know this is like the essence of like liberty. So we're not going to solve this
dilemma at the end of our show, but I don't really know how to come down. The John Stuart Mills,
you know, on Liberty quote was my freedom to swing my fist ends where your face begins.
It sure is nice when you put it that neatly, but if I don't know where my fist is and I
can't quite see your face, how do I know if what I'm doing is impacting other people, right?
Yeah, who's to blame? Yeah. Is it the car manufacturers? Is it the civil engineers who
didn't design the roads to be as safe as they could be? Is it the individual driver?
So you put the blame where you can and if the driver was clearly doing something wrong,
then you blame them. If the car was defective, you blame the manufacturer.
So the fact that fucking God put us in these flimsy meat suits instead of indestructible
golem bodies. God.
If we could take God to court, we certainly would have by now, right?
Yeah. Yes, I guess the takeaway is to take it easy until you can upgrade out of your
flimsy meat suit and get some cool, shiny metal suit.
Or at least we get self-driving cars.
Yeah, that's the shorter term goal, maybe.
Self-driving cars get that death rate way down. That'd be pretty cool.
Yeah.
So who is Greg Burch? There's a link in the post which leads to an empty,
this domain maybe for sale page. So I'm assuming he is a guy who had a blog at some point.
We should jump on that domain.
Yeah, and I also don't see this one brought up very much, especially compared to the
post we talked about before the debate shouldn't be one-sided.
Why do you think that is? Usually when things have a cool name like
Burch's Law, they get brought up.
I have no idea.
I think because he coined it and it didn't take off.
Well, he coined a lot of things which it did take off.
Yeah, but this one maybe didn't catch traction.
Yeah. Which one will or won't.
And this one's not as a sink to some of the other things, right?
People have a right to be stupid and if they do, the market's going to respond by
supplying as much stupidity as can be sold.
That's pretty succinct actually.
It's succinct to us, but it's not as succinct as Occam's razor or
Hanlon's razor or something that you can summarize to non-rationalist and
they don't have to understand markets or anything like that, right?
Even in the rationality sphere, I don't see this one brought up though.
That's true.
And maybe because it's really depressing that you stick to your principles and the
market's still going to fuck you because it doesn't matter.
Yeah, it could just be random too, which things ended up getting quoted.
He does end it with saying we can suspend the jail penalty, but we can't suspend
the laws of physics.
Humanity hasn't had much luck suspending the laws of economics either,
which is a bit of a recurring theme throughout the sequences that
economics is pretty darn important and we understand a fair bit of it and you
aren't going to stop economic things from happening.
Yeah.
Like the market's supplying stupidity if you allow that.
And maybe it's not a good idea too either.
There might be an argument to be made that the positive externalities of having
cars outweighs the negative.
I don't know that I wouldn't endorse that, but I haven't done the math.
I almost would.
I don't know.
I only know at my office anyway one person who walks to work.
No, it used to be two.
So maybe there's the 200 people that work in my...
Well, maybe 3% of them walk to work, right?
All of us own cars, right?
Yeah. Well, except for actually one of them doesn't.
Because he lives near work, he lives near a store, so he's got his stuff figured out.
But yeah, the rest of us have cars and one large benefit is that I can work somewhere
that's more than a few miles away.
Yeah, we have mobility.
Yeah.
And I think anyone who owns a car has kind of revealed where they fall on this.
Well, what you do and what you want might be different, right?
I don't want to keep us going here, but I have a car because it would be radically
inconvenient for me not to.
Right.
And not because I think that they're great and everyone should have them, but because...
You're willing to risk your own death and the death of others for the convenience it provides,
especially because it's such a small risk.
Yeah. Okay.
And I try to mitigate that risk as much as possible.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
I do try to be a good driver.
That's driving is one of those things that for some reason feels like an
intensely personal thing to attack somebody on their skill of how good they are.
Okay.
Like, hold on, I think that I couldn't dig this up.
It's been 10, 15 years since I've read this, but attacking someone's ability to drive
is taken deeply personally, like attacking their sense of fashion.
Or their intelligence.
Or their intelligence.
It's like, if you say you're a bad driver, people take that personally.
Like, you have a bad sense of humor.
You have a bad sense of beauty or something.
On the flip side, everyone rates themselves as being an above average driver.
That's exactly...
Yeah, that's on the same side, not even, right?
People think that they're great at it.
And because if they're not, they see that as a personal attack.
That's weird.
Yeah.
Anyway.
Our less wrong posts for next time are The Scales of Justice, The Notebook of Rationality,
that's one, and Blue or Green on Regulation.
And we will have links for it at TheBazingConspiracy.com, like we always do.
Listener feedback on the last post, not last post, last episode that we aired was...
What did you call it?
Truth and winning.
Truth and winning, yeah.
We got a fair bit of feedback on that one.
De-Lind?
De-Lind?
De-Lined?
I'm not sure.
