No, that's to protect other people from you. All right, fair enough. Yuckaski just pointed
out that some poor, honest, not overwhelmingly educated mother of five is going to walk into
one of these stores and buy a Dr. Snake oil sulfuric acid drink for arthritis and die,
leaving her orphans to weep on national television. People took this as like a I'm against this for
this reason. Yeah. Here's my heart wrenching example thought experiment of why this is a bad idea.
And I'm not sure if this is Eleizer at this point when he made that argument
failing to model other humans or just maybe his audience or maybe it was deliberate setup to
make this awesome post. I have no idea. Right. Yeah, I'd lean more towards the ladder. Me too.
He's playing one level higher than us, right? So his thing was like, no, I was thinking a
simple factual observation. Why did some people think this was an argument in favor of regulation?
Right. It's like, well, because you're talking about orphans and dead, you know, dead nice moms
and stuff. This is this is the line that maybe top five slogans of the of the sequences,
what might be politics is the mind killer arguments are soldiers, the costs and drawbacks
you for favorite policy or enemy soldiers to be taxed by any means necessary. This is so pointing
out that your policy, even if you really like it, has a drawback is something you can't do. You
must attack that. Yeah. And that I mean, you see this, if you make any argument that and we've
talked about this before, and I know I keep saying that and then talking about it again,
but I'll stop apologizing then for talking about it again. I'm trying to think of anything that I
haven't used before, you know, guns or drugs, speed limits. What's what's that like a energy
supplement that might give you a heart attack? I guess that's a drug. No, but that's that's a good
example because like a fed has been banned on and off, it seems like a few times in this country.
And there's still some form of legal way to get it. But yeah, basically people take enough and
their hearts would explode and they would die. So someone who's in favor of that might say, look,
it gives me energy. I understand the danger. And I'm trying to find a good argument to shoot in
the back here. I guess I'm saying like, yeah, sure, have it, but somebody's going to get killed,
right? Yeah, for all the people that are actually using it in the correct dosage and
cycling it and whatever you might have to do, there's people that are taking it with five other
things with like coffee and then like two beers and then go into the gym and grinding it up and
snorting it. Yeah, you can't stop them. I mean, they make I remember what years ago, they were
selling a crystallized caffeine on thinkgeek.com where you could buy those cool nerdy things.
Yeah, they sold a lot of caffeine related products, which is cool because, you know,
nerds are tired. We need all the caffeine we can get. But I was just thinking the point where
it was abusive. Well, that's my point is like the first time when I saw that the salt shaker full
of caffeine, some kid is going to post a video of himself crushing that and doing a line of it on
YouTube. And, you know, when it comes out that three minutes later, that kid died, they're going
to take this thing off the market was the first thing I thought of. I don't think I'm arguing
against during favor regulation there. I was just pointing out like some kids going to die doing
this. It was much less sophisticated version. It wasn't even related. It was just the thought that
like, yeah, some kids going to die taking that stuff. There are some people that are way too proud
of their caffeine habit. And I'm like, dude, it's a problem. Don't be that proud of it. I've never
been I guess I've met those people. Yeah, it's like I need my three cups in the morning. I definitely
know that guy actually I'm thinking of one guy at work. But I happen to have a caffeine dependency.
I'm not proud of it. It's just like, it sucks. But I need to I need one next long vacation. I'll
get all ween myself off of it like I always do. But that's just how it goes after the months at
work. It's like, all right, you know, one caffeine pill, one extended release caffeine pill used to
be enough. Now it's a cup of green tea in the morning too. All right, now it's a cup of black
tea in the morning and a cup of green tea at lunch. And now it's now it's two teabags of chai in
the morning. Progressing up the colors of tea. Exactly. Eliozer basically says, well, he asks
in the post, why do we want our policy debates to be one sided? And actually answers it like
because we didn't evolve to go into political discussions rationally. That's not how our brains
work. I remember this being pretty eye opening for me when I first read it. Because previously,
if someone had asked, I would have said, of course, policy debates should be one sided,
because they're the same as questions of fact. After all, you can do science on policy,
propose a new policy idea, defend it with evidence of how well a similar policy worked
before lay out the present cons and then make a rational choice. Then you can do it and study it
and see how well it's doing and then maybe update in favor of it, of keeping it or changing it.
But of course, Eliozer is right here. First of all, most people would just never think of policy
as something that can or should be treated like science. And I wish I could remember the name of
it. I was trying to Google this before the show, but Scott had wrote an essay about this thought
experiment where what if we divided elections into the fun elections, which are about status
things? Which colors do we get to wear and who gets to be on TV and then about serious policy
things? And you pointed out a lot of policy is actually about determining which side gets the
status and the respect instead of what is the best choice here or what is going to benefit the
most number of people. Which side is right can be a matter of which values and ethics you have,
who you think deserves respect. You can't really study that.
I like that Eliozer also pointed out in this post that there's some people that will think that,
well, you just got to be tough. If someone went ahead and got that and then died from it,
it's their own damn fault. They shouldn't have been so stupid. They were using a dangerous
product. They didn't do their research. They deserve to get hurt. And Eliozer says that saying
that is not being tough-minded. I've definitely heard that argument in real life. Yeah. Whenever
people talk about the downside of guns, that people use them to get killed. Right. Or let me
rephrase that. People get killed on accident or they kill somebody on purpose. If someone
is being an idiot, I can think of interesting examples. But actually, this is a good one.
I can't dig it up because I wouldn't even know what to Google. But it was somebody,
the passenger was taping it. They were driving back from like a, they picked up their guns
and they're waving them around the car. And this was like, fuck you Obama kind of stuff.
And the person shot some, I forget whether the driver was brandishing the gun and shot the
passenger or the passenger shot the driver. But I think they crashed. And I'm not sure,
they must have lived because someone posted the video. So someone might, someone definitely
would have said about that incident. Oh, they're just fucking dumb. They deserved it. And I'm sorry,
but I wanted to reject that this isn't a straw man. This isn't a, this is a real people make all
the time. Yeah, I would even. I heard this a lot too. Yeah. I know some people who, if you told them
the dead mom story, they would be like, well, you know, that was her fall. Like not my problem.
Yeah. She, she didn't read the warnings or whatever. And it's kind of like,
you do have to have some empathy for people up to a point. You don't know their story.
Yeah. The stupid orphan should have been smarter and had a, had a smarter mom.
Yeah. They specifically said like, this is an uneducated woman. She's probably like impoverished.
Like, again, I don't know what her backstory is or whatever, but like, she's in pain from arthritis
and she didn't know which thing to take. Yeah. Eliezer says that is not being tough minded.
That's just closing your eyes and refusing to live in an unfair universe, pretending that it is
fair that they deserved it, right? That a real tough mindedness is saying, yes, sulfuric acid
is a horrible, painful death. And no, that mother of five didn't deserve it, but we're going to keep
the shops open anyway, because we did this cost benefit calculation. And ask, can you see a politician
saying that? And no, I cannot, because it's really hard to say, yes, this person died, and they didn't
deserve it. It's horrible. But the benefits outweigh the cost of that person dying and people
like them dying occasionally. And that is how the hell do you say that? Like in front of cameras,
you would be eviscerated. Well, and he, he puts a finer point on this and for a real life example,
the next post with speed limits. And it's, you know, I think the speed limit between here and
Fort Collins, which I take at least once a month is 75 miles an hour. When you get to like the
real part of the interstate, not going through the city, I pass an accident, at least half the
trips, I usually travel more on the holidays. And then I've passed three or four on the same trip,
especially when it's snowy out or something, right? If it was against a lot of manufactured cars
that went over 50 miles an hour, accidents would plummet. And yet that would never fly, right?
Because we've done this, we as in nobody has done this cost benefit analysis of saying we'd rather
go faster than live longer. The market has decided. Yeah, I guess, right? As the next essay would
say. Yeah, that's that's actually a good point. Actually, before we move on to the next one,
can I quote his ending lines from this one, which I found just inspirational as all fuck?
Absolutely. I didn't want to push push on. And I had one more thing to say on this, too,
before the last line. I still wanted to talk about this one. Yeah, I just thought we were
moving on. I saw a good teaser there. Sorry. No problem. Just to re re hit that beat of,
you know, people who buy dangerous products are stupid and deserve to get hurt.
Isn't tough minded. That's refusing to deal with living in an unfair universe.
I mean, if that landed right away and everyone got it, then good. It took me a couple of
readings to like really have that that sink in that like you're right. If I feel like it's okay
because that happened, I'm not really facing it. That's pretending that the universe is just.
Yeah. And maybe it was when I read the next post that it because that's the that's the whole next
post is about that point. I think it's kind of protecting yourself to like, Oh, well,
that can never happen to me because I would never be that stupid. Right. Yeah, that that too. And
and protecting yourself emotionally from the fact that like, you know, if you acknowledge how
bad things are, then it hurts, right? Yeah, well, like that could have been my mom. Yeah.
Oh, totally. I mean, not the same as this mom of five dying of sulfuric acid poisoning,
but my grandma got scammed by some computer conners a couple years ago. Only like 160 bucks,
but that's a very substantial part of her income or of her money. And I was furious. I'm not a
violent person, but I had fantasies about like tying this person to a chair and breaking their legs.
Like this was just someone defrauded my poor old grandmother. She's in her 80s. She hasn't.
And how do you, how do you justify that to yourself? I'm just going to steal this money
from this grandma. It's fucked up. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Sorry. Oh, she was stupid enough to
fall for my scam. That's enough to push a grandma into a fast reproductive strategy.
That's enough to make me give you a side long look, even though you just all you did was
model them correctly. I think Jess, I'm like, fuck you first. But that's a job well done.
And I have already forgiven you because I realized you were just making a very good point.
I won't make fun of your grandma again. Thank you. She's a sweetheart. Even pretending to be a
scammer. Yeah, I have to admit, I struggle with the ethics of permissiveness. Well, it seems obvious
that there should be laws preventing people from harming others. I really like swung back and
forth throughout my life about whether it's right to have laws protecting people from themselves.
I mean, seatbelt is a great example. That's the one I was going to bring up to.
There's a seatbelt law. And if you don't wear your seatbelt, basically the only person who's
going to suffer is you. But there's still a lot about it. I worked in volunteer EMS for a couple
of years. And I started working right at the point where seatbelt technology had gotten really good.
The people that have been in EMS for a really long time kept commenting on how fewer deaths
there were or like really terrible injuries. I hadn't seen it before, but it used to be.
Was the seatbelt shitty before? Yeah, the technology got a lot better. And a lot of things,
a lot of technology and cars got better. But it's just a belt. How does that hold
hard technology? There's engineering. And wait, was it this podcast or was something else I was
listening to about how seatbelts were designed by like men of like average stature? And it turns
out that if they're going around a woman's form, when they let the older models would just like
snap their necks. Oh, not every time. But it was it was way more likely because none of the
crash dust on me had a female figure. That certainly wasn't our podcast. No, you're right.
I'm thinking this was on Reddit somewhere. Yeah, I hadn't heard that, although it makes perfect
sense. I'm like five three and seatbelts don't fit me correctly. For a while, I had to wear one of
those like completely humiliating things that adjust your seatbelt smaller. But now I just
have a Korean car and it's run solved. What was I talking about? When I think about it from a
personal perspective, I'd still like to have someone out there smarter than me making guidelines.
Like scientists say this food is unhealthy and recommend not eating it for these reasons.
And then I could read the paper and choose what to do for myself.
Yeah, for that to be an effective method, you have to have access to the scientist recommendations
and the education necessary to understand why you should listen to them,
which goes back to the whole unfairness of it all because you can make a law banning the Dr.
Snakey snake oil, or you could have lots of warnings on the label. They brought that up in
the essay to this might kill you and they might train the staff in the store to like,
I really recommend against you taking this for these reasons. But this is also why we need to
avoid label creep. Like if you start putting a label for everything, people just stop paying
attention to labels because it doesn't give you any information. In my opinion, that's the one
really good argument against slapping. This is a GMO labels on things because it doesn't matter.
And it makes all the other labels less valuable. Like nowadays, when you buy a prescription bottle,
do you look at any of the labels at all? Yes. Okay, most people don't. We're savvy consumers,
but the rest of it, I mean, yeah, on average, I don't like every single medication causes dizziness.
Yes, I know. Why is that a label on this thing? Especially because in 98% of people,
it doesn't actually cause dizziness. Yeah, I was gonna use the GMO example thing too, because it
it dilutes. Yeah, exactly. Once you get the feeling that most of these labels are
inexplicable and are just kind of there because of bureaucracy and to cover someone's ass,
you stop paying attention to them. Yeah, I do agree with that. I think the point this essay is
trying to make is that in the course of raising the sanity waterline, we need to recognize and
not flinch from the fact that the far greater benefits of promoting individual liberty doesn't
cancel out the fact that there'll still be costs, which will include sad things like dead moms.
But the dead mom example does really upset me, which I think was the point. It makes me kind
of mad that we as a species get so busy fighting about politics that we prevent ourselves from
trying to do better. Taking the banned items store example, I could imagine a world where the blue
and the green party are fighting over like harmful things should be banned and individual
liberty must be promoted. And meanwhile, the uneducated dead mom never had a chance because
she was uneducated. And we actually live in a world where harmful things are banned,
but you can still choose to kill yourself by going to a faith healer or using homeopathic
medicine instead of opting to use science based medicine. And maybe if politicians really cared
about preventing dead moms, they'd be focusing on making education and science based healthcare
more accessible. That's something I could see a politician saying with a bit of politicizing to
the phrasing, right? You'd have to change the science based medicine. You know, consumer protection
through education, right? Yeah, we're not going to tell you guys what to do. We're going to just
tell you what we know. And we're going to institute programs that'll better our schools, flags,
children, bibles, I don't know, all of the stuff politicians say. But no, I like that analysis
a lot. I feel like I put myself down, but it's really not. I'm not an in depth enough reader to
have gotten that deep of an analysis out of it. So I appreciate that. Thank you. Well, I had to
think about it a lot too, because I just kept going back to the dead mom example and why it
bothered me. And then I had to tease that out. What was your badass quote you wanted to shut on?
Okay, he ends, Eliezer ends this saying, it's not always helping people to save them from the
consequences of their own actions. But I draw a moral line of capital punishment. If you're
dead, you can't learn from your mistakes. Unfortunately, the universe doesn't agree with me.
We'll see which one of us is still standing when this is over. I like that one a lot too.
That is such a badass Harry Potter James Evans Varys sort of quote. I love that ending. I think
when I was learning moral philosophy and trying to just I don't know why opinions were on things,
and I've showed you a lot to them since, but one of them was was capital punishment. I didn't
