They were great memes.
Does that count?
Yes.
Okay.
I just like Gerard Butler's voice, face, abs, arms, and everything, so...
Cape.
Cape?
The cape was important.
Yeah.
I think I just got really mad at the historical inaccuracy because I was in that phase.
That's exciting.
They're frowning in the theater.
My friends had dragged me to it.
I was like, that's not right.
That's not right.
They didn't actually have monsters on their side.
Not everyone was wearing eyeliner all the time.
Yes.
All right, Cavaliers.
Yeah.
Let's go on with that.
But yeah, all sorts of interesting facts about the Puritans.
If you guys read the post and you should because it's a really fantastic post that goes into
much more detail.
Yeah.
Even if you don't read the post, just read the interesting Puritan facts, Cavalier facts,
et cetera.
Yeah.
There's like a couple of bullet points of the most bizarre or like interesting things.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They are very bizarre and interesting.
Absolutely.
The Cavaliers, these were the nobles that had fought and lost the English Civil War.
They fled to Virginia as a destination for refugee nobles who did everything possible
to maintain the possession of oppressive supremacy to which they were accustomed.
So these were the slaveholders.
They brought tons of slaves with them and dentured servants.
They oppressed white people just as much as anyone else, but eventually they settled
on the black people as their slaves.
And yeah, they are the plantation and the Southern slave society that you think of when
you think of the old South.
It says Virginia was the opposite of Massachusetts.
Their homicide rate was sky high and people were actively encouraged to respond to slights
against their honor with duels for the rich and violence for the poor.
I like that distinction.
Yeah.
They were obsessed with gambling.
A lot of their fun was blood sports, hunting and the more rich you were, the bigger the
thing that you hunted was, that sort of thing.
They were not a society that I would be fond of.
And they were, as you said, people who believed they needed the ultimate freedom and the
only way you can be free from work if you have slaves and stuff.
Yeah.
I'm just kind of shaking my head and be a wilder man just imagining this hellscape and
it's kind of like Detroit 3.0, sounds like a nightmare.
Then I'm also, for every reason, hung up on the fact that only rich people got to duel
and then I'm wondering what the difference was between, you know, if somebody caught
poor people dueling, did they kick their asses or something or do you have to duel the poor
people?
Right.
I'm not going to dig into that with a duel.
Get my henchmen to beat them up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Whatever.
Oh, maybe he had to be, maybe it was dueling because he had guns and pistols and poor people
didn't have those.
Oh, yeah.
Poor people just didn't have the custom of having the ritual behind the violence that
just went off and hauled someone in the face.
That's actually a good point, right?
You have to duel if you're there to make a point and that's why there's the whole strategic
missing and stuff.
I'm just here to make you what yourself or to look big, but if my goal was to kick
your ass, I'm going to just run up and hit you with a brick when you're not looking,
right?
There's nothing dueling good sport about that.
I don't think it would count as defending your honor if you hit him with a brick when
they're not looking.
I didn't say anything in here, but defending, oh, it does say, well, responding to slights
up against your honor.
Yeah.
If I have to, I don't know, I guess I don't...
You'd have to be in that culture to know.
Yeah.
And I don't know a lot about honor fighting.
I understand that it exists, but the impulse wasn't really there for me.
If you've wronged me and I want to stop you, I'm not going to challenge you to a duel and
get my ass kicked because you'll beat me up, so I'm going to just sneak up on you and take
you out, right?
Yeah.
My goal is to win, not to look good.
Yeah.
It is kind of the more rational strategy to just be like a drive by shooting than to
be like, you know, I publicly challenge you.
We're going to take this many pieces and then turn and then it's kind of just random who
shoots who.
This is not a rationalist endorsement of drive by shooting.
No, but I mean, who thought that this...
It's a compelling case for drive by shootings.
I don't like really understand, you know, who thought that this, like, who shoots first,
you know, determines who lives or dies?
Like, I don't...
Well, it's like flipping a coin.
The outlawed dueling once pistols became more accurate because people were dying in
droves back in the day, that you just turn around and shoot at each other and most of
the time there would be a miss.
But do you keep shooting until someone dies or is it just like, well, we'll see.
Yeah, shoot one bullet, honor has been satisfied, usually is how it went.
But then who wins?
It doesn't matter who wins.
The point was to uphold your honor and honor has been satisfied once you have gone through
the dual ritual.
I completely sympathize with their confusion because it's like nobody, you know, we haven't
changed anything.
We went out there...
Well, no, you showed that the guy can't just like insult you in front of your woman.
You will take him to a duel and there will be some risk of injury or death, even if it's
really small.
Every now and then the bullet lands.
So if you want to insult me, you can do that.
But there's a chance you might get shot.
And really the important part is that all the people around you see that you're willing
to also risk death to stand up to him.
You don't just like take it lying down and be like, oh, yeah, I guess I am stupid looking.
I feel like a boxing match would have solved this better.
But I guess obviously because you're nobles and you're delicate hands and soft features.
Slapfest.
Take that nerd.
Okay.
We're moving on to the Quakers.
The Quakers who I did not realize this, but are basically modern Americans, at least
in my opinion.
Well, and the Quakers, I think this is like the group that we've all heard of where,
you know, from that example from last week where we talked about is what was it Nixon
at Quaker?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I mean, this is Stokeloquial.
Yeah.
Like the word Cavaliers around Puritan is Stokeloquial, but it's not a group you see.
I've never actually heard of the Cavaliers, like the, you know, Virginians or the specific
group of nobles being referred to as Cavaliers before this book.
Puritans and Quakers, I heard of, boarders and Cavaliers.
I weren't really terminology that I've been familiar with.
I've only heard of being Cavalier, like as an adjective, not as a group.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Not specifically this group of Virginians.
I've, you know, I've run into Cavaliers as a class you can play in various role-playing
games, but not as, yeah, as Virginians.
The new Quakers.
The new Cavalier of Jabbo 3.
Perfect.
Or are you just very polite to people until they go away?
Can I please have some loot?
You don't really need that axe.
Tell us about Quakers.
Quakers mandated universal religious tolerance, a ban, a total ban on military activity, and
a government based on checks and balances.
They also essentially invented modern abolitionism.
One of the interesting things about Quakers is they basically tolerated themselves out
existence. They were so welcoming to religious minorities and immigrants that those groups
took up shop in Pennsylvania and ended its status as a Quaker society. But on the plus side,
the Pennsylvanians became the thought leaders of the entire Mid-Atlantic region, and we can
really trace back a lot of our culture. I mean, everything I said up there is kind of what we
have right now, right? At least ideally. Yeah, we don't have a total ban on military activity,
that would be nice. Yeah, it would. But we do have a general kind of aversion to violence,
at least just seeing it. Is this why you want a high fence for entering the
rationalist community so we don't get tolerated out of existence, or so we don't tolerate ourselves
out of existence? I think you wanted a threshold, like a barrier to entry. I wanted some barrier
to entry. Yeah, it doesn't necessarily have to be like high though. I don't know how high to put
my hand to have some barrier. Right, okay. Anyway. Yeah, there's this wonderful quote that Scott wrote,
I'm just going to read the whole thing. He says, it occurs to me that William Penn might be, oh,
William Penn, founder of Pennsylvania, this first Quaker, he was responsible for them.
It occurs to me that William Penn might be literally the single most successful person in
history. He started out as a minor noble, following a religious sect that everyone despised,
and managed to export its principles to Pennsylvania, where they flourished and multiplied.
Pennsylvania then managed to export its principles to the United States, and the United States
exported them to the world. I'm not sure how much of the suspiciously Quaker character of
modern society is a direct result of William Penn, but he was in one heck of a right place
at one heck of a right time. I'm like, that is just fucking inspiring, man. Yeah, and it kind of
leads you to question the concept that the Quakers tolerated themselves out of existence,
because did they really? Or did they take over everything? It's one of those things where every
now and then, like, I hear about how, you know, Genghis Khan raped his way across Asia, and like
one third of all men now are descended from Genghis Khan's father. Was it one third of all
men, or just Asian men? Oh, sorry, one third of all Asian men are descended from Genghis Khan's
father, and I mean, that sort of seems like a big impact, but on the other hand, if one third of
all Asian men have your genetics, that's, your contribution has been so diffused that there's
really nothing left there anymore, right? And you didn't pass your ideology down, we're not, like,
one third of Asians aren't warlords. Right, it's like, what does it matter if your genes are still
there, vastly diluted across a diverse pool of humans? Whereas, like, this person has the things
that he believed in, and that he wanted to, to give to humanity, spreading out all across this
country and slowly seeping into the rest of the world. That's, that's pretty fucking awesome. And,
you know, I don't know how many kids he had, but it probably wasn't nearly as many as Genghis Khan.
And yeah, it doesn't really matter, right? The thought children that are still flourishing is
more important. Yeah. Also, so it makes me feel really good about my decision to not have biological
children. There you go. Now you just need to be as successful as William Penn or maybe his distant
