By a fair amount, I mean two, which is a lot of nonfiction for me. I generally only read fiction.
Which are the two? One is on the run, which is a story about living on the run from the cops,
literally in inner America, inner city America. It's really fucking interesting. I was having
a hard time feeling sympathy for these people because they do it to themselves to some extent.
There's like, yeah, they seem to act against their own interests. Yeah, they're like,
they have a beef with a guy and they start shooting at each other. Like literally,
they're just driving past each other in the street. They see him, pull a gun, start shooting.
And I'm like, yeah, when the girl in the house across the street gets hit by your bullet,
obviously you should go to jail for that. And even if no one gets hit, you shouldn't just be
just start charging your guns in the street. I understand why the cops are after you. But on
the other hand, they're driven to it because if they don't do that, then people will see that
they're weak and abuse them and take their stuff and keep picking on them. There's this whole,
they have to maintain this facade of like, if you do something to slight me, I will come back
with a lot of violence to you. And oh, it's this horrible cycle of poverty and shit.
Honor cultures, man. Yeah. Yeah, it's, it's not a recipe for happiness. I mean, I'm saying that
from a comfortable position of not living there. But how happy can you be when you're afraid that
somebody's going to shoot up your house or retaliate and kill your family or your friends or
whatever, right? Yeah, it's got to be a really high stress environment. I would think so.
And it's really high stress for all your family members because the police regularly raid your
house, knock over all your shit, bust down your door looking for your son or your brother or your
lover. And you didn't do anything. But the police know if they can keep putting pressure on you and
making your life miserable, you'll try to get him to turn himself in or just, you know, turn him
out and be like, look, you got to stay somewhere else. I'm sick of the police destroying my life.
And it's the whole, the whole thing is fucked up. Anyways, um, what was booked to book to was
fuck was the name of it now, days of, I think it was like days of destruction, days of revolt,
something like that. And that one like just painted the grimest ass picture of a life on
a Indian reservation. Oh man. When did that take place? Now. Modern. Contemporary. Yeah, it was
due just the amount of drug abuse and drinking and child neglect and how no one has any future.
And they really just can't do anything about it. So what else are they going to do?
I know crushing hopelessness. Yeah, I know a guy. I mean, my brother met a guy in the military who
came from Indian reservation and he was like, yeah, that is the worst place in the world. I
am so glad for this opportunity to have gotten myself out. I met a guy when I went to the
writers of the future for the one week in Los Angeles. He was also came from an Indian reservation.
His mom actually renounced her Indian tribal status. Yeah, status. And he, he works now and in a
drug rehab facility and he's like, got his life on point, you know, he, but he still came from
that and he talked about some of that shit. And I'm like, that is just, I'm really fucking proud
of you that you managed to pull yourself out of that and your mom because, you know, you couldn't
have done it without her doing, doing her part too. Yeah, that's consistent with everything I hear
about life there. And it's one of those things to where like, I don't know, an untradable person
could say that they've chosen that life for themselves to like anyone could just get up and
walk away. But I mean, it's a bit of a walk to like the next place and be nothing's that simple,
you know, it, you've got ties, you've got, you know, your friends and family, you've got obligations.
And what are you going to do? Just walk into the city and be like, look, I've never held a job.
I don't have a driver's license. Can I, can I have an apartment and a job, please? Yeah, come on.
And I mean, that's, that's where I see like the fast life strategy thing making sense. You live in
an unpredictable, dangerous environment. You aren't going to put that much effort into planning for
the next 20, 40 years. You're much more concerned about, you know, just getting through the next
month or two and living these more risky fast life strategies. Yeah, you might as well get
teen pregnant and do some drugs because what else is going to make you happy or fulfilled?
Right. What else is there to do? You might like, you know, have a kid that you can,
I mean, sometimes it's just, I don't care. I'm not using protection, whatever. But sometimes,
you know, like this kid will give me some joy and some meaning in my life.
And that's really my, my thing that I was going to drive out with this episode today is that
culture is really fucking important. And it's, I'm not really that surprised with the culture wars
being as virulent as they are, because everyone seems to realize this on some level. I kind of
feel like this is like the steel man of racism, that racists are looking at it wrong. They're like,
black people are dumb and violent or, you know, Indians are all drunks or whatever,
because it's in their genes. Whereas the white genes are so much better. Look at what we've
done with this country, right? Yeah, look at the appellations. Yeah, exactly. It's got nothing to
do with genes. You've seen Neil deGrasse Tyson, right? There are tons of people with black genes
that are successful and good, slow life strategy people. The problem is with culture. And when
you're raised in that sort of culture, it's going to shape everything you do. Even if you do manage
to get out of it, it'll, it'll shape your life outlook for quite a while. And it's, it's self
perpetuating. So I kind of understand what like wanting to limit immigration a bit, because
it takes a while to assimilate different cultures, right? And I'm not saying that necessarily bad,
like every first generation immigrant I've ever met has the most insane work ethic ever. My parents
are first generation immigrants. My dad, I basically never saw him and don't have a good
relationship with him because he would work 12 hour days, weekdays and like 10 hour days on
weekends. There was never a time when I would see him. The I was married to a Hispanic girl,
my first marriage. Her dad was from Mexico and he had the same thing. He managed to create his own
company, same as my dad, because he just worked all the goddamn time to provide for his family. So
there's a very strong work ethic, but I can also see people being scared that like,
we don't want our culture tainted that much because culture is very important and it takes
a while to assimilate people into cultures. I've got a lot to respond to there because you said a
lot of things, but I'll pick an easy one first. And that's, do you think the, the intense work
ethic from many first generation immigrants comes from like the fact like, Hey, if I don't make it
here, they're going to send me home and home sucks. That's why I'm here. Not necessarily. I think
it's more of an innate thing because my parents were here on the, in the 80s, there was the whole
cold war going on. So they, they came from a Soviet country. So they got refugee status.
You know, they were in for as long as they didn't like commit any felonies or anything,
but no, they just wanted a better life. They were tired of living how it was back then and they
wanted their children to have more. That's awesome. I can, I can dig that. You know, it's a drag that
has the downside of like, I want my kids to have more. I won't see them until they're 30, but
right. I wanted to mention, and there's plenty of hard working, you know,
American, it's not just immigrants that work hard. There's plenty of Americans that work hard too.
Right. Did you happen to listen to episode 144, the newest episode of Sam Harris's podcast,
Conquering Hate? Yes. Yeah. So this is, this is related. He had a Dia Khan on and she made some
good documentaries, which I'm planning on seeing because they're on Netflix, but they talked about
how she, because she went to like, what was one of them called white, right? She went to like
the Charlottesville rides and stuff with the Nazis. And she's, she's a Muslim immigrant. She was
there. They knew she was making a documentary and stuff. But her whole thing was, I would almost
call it an absurd level of reaching across the aisle and to try and humanize people and talk with
them and whatever. But mostly your average run of the mill racist asshole, isn't your stereotypical
standard racist asshole. They're, for the most part, making arguments of like, you know, no,
it's genetic or, you know, no, it's, it's, it's not me. They're couching it like these, these
positions of kind of like what you were saying, the steel man of racism and, and you certainly
weren't either. I don't think endorsing that it was accurate, but that's, that's where they're
coming from. I wish I could just grab racists and be like, it's not about the genetics, you stupid
motherfucker. It's about the culture. And you would be the same way if you were raised in that. Maybe
I'll ask a racist at some point, like what they actually think, because I don't know. I guess
I don't know any racists who have any actual genetic knowledge. I only know like pre-racists.
My dad's a racist. He absolutely wouldn't couch it either in the, well, I don't know. I think he
would actually make the genetic argument. I don't know if he like understands genetics. He wouldn't
call it that, but he would just say there's something about them that makes them worse or
something. Yeah, I like that. You know, some people are born this way and then some aren't.
I think that's what my dad would say too. And yet like, he's not educated in genetics either,
but I don't really know. I guess it'd be interesting to have a talk with somebody where
this didn't fall apart in three minutes. Like, I don't know. I was reflecting on this lately,
because not that I don't have enough racist friends, but that like, I think I have one Muslim
friend and he's not a practicing Muslim. And then I was thinking like, is that like bigoted?
Should I reach out more? And I was like, well, I have like, you know, two dozen friends and I
can't think of any religious friends I have. Let me rephrase that. After digging, I thought of,
I have one Christian friend and one Jewish friend. And I don't think the Jewish friend is actually a
practicing Jew. Or I think he's a practicing Jew. I don't think he's a believing Jew. So I was like,
okay, my lack of Muslim friends doesn't mean that like I, I should probably have more friends in
the first place. But I don't think it's like I'm weeding people out. It's that I just don't know.
It's not like there's a big Muslim population in the area. There kind of is. I mean, I live
three minutes from a mosque, but like, I guess how am I going to make friends? Like,
just walk up and talk to people. That sounds scary. Right. I don't do that in real life. Like,
I'm not going to go try to make friends. I guess what I came to is that I somehow live in a bubble
where I have like no religious friends, even though most people in the country are religious.
The dark matter conservative world. Yeah, I love that. This is sort of how I think about
concern or what young earth creationists or something, where he there's like a one he did
this fun. This is a Slate Star Code X post where he talked about like, the absurd math of like the
sheer odds of the what a couple hundred people he knew or something. Now none of them were
young earth creationists, but they make up like 40% of Americans. So they're like,
the odds of this happening by chance are vanishingly small. So what the hell is going on here?
Do you remember which one that was? I'm sure if we looked up dark matter and creationist.
Right. We'll find it and put a link to it because it's a fun one. Yeah.
I didn't want to say that kind of a counter argument to your still man of racism.
Please. You know, the concept of we shouldn't bring immigrants in because they're going to dilute
the American culture that we shouldn't bring them in. Well, that yeah, we should be like,
I can see how some people might want to throttle it. I think I think you're
and also there's a temptation that I had to I had to resist to breathe life into your
steel man argument. Yeah. I think you're understanding the position. I'm not sure
of what you're if you're what your endorsements are what your actual convictions are.
But like if that was an actual threat, I would be worried. But I think we have
over like what 300 million people in the US and taking a few tens of thousands of immigrants
every year isn't going to alter that that much. Just to be clear, I didn't mean to cut you off.
I just wanted to make sure that you weren't standing up like here's why I'm here's why
racist arguments are valid. No, no, but I mean, I just want to I don't want to leave anyone
someone could be against open borders and still be a good person. I just didn't want to let anyone
quote mine and take this the wrong way. So yeah, that was a good clarification. I actually
understood that as just literally here's a steel man of this position. Not this is my position.
But like how did the Quakers do it though? The Quakers sort of aren't around. But I think
their ideas were just so good and worked so well that they managed to propagate when that,
you know, maybe I'm biased, but they're the sustainable ones, right? If you browbeat and
burn all your time in penance and church and whatever and your bad parents, whatever you're
going to weed out. If you're, I mean, the orders are still around to basically, we have an entire
subculture of that in the US. We do, but they're not like flourishing that they're not. Let me
think of flourishing. They're not the maybe they are. That's why I said maybe I'm biased, but I'm
maybe in office. Maybe there's yeah, maybe there's there's two
memetically fit ways to survive. And one is to like kick ass and take names. And the other one
is to say like, Hey, look, here's here's who we are here, whatever the passive, not pacifist per
say, but the the elitist. Yeah, I don't know. Elitist even sounds different. But I just the
here's the culture. Here's here's all the cool stuff we can do when we settle down and build
things. Don't you guys want some of this too? But we can give you the tools for it. Huh? That's
a slow slide. Yeah, exactly. Talking about fast and slow. And that's my point. Yeah, you're right.
Yeah, that neither of them evolutionarily or evolutionarily speaking, they're both
successful strategies. It depends on your circumstances, whether you're in an unpredictable
environment or a predictable stable environment. Yeah, so I wouldn't actually say maybe the
Quakers were more memetically fit. So what did they do that one though? I think they made society
more stable, so that their still life strategy was more fit. Yeah, if you change the environment.
And of course, like, that's not an easy thing to do. That'd be great, you know, run for office,
I'm going to change everything and make it better. But now we see that our goal is to make society
more stable, right? Well, and they did too, they founded the country with with the idea of keeping,
you know, a monarchy at bay and but we don't want any general chaos is what I'm saying.
Right. Keep things predictable, stable. Yeah, I agree. I mean, it's nice and relaxing to be able
to have a plan, right? I mean, you know, a microcosmic example of this that some people might be able
to relate to is like having a work schedule that isn't eight to five. And you get your work schedule
sometimes a few days before you go before your shift starts. So like, you know, hey,
are you free, you know, next Saturday? Oh, I don't know yet. Schedules not posted to Monday.
So like, just even that little level of like, you can't plan for stuff. And I know this is like
the dumbest example when we're talking about the the stakes involved, but I'm trying to think of
something that the average person can relate to. And having had a fairly stable life in a
fairly progressive area, my guess, very progressive area, I don't know. Denver. Denver is very
progressive. Okay. Yeah, I mean, compared to the compared to the hell scapes of, you know, the
Appalachian, whatever. Well, yeah, even compared to, I think, the average city in the United States.
Probably. But in any case, that's like the smallest examples of just like, the kind of
uncertainty you get when not being able to plan stuff. And so if your if your life is that chaotic,
then things are stressful and weird, right? So there was a whole other thing here about the four
strategies that we see commonly, and maybe in a future episode, we'll get to those because
they're really fun. And I would like to talk about them. But I think I covered basically what I
wanted to and we're at a good point here to move on to the less wrong or whatever.
Yeah, unless you had any final thoughts, Jess. No, this is a good spot. And yeah, we should
save the four categories for later, because there's a lot to talk about here. You can kind of map
them onto turtles too. Can map them on all kinds of things. Yeah. Okay, less wrong posts. Let's do it.
Alrighty. Our first one was policy debates should not appear one sided, which I know we've talked
about explicitly at least twice. So we can I want to go over it again, because it's one of the best
post. Well, it's hard to pick the best. If I was making a list of top 10, it would definitely make
it. Let's put it that way. Agreed. And it's really relevant. Yeah, it's really relevant. It was
relevant more than two years ago, though, too. Before everything went crazy and policy debates
were super one sided. So the idea is that Robin Hansen had this kind of thought experiment of
the black, the black market store or something. The band things store. That's right. Yeah, we've
talked about this more than once on the podcast. Yeah. And so the idea you can go in and buy guns,
poisons, whatever, fake drugs, real drugs, anything things that have been I'm not sure about guns
necessarily, not things that are illegal, but things that have been banned for you know, safety
reasons or whatever. Things that would protect you from yourself. Yes. Anything, any law that's
designed to protect you from yourself, you could go ahead and buy it at the store. Cool. Like you
couldn't go in there and buy rocket launchers. That's why I can't have a rocket launcher, right?
