Like, you don't, you know, you can get up and move if you hate where you're from,
but you can't get up and change your genes if you hate where your genes are from, right?
Right.
I certainly would like to believe, I know that it's not settled science, but I think it's,
there's enough ambiguity there, but I don't have to reluctantly settle on the claim I don't
like, which is that if you have shitty genes, you're a shitty person.
Not just like you have bad luck.
You know, if you're short, you're short, whatever.
But like, hey, you come from, you know, a long line of murderous assholes.
Congratulations, you're gonna be an asshole your whole life, right?
So.
I mean, everything is partially genetic, right?
There's nothing that is not influenced by the genes, but no, I totally agree that I don't
think it is, I don't think genes are destiny.
Yeah, you don't get to pick your culture either, though.
Right.
Which I believe was brought up in the essay.
But you kind of can now in that, like, if you hate where you're from, you know, if you have the,
some people have the mobility to get up and leave, right?
Yeah.
I mean, less so probably if you live in the Appalachians though.
Totally.
That's a good point.
Or there's the thing that I pulled, if you live in the Middle East, Scott Alexander says,
this is in the direct quote, I paraphrase a little bit.
Regression acknowledged the importance of culture when we admit that maybe making the
Middle East exactly like America in every way is more of a long-term project than something
that will happen as soon as we kick out the latest dictator and get treated as liberators.
Part of us may still want to believe that pure reason is the universal solvent,
that those Afghans will come around once they realize that being a secular liberal democracy
is obviously great, but we keep having deep culture shoved in our faces again and again,
and we don't know how to get rid of it.
This has led to reasonable speculation that some aspects of it might even be genetic,
something which would explain a lot, although not its ability to acculturate recent arrivals.
And the main thing I got out of this is that where you come from and the culture in that area
is really fucking important.
And you can't just like talk to people and reason to them and make them realize that
one way is better or another, they have this background that informs everything.
Yeah, it's really interesting and I wish that I'll be on seed groups and kind of the explanations
for the political and cultural influence was better known, so it could come up more in the
context of discussion about generational trauma, like people still discussing whether it's real
and if so how long and far reaching its effects can be.
This is usually brought up unfortunately in the context of race with black Americans who are
the descendants of slaves or Native Americans, and it also factors into more recent discussions
around immigrants and refugees, but here's a perfect example of it happening to white people,
too, the boarders, the cavaliers, a culture where there's a history of violence and trauma
that's continued to affect the education and employment rates, crime, drug use, depression,
suicide, and maybe it's a problem people don't like to talk about because kind of like religion,
maybe we tend to be over tolerant of people's culture.
Like people feel icky telling others, I would, this might be a bad culture for you,
and people who have grown up in that culture are understandably defensive of it,
like what Stephen was saying, there's something romantic about it, too.
Like, you know, as a border you can still have aspects of your culture you can be proud of,
like strength, honor, bravery, and people don't like to hear someone coming in from some other
culture and telling them, well you need to change, and how do you even change a culture,
even if you agree it's bad, like split the people up, move them away, re-educate them,
that like didn't work so well for the Native Americans and it's pretty terrible to think about.
I think it's certainly harder than like killing a lot of them and saying, all right,
you survivors, you're going to start coming to our schools and we'll show you how great we are,
we're going to put you in our clothes and whatever, that's not the way anyone should,
that's not, that's A, not the right, like morally right way to do anything and it's probably not
going to work. Yeah, it's just going to make them hate you, and cause that trauma that can
transcend generations. One of the very bad wizards wrote that book on honor cultures.
Yeah, Tamler. Yeah, I forget, I always can never put their names together. I know what
their names are but not which, not which, what, not which name belongs to which voice.
Right, right. Yeah, and I- Well I, the way I remember it is that David Navarro has a Hispanic
name and sure enough he's Hispanic. Emyash here with another correction. I said Dave Navarro,
I meant Dave Pizarro. Dave Navarro is a guitarist and sexist member of Red Hot Chili Peppers,
whereas Dave Pizarro is a professor of psychology and a very bad wizard.
And Tamler has sort of like a weird name and oh yeah, it turns out he's Jewish so, okay,
could be one of those more traditional Jewish names. Can you tell from how they sound which
one's which? Uh, yeah. Oh, I can't. Oh, okay. Like I can tell their voices apart. Oh yeah. But I
don't know which ones, I still don't know which sound belongs to which name. Okay, so Tamler
sounds more like, if you say Jewish, we've got to cut it out Emyash. No, I'm not going to say
Jewish. Good, we got to cut that out then. Tamler sounds more like what I would think of as a sort
of professorial but kind of also like put upon. His voice to me sounds like he's under some pressure
all the time, whereas Dave sounds more like kind of relaxed and he's almost got sort of a surfer
vibe a little bit to his voice, in my opinion. Whoa, Jude. Not quite to that extent but just
a little bit of surfer there. Like his surfing days are behind him but he knows how to surf.
Right, he knows how to chill. All right. Why doesn't surfer culture more prevalent?
Most of the land isn't coastal. Yeah, although I did go to a taco shop in Denver and it was surf
themed and they just had surfboards on the walls and like I was like, okay, yeah, that was it. And
I was just laughing like there's not an ocean anywhere near here, right? No. I was there with
Otto but she was like, well, there's snowboarding. That's kind of the same.
I saw like my first, like the people that I knew I've seen them before but in high school,
the some people I knew became like those cosplaying cowboys 24-7 and it'd be great seeing them get
out of there like they're Honda Civic and then step out with their boots and they've already got
their hat on because they've been driving to school with it on and I'm like, have you ever
seen a cow? But it's also as much as I dislike border or culture, I will have to admit it's
useful having those sorts of people around because they make up most of the the military
forces in the US. Yeah, totally. And a lot of manual labor too. I mean, I mean, the appellations
you think of mining. Right. Yeah, mining all that clean coal I keep hearing about.
Yeah, as long as it's useful to have soldiers and laborers, then they're people who want to fight
labor and it's nice to have them around. It's nice to have things mined for you and
wars fought for you. But yeah, totally. I'm not going to do that shit. It ends up being a kind of
weird hierarchy of the people that don't have to fight or mine and the ones that do because
that's what's available to them. Yeah. Yeah. So speaking of how discouraging it is that some
of your culture and your attitudes may be genetically predetermined. Sounds like a nice
segue into evolutionary psychopathology. Yeah. Although did you want to read your little comment
at the end there? I mean, if you if you read this on Scott Alexander's post, it's like part four,
the borderers or something. And he's got it broken up. The semicolon between or the colon
between part four and borderers. Those are all hyperlinks to civilization characters,
which I thought was kind of fun that he snuck those in. Yeah, I didn't know that I didn't either.
I need to go back and yeah, he was big on server. So yeah, evolutionary psychopathology
is the next book. And this book makes the case that that there's two major reproductive
stress. Okay, so first of all, it is already accepted that there's two major reproductive
strategies in the general animal kingdom. There's the have tons of kids that you put very little
effort into like fish do. And there's the have one kid that you put a ton of effort into,
like an elephant does or a human's do quickly to sum up the two, the two ways to reproduce.
He calls them Dell. What's his name? Delgadish? Sounds more Italian than Spanish to me. I'm
going to be going to try it. So okay, that guy, the author, the author, Del G. Let's call him
Del G, the G of the G. He has them broken up into what he calls fast and slow strategies.
The fast strategy is like live fast, die young. They're well adapted for unpredictable, dangerous
environments. Each organism has a pretty good chance of dying randomly in some unavoidable way
before adulthood. The species survives by by sheer numbers. Fast organisms grow up as quickly as
possible in order to maximize the chance of reaching reproductive age before they unpredictably
die. They should mate with anybody around to maximize the chances of mating before they
unpredictably die. They should ignore their offspring since they expect most offspring to
unpredictably die. And since they have too many to take care of anyway, they should be willing to
take risks since the downside death without reproducing is already the default. And the
upside becoming one of the few individuals to give birth to 10,000 offspring is high.
So I'm just thinking of those beautiful videos of turtle eggs hatching and dozens of turtles
just crawling towards the sea. Frantically running towards the sea while seagulls pick them up.
Yeah, I like the nice ones where you don't watch them being ripped apart by birds.
Those are all I edited not to show that. I was thinking about, this is an aggression,
but now that I'm thinking about baby turtles, here we go. The sea whirlwind videos from back in
the day where he'd be showing them trying to cross this rock or something. It's like I can't
help them because I don't want to interfere with the environment. I'm like, yeah, but humans already
kill so many turtles. Like if you help this little one, yeah, sure, there's going to be one more
coming from this beach that might not otherwise would have. But how many of the ones that just got
in the water are choking on trash right now? So I think a case can be made for helping those
turtles into the water if you ever evolved the ability to not choke on trash. He just helped
them all along. Well, you're helping them into the water. You're not helping them once they're
in the trash. Okay, so that's my turtle side point. So then slow producers are going to be the
slow strategy ones are going to be long-term investments. I think they use elephants a
lot in the book review, but humans, I guess, maybe other primates, are there a ton? I feel
like we're outnumbered by, I feel like cats are like cats and dogs are kind of...
Yeah, they have litters. These are kind of oversimplifications, these two categories.
Yeah, but they seem kind of middle because like, you know, they might raise their young for two
or three years. It's true. They invest a lot more. They invest more, they invest way less than like
fish and turtles, but more than, excuse me, but less than like elephants and people. So anyway.
Slow strategy is well adapted to safer environments or predictable, complex
environments whose intricacies can be mastered with enough time and effort. Slow strategy
animals may take a long time to grow up since they need to achieve mastery before leaving
their parents. They might be very picky maters since they have all the time in the world to choose.
We'll only have a few children each and need to make sure that each of these children has the best
genes possible. They should work hard to raise their offspring since each individual child represents
a substantial part of the prospects of their genetic line. They should avoid risks since the
downside, death without reproducing would be catastrophically worse than default. And the
upside, giving birth to a few offspring of the next generation, is what they should expect anyway.
And the interesting thing that this book brings up is that what if these life history strategies
differ not just across species, but across individuals of the same species? Specifically,
what if this theory applied within the human population? The author suggests that these traits
and predispositions to fast versus slow life history in general are caused by a gene-to-environment
interaction, which was really fucking cool. It's fun to think about, and then it goes on to make a
very compelling case for that sort of thing, but I do feel like it would be more like drawing an
analogy. I don't think it makes sense to say that some fish are slow.
Yeah, I don't think it would work for fish, but I think he made a compelling point about the human
thing. Yeah, and yet how could that possibly be the case if all of our ancestors were slow? Well,
they were slow comparative to other things. But they weren't, though. He points out the case of...
But we weren't having litters of a thousand. No, no, we weren't having litters of a thousand,
but some of us were raping our way across Asia, for example. He points out that lots of, well,
first of all, lots of women tend to find violent males attractive, which is interesting. But yeah,
the violent criminals often have had sex multiple times before they hit 20.
I did click that link. That wasn't just a disappointing stereotype. I guess what I was
getting at was like, it's not even a theory. The observation that there are fast and slower
producers, you can then, I think, model that into human behavior. But to say what if it applies here,
it's like, I don't think it is a thing that applies here, but we can use that sort of model
for this. It's kind of a nitpick. It works better as an analogy than to say that there's two discrete
subtypes of human that we can categorize. No, no, I wouldn't say there's subtypes of human at all.
Well, there's strategies that people use, and they may or may not have a genetic component,
but I'm also skeptical of the fact that they're, you know, like, what's the mechanism for this
genetic component? They talk about epigenes and the mechanism looking around at the world.
Well, I mean, that's fairly well accepted with things like if you don't have a lot of nutrition
early in life, you have more of a propensity to hoard what nutrition you do have and have a
slower metabolism. So you tend to obesity in older age. It's, yeah, it's tough and like addiction
runs in families and stuff. And yet like, it's hard to say how much of that is just like, you
know, being around drunk parents or whole life or something. But well, there's a lot of things that
are only turned on if the right environmental factor is pressured into you, right? Yeah, a lot
of people have genes for schizophrenia, but it's not necessarily activated unless something happens.
That said, there's a lot of woo surrounding epigenetics too. So yeah, there is Google Google
carefully and make sure if you talk to people that they know what they're talking about. I had
some ridiculous science teacher once. Well, she taught science, she wasn't a science teacher. I'm
not going to give her that title. She was of the opinion. She was also like a registered chiropractor.
I think of the same like original school of like, I can align your energy and cure your cancer.
Chockers. Yeah, basically. Back chockers. Yeah. But I had a friend who then died a couple years
later. He had a not cystic fibrosis. It was something else. It was some degenerate birth
disorder. I was a small kid. He was like 75% of my size and he died in his early 20s.
And I was talking to her about that because she was saying, with epigenetics, you can tune
your environment and do whatever. And I was like, you're going to tell him that with diet
exercise, he can cure his illness and live. And she's like, I asked him, I gave her a name and
gave in front of the class. I gave her his name and everything. He didn't go to that school.
Okay. I knew him in high school. So it didn't matter. She was like, Oh, yeah, I think, you know,
we could talk about that. I was like, well, then fuck you, you quack. So anyway, I'm not trying to
that's my rant on epigenetics. But there's real science there, obviously. Yeah. I mean,
there is some science with epigenetics. The thing is, I'm not trying to say it's genetic,
because my whole thesis with this episode is that culture is very important. Everything is at
least slightly influenced by genetics, right? There is nothing that isn't influenced by genetics.
But in my opinion, it's the culture that is the far more important thing. And I've just,
I've lately been reading a fair amount of books on the more impoverished parts of the country.
