Posted, we're somewhat like the capes from Worm.
Our triggering events, usually related to losing religion and or having strained family
relationships, happened in our childhoods, speaking of rationalists.
Losing that source of easy happiness we managed to not join or be expelled by many other communities,
sowing in the seeds of introversion and the distrust of the authority.
Whatever powers we got, they cut both ways.
Seeing all the inadequacies and not being able to enact change on anything but the
smallest systems is basically a form of psychological torture.
There's a reason for our community lacking L-S-O-A-Bs, I don't know what that is.
That was the Lucky Sons of Bitches.
And having plenty of people struggling with depression, also not great for PR.
We are unable to combine our forces and act like a political movement.
It would be really hard to unite the group that regularly questions its founder
and is hyper-aware of the possibility of becoming a cult.
Anyway, everyone loves rational atheists with the appreciation of science and uncertainty,
just look at the Congress.
Interesting things to point out about, you know, some of our failings and shortcomings.
There's the PS here, which, PS, Eneosh, not to put pressure on you,
but you are actually a rationalist and a writer.
So if you want to promote rationality, aim for New York Times' number one bestseller.
It doesn't feel like what lies dreaming is a result of rationally creating the book
with widest appeal possible, which, first of all,
that was the sneakiest way to insult a writer I've ever seen.
Well done, sir.
But no, you're absolutely correct.
And the thing is, I don't want...
Okay, it's not true that I don't want to be a New York Times bestseller
because obviously that would be awesome and I would love the prestige and I would love the money.
But I don't want to write a New York Times bestseller if you can understand the difference.
You don't want to be a sellout.
You would love to have sold out, but since you don't want to sell out.
I would love to be that successful.
I don't want to sell out.
Like when I'm writing, well, when I wrote What Lies Dreaming,
I wrote what like I really wanted to write and what was on my mind and in me emotionally.
And I realized that that's going to be a bit of a niche audience
and that it takes, you know, also some time to build up.
But this is not going to appeal to the majority of people and I understand that and I am okay with that.
Because I have read, oh my God, I reviewed this book once called Red Rising.
And it is a number one New York Times bestseller.
The guy is wildly successful.
When I read it, I despised it.
I was like, this is crass bullshit sellout.
Like I don't know if people who don't read a lot could see this,
but when you're going through it, he is hitting every single note.
He's like, yep, the downtrodden oppressed heroic figure of the working class.
And he's got the four houses that, you know, the people are sorted into
and his house always gets shit on, even though it's the best house.
And then when he actually wins the thing for his people,
the evil people and the government take it away anyway and we're like,
no, we're going to give to the Slytherin House because we like them better.
And they just, every single thing is just obvious,
blatant exploitation of what's popular in the moment.
It just felt super tropey.
Oh my God, not just that it felt tropey, it felt soulless.
This guy did not care about putting forth any sort of vision or revealing himself on the page.
All he wanted to do was sell a lot of books and he managed to sell a lot of books,
but God, it was an empty soulless piece of writing.
And I don't want to write that.
Yeah. And if this is going to be a rationalist book,
I don't know if that's going to be a New York Times bestseller either.
Well, I mean, I guess he's trying to say that you could aim for New York Times
bestseller and rationalist to get the word out there.
Yeah, I just don't think that rationalist book is going to be a bestseller for the
reasons that you were just mentioning.
That's not like, it doesn't tend to be the sort of thing that people enjoy.
No, I read it the other way that I read it the way write a soulless book,
become super famous and say, I did this because I'm a rationalist.
Look at him. Look at how successful I am because of this.
Okay. You don't have to be a rationalist to
hit that formula, though. You just nail the three X structure and you hit all the right beats
and you throw in the four houses and the Harry Potter references and divergent or whatever it is.
Did you ever read The Drunkard's Walk, How Rightedness Rules Our Lives by Leonard Miladnov?
I didn't read it, but I read about it.
Then you read the premise and you're either on board or you're not,
and you probably are because it's unassailable.
And then the rest are just fun examples.
But he gives lots of examples of actors and writers and whatever.
And it's just such a crap shoot.
I think he talked about how Bruce Willis was trying to act for years and years before he
finally landed some job in a movie that happened to be noticed. I forget the whole story.
But it's like, everyone knows Bruce Willis and he's super famous,
but he could so easily have not been picked up.
And there's probably a million of him running around Hollywood right now.
I'm pretty sure that every person who gets successful in the arts
realizes just how much it's complete luck.
There's also the skill to enter your artwork.
It has to be of a certain quality, but yeah, we know.
They probably see themselves passed up by talented people,
or saw them audition next to more talented people and somehow they got picked.
Right. You see more talented people being neglected.
You see less talented people rising the ranks.
You see it the other way too. It goes both ways because there is some level of filtering,
but it is still very random.
Yeah.
And who you know.
Yes, that too.
Yeah. And I very seldom watch behind the scenes stuff,
but I saw stuff for Muslim and Thor Ragnarok.
Oh, I watched a lot of that because Taika Waititi is a treasure, the director.
Okay.
Did you ever see what we do in the shadows?
No, but I've heard it's fun.
It's amazing. I think you'd love it.
Cool.
It's not, it's like kind of like The Office where there's a camera walking around and stuff.
But with vampires.
Yeah. And it's just like he's showing them around their flat and whatever.
So he's the main vampire in that movie, the guy who directed Thor Ragnarok.
Oh, neat.
He also directed Hunt for the Wilder People, which you can see on Hulu,
I think, or Amazon, I forget.
In any case, Loki audition, or what's his name?
The guy who played Loki. Don't tell me.
Tom Hiddleston.
Nice.
I know all the Avengers names because for a complete idiot.
So Tom Hiddleston applied or auditioned for the role of Thor.
And then when they was talking about this, they showed some footage of him
acting Thor parts when he was auditioning for Thor originally.
And then what?
He doesn't look like a Thor.
Although I guess, you know, put him through a personal trainer work out for a few months.
Yeah.
Maybe they'll give him a blonde wig or something.
And then Chris Hemsworth, when he got the role, apparently he was turned down first,
and then his brother auditioned, and then his brother got turned down.
Then they went back to Chris and gave him the thing.
So, like, it was just such a crap shoot.
And now we look at, like, we can never imagine,
I could never imagine anyone else being Thor, right?
So I guess that was a really long-winded and unnecessarily detailed explanation of an example of
how randomness can play a big role in ways that seem to, like, make perfect sense in hindsight.
But at the time, it was just whatever one of the people judging the audition hadn't had lunch
yet or something, right?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, and the amount of randomness that went into just Harry Potter becoming successful
is huge, too.
It was a large part of it was just scholastic deciding, yeah, we'll pick up Harry Potter.
Yeah.
How apocryphal is that story of, you know, it sat at the main publisher, wait,
reviewer's house for months, and he wasn't touching it.
Or he tried it, like, for the first chapter and gave up.
And then the daughter read it.
It was like, dad, you have to do this one.
So he tried it again.
Yeah.
Is that true?
Probably.
Whether or not it's true, something like that could have happened.
And that's how random that shit was, right?
Sure, stuff like that happens all the time.
Exactly.
But yeah, no, I realize it's not bestseller material, but it's what I want to write.
Yeah, there was the, what was Sailor, I forget the name of the person who wrote that post.
So yeah, Sailor Vulcan had mentioned, why aren't more rationalists betting on prediction
markets and winning, you know, and being successful at business.
And again, it's like, well, I don't want to run a business and I don't really want to gamble.
Those like aren't fun to me.
So that goes back to the whole like, how do you define success or winning for yourself
as an artist, probably making the art of the story that you want to write.
Which I think takes us very succinctly into Rockham's comment.
Sorry.
Rockham says, another big reason why it does not look like rationalists are winning risk appetite.
Let's say I offer you a choice between either a thousand dollars cash or a hundred coin flips,
where you get 15 bucks for each heads.
The lump sum has the higher expected payout, but there will be some cases where the risky
coin flips get the better result.
Looking at the people with the most success, musk, etc.
and asking why we got less than them is classic survivorship bias.
The expected utility of the winners could have been lower.
Risk averse rational agents, even perfect ones, will never gain world dominance,
but they will likely lead happy, slightly above average lives.
Why aren't rationalists winning?
Maybe we already are.
And I really like that.
I think the survivorship thing has a good point.
If you're living the high-risk strategy, 9,999 of your offspring aren't going to live,
but the one that makes it is going to be hugely successful,
and everyone's going to be like, why aren't we successful like him?
It's like you didn't see all the other people that crashed and burned.
I also like it because it's kind of a cop-out,
and I'm just taking over the world now to prove how successful I am.
But no, I think that's a really good point.
Did we touch on this about what can allow you to be so risk-indulgent?
Is that it's not really a risk?
If daddy gives you $2 million and you're like,
I'm going to go buy a bunch of shit and I don't know what I'm doing,
oh no, I'm bankrupt, can I have more millions of dollars?
And the answer is yes every time.
You kind of have to just keep throwing losing throws to not win something, right?
If you're gambling in Vegas and you have an unlimited bank account
and you don't win some money, even if it's not more than you came in with,
if you never win a hand, you just suck.
There's something to the idea that with the 15 coin flips versus the 100 bucks,
if 100 bucks would make or break my month, I would take that in a hot second.
I wouldn't gamble any of it, right?
But if I was like, yeah, fuck it, 30 bucks and 150 bucks is the emotional salient to those
is the same to me right now.
I'll go ahead and take the coin flips.
