Sounds fun.
So earlier you were mentioning we talked about dealing with conspiracy theorists that we care about.
And, you know, I think for the most part, you know, if I had a loved one who didn't believe in the moon landing, well, as long as we didn't talk about that,
it wouldn't be a thing between us.
But I think it would drive me insane knowing that they're the kind of person that has these failures of thinking.
So I'm always still stuck on trying to find a way to address it and fix it.
In one way that I've approached with other topics.
Actually, I think this was a recommendation from somewhere on one of your episodes.
You know, pick something, and you actually mentioned this earlier too, but pick something that you can agree on either conspiracy-wise or just like as far as an introduction to skepticism.
You know, pick something that is so non-inflammatory, like the Baigong Pipes or that vanishing village, something that no one really cares about,
but that just gives an introduction on how to think skeptically or watch Here Be Dragons, the free 40-minute video.
But with conspiracy theorists, you know, I can imagine, so say I have a friend who is just full on 9-11 truth or,
but they're very big in favor of accepting the moon landing.
Well, we could go over for all the reasons that moon landing hoaxers deny the moon landing,
and then say, well, how many of these sound like the things that you used to justify your 9-11 conspiracy-theory-ism?
And then, I don't know, I've never tried this in real life.
Maybe a light would go off with them, I don't know. But maybe that's just me being hopeful.
Well, you know, I mean, having never tried it before in real life, you'll find it's a lot tougher in practice than it is in theory.
Try it out. Try it out on one of your friends that you don't mind upsetting.
I don't want to alienate my boyfriend, but he's the person who I'm thinking of,
who I want to gently get into a direction where he's willing to give up some of his more egregious conspiracy theories.
And it's not really an option. It's not an option to me to not discuss that with him and to not let him know that I think he's wrong.
And he tends to be a very open-minded person who wants to believe the right thing.
So I'm wondering how to take that open-mindedness and desire to believe true things and help set him on the right path.
It is tough with loved ones, but I've got a very good friend who is a good skeptical guy.
And for a long time, he was dating this girl who was amazing in every way, except that she believed every kind of health woo that there was.
And he just couldn't put up with that. And eventually, it became the end of their relationship.
They just had their worldviews were just too different.
She believed the big pharma conspiracy and the big food conspiracy and big toxins and everything else and just couldn't come back down to earth.
So at some point, he decided, you know, if this relationship is going to go anywhere, we're going to have to get through this sooner or later.
And so he did his best job and it destroyed the relationship.
And it's probably for the better. He's married to a much better woman now.
So, you know, if you do want to go there and eventually you may have to, then, yeah, I mean, just try doing what we talked about.
I would suggest first trying it on some other friends, find some friends who are into juice cleanses.
We all have friends who are into juice cleanses.
We're nodding our heads.
And start them off with, you know, maybe maybe vaccines because most people are still on the right side of the vaccine question.
And chances are your friends are too.
And they've also heard all of the anti vaccine rhetoric.
So that that might be a good place to start.
That's, you know, in enough of the same ballpark that you can start, you know, kind of working, working the reasons why they still have faith in vaccines.
Working those around to why they believe juice cleanses are magical.
I'd be scared that they would turn into an anti-vaxxer.
There's a great follow-up episode in the future, though.
See how that went.
Can you just solve this problem for us just so we can all relax and go home?
It's the only reason we called.
Thank you so much for joining us.
It has been great having you on.
It's been a lot of fun being here. I wish I could talk about this stuff all day, every day.
Well, I really appreciate it.
And I'm certainly not opposed to doing another episode if you have time, you know, down the line sometimes.
So we can find a specific topic that you want to talk about or that we want to talk about or whatever works.
I'd actually be super interested in talking more about climate change sometime.
You know where to find me.
Well, sounds great.
Hey, thanks a lot, Brian. This was a lot of fun.
And I really appreciate you, especially getting our schedules organized.
I don't know if I told you guys.
I got the time zones confused.
And then on Saturday, he was like, all right, cool.
Talk to you tomorrow.
And I was like, what, you mean Monday?
And he's like, right, today's not Sunday.
Now we have an international date line problem.
But it all worked out.
And I'm glad it got together.
I was half afraid that at four o'clock, I was going to get a message from you and be like, so you guys are late.
So you weren't on so awesome.
All right. That was funny.
Thanks again.
Bye for now.
Okay, folks.
Thanks, Brian. Take care.
Yeah.
