when in fact, it was a disinformation story that they put out to throw the Germans off the scent
because the British had their radar up and running, and so they just made something up.
That was a real conspiracy.
I happen to have one or more loved ones who are conspiracy theorists.
Think the entire range from moon landing to 9-11 to school shootings.
How, if you are talking to somebody who you care deeply about,
and you want to help them update their ideas and believe true things, how would you go about that?
Can I ask really quick, what is the conspiracy theory about school shootings?
Oh, it's mostly that the government is making up fake school shootings
and that everybody involved are actors.
So that they can take away the guns.
Oh man, it would be just easier to hire a gunman, wouldn't it?
Hey, hey.
The gunman is not that evil, sir.
They would bomb their own buildings, but they will not shoot up their own schools.
Yeah, the Sandy Hook truthers.
Yeah, so how would you address something like that?
You know, that's one of the most important questions.
It's one of the most relevant questions is how do you enjoy your own skeptical attitude
without causing all sorts of problems between you and your family and your friends?
And where do you draw the line on when you should keep your mouth shut
and when you should open your mouth?
And I think that question, you should start with the null position on that,
which is you should keep your mouth shut unless there's darn good reason to open it.
There's really no upside in arguing with a conspiracy theorist.
99 times out of 100, it's just going to make them mad and make them dislike you
and you're almost never going to change their mind,
especially when it's someone that's in your family.
I just don't see the value.
I keep my mouth shut virtually all the time now.
What would you argue like on the Internet then if you wouldn't argue with your family?
Well, that's my job.
I mean, is to put this information out into the public.
But that's different from bringing it into your own living room.
And what I try to do with my public position with the podcast and everything
is I try to put some good general rules out there that people can learn to follow
and hopefully, going back again, make better decisions about their lives.
To do that, you have to step on people's sacred cows
because many people are strongly inclined to take that as a personal attack
against their cherished beliefs.
And it's something that is really easy to do by accident no matter how diplomatic
and how positive you try to be.
Someone's going to interpret it as an attack and I don't find any value
in bringing that into the Thanksgiving dinner.
But if you have already decided that just like on a one-on-one with someone that you love,
you really should try to help them on this.
Is there like any gentle general guidelines that you can slip into them without like attacking
but things that will maybe help them over the long haul?
Sure. You can start by finding the common ground.
In cases where this happens, in fact, one of the episodes I did maybe,
I don't know, five years ago or so was a letter sent in by a family
and one of the people in their family had ALS, Lou Gehrig's disease,
and was on a pretty rapid downhill slope
and was using up all of his money on alternative therapies.
And the kind of the family wanted to do like an intervention.
They wanted to stop this guy saying you were wasting your money
because it was on Edgar Casey psychic healing stuff.
I mean, not even remotely plausible alternative therapies.
He was just basically going for straight-up magic.
And so I did an episode specifically for this family.
How do you go about approaching this when it is necessary to step in
because someone's strange belief is actually becoming harmful?
And that's really, I think, the point at which you do want to step in and say something.
If they just believe their poodle talks to God, fine, let them believe that.
There's no need for a conflict.
But when there's an actual problem, yeah, maybe an intervention is necessary.
And I just say you start by finding common ground.
What are the silly things that he does reject?
And why does he reject them?
Maybe it's UFOs and aliens.
Bigfoot, whatever it is, come up with anything that you can agree on
and then help him to understand why he rejects that.
What are the claims about Bigfoot that you find silly?
And why do you find them silly?
And what's silly about them?
And acknowledge that why do anthropologists not believe in Bigfoot?
What are the reasons for that?
And you can kind of swing him around.
And pretty soon he's building his own argument against why should he be going to magicians to treat his ALS.
I think that's the way to do it.
I think I'm the only one of the three of us who's listened to every episode at least once.
And the episode, I was going to mention this, but I figured you wanted to go into it.
And that was, I think you're right, it was in the 200s and it was Despicable Vulture Scumbags.
It was the name of the episode.
That's it, yes.
Yeah, that was, that was a really good one.
And it had, like he said, it was the whole point was when it finally became too much of an issue.
And I think, Brian, I met you at TAM 8 and that was the year that Phil Plate gave his Don't Be a Dick speech.
Oh, yes.
And he made some of the same points about finding common ground.
And he had the audience, he said, hey, who here used to believe in something, you know, UFOs, Bigfoot, whatever, bullshit.
And a lot of people raised their hands.
And then he said, all right, well, how many of you changed your minds because someone got in your face, yelled at you and called you an idiot?
And then only, what was that comedian's name?
Paul Provenza raised his hand.
And the next day he clarified that the guy he shouted at him was Pendulette.
But that to me has always been the way about going about it.
So I, when you mentioned the vitamin C thing, I had a cold last month and I had no less than three people saying, oh, eat some of these oranges or, you know, go get some of the emergency stuff.
And I'll just politely say thanks.
I'll keep that in mind or, you know, whatever.
I'm not going to, well, you know, that that's all bullshit.
I can, I can point you to some peer-reviewed papers because I usually do when they say that the sort of things like, oh, you know, what a help.
If I would have started weeks ago too late now, just kind of, you know, casually give them that kind of thing.
And most people, you know, they don't question it or anything like, oh, okay.
Sure.
Well, I mean, if someone handed me an orange, I'd say thanks and eat it.
But, you know, that's just great food.
But if they wanted to give me some, oh, my grandma makes this great recipe for, you know, this, this, it's like a cocktail you take when you're sick.
I'd be like, oh, I'm all cocktailed out.
Thanks.
At that point, I'd have to politely decline even if it came down to an argument.
But yeah, that's, and that's, that's exactly the way that I, the way that I roll as well.
I had a very, very horrible knee injury one time and everyone in the world was coming to me with, oh, you should, here's my acupuncturist's card and everything.
Yeah.
Just say they're, they're trying to do you a kindness.
You thank them for it.
You know.
Yeah.
Maybe I'll call them.
Thank you.
Do you find that I kind of get the feeling that both skepticism and rationality have a dick problem where I got the craziest looks from both my co-hosts by a dick problem.
I mean that people often think that we are dicks.
Like you're just trying to shit all over everyone's parade.
We just like to, you know, believe and, and be warm and fuzzy.
And you're coming in here being an asshole like, er, none of that's true.
You know, well, actually, er, er.
And it's kind of hard to fight that because a lot of things that people believe is bullshit.
And it's really hard to be, you know, kind about that.
Not kind, but it's hard to be.
That's very true.
I mean, if anyone who's listens to, you know, to, to, to, to Skeptoid, I think it would be very hard to conclude that I come out.
Mocking people and attacking people and making fun of weird beliefs.
Because I'm very careful about that.
And it's something I believe strongly in, in, in, in not, not, not being that way.
And yet every time I talk to the family member or a friend who believes in some strange thing, they always describe my show as mocking, cynical, you know, any negative word they can think of.
If it, if it doesn't support their cherished belief, then it's everything in the world is wrong with it.
So it's, you're right.
It's very difficult not to be seen or taken in a negative light no matter how positive you are.
And I think there's actually, you know, this show that's on right now with Adam ruins everything.
He has quite a bit of the content on his show and he goes, you know, he goes, covers the whole spectrum of everything in, in society.
But a lot of what he covers is weird science beliefs, pseudo scientific beliefs.
And his stick is to come right out and make fun of the fact that yes, he's being a jerk.
And yes, he's being patronizing and cynical and everything else.
He just, he just takes that up front and leaves the criticizers nowhere to go with the issue.
So I think that's a, that's a great way to, to handle that particular marketing problem is, is the way he does it.
What was that show?
Adam ruins everything.
Adam ruins everything.
Yeah, it's pretty good.
But yeah, I mean, it does have the thing where he just like embraces the dick.
And I'm like, I wish there was some, like Penn and Teller's bullshit.
Yeah, exactly.
There is this annoying little guy.
Yeah.
Is there, is there any way to not be viewed as annoying by people?
Yeah.
Penn and Teller's bullshit had that problem too.
Yeah.
Don't feed chickens to chickens.
Oh, they did that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I love that show until that happens.
What happened?
And I love Penn and Teller's bullshit until they had a PETA, I think it was PETA's bullshit.
PETA has some significant problems.
So I was on board with that.
But one of the things that they did on the show to just show how dedicated they were to being assholes is they had chickens on and they fed chickens to chickens.
That's kind of needlessly dickish.
Right.
There's a little bit of that needlessly, needless assholery going on.
And I've never met the people and I'm sure they're very nice.
They were nice when I met them.
But that's...
Well, Teller didn't say anything.
He never does.
But Penn was nice.
Not even in real life?
I'm sure he does, but he didn't when I was briefly introduced to them.
Okay.
Yeah, I think he just, I think his thing is he just stands around quiet.
Staying in character.
Yeah.
Makes it a lot easier, doesn't it?
I have a question for you.
You've talked a little bit about how what you're doing by going through these different topics is showing people the method that they should be using to extinguish science from pseudoscience, truth from falsehood, and figure out what facts are most reliable.
Out of all of the topics that you've addressed, is there any single topic that you think is the absolute most important thing that you've spoken about?
Well, that is a very good question.
I mean, the obvious answer, I'm not sure this is the best answer, but the obvious answer is the whole global warming question.
Sounds important to me.
Yeah, I mean, it's hard to even talk about.
It's very, very clear that we're in for trouble.
What's less clear to me is that we're not going to be able to adapt to it.
And I think of some of the other topics that we've talked about, like peak oil, which is kind of the diametric opposite of global warming, but the peak oil conspiracy theory is people.
I'm not sure if it's a conspiracy theory.
It's the belief that at some point oil production is going to be at such a rate that we're going to get the last of the easily obtainable oil and then oil production is going to drop off dramatically.
And suddenly there won't be any significant oil production because we will have gotten it all.
And then overnight our cars are going to stop running.
People are going to be running wild in the street eating their dogs and cats and cannibalizing each other.
That went from 0 to 100 really fast.
