Yeah, and that's what the peak oil people, some of the more extreme peak oil people, think that.
And there's another one with peak phosphorus, for example, for fertilizing our crops.
And there's a number of things like that.
And those have all historically been proven wrong because society adapts, technology adapts.
And as oil becomes more expensive, other alternatives are going to become commoditized and they're going to become cheaper and we're not going to need the oil so much.
That is what has always happened.
With global warming, I don't know that it's going to be that easy.
I don't know that we are going to be able to adapt as quickly as we've already gone too far.
I was really lucky to go a couple of weeks ago at UC Irvine.
Stephen Choo came and spoke and he was Obama's first Secretary of Energy.
He's been an IPCC author.
He's been big in climate change for his whole career.
And he's one of the world's foremost experts on it.
And he was giving a presentation to kind of, it was a layman level presentation saying,
here are the smoking guns.
Here is the simplest, most obvious proof of this, this, this, this and this.
And it's really, it's stuff that's absolutely indisputable.
For example, the amount of carbon that's in our atmosphere now, this unprecedented amount of carbon that's in our atmosphere.
People will say, oh, that's because of forest fires or oh, that's because of melting tundra and it releases carbon.
They'll have all kinds of rationalizations for it.
But no, there's actually a very clear proof for that carbon in our atmosphere comes from human burning of fossil fuels.
It doesn't come from volcanoes.
It doesn't come from deforestation or cows or anything else.
We know it comes from the burning of fossil fuels.
And that's isotopic analysis, carbon, basically carbon 14.
All carbon is not the same carbon.
And a large percentage of the carbon in our atmosphere is provably created by the burning of fossil fuels,
which happens by humans because those have to be sucked up out of the ground.
It doesn't happen from forest fires or volcanoes.
So there are absolutely indisputable smoking guns that put together every piece of this puzzle for global warming being caused by humans.
I remember it must have been in the 100s.
Didn't you do an episode?
So this would have been, if it was in the 100s, that would be something like 8 to 10 years ago.
Yeah, yeah. Heating up to global warming, I think it works.
That's right. But it came off as much more of global warming skeptic as opposed to global warming emergency.
It did.
And the reason for that is because it was 8 or 10 years ago and I was not as familiar with the issue as I should have been.
And I think the consensus was, well, now the consensus was still, was still very clear.
I would say reporting of science reporting had not yet switched over completely.
In fact, I remember that at just about the same time that that episode came out, Michael Shermer had his column, his column called Skeptic in Scientific American Magazine,
where he was only just then switching over from global warming skeptic to global warming activist.
And I remember the line he closed that article with was, the time for skepticism has passed and yet time for activism has come.
And I came to that point myself, I think, after I did that first episode.
So the later episodes that I've done on the subject are much more clear.
And I am in the process of going back through my oldest episodes and fixing the ones that need to be fixed.
Every time I record, I try to do one of the old ones.
The only reason I haven't done it more is just because the sheer workload is just extremely high for me to keep up with.
But that is one of the episodes that will be rewritten and re-recorded.
Oh cool. Well, first of all, now I have new stuff to listen to on Skeptoid.
But the only reason I brought that up was because I was aware that your view had shifted.
And Bayesian Updating and Changing Your Mind is a big applause thing in the Rationalist community.
So I wanted to just, yeah.
You know, that's another place where the scientific consensus thing, I consider it important.
Because I've heard that there's a more than 95% consensus on the global warming thing too.
And it's just one of those things where almost no one has the time to get a degree and learn everything you would need to learn to have a fully informed opinion.
But you can look and see, you know, what do the people who have gotten the degrees and do know about all this stuff think.
And with the exception, I think it's in the single digits in the number of scientists who even slightly doubt the global warming connection.
And I think the ones who, there are a single digit percentage of actual climate scientists who are not on board with the consensus.
And I suspect that those are the professional climate scientists who work at particular think tanks or institutes or in certain countries where they tend to favor economic issues over science issues.
Yeah, but now we're imputing motives, which is, you know, like a more of a conspiracy theorist thing.
I'm happy enough to say that they're just so vastly overruled that we can ignore them.
And what is it? Some 5% to 10% of the National Academy of Sciences is deboutly theistic.
So, I mean, you're going to get some some percentage of people who are, I'm going to go out on a limb and say factually wrong, even in expert communities.
I think the thing that pushed me over the edge on that was, no, I can't remember the year.
I want to say it was probably 2009-ish or so.
So, you know, six, seven years ago, I was on a panel at UC Irvine debating climate change.
There's a group of super wealthy people who've all graduated from the business school and gone on to become multi-zillionaires.
And they've created this little club where they come back and they bring in experts and just have them talk to them about subjects.
And so, I was fairly honored to be one of the invited guests.
They had on the panel, it was a panel of three people.
On the one side was Michael Prather, who was a professor at UC Irvine in Atmospheric Sciences.
And he was one of the principal authors on the IPCC for report.
So, arguably one of the world's leading experts on the global warming problem in the IPCC position papers.
On the other side was John Coleman, who was the founder of the Weather Channel.
He's a guy from the news media and he founded the Weather Channel.
And so, people believe that he is a climate expert and he is a full-on conspiracy theorist.
He believes every crazy conspiracy theory you've ever heard of and is, of course, a global warming skeptic.
So, his particular belief on that is that all the scientists are in it for money, they're all being paid,
they're all secretly on the payroll of Big Solar or whatever it is.
They've all got their investments, they've all got hedge funds, banking on the decline of the oil industry.
And it's a giant conspiracy all against him.
And then they had me and they had me actually with him.
And the reason was because the title of my show, Skeptoid, they said, oh, skeptic, oh, he must be a global warming skeptic.
Let's put him with him.
So, but anyway, that's neither here nor there.
The thing is after the talk, we're having lunch, I sat next to Michael Prather and he had a copy of the IPCC report with him.
And I got to ask him, you know, a half-dozen burning questions that I had and his answers were so crystal clear.
And he knew exactly what page to turn to and explained everything to me in great terms that left all of my questions completely answers
and any doubts that I had were absolutely destroyed.
And among the questions I had were kind of logical questions that the people on the street might even who are on board with global warming might want to ask.
One of them I remember was, you know, hey, we can know how much carbon is in the atmosphere and we can know how much carbon we can remove from the atmosphere
by doing emissions control or whatever.
But we can't know what effect that's going to have on the temperature, can we?
Because there's no experiment like that has ever been run.
The answer that he showed me was to turn to a particular page that shows the probability curves.
And all of these predictions that the IPCC reports make are probabilities.
They're often mischaracterized saying, oh, the scientists say sea level is going to go up 30 feet in 20 years or whatever it is.
That's not true.
The reports don't work that way.
They are probabilities.
Every possible outcome has a probability.
And when we change the input variables to these equations, those probability curves recalculate and they change out a little bit.
And when we change the amount of carbon input into the atmosphere, those probability curves change.
And we can say that this is the possibility of this particular outcome.
That's the possibility of that particular outcome.
And, you know, we do actually have a pretty good handle on how this works.
And this popular mischaracterization that you always hear saying that the IPCC scientists have been wrong every time they predicted this disaster and it didn't happen.
It's simply not true.
They didn't predict that.
They gave it a probability number.
And the actual result matched some probability number that was in the equations.
And those equations get better and better every year.
So I don't know.
I'm kind of rambling on this.
No, that's my favorite thing that I've heard you say.
Yeah.
I think discussing probability curves and stuff is just singing to our tune.
That's crazy.
We're very big on probability.
We hear then our ears perk up and we're like, ooh, treats.
You know what?
I just got an email today from, let me write myself a note.
I got an email today from UC Irvine.
I live right by UC Irvine and I have heavy UC Irvine DNA.
So I'm obsessed with it and that's everywhere where I go for all my science.
They sent me an email today with Steven Chu's lecture that I attended.
They just put it on YouTube.
So that might be something you want to link to.
Yeah, actually.
Send that our way.
We'll definitely put that on there.
Love to link to that.
Is there anything else that you would like us to link on this show?
Anything you want to plug to our listeners?
I want you to link Skeptoid.com broadly across the top of your webpage.
Roger that.
And a big portrait of my face.
Can do.
No, don't do that.
That would fight me.
We'll still have the link though.
We'll settle for putting the logo from the Skeptoid website, the Skeptical Eye.
Wait, are you saying that I can't have a portrait of your face?
Well, it depends what you do with it.
Dude, we are rapidly approaching our one hour.
Did you have things that you wanted to finish up with?
Well, I can talk a little bit about some of the projects that I have coming up.
Yes, please do.
You mentioned that we're shooting the sequel to Here Be Dragons.
It's going to be called The Principles of Curiosity.
For the longest time when I wrote it, I wanted to title it Principia Curiositas
because that had such a great Newtonian sound to it.
But then I learned that that Latin was not correct.
And all of the variations of Latin that were corrected and sound quite right.
And then a majority of people finally convinced me,
don't title it something that nobody's going to understand what the heck's about.
So I named it Normal Plain English Title.
So I dumbed the title down to Principles of Curiosity and it's going to be very cool.
And that's going to be directed by Brian Keith Dalton,
better known to most audiences as Mr. Deity.
Ah, excellent. I love Mr. Deity.
See, ever since Harry Potter came out with his Crazy Basterdice Latin for all the spells,
I think people have been much more okay with Crazy Basterdice Latin.
That doesn't necessarily mean anything.
But you can figure out what it's supposed to mean.
Wingardium Leviosa.
I so want to agree.
And I think that the best good though is finding the widest possible audience.
And I've aimed these movies at everything from elementary school on up.
So I think it's smarter to stick with the most broadly appealing title.
The other thing I got going on is a feature length documentary
that will hopefully see a limited theatrical release that I'm co-producing.
Skeptoid Media is executive producing it.
It's going to be called Dark Discoveries.
And it is all about scientists having been misrepresented on popular TV documentaries and movies.
Having their words twisted, being edited out of context,
trying to make scientists sound like they were saying the opposite of what they actually came on the show to say.
And we've been talking to so many people and there's so many astonishing stories of this having happened
that it's really going to drop people's jaws watching this and see how flagrantly the TV networks will do this to us.
And that's going to be directed by Emery Emery,
who is better known for the projects he's done like The Aristocrats.
And right now he's directing a movie called A Year Without God.
But he's a really talented editor and director and I think he's going to be perfect for this and he's a good friend.
And I've also got a video short series called The Conspirators that's animated.
I've done one episode. I'm stretched so thin I just haven't been able to get more episodes done.
But I've got two more episodes that I'm going to be, well not shooting because they're animated, but animating.
And I'm getting recordings from the voice actors in that.
The Conspirators is fun because it's basically a peek inside the headquarters of the New World Order.
And it turns out that everything The Conspiracy theorists believe is exactly what they're doing at the headquarters of the New World Order.
What would that world be like?
Well, you will have to go see it.
I think in the late 70s someone wrote a trilogy called the Illuminatus Trilogy, which is basically the same thing.
And it is crazy.
The first episode was on chemtrails where the New World Order guys were giving themselves an update on chemtrails and how they work.
And one of them was raising some objections, you know, hey, but that won't work because of, you know, the ionosphere and whatever.
All of these basic science objections and they basically have him carted out of the room under armed escort.
Excellent.
So I got two more episodes of that coming about and that's at patreon.com.com.com.
Is that aimed for children or is that more of an adult show?
No, it's more of an adult thing.
