Exactly.
That's a good way to put it.
Anyway, sorry.
What was your question?
You know, I just wanted to...
Oh, they discount some evidence, and we discount some evidence,
and what makes our methods better?
I think the method is a fine method.
The difference is that they're ignoring the method.
They're not following the method, and generally everyone should be.
I try to.
They probably believe that they are, and simply aren't.
And what the method is, is simply the scientific method.
You look for an observation that can be repeated, that can be reproduced,
and then you try to explain that observation.
And you have to do things in that order.
Oh, no, I agree with you completely.
The problem I have is that most people cannot do science themselves.
I personally cannot when someone tells me that jet fuel melts steel or doesn't melt steel.
I don't have jet fuel, and I don't have steel, so I can't actually test it myself.
I'm stuck relying on the people who actually did these tests.
And I think that is where a lot of these true believers try to say,
well, you have your experts and we have ours.
And I mean, there are cases where experts have been wrong.
Just maybe a decade or so ago, no one believed that bacteria caused ulcers,
and that was a big upset in the medicine community.
How can we know that we can trust our experts?
It's not a matter of trust.
It's a matter of what's the latest, greatest, best state of our knowledge,
and that is always improving.
And you can either choose to ride the leading edge of that wave
or to reject it because you're saying, hey, knowledge has been improving.
That means it wasn't as good in the past.
That means it's probably not perfect now.
That means I'm going to reject the entirety of it.
The thing with ulcers is a great example.
That's one of the best examples of how and why the scientific method works
and why it's the best practice to follow.
We had what we thought was great information.
We drew the best conclusion.
We came up with what we thought fit the model's best.
It turned out there was a better explanation.
It began as a fringe explanation.
More people began reproducing the same results,
and eventually it became the consensus view.
And it's now the standard model of how ulcers work.
That's a strength of the scientific method.
It's not a weakness or a failing of it.
It's not a problem with the scientific method,
but who's what papers should you trust?
Would you want to talk to people about meta-analysis or peer-review papers
or experts that are supported by this percentage of the field versus that percentage of the field?
As a layperson, you mean?
Yeah, if you're talking to somebody and they're saying,
oh, what expert should I trust if somebody comes in front of me and says,
I am an architectural expert if we're still referring to the two towers example,
how do you know that that's a person that you should trust versus somebody else?
Well, I wouldn't suggest that trust should come into the equation at all
or that any person should be the best example
of what the latest, greatest state of our knowledge is.
If somebody genuinely wanted to learn the scientific method
and wanted to learn what is the best explanation for pick your phenomenon, whatever it is,
and was not coming to the table as an ideologue,
like a 9-11 conspiracy theorist person would be,
what I would advise them is I would first explain the scientific meaning of the word consensus.
In pop culture, consensus is a room full of people
and they all nod their heads in agreement and say,
yeah, that sounds pretty good to me and that's the consensus.
Well, that's of course not at all what it means in science.
In science, what a consensus means is that basically the same experimental results
have been repeated and repeated and repeated and repeated
and it has eventually became the standard explanation.
So it's not a soft thing, it's a hard thing, it's not subjective, it's objective.
So in that vein, if this is a person who wants to know about ulcers,
I would say go to whatever it is, the American Ulcer Society,
go to one of the authoritative boards
and because they will have what is the current scientific consensus on it.
I certainly would not say go to your GP.
I might say go to 25 GPs but not go to a GP.
I've heard that a good rule of thumb is if the community of experts in the field
generally agrees on about 90% of 90% of them have come to the same consensus.
That's considered more or less rock solid and if you're doubting it,
you're probably a crackpot whereas if it's like only 70%,
then an informed layperson may still have something to say on the matter
and anything less than 50%, it's a field still in flux
and you can't really make any definitive assertions one way or the other.
Does that sound reasonable?
Yeah, I think it does and I think it's important to acknowledge
that virtually every scientific question does have a leading edge
where there's still unanswered questions and still research being done
but an example that's been given a number of times is like an onion
or even just think of a planet with a core.
You've got the solid core of the science that's very unlikely
that that's going to change significantly
but as we go out into the outer layers of the onion,
where they start to flake off and get flaky,
that's where things change and that's where we'll find new information
kind of on the fringe of any topic
but as far as the people who suddenly jump in and announce
that the core of an entire field of science is wrong
because they read something on the internet,
that's almost certainly not the case.
So I have a question then on how skepticism handles things that are not uncertain
but not proven yet
and this example is still fresh on my mind
because just two episodes ago we did a show on cryonics
which is an interesting case because all the experts
say that there's no reason it can't work
but there's very little buying in the general population
and even among people that are in the field
generally aren't all that into it either
because it's not something that has been proven yet,
not something that is doable with our current technology.
Is the fact that it's not impossible good enough
or do you think there needs to be some greater bar to clear?
You're talking about when someone dies,
they want to freeze in case they can be woken up in 200 years or whatever?
More or less.
That kind of thing? Yeah.
I mean, I'm not up to the latest and greatest in that field
so I won't hazard an opinion on that
but I think you answered your question in your question
when there's some good information for something
but we don't have solid proof, how do we approach that?
Well, I think we approach it just with exactly that explanation.
This is something there's interesting evidence for
but there's not yet proof.
I can think of something else that I just heard about the other day
and this has kind of been kicking around in alternative circles
for a long time, this idea that having hookworms in your body
can protect you against asthma.
That is another example of something for which there is some evidence
but by no means are we going to say that it has successfully persuaded
the bulk of the field of immunologists
or whoever yet
but it's something that we don't simply dismiss
because there is some evidence.
I'm not sure if it's ever going to get to the point where we decide
it's a good idea everyone should have hookworms in their body
but we'll see.
It's important to understand when a field needs to be
carefully qualified with language like that.
I just wanted to clarify something.
We asked a bit about conspiracy theories.
We might get back to that.
We might sound like we're defending conspiracy theories in general
or any particular one but we're not.
We try...
It's too late, I've already written you off.
I'm just trying to defend my Illuminati masters here.
Oh man, we have to keep those checks coming in.
Are you familiar with steel manning?
No.
It's like the opposite of straw manning.
You encounter some bullshit position
and you say, okay, how can I make this the best it can possibly be?
So that's something that we try to do a lot.
So that way when I destroy it, it stays destroyed.
Exactly, right?
If you beat a crappy argument, it's still kind of there
but if you can build up the argument to be the best it can be
and then still beat it, then that is more convincing to them and to yourself.
And it's possible that you can build up an opposing argument
and find that it's unbeatable and have to change your mind.
But yeah, what we're doing, I think, is we're trying to steal man conspiracy theories
and conspiracy theorists' mindsets for not endorsing any of that mumbo-jumbo.
Well, sometimes super unlikely things actually do happen
as someone who's a conspiracy theorist will happily point out.
Well, the problem is predicting that in advance though, right?
So saying, well, sometimes really unlikely things happen,
that's not evidence in favor of any single unlikely thing beforehand, right?
So that's what I would say to the conspiracy theorists.
Yes, that's a good answer.
Thank you.
I was actually wondering, Brian,
if you have ever been very surprised by something, one of the topics,
or something that you found out to be true that you didn't originally think was?
I would say I've certainly learned a lot.
Really, the only thing I've ever been able to come up with that I was completely wrong about
was the whole vitamin C cures a cold.
Oh, what was your position?
Well, like so many people, I was raised to say,
hey, you've got a cold, take vitamin C, take a bunch of vitamin C, it cures your cold.
And I was still taking vitamin C every time I got a cold,
halfway into the run of sceptoid, until I finally,
I think it was a student questions episode where I had to dive in,
and to my great surprise, I learned that that was information
that had never been medically accepted and was a crank theory from day one,
since Linus Pauling's invented it.
So that was something that definitely surprised me.
It's really the best example. I mean, there's a lot of things that I learned.
I'd also, very similarly, I thought that carrots eating carrots were good for your eyesight,
and was fascinated to learn the whole history of that,
which is actually something I just gave in a talk two days ago on religious myths.
Oh boy, I could launch into one of my big things here,
because it was such a fascinating history for how that story came about and why people believe it.
Was it something to do with World War II?
It was to do with World War II, yes.
It was a cover story that the British put out to explain why the British fighter pilots
were having such great success at night against the German bombers,
