Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. My name's Katrina Stanton.
My name's Josh Brodsky.
And I'm Stephen Zuber.
And we're joined today by Brian Andrew Dunning.
Brian Dunning is an American writer and producer who focuses on skepticism.
He's hosted a weekly podcast Skeptoid since 2006 and is the author of five books on scientific skepticism.
And he's the executive producer of The Skeptologists and Truth Hurts.
Skeptoid is a 501c3 educational non-profit.
He's also the writer, director, and star of the 40-minute introduction to critical thinking called Here Be Dragons.
And I think you mentioned that the sequel to that is on the way or in production at some point, right?
Yes, it is. I'm hoping to shoot that this summer.
Cool. Is there anything we missed?
No, I don't think so.
There's a bunch of little projects that have kind of come and gone trying to throw things at the wall and see what sticks.
Some things do, some things don't.
But when you're trying to make a living in new media, you've got to try all the different things you can.
And so that's what I do.
All right.
How's that?
You mentioned on the podcast at some point that specifically it's like in fact about all diet stuff.
Yeah, there's a new video series that I launched at the end of 2015 called The Feeding Tube.
And it's a three-minute YouTube series and it addresses each episode, it addresses a particular food woo.
The whole thing with pop foodieism is so full of misinformation and so full of pseudoscience that I felt a show dedicated specifically to that was in order.
That one's got a slow start, but I have high hopes for it.
And we should clarify to the audience quickly, if they haven't heard the term for woo, is a slang term for bullcrap.
Mystical things are magical and your body is a temple sort of crap.
Woo woo woo is a great term, everyone should use it more often.
Not that your body isn't a temple, but they need it more in the magical sense.
Smells like bullshit to me.
Yeah, basically.
Okay, so we are called The Bayesian Conspiracy and our podcast focuses a lot on Bayesian rationalism,
which we consider fairly close to skepticism.
I was curious, have you heard of rationalism before or less wrong rationalism sometimes it's called?
Not to be confused with Cartesian rationalism.
I should say that I hear a lot of labels applied to different groups and often I find that the meaning that one group uses is not the meaning that another group understands.
So I've certainly heard people who call themselves rationalists and in my experience it usually applies to atheist activists and that sort of thing.
Oh yeah, that's not necessarily the same overlap.
I bet skepticism gets a lot of the same business there too.
And we're a little bit different than those atheist activists.
Right.
The most people in rationalism are atheists, but I don't think they're very activist about it.
It's not a large concern anymore.
Right.
Well, like I say, the different labels seem to mean different things to different people.
I try to avoid them completely.
Well, you stick with the skepticism label though.
What does skepticism mean in your view?
Yeah, I mean, it's a problematic term though, like so many labels because if you say that you're a skeptic, most people will say, oh, so you're the people who think we didn't go to the moon and who think 9-11 was an inside job.
Wow.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Because it's similar to words that have, like the word theory and the words theory and consensus are two great examples of words that have specific meanings within the context of the scientific method.
But they're very different from how those words are used in pop culture.
And skepticism is the same thing.
In pop culture, it's a fairly negative term.
It usually is understood to apply to crazy people.
And in the scientific sense, its meaning is very different.
So that's why I say it's a problematic term.
I would certainly say that I practice skepticism within the scientific sense, but it's a tough word to use among the general public because it's almost always going to be misunderstood to mean the opposite of what I hope it means.
So what do you hope it means then?
What is skepticism in the scientific sense?
Skepticism is basically the process of requiring a decent standard of evidence.
If somebody says I've got a miracle cure for cancer, the default skeptical position is saying show me the evidence.
And until that evidence is presented and passes peer review and gains consensus.
And again, that has a separate meaning in science than it has in the general public.
Then we usually reject this new claim.
And that's basically skepticism.
It's the rejection of new claims until they can be proven to be meaningful.
Actually, I have a question for you based on that definition.
What would you say you believe?
What is one belief that you have that does not have adequate evidence?
That's a great question.
There's all sorts of things like emotions and love and things like that that we can't really prove that exist.
It would be hard for me to think of something other than that kind of thing.
Now, certainly there are things that I'm wrong about, things that I believe that aren't true.
The problem is I can't tell you what those are because like most people, I don't deliberately believe any thing that I know do not be true.
Do you have any beliefs though that you're just kind of unsure about?
Like you figure I don't have enough evidence for this, but it seems right.
So I'd give it like 60% credence until more comes in.
I'm sure I do.
Off the top of my head, you know, I can like say, okay, there's a can of Dr. Pepper on my desk.
I'm 99.99999% sure that's true.
I don't have a belief in deities of any particular sort.
And I would say I'm 99.994% sure about that.
And it's a scale that goes down from there.
There's there's a lot of things in fields of research that where we have, you know, the current best explanation, the current best idea of what's true.
For example, ask me anything in astronomy about black holes or things like that.
And you know, say, well, we're 90% sure of this.
So that sounds like kind of a materialist oriented answer to your question, but that's I think would be my best answer.
It's okay.
I think that's an answer that we were kind of hoping to get.
We're all about assigning probabilities to our beliefs and updating them as we get additional evidence.
As good Bayseans should be.
And I think a materials materialistic answer will be suitable for just about every listener.
I don't think we have a lot of people wishing that we we had more dualistic perspectives.
We don't get a lot of feedback requesting that sort of thing.
So good.
So I'm not sure where we want to dive in guys.
I have so many questions for you.
We have a lot of questions.
You can ask us questions to this doesn't have to be totally one sided if you have anything, you know, but you're the you're the you're the guest here.
So we're going to just pick on you.
Well, I mean, if you guys are wondering what to ask, I can ask questions.
For example, yeah.
So how do you come up with the topics that you want to address in your books and your podcast in your in your videos?
When I first got started, the the episodes that I came up with probably the first 10 or 20 were sort of personal pet peeves of mine kind of hot buttons things that are always annoyed me.
You know, kind of silly beliefs and pop culture like in a good example would be rods, rods being that that photographic phenomenon where an insect flies past as the camera lens is open.
And then over the length of the duration of the shutter, you see its wings trace a sine wave along the length of the distance the insect flew.
So some of these people will look at these photographs and they'll say hey, there must have been some invisible creature there that is invisible to the eye but shows up on cameras and is shaped like a long thin flying rod.
Now that's something that had been kind of a pet peeve of mine because you you go on the internet and you'll see there's lots of people who absolutely reject the very obvious explanation for how those pictures come to be.
Once I got going after I got past, you know, 10, 20 episodes or so people started sending them in and they continue to send them in way faster than I'd ever be able to catch up with.
In fact, today, based on the question someone asked me on Facebook, they say how many ideas do you have in your idea folder and I looked in there.
In fact, this weekend I had gone through and purged stupid stuff out of my idea folder, leaving only good topics and there's 361 in there still to go.
So that said, one a week that's seven years worth of episodes.
On that topic, I noticed that you you write about or you you speak about both things that are popular misconceptions and things that are unpopular misconceptions or you know fringe conspiracy theories or bigfoot type things.
Which are your favorite to address?
And what do you think the proportion of popular to unpopular that you addresses?
I think the they're more unpopular.
I'd say most people who listen to the show report.
Hey, three quarters of these things I'd never even heard of before.
And that's good.
Because if you take a strange idea and give an example, the vanishing village of Lake and jacuni.
This is a story that almost nobody's heard of.
But there was an old tale that a trapper in Canada, boy, I want to say the 1800s.
I'm not sure when it was came upon a village where everyone had suddenly disappeared.
You know, the meals are left half eaten, that kind of thing.
And so there's sort of this ongoing legend of what happened to this vanishing village of people.
That's a great little mystery that a lot of people have never heard of.
I thoroughly enjoyed doing the research on that.
It just turns out that the doing historical research and documentary research has turned out to be the thing that I enjoy the most.
But when you take a story like that that's unpopular, nobody's heard of it,
there's still valuable lessons to learn in how we go about assessing that story.
Because when you go out with your friends and someone says, you know, hey, eating hamburger gives you cancer.
That maybe that's a new one.
You've never heard that one before.
But now what are the tools that you pull out of your pocket to go about assessing the validity of that claim?
So we can teach those same tools by teaching, talking about these old stories that nobody's heard of before.
So there's value in every type of mystery, whether they're popular or not.
So it seems to me from what I'm hearing that skepticism seems to be a lot about finding bad beliefs
and not being taken in by them about a process of filtering out bad beliefs.
Is there any method for forming new good beliefs in the skeptic society, or is that not something they concern themselves with too much?
Well, certainly. I mean, there's no benefit in simply being an inherently negative process.
I would never want to have an episode where I say, talk about a ghost story, for example, and say, hey, your ghost is not real.
People who believe this story and who it's their sacred cow, whatever, I do not want to tell them your ghost isn't real.
That's stupid. That's BS, because that's simply inherently negative and it leaves them with nothing.
Instead, we want to leave people with something.
We want to help them understand why people believe in this story and how that thought process, that broken thought process
that leads people to put faith in something that's flawed and not true,
how that can lead them to make better decisions about their life and the future.
And that's really what it's all about at the end of the day.
The better you're able to understand our natural world, the better the quality of information that you have,
the better decisions you're going to make in life based on that information.
So I guess this gets back a bit too...
We were talking earlier, I think, last week or longer about this.
But with skepticism, you need to have some way to filter out bad beliefs.
And that also seems to work, unfortunately, for conspiracy theorists and the like,
as you were saying at the beginning with the 9-11 truthers, that they can say,
well, how where is your evidence that the buildings weren't brought down?
According to them, jet fuel cannot melt steel beams, which is a really big piece of evidence for them.
How is skepticism being misused by them?
Well, in that case, there's a tremendous amount of evidence that steel-framed buildings melt from fire all the time.
To cling to a belief like that, you have to be deliberately closing off the information
that does not support your preferred conclusion.
So if there are people out there, and I know that there are,
who are absolutely committed to the fact that the US government was behind 9-11,
there's usually some ideological motivation why they're so committed to that conclusion.
So when they go out looking for information, they typically only look for information
that supports their viewpoint, and anything they come across that doesn't,
they simply ignore it, dismiss it, saying that's part of the conspiracy,
that's something made up by the debunkers, the disinformation agents,
the government shills, whatever they are, and they simply reject it.
What other unifying features do you see amongst conspiracy theories?
Is there something, other stuff that ties them all together?
Well, just looking at the example of one aspect of 9-11, whether airplanes hit the twin towers.
You will find conspiracy theorists who believe that the airplanes were holographic projections.
You will find people who believe that there were no airplanes at all,
and it was just a bomb in the building.
You'll find people who believe that it was remote piloted airplanes.
You'll find people who believe that they were cruise missiles lightly painted to resemble airliners.
Every possible alternate version of what happened, and these theories are all mutually exclusive,
because it can't be both of any two of those.
So even though these theories are absolutely mutually exclusive of each other,
they still consider themselves all on the same side, all promoting the same idea,
simply because the one thing that they all share is that the government's lying.
We don't know what happened, but we just know that whatever the government says is not true.
So they have their methods of discounting beliefs, or discounting evidence rather,
that goes against their beliefs, but we have methods of discounting evidence as well.
We don't accept eyewitness accounts of fairies in England.
What makes our methods correct and their methods flop?
Actually, Brian, before you dive into that, I wanted to just comment on what I see as a relationship
that's similar to the different bands of conspiracy theorists, like you said, the 9-11 ones.
You know, controlled demolition versus all-fake or whatever.
That reminds me a lot of different factions of religious groups,
and their main thing is we just know that something's out there,
and we're all part of the religious group, even though a lot of our groups are mutually exclusive.
I wonder if any conspiracy theorists would just hate that comparison.
They're working backwards from a conclusion, right?
So that's a major difference.
But they find the unity in their...
The common enemy.
