When the universe finally contemplates itself
When we are the first like we're always worried about the ai becoming self aware a la skynet
Okay, we are the ai
And we're about to become self aware if we can figure out what our own source code is
So we are a skynet. So you're talking about the source code
Of reality itself. Yep
And that our perception our limited perceptions of reality are giving us a distorted view
Of what the landscape actually is we're I'm trying to make sure
I was somewhat holding this back because I'm afraid of what it unlocks
And now that I know that we're willing to elect donald trump not storm masks
Play footsie with china
Be putans bitch all of this stuff
To hell with this we're gonna mismanage this planet into armageddon if we don't get some grown-ups into the room
And so I don't know that I'm a grown-up, but I'm willing to vie for leadership by putting something up having it
Investigated and seeing where it goes. What is your number one fear about this?
This source code being I don't know what this lack of a better term mastered. Well the last time we
Gained some serious insight into the way nuclei worked
That with a little bit of geometry from stanislaw ulem and edward teller
Uh
Gave us the the namesake of the bikini
That was a terrifying moment. We changed everything changed in 19. I think that was 54
The namesake of the bikini. Yeah bikini at all was an island in the pacific
Where we blew up a hydrogen device
Is that that
Insane those insane images where you can see the water going a mile high into the sky
Gorgeous. Yeah. Is that what that is? Yeah
But they did that a lot, right? Well, they did it for a period of time
Now and so went to your question
What if what so it's still expensive to create fusion devices?
So we don't know of any individuals who own the ability to create fusion devices if you recall at some point
Um, somebody made a functioning uh nuclear reactor out of discarded smoke detectors
And we're not got like 500 smoke detectors took out the radioactive element created a reactor. Really? I think so
Probably kid, right? Yeah
Probably a kid who couldn't get into harvard
um
So we have a situation in which we don't know
When ordinary humans will gain limitless destructive power, you know, try to imagine the columbine kids
Um weaponizing viruses or something like that
So one of the great dangers is that great power
I can't tell what the power would be if the theory is correct
It might give us the ability to escape
It might give us the escape though. Yeah, why do we have to escape? This is what what i'm i'm always so confused about
like because
Even when elon talks about going to mars. Yeah, like mars sucks mars sucks. Can't you fix here?
Wouldn't that be the best approach? Well, you and I agree on that. Yeah, what we don't agree on
I think is is that i'm convinced
That we don't have the ability to steward this place. Why?
Don't you think we're better at it now than we were a thousand years ago? No, no, no, no, no
So gingus con was doing a better job
gingus con was doing a better job because he didn't have limitless power
Just try to imagine it try to imagine a full-on nuclear interchange
And then we're having this conversation afterwards. So you you're concerned
that nuclear war
Is uh, not just possible but inevitable
It's certainly inevitable given a long enough time series
Because all these weapons simply will become cheaper
There's no counter measure that we it's too easy to destroy things relative to building them, right?
Yeah
