stuff. So I was like, what is that? There's no big deals for
Parkinson's. I'm just micro dosing it.
Now, all of those are dopamine urgics, right? So for different
purposes, they don't mean urgics. You'll have some like for all
simers, don't epazelle that work with this.
Does urgics mean they raised dopamine? Okay. No wonder I like
all of those.
Yes. So you've got, you know, various types of smart drugs is
one category. Most of the time, those are going to have a pretty
strong effect, and a pretty decent chance of side effect if
used improperly. There's really nothing that is going to be all
that dangerous if used properly. But properly is the big thing,
right? Like whether we're talking, I mean, you can use
heroin, not dangerously, if you if you use it properly, but
that's like, not how people use use heroin. And specifically,
Adderall is amphetamine, right? It's a D amphetamine, you add a
methyl group to it, and you have methamphetamine.
Methamphetamine used to be a pharmaceutical. And so, like the
distinction between pharmaceuticals and illegal
drugs is where the legal categorization of the minute
happens to be based on lobbying, not based on much else. So
you've got smart drugs as a category. And in general, people
should explore there if they are well educated, if like if they
really educate themselves well about the topic, and they and
they're really paying attention in a quantified self kind of way
to the results, and they should not be looking at doing that
super regularly. Now, there are exceptions. So Depranil, for
instance, works through MAOB inhibition. So MAOB is a enzyme
in the synapse that breaks down certain neurotransmitters, like
dopamine, like other catecholamines, like phenylethylamine. So
if you inhibit the MAOB, those neurotransmitters will get
across the synapse more into the postsynaptic neuron. This can
be very dangerous, because if you take that with anything that
is also increasing monoamines, going those types of neurotransmitters
going into the synapse specifically lens, it should be
broken down by MAOB, they can get to too high a level. So one
wants to be careful with that. And what would be some things
that you with Depranil, for example, that you wouldn't want
to combine with that at all? Interesting. And that doesn't
mean nobody does it and has a good experience. What about
Medaffinil? Now, they're different. Medaffinil, we don't
know all the mechanisms of Medaffinil that well, it is the
least symptomatic dopamine orgic for the most part for most
people. It seems like it works through transporter proteins,
largely, which is going to be a little bit less tricky than many
of the other mechanisms. But if if you are flooding the synapse
with dopamine and not breaking it down, you can get to dangerously
high levels, right? And not everyone has too high MAOB
genetically, some people's MAOB is too low. They actually feel
anxious, because they have too many of those excitatory
neurotransmitters. And Devranil would make them feel terrible.
But there are a lot of people who are genetically overproducers
of MAOB, and they will have certain kinds of depression
tendencies, because their transmitters are just not getting
across the synapse that well. And if they take something that's
just increasing their level of dopamine, they might feel better,
but it's actually not doing the right part of the mechanism,
right? And the right part of the pathway that's going on for
them, if they actually break down the excessive levels of MAOB
that they're genetically producing. And there's other things
that can cause MAOB to go up other than just genetics, it's
inducible. And so as people age, MAOB goes up, dopamine goes
down, it's a part of agent, which is why Devranil is one of
the few drugs that is actually correlated to be a life extension
agent. And there are people who in their young wouldn't do well
with it when they're older, they would, because their MAOB
levels went from a healthy place where it would imbalance
them to being excessive and now balances them. So Devranil can
actually be therapeutic for some people. For other people,
it'll be an enhancement that they shouldn't do regularly. So to
the degree you're getting into stronger tools, you should have
more education, just like in any field, right? Like, playing
with the skills off, rather than the handsaw, you kind of need
to learn a little bit more because there's more consequence,
but you can also do cooler stuff with it. So for us, empowered
responsibility and self education is a really key thing
because we want people to be empowered in their own health
and not just feel like a victim and waiting for someone to tell
them what to do who has no way of knowing what their own
experiences are spending enough time, even if it's a well
educated doctor where their fiscal structure only allows them
to spend five minutes of time, like they just can't apply what
they know that well. Right. So smart drugs is one category.
Research chemicals is another category where you have a bunch
of chemicals that are not actually categorized as a drug.
They're also not categorized as a nutraceutical. They are for
research purposes only and they live in that kind of
regulatory bar. And that's most of the no tropics like the
rassetams and whatnot. The rassetams are in that category and
the ampikines. Those are the kind of two primary categories
that people get into. But then also the NSI 189, the P 21,
the cerebral lysine, the lots of the phenobot, right? They live
in that research chemical category. And some of those are
basically smart drugs that just didn't go through approval,
but and then some of them are more what we call a formal
tropic, which is something that can increase some aspect of
cognitive performance without meaningful side effect. Most
smart drugs will have some side effect unless it happens to be
one that's therapeutic for you. And then we've also got brain
nutrients, which are just the amino acids, fatty acids,
vitamins, minerals that the brain needs to function well that
are often deficient. And then you've got botanicals and you
know, plants that modulate different things and different
ones. Botanicals can be very powerful, right? You can, you
can get Ldopa from Makuna, which is a Parkinson's med in
different dose, right? It's not the same kind of dose, but you
can get very potent botanicals. So all those categories of things
to play with. And of course, as people really get into bio
hacking and neuro hacking and become well educated, you've
got different delivery mechanisms, people do them
subcutaneous or IM or IV or snort stuff, intranasal or, you
know, whatever, right? So there's a big interesting field and
some of them can also be not just cognitive enhancing for
normal well being, but very therapeutic if someone is dealing
with a post TBI situation, something that is neurogenic
that enhances development of new neurons after they had some
micro brain damage can be very helpful. There's a whole lot to
learn. So one of the things we're working on is really
competent education and, you know, community space so that
people can learn as well. Right now, it's forums on Reddit. And
you know, places like that where people can learn really up to
sort if the input is good or not.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's funny. Now too, with the algorithms
online, search results are very skewed. Oftentimes, like I was
looking for something a couple days ago, there was something
political and it was a little bit conspiratorial. I think I was
researching the number of times CNN has been busted for lying and
producing fake news. And I googled like, how much, how many
times the CNN been caught doing fake news in 2017, something
like that. And I phrased it a few different ways and nothing
came up. You know, you can't find an article if you use Google
to find that, for example, and it's the same way. When you
start looking for some of this stuff, you'll read something on
a forum, and you're like, okay, this guy says this about
midaphenyl or phenyl or whatever. And then literally, you
get to the next 10 sites, and it's the same exact copy, you
know, that some other schmo has like copy and pasted into his
blog or some other forum, or like, wait, they're all getting
the same, you know, five talking points from the same place. So
even if you are a good researcher, sometimes it's hard to
come up with original valid data, just because it doesn't exist,
you know, like you said, with some of these things that are in
that gray zone in terms of their categorization, it's, it
sometimes is difficult to even educate yourself because you
don't know what's
So let me give you a classic example, we had a scenario where
people had questions about central phenoxine safe. And
because even on some very good, no tropic sites, it says
central phenoxine might cause birth damage, birth defects. And
because central phenoxine converts to DMAE, which is a
Colleen or Jack Colleen donor. And there were some studies that
showed DMAE causing birth defects in rats. Now, people do
their research, say, well, you should avoid that, you know, in
that scenario. Now to actually get into it. If we get out of, if
we really look at the rat studies, and we say what kind of
dosage to what administration is it relevant to normal dosage?
No, the, it's nothing in a normal oral dosage range was there
at all. It was it was even close DMAE actually became
approved as a drug, without that being a concern in many
different countries. And then central phenoxine never had any
birth defect studies. And so yet that's all over the web,
central, don't do it because we're right now, we pulled every
single study ever done on central phenoxine, we could find
186 studies, most of which weren't online, we had to go to
medical libraries, find them in other countries and other
languages, right? Because they they were started the research
started in the 50s. So they just were never put online,
translate them all. And then we had a few PhDs in neuro
chemistry, neuro anatomy, etc, do a structured literature review
meta analysis of all that for us to come up to it with our
opinion on central. Damn, is not a trivial thing to do. But it
matters if you really want to know what's going on. So I like
the Wild West of the space because people are starting to
take more responsibility rather than just wait for the doctor
tell them what to do and then get mad at the doctor when it
doesn't work. Yeah, when the doctor couldn't possibly spend
enough time with them or keep up to date with all the research
happening. But I really do long for higher quality control. And
it's one of the things we're working on. And we can only work
on it as fast as we can afford without moving into fiscal
models that suck, which is the tricky part. But like neuro
tech, you know, we were talking about different devices that we
have around the house and PMF and etc. It's pretty easy to say
this seems compelling. Let's share it. Well, what we're working
to do right now is with all the types of neuro tech, whether
we're talking about low level laser therapy and transcranial
intranasal lasers, or we're talking about PMF or TMS or
you know, whatever, right? For us, it's a process of doing the
full literature review on everything that's known about
this, where what things does it affect what things does it not
affect safe, etc. And then doing full research on the actual
products and say does this product have the specifications
that the literature shows are useful, and then curate those
things. So we're building a platform to do that. It's just a
non trivial process. And the same with just curating knowledge
on no tropics is in the forum, you've got like some real gyms
and then a bunch of shit. And it's not necessarily obvious
which ones are the gyms and the shit. Same like if you look in
the bodybuilder world, and you go to the steroid forums, some of
the smartest endocrinologists anywhere are in there. And then
