I'm Luke Story, a former celebrity fashion stylist and founder of School of Style.
For the past 20 years, I've been relentlessly dedicated to my deepest passion, designing
the ultimate lifestyle based on the most powerful principles of health and spirituality.
The Lifestyles Podcast is a show dedicated to sharing my discoveries and the experts
behind them with you.
Alright I've got two questions for you.
First question is, do you like orgasms?
Obvi, the answer to that is yes.
Second question, are you going to be or can you be in Los Angeles this Friday night, January
19th?
Now if the answer was yes to one and the answer is yes to two, then I'm going to tell you
where you want to be and that is joining me at One Taste Venice for the Intuitive Holistic
Healing Event.
We're going to be talking about orgasm and consciousness.
Yes, they do meet, they do relate.
So if you're into things like meditation, exploring desire, the relationship between
masculine and feminine energy, how to balance that, healing through sex, strengthening intuition
through orgasm and pleasure and the importance of boundaries, then you want to come hang
out with me and the One Taste crew.
So to get into this event, it's very simple.
Just go to lukestory.com forward slash events and you will find it there.
This $40 prior 45 the day of, again, that's this Friday night, January 19th from 7.30
p.m. to 9.30 p.m. at One Taste Venice.
Again, to get your ticket, go to lukestory.com forward slash events.
I can't wait to meet you there.
Do you know anyone suffering from Lyme disease, autoimmune issues, heavy metal toxicity, parasites,
gut problems, inflammation, et cetera?
I bet you do.
It might just be you.
I know I qualify for a couple of those and I have found the most powerful and effective
natural solution.
It is known as the AMP coil, really, really crazy, amazing technology.
So go to ampcoil.com and you will learn all about what I'm describing.
Or you can also go back and listen to episode number 98 with the founders, but I've been
getting great results with the AMP coil for cleansing, detoxification, sports recovery.
My sleep is off the chain.
Stress reduction, mental focus, cognitive improvements, neurotransmitter, reeducation.
This is the ultimate health biohack and I happen to use it a lot when I meditate and
I'm just relaxing.
So this is a really amazing discovery.
These guys have put together five or six different technologies into one device and it's a professional
grade device, but it's for home use, which makes it really easy to use and simple and
just profoundly powerful.
I'm going to warn you though, if you get one, you're going to have a house full of people
all the time that want to use it because that's what happened to me.
So if you want to check it out, go over to ampcoil.com and they will be more than happy
to answer your questions.
Well hello, my fellow brave Homo sapiens.
I'm Luke Story and I'm here to bring to you the second episode of this 2018 Happy New
Year and this one is not going to disappoint.
My guest today is Daniel Schmockdenberger, who is a scientist, a complex systems designer
and an evolutionary philosopher.
He's also the co-founder of Neurohacker Collective and the founder of Emergence Project, a futurist
think tank.
I found Daniel through Neurohacker Collective to make my all-time favorite new tropic stat
called Kuali.
I talk about it on the show all the time.
It's by far the most potent and well thought out brain supplement I've ever taken, so
I just had to track down the guy behind it.
Now when I found Neurohacker Collective, I discovered, wow, these guys are up to a lot
and Kuali is just kind of the tip of the iceberg.
So in this interview, we really talk about his vision for the company and for the world
and I got to tell you what, he's just one of the smartest people I've ever sat down
and had a conversation with in my life.
So seriously, I'm not even exaggerating.
In 47 years, he's one of those brilliant people I've ever talked to.
It was fascinating to sit down and get to engage with him.
It's as if I would ask him a question and I thought my questions were pretty well thought
out and fairly bright, you know?
I mean, I knew I was going to be interviewing someone with a brain in their skull, so I put
some thought into it and I had a lot of stuff that I wanted to cover with him because I
knew he had a very broad body of knowledge, but I'd drop a question and he'd basically
break it down into eight parts and then proceed to just run circles around me.
It was like he was like doing donuts around my brain, just like, oh, you know, and I'm
not being self-deprecating at all.
I think I'm a fairly smart guy, but he's on another level.
But what's really cool about Daniel is, A, he's super humble and he's also got a lot
of heart.
He's someone who's been deeply into meditation and metaphysics for a long time, so he has
this really warm, friendly, spiritual vibe, but he's also highly analytical and scientific.
And the way that he approaches the woes of mankind is very fascinating because he zooms
way out and looks at everything from a system's perspective and that's kind of his whole model.
And so when he looks at the human body, our cognition, new tropics, all the stuff that
we get into, he's really looking at the whole body as a system.
And then the goal being, once you've kind of upgraded your system and you're optimized,
then what are you going to do out into the world?
And so as a result, as we sat down on his bedroom floor, essentially on some pillows
just had this great talk, I wanted to talk about health and the brain and qualia and
how they come up with all this stuff.
And dude, we ended up opening up this vortex, this sort of portal of consciousness.
And we talked about homeschooling and the difference between that and the public school
brainwashing that goes on and political correctness, cultural Marxism, postmodernism, the North
American genocide, that little thing that we don't tend to like to talk about much.
So we really went into some of the systemic issues of our society and of culture and then
went backwards and sort of reverse engineered that in this epic talk in terms of our personal,
subjective mental health and well-being and how that we can get that on track in order
to make a positive contribution to some of these larger social and cultural issues.
So this one really veers off kind of off track a bit from some of my normal shows and this
might represent a trend in 2018.
I might leave the reservation a little bit here and there and go into some of these other
areas.
I by no means want to make a political show because I'm definitely not qualified, but
I think that there's a lot to talk about when it comes to building the ultimate lifestyle
and community and our culture and society has a lot to do with that.
So that's the basic gist of it.
Some of the other things we talk about that might be of interest to you and make your ass
keep listening to the rest of this episode till the very, well, I would say bitter end,
but it's not a bitter end.
It's actually a glorious end because we really get into some deep stuff towards the end of
the conversation.
But we talk about the fact that all human beings alive today basically have some degree
of mental illness and what we can do about that.
Some alternatives to capitalism, again, zooming out, looking at some of the more broad issues
and some possibilities that aren't even part of the conversation yet.
The basis of all addictions and what to do about them.
And the folly of looking for happiness out there, the origins and the vision of neurohacker
collective.
They are up to some really cool stuff and he allowed us to be privy to some of the launches
that they've got going on in the near future and it's really, really exciting stuff.
Then we cover, of course, all of the top smart drugs and new tropics, why and how they work
and some of the risks and benefits involved in their use.
And then we get to cover one of my favorite topics briefly, which is geoengineering chemtrails
and the effect of those programmed on our brains and on our biology.
And that's something I'm going to be talking more about this year because I just, I missed
the blue sky that used to exist in the 70s when I was a kid.
It was really beautiful.
Some of you weren't there to appreciate it, but we really used to have this thing called
sky and it's been hijacked for a number of reasons, which we briefly discuss.
So this is an info, an action-packed episode.
I'd like to invite you right now to put on your little bunny suit and dive into this
massively deep rabbit hole with myself and Mr. Daniel Schmockdenberger.
All right, so here we are with Daniel Schmockdenberger.
Good to see you, dude.
Good to see you, my friend.
Thanks for having us into your home.
I look forward to this conversation.
Thanks for coming.
Yeah, dude.
We're going to go deep here, my friend.
So I'm just going to jump right in.
A couple of things that I've learned about you from reading about you and listening to
you on other shows is that you were homeschooled.
That's true.
And at the same time, you're a really bright guy who is very knowledgeable and articulate.
I would consider you, and I don't throw this term around, but I would consider you to be
someone that's highly intelligent to the point where you could be called brilliant.
And I don't call everyone brilliant, you're a really smart guy.
So why did your parents elect homeschool you?
And what impact does that have on your mental acuity?
So it was an educational experiment my parents were interested in.
And my dad particularly spent his life thinking about educational philosophy and human potential
and how do we actually actualize human potential better.
And my mom had shared interests and different skills, and so they decided to take it on together.
And the experiment was what happens if we give a kid no curriculum at all.
No fixed curriculum.
So I didn't have English and social studies and mathematics, but just exposed them to
everything possible, facilitate their interests, and see what happens.
And so that was the experiment, and having gone through the whole experiment, we could
do it much better now because there were parts that got learned along the way, but the effective
parts that I would say were a successful experiment is every kid has profound fascination
with life in their own ways.
And we usually do a good job of breaking it.
And we also usually do a good job of training them not to think well.
So little kids ask, what is that, what is that, what is that at first, right?
It's the first question.
They're getting the anatomy of universe down.
And then why, why, why?
And the depth of why run into philosophically and physically deep questions that we usually
don't know how to answer.
And so we give them, we just don't answer them or we give them shit answers.
What?
Made up answers, yeah, yeah.
Or some less conscious parents would say, because I said so.
Yeah, or because it just is or God made it that way or whatever.
So when the kid asks, why is the sky blue?
And most adults realize they don't actually know something that is that fundamental to
our experience every day, right?
And all human experience, they either say, I don't know, how do you spell cat, right?
Like they move it into the domain of the known, but they move it from something that was fundamental
about the nature of universe to something that wasn't.
And so if you really want to explain why the sky is blue, you have to understand that our
upper atmosphere is made of nitrogen and oxygen and the percentage of it and nitrogen specifically
as N2 and how molecules work and how light coming from the sun works and the speed of
light and diffraction and understanding what optics is and like there's a lot of deep things
and then, but wait, that's why it is that specific wavelength, but why do I subjectively experience
it as blue?
So now we're looking at the mind-brain interface, right?
And the relationship between consciousness and physics and kids want to know that, right?
They want to know why is fire hot, which again is a fucking deep question and they're like
every kid asks these things.
And since we don't know, we don't facilitate what they're naturally fascinated in, that
they're fascinated by and we force them to be interested in stuff that is totally not
interesting.
And in doing so, we don't teach them the interesting things.
We don't teach them the things that are foundational about life that actually lead to the ability
to understand everything else and we actually break their interest in life, which is why
then they just want to veg out and watch TV or, you know, the whole welfare person phenomena
who is actually...
That's what I was going to say, they become great taxpayers.
But see, those are broken people.
