relate to one another, that you're not putting anything in there that's going to
cause your body to down-regulate its own production, to the point where there's
a dependency and oh my God, now I can't make this neurotransmitter or whatever
because it's been done for me for so long.
And then also that the whole basis of it is coming from what I like about the
company itself is that it's coming from this intention that we're trying to
create people with biology that runs better so they'll be better people.
I mean to me that makes total sense.
I had the flu a couple months ago and I was in Colorado and I had to speak at two events
and they were pretty substantial for me and I was so sick dude and I could not
make myself be in a good mood.
Like I literally just couldn't be happy, you know?
I was just depressed and even though my mind was right and I wasn't fighting it,
I wasn't like caught in some sort of negative spiral.
I wasn't actually negative at all.
I just wasn't in a good mood.
I didn't feel happy like I do right now because I wasn't firing on all cylinders,
you know, so I really think that you do have to approach your own development
from all sides.
In other words, I can't be eating, you know, glyphosate and aspartame and all
this evil things that they put in food and just think I can meditate my way
into a higher consciousness while I'm destroying my biology and in the same
way I can't become obsessed with herbs and superfoods and utropics and then be
running around flipping people off in traffic caught in my trauma issues.
You know, it's like you have to kind of approach it from all angles.
So I like that you're not like, hey, you guys, let's make a cool vitamin that
makes people better at computer work.
It's like, no, we're have a larger scope of vision, which is really cool.
Now, back to the qualia, it's been interesting to observe the friends that
I've turned on to it and, you know, listeners of the show and stuff like
that is that I've, I've yet to have anyone say that they had a negative
experience as a result where with a lot of other new tropics, people say that
it's too stimulating or it made them tired, made them like this, made them like
that.
So I've had no one report back like, oh my God, I felt horrible and only a
couple people that were like, man, I didn't really notice anything.
So the majority of people that I've interacted with that have tried or like,
oh my God, this is the best thing ever.
Like, where has this been my whole life?
Like an overwhelmingly positive experience.
And that's what it's been like for me too, which is one of the reasons I
wanted to track you down.
And I found out there was so much more to your story than just being like, you
know, a guy that knows about new tropics.
Um, but for me, what's been interesting, speaking of, especially the, the down
regulation piece is that when I started, I took the full dose.
Uh, I think it was three of number one and six of number two, and I did that a
lot and it kind of just brought me up to a nice base level.
And then at a certain point that became a little too stimulating.
And now I'm like, I take one, number one, two, number two.
And I'm like, I feel great.
There's no need to even push it beyond that.
So it actually has the opposite effect of building up a tolerance say, right?
That was intended.
Yeah.
So good job on that.
Cause with most other things, you take it and you take it and you build up a
tolerance, you need more and more.
And then your body forgets how to make it.
And you end up in this imbalance.
But I think that there's just something really cool about what you've done.
I'm going to come back to the problems of capitalism for a minute.
Yeah.
Every MBA student learns one of the first principles of
business is maximize lifetime revenue of a customer.
So you guys are blowing it.
Cause now I'm like, I need to, I was on auto ship of quality because I was
pounding so much of it.
And now I'm like, actually I'm getting too many shipments.
I had to stop that and just order when I run out cause I'm going to run out.
It's so you guys, your business model is going against that theory.
So you think about it from a, say I'm a pharma company and there are MBAs that
are looking at the financial instruments and making decisions, right?
Um, I mean at the financial metrics and spreadsheets and, and saying, okay,
maximize lifetime revenue of a customer, the things that treat symptoms
forever. So we say depression is not curable.
You have a biochemical imbalance, which is like some magic term,
biochemical balance with the fuck cause of it, right?
Genetic, which is just a magic term for, we don't know, or we haven't
bothered to look at it in depth.
And so we have to symptomatically treat that forever.
Heart disease, always symptomatically treat that forever.
Cluster, we're going to treat the fucking all of them, right?
So that's very good from a lifetime revenue point of view.
And if it creates side effects that need other drugs to resolve them,
that's called a cross seller and upsell, right?
And then if to maximize lifetime value, I want to start them as
young as possible. So we make up new diseases like ADD after we put
kids in those shitty, um, desks and do they still make those desks?
Like they had in the seventies, little wooden prisons.
So we get them started as early as possible on an
nitrogenic cycle, right?
So pretty much everything that happens in medicine, we wanted to do the
opposite. If it causes addiction, we want to create long-term benefit.
If it causes side effects, we want the side effects to be
comprehensively positive. If the people have to stay on it, we want them
to be able to get off of it, right? Like that's the goal.
And so really theory of market should not apply to medicine because
people really can't choose to not participate with something that
will make them better if they're sick.
And since they really can't choose not to do that, theory of
markets is a fucked up thing just like there shouldn't be
for profit prisons, right? And so this was hard for us because
and it's why we started with supplement as opposed to bigger
things we could have done is because I didn't want to take
capital from any financial service places that would then bind us to
doing things that were unethical. So like our, our cost of goods to
make qualia is more expensive than most metropic retail.
And it's because if you want to use the right form, right, you use
the phosphorylated version of this and the methylated version of
this and etc. And with the right concentration of the dose, you
notice you take nine fucking capsules with and that's not
filler. It's because it just takes that much of those things is
just expensive. Now, and also the fact that you guys aren't using
excipients and binders and all that weird stuff, which I always
noticed right away. I'm like, I go to the end of the label and
it's something like that. Yeah, there it is, which means that
you can't work with almost any manufacturers because that's what
they need to make it work in their machines, the magnesium
stirrate and all this stuff, right? So all, all of that, like
doing the integrity thing is just a hard thing to make work
fiscally. But like you have found with your podcast, if you do,
there will be people that are attracted to that thing and it
can grow. So that's what we're trying to do.
We'll be right back after this important announcement. Hey,
check this out. I recently launched something on my site
called the master market. It's a super cool store where I've got
different categories, whether it be spirituality, mind focus,
outdoors, food, superfood, supplements, bedroom, sleep,
office, jet lag, biohacking, there's even a bookstore from
some of my favorite books and books recommended by my guest.
And what this is is like a hub where you can go find all of the
links to everything I've either used and vetted or I'm
currently using in my life to build the ultimate lifestyle. So
it's called the master market, Luke's Lifestyle List, and you
can find it at LukeStory.com forward slash store. Just go to
my site and you'll see it in the navigation. Now, what's really
cool about this is when you make a purchase through my store, I'm
not actually selling you anything. I'm just curating a
really dope place where you can go find the best stuff. So I get
a piece of commission if you make a sale through the site. The
vendor, of course, makes some cash because you buy and you get a
place where you can go and save time and money from not having
to look around for the best stuff and do all the research
yourself. But what's even cooler is most of those items come with
a custom discount code if you go through my site, which is
pretty cool. So it's a win win win triple trifecta win. Great
way to support my work and the podcast and the show as well as
the brands and your own health and well being. Check it out
LukeStory.com forward slash store. And now back to the
interview. So in terms of the other things that people
typically use, I want to just run run a couple of these by you
because I take my qualia, I guess about five days a week. And
as I said, it's been strange that my dosage has gone down. It
must be fixing me. That's the way I look at it. Like it's, it's
connecting synapses or something that were off and now
they're they're getting more in alignment. So I look at it. But
there's other things too that depending on where I'm going,
what I'm doing, I find to be useful. So today, for example,
I knew that I was going to have a very social day. I'm going to
be talking to you. I'm being interviewed on the way back home
after this. So I did a number of different things, one of them
being Fennibet, for example, which I'll maybe do once a week
or something like that. And I just find it's just a really
great social lubricant. And, and also took some paracetam, because
I find that it really helps me with speech. Some of these other
things I'll do. But I could give Joe here, paracetam, and it'll
give him anxiety. Yeah, or he won't notice anything. I give
someone else I gave a girlfriend once Fennibet and she
probably took a little bit too much, but she got deathly ill,
you know, and on what I would take for this is like a
sprinkle to me to her, she was a bit smaller and just had this
huge adverse reaction. Same thing. Medaphino is another one
that I really like. And for me, I take an eighth, a dose of
Medaphino for me is an eighth of one tablet. So it's like a 200
milligram tablet. Once I took a half, I was like, Oh my God, I
feel like I'm on crystal meth, not fun. A quarter if I'm really,
really tired, set me straight. But if I just want to have a
productive day and be relatively alert, just a tiny,
tiny little piece, which is about an eighth of a tablet does
me. I've given it to friends. I say, man, be careful. This is a
this is a drug. This is not an herb like go easy. They take a
half like I didn't feel anything. They take another half
they're like, man, I didn't notice anything. Like, oh my God,
if I took a whole Medaphino, I would be like, you know, scrubbing
the freaking bathroom floor with the toothbrush. I mean, I would
be tweaking so hard. So what's up with some of those where you
mentioned Depranil I was on like low dose Depranil for a while.
I've tried a lot of different things outside of the safe and
more plant based stuff that you guys work with in qualia. What
are some of the other ones are even micro dosing on psilocybin
like that whole other world of smart drugs and new tropics? What
do you got to say about any of that?
Sure. Let's make some categories here. So we've got
smart drugs as a category, which are pharmaceuticals that are
usually being used for an off label purpose. They're often
times psych meds like will be a trend, or Adderall, or they are
narcolepsy meds like Medaphino, or they are sometimes anti
Parkinson's meds.
Depranil. Yeah, right. I remember when I was taking that
