also saying Oh, evolution actually kind of makes sense.
Or fecal implants from clean, you know, a clean source, so to
speak. So we have a chunk of working microbiomics we're
working on right now that I'm we're not that close yet because
of what we want to do. But I'm excited about it. Cool. I will
say, obviously, we didn't get into psychedelics and entheogens.
I have a whole section on that. Yeah. And we didn't get into any
of the psycho emotional psycho spiritual worker. Right. But on
the just evolutionary environment, I will make a thought in
closing is just like a statin is optimizing for one thing, right
lower your cholesterol without looking at Hey, is the cholesterol
may be protecting the arterial system from oxidative damage.
And that's not a good idea. Or what's the whole rest of the
story going on? When we optimize for something that is
affecting a lot of other things, we're not paying attention, we
get externality, right, which is also called side effect. We
built the entire world, the human built world for a few
purposes in ways that affected a lot of other things. So we build
a house to protect us from the elements and give us a safe place
to be, and then maybe for certain aspects of aesthetics, but we
didn't pay attention to, Oh, well, there's actually chemistry
that's in the paint that is affecting us. And oh, yeah, the
fungicides that are in there that are making fungicide
resistant funguses that are why we have an issue with mold, we
never did before. That that that actually is an important
thing. Like in the drywall,
paints in the paint in the 70s started having fungicides added
to resist mold. And then the mold became super Mercer mold.
That's the reason everyone has mold issues when we lived with
mold forever, right? In an evolutionary environment is
because this is mutant mold. Oh, my God, so, but even things
like, you know, the color and angle, right, all of these end up
affecting the psyche that's filled with environmental
psych. So like, if you're in an area where there's graffiti and
trash on the ground in the walls, this kind of environmental
psych studies been done many times. If if you just paint over
the graffiti and clean up the trash, violent crime drops like
30 to 50%. Wow. And it's because you think about what the
environment's transmitting, when you're there is one, this is a
wasteland, and I'm in survival mode. And two, this is a place
where law doesn't operate. Right? Because laws have been
broken, and they're not rectified. Right. And as soon as you
fix those things, how violent human beings are is being changed
at the like 50% level by an environmental psych. Right. I've
heard David Hawkins talk about that. He called it the broken
window theory, you know, you have a building in the ghetto, and
it gets ignored, and then someone breaks a window, and then
someone comes on breaks another window, then comes the graffiti,
then the drug dealers on the corner and ever I never thought
about the kind of mechanics of it. That's very interesting. It's
I guess the it's like the level of consciousness of anything.
Could you say would you frame it in that way? I would say that's
a way of reducing the complexity of it. Right. Which is kind of my
thing. I interview people like you and go to squish that down
into a bite sized thought. But I mean, so if you go into a
cathedral, they're doing environmental psych. And so the
sound and the smell and the visual and every aspect of the
sensory process is designed to uplift and exalt. But then
specifically, that it's narrow and very high, has a certain
effect that's different than if it was wide and high, or if it
was not high, right, which is, you're very focused on up. And
so then you feel very small. And you can both have a sense of
feeling, you know, and then the priest is halfway between you
and where Jesus is up there and where God is. And so both if you
want to look at the cynical side of the, this is how you make a
good authoritarian kind of dynamic where everybody feels
small with an authority up there, but also the beautiful, the
mystical side of people feeling a sense of awe and exaltation,
right? The environmental psychology of how those
buildings are done in due state, right? Just like burning man
induces state because of the environment, even if you don't
hear us. So what we are realizing is that we have built a
world that we are not well adapted to, right? And that's
affecting us in a lot of ways that we didn't pay attention to
that are mostly not good for us. And so there is this task that
you and it's not good for the planet, right? And it's not
good for us. So there's this task of how do we rebuild the
entire physical built world in a way where the goal, the primary
goal is not, you know, it being inexpensive or fast or
aesthetically beautiful, those are all partial goals. The
primary goal is that it is enlightening the humans that are
inhabiting it. How do you create a built world that makes the
healthiest, most enlightened, most pro social human beings that
are inhabiting it? And how do we rebuild the entire world with
that in mind, and in relationship to, you know,
harmony with the ecosystem. So that's the bio hack that is most
interesting to me.
That's amazing, dude. I love that really good way to sum it up.
Alright, so closing question, who have been three teachers or
teachings that have influenced your work? I could have you
learned from that we might go up and learn from as well.
Specifically more related to individual health or just
anything, anything totally broad, could be a book, teacher
philosophy, relative, or preferably something that one
could go look up or we can put in the show notes, you know,
Buckmeister Fuller, whatever, you know,
Buckmeister Fuller would definitely be at the top of the
list. And either operating manual for spaceship or Earth or
critical path being the most approachable books on
understanding state of the world and how to think and how to
design. So that would be very high on the list. And then
ordering three is impossible for me. So I'll just say the ones
that came to mind first. Yeah, yeah, that's the idea.
Finite and Infinite Games by James Kars is a great book. It's
a book that will help you understand both the future of
economics, the future of worldview, and very deep
spiritual principles together from a game theoretic
perspective. It's a small, easy read.
Oh, cool.
Is a great one. And then the next one came to mind was Anthony
D'Amello, who's actually a Jesuit priest, but was someone who
studied all the world religions and traditions and spent most
of his time in India. A little book called The Way to Love, and
tiny little book and principles of sovereignty. What does it
mean to actually be whole and to be able to love from a place of
wholeness rather than this commodities exchange we usually
call love of what do I have to give someone to get the
security and reassurance and validation I'm looking for and
how will I punish them if they don't do what I want?
But because there is really no such thing as being able to
really love someone, which means to see them and want for them
if you need them to be something. Because you can't see
them if you need them to be something else, right? And you
can't want for them if what's in their highest good isn't
meeting your needs. So loving from a place of wholeness. It's
a great little book. And that sounds awesome. Those are three
good. All right, great. Thank you so much. Wow, fascinating.
So much more research to do now. Well, thank you so much for
joining. Where would you like to send people in terms of
websites, social media, any of that? Yeah, two things is if
people are interested to learn more about what Neurohacker is
doing easy Neurohacker.com. If people are interested more in
some of the larger social topics, the economics education,
etc. I have a blog at civilisationemerging.com and you
can go check stuff out there.
Awesome, great. We'll put those those links in the show notes
for those of you listening and you want the show notes for
every episode, please remember, you can go to lukestory.com
forward slash newsletter into your email and we'll send them
to you. So thank you so much for joining me. I look forward to
doing it again.
Yo, yo, yo listeners, near and far. What's happening? How was
that conversation? I'm quite a mindblower. If I don't say so
myself, I already look forward to part two, because as you can
see, even after two hours, we barely scratched the surface of
the dimensions that we can expand into with Daniel Schmockenburger.
What a fascinating guy. What a cool guy. I love this dude.
Right when we were done, I really was like, okay, when can we do
this again? I'm just gonna drive back to LA, get a couple nights
sleep, come back, let's roll. He lives down near San Diego. So
it's quite a drive, but I'm so glad I got to do this one in
person. And more than anything, I'm so glad that you got to join
me for the second show of 2018. I'd like to remind you that I do
this show every Tuesday, folks, and even sometimes twice a week,
but definitely Tuesday. Next week, I want you to do yourself a
huge favor and check in again. When I interview Alion Zach from
a place called the Womb Center in New York City, and we talk all
about consciousness, sound, breath, work, psychedelics, it is
a super trippy dive just like this one into the realm of
consciousness. And it is amazing. It's one I've been sitting on
for a couple months, and I'm like, I got to put this out, it's
too good. So that's going to be a two parter next week. To
ensure that you don't miss that episode, or any episodes to
follow, you can make it really easy on yourself by just clicking
subscribe on this podcast on your podcast player iTunes,
wherever you're listening to this, just subscribe, dog. It's
super easy. That's all you got to do that every week, doink,
doink, doink, Lifestyles podcast right on your device. You
don't have to think about anything. You're going to get
the goods for free Zs. Another thing that I want to let you
know is the show is also on Spotify now. Really cool thing
that happened is one of my goals in 2017 nailed it. It's on
Spotify. It's a really great interface. You can listen to the
show to your heart's content over there. Also want to invite you
to join me on Instagram. That is of course my social media of
choice. If you want to see me doing all the crazy stuff that I
talk about on this show, you definitely want to follow my
Instagram stories, my feed, you know, I don't know, it's all
right. I'm not a professional photographer. I do the best I
can. I wish it was prettier, you know, your feed could be really
nice. Mine's okay, I'd say. But I think my stories are pretty
awesome. I humbly, I humbly declare that because they go
away in 24 hours. So I don't give a shit if I look totally
spastic and mental. So I do a lot of really goofy. Yet I think
entertaining and educational things on the stories. So all the
supplements and lifestyle hacks and all this stuff. So you can
follow my adventures on Instagram stories. If you want to take
it to the next level, though, and you really want to be part of
this community, I'd love for you to join our Facebook group. I
just started a private Facebook group for the Lifestyles
podcast, our guests and our listeners. And that is where I
answer questions and do Facebook lives. I do all kinds of
exclusive, exclusive content over there. And so come hang out,
all you have to do to find us in Facebook is just go into the
search bar, put the Lifestyles podcast and you will find the
group asked to join will let you in and will keep you in as
long as you behave yourself. Alright, so thank you so so much
for listening to this show and for sharing it with friends. I
really, really appreciate your ears. And again, happy New
Year. Let's make 2018 the best ever. Don't forget to come
