I'll learn how to play rad guitar.
I go in and they're like, oh, we're going to learn how to read music.
I was like, no, that's math.
I'm out.
But when I look at higher education now, just from what I see in social media, there's
just where we are culturally is so interesting because this millennial generation, I read
something the other day, for example, that they surveyed a bunch of millennials and 50%
of them indicated that they would prefer communism over capitalism, you know.
And there's this whole postmodernism and Marxist ideas and all this, to me, really crazy stuff
that they seem to have seeped its way into higher education and you have this generation
of kids that are in this weird Orwellian 1984 thought police, political, correct insanity.
Like, what's the deal with that right now?
And do you know what I'm talking about?
And do you think that this has been perpetuated intentionally or is this just a natural progression
of A plus B equal C and how things have carried on?
All right.
That's like quite a few really deep topics mixed together that really need kind of unwound.
Yeah.
So postmodernism has one topic in its relationship to higher education.
The trend of higher education writ large and the other issues beyond postmodernism, looking
at macroeconomy and questioning capitalism and looking at other macroeconomic systems
and generational dynamics that millennials are expressing are all important and they're
somewhat tied, but they're also there's some different dynamics.
So in my classic interview style, I just ask six questions under one umbrella.
Well, take a stab at any part of that.
To me, I'm just, you know, I'm very zoomed out and I'm looking at things that I see
like that like, wait, kids don't understand communism doesn't work.
How did we get there?
You know, it's just, it's so bizarre to me in this whole, I don't know, the climate
of free speech being crushed unless they, people agree with you like this sensitive snowflake
weird safe space whole college thing.
Okay.
So the issue as I see it is actually quite nuanced and complex and most of the reactionary
simplistic takes on it are part of the problem.
So let's explore this nuance for a minute.
So let's take the issue of race, which is right at the heart of that topic.
We can look at race, we can look at gender, we can look at transgender LGBTQ, we can look
at any of those dynamics that are part of the identity politics part you're bringing
up.
It's related to postmodernism and it derives some of its intellectual basis from postmodernism
but it's also related to some other key things.
So if we look at race and we look at Black Lives Matter or people of color movement
or et cetera, we have not ever properly dealt with the fact that this land that we call
this country was fully inhabited by lots of nations of people that we completely slaughtered
to make this land, right?
We're getting taxation without representation in London, we don't want to be here anymore
so we're going to go somewhere else and hey look there's a whole continent that's totally
free because we have better military equipment than they do so we can kill all those people
and take that whole land.
There's a real moral fucking problem to having your moral legitimacy as the United States
of America and the beautiful Constitution Declaration of Independence being based on
genocide and we're pretty happy to acknowledge like after Germany's genocide they're fucked
up, right?
There's a whole cultural thing but our genocide was not that long before and it was more people.
It was a lot more people.
Wow, that's interesting.
And it was the genocide of the Native American people employing the slavery of the Africans
and we mean real fucking slavery like captured the people by military force, killed lots
of them, tortured and killed lots of them, lynching, et cetera and we don't want to
really acknowledge that this country was built with that.
It was built with a pretty decent amount of Chinese slavery, a lot of African slavery
and one major genocide.
Alright, so then we've got, you know, we have to fight a war to finally get rid of slavery
not that long ago, like really not that long ago where there are old people alive today
that still remember elements of slavery dynamics, right?
Like that's a big deal to get.
But then, okay so we abolished slavery without abolishing the mindset that was associated
with it so a lot of people didn't want it gone.
So then we've got Jim Crow and segregation and all that and then we kind of overturn
that, kind of, right?
But slaves actually economically work really well.
It's kind of nice to be able to have people do all this shit work and not get paid and
be able to concentrate the profit margins and as soon as you don't want to do that with
the slaves now people got to take, you know, other people have to take the shit jobs and
who wants the shit jobs and then you have to dilute the profit margin to pay minimum
wages.
So there's a lot of people that just didn't like that, right?
For legitimate understandable reasons and they could justify making another group of
people different enough that slavery was better than their own sacrifice in that zero-sum
game dynamic, right?
Or near zero-sum game dynamic.
And then we have, okay so now it's not full segregation legally but that mindset's still
there and the people who are coming out of segregation have generations of trauma and
no education and no inheritance, right?
As opposed to people who are coming from generations of education, inheritance and not the same
types of trauma.
So we have the ghetto phenomena and what that means and we know how epigenetic trauma works
now generationally, right?
We know how mimetic trauma works.
And so then we look at do we still have a system of systemic injustice?
Fuck yes.
We still have a system of systemic injustice and any white person who wouldn't just trade
to be black recognizes that the ethics of the pie slice theorem aren't in place, right?
Pie slice theorem is if it's just there's a symmetry, right, between you and I which
is all cut the slice of pie and you get a pick which side but I don't get a cut and
pick, right?
If I cut and pick there's something fucked up or you can cut and I'll pick.
But anyone who says I wouldn't want to trade positions with the other person but they should
be fine with it, there's a problem.
And that's the dynamic here.
So there is a real response to unresolved trauma that is still affecting things.
Now that said, the response is coming from a place that is largely influenced by trauma
rather than clear strategy and trauma usually perpetuates itself.
And so if a bunch of people with black lives matter saying, hey, there are real issues
where there are a lot of black people who are getting killed by police for reasons that
are totally unfounded and then not getting prosecuted in the same way, not getting attention
in the same way.
Like that's a real deal and how does anyone go about trying to go to school and feel safe
when you can be going to school doing all the right things and have that kind of dynamic
occur?
All right, so then they go shut down a freeway out of like upset and anger or whatever.
And then while that's trying to get attention for something that is real, it is strategically
problematic because then you have the alt right largely arising as a response to those
type of dynamics saying, look, our way of life that we care about is being threatened.
And look, these people are rioting and causing chaos and whatever, they're validating our
ideas about them not being strategic good thinkers, et cetera.
And because of a postmodern dynamic that in general the progressive left has, it makes
it harder for them to cohere because they want to validate everyone's perspective because
they're suffering, they're still in response to the pain of imperialism or one perspective
is imposed on everyone.
So part of the response is to say, hey, fuck, everybody actually has a perspective and the
perspective that you're saying is just true because it's science or whatever.
A lot of our social science that arose at the same time as our physical science was actually
just imperialism.
And so postmodernism emerged amongst, I'm radically simplifying here, postmodernism emerged
with a partial meaningful truth, which was to say this is just objectively true.
This is science.
We did the right epistemology is subjectively true and it's true for everybody doesn't
acknowledge that especially as we get into the social sciences, there's a shit ton of
bias.
And so we went looking for monogamy and pair bonding in the animal kingdom because of Victorian
age ideas that actually made us do zoology badly.
And so we see that kind of thing everywhere.
So postmodernism said actually different perspectives on reality, running different experiments
end up yielding different kinds of insights.
And we still know that are you healthiest on a vegan diet or a paleo diet?
I can show you just as much fucking research on both of those that look at different metrics.
And so whether I'm looking at pH or I'm looking at insulin levels or I'm looking at telomere
levels, like I'll get different answers and also which populations, but when I try and
reduce health to some finite set of metrics and there's a million fucking metrics that
we can't calculate, I can get a lot of partial answers that seem like the whole answer and
seem like complete science because I'm studying a very complex system in a very simplistic
way.
So bias is very easy when you try and set a complex system in a simple way because your
metrics look really fucking clear.
They just don't happen to be all the metrics that matter.
And so postmodernism acknowledged that and said, hey, all the perspectives actually have
to be factored.
Now there was a kind of virulent version of that.
They didn't acknowledge that all the perspectives should be acknowledged, but they're not all
going to be equally true.
Some of them can have distortion in them, so we need to be able to vet for distortion
and all the perspectives are going to be less different in simpler systems.
So in chemistry, the epistemology is more straightforward than it is in social sciences
and some of the virulent version of postmodernism just started rejecting truth writ large, right?
Like any claim of truth is an imperialist claim and nobody can claim truth and all perspectives
are equally true.
But we can see that that was a virulent version of an appropriate response to the way that
science, imperialism, capitalism, along with fucking like, you know, colonialism, right?
All kind of co-emerged and trying to untangle those was like part of the goal there.
So if you actually read Foucault or Derridaugh, there's meaningful good thinking in there.
Most of what you see happening that tries to intellectually reify itself with those
people is not actually being done very well, but that's because trauma is influencing a
lot of it.
But then on the other side, we've never actually taken responsibility to deal with that that
trauma was created.
So when I say it's nuanced, it is.
And it's a really big deal.
Because if we look at the alt, the alt right and the control left, they have moved to a
level of polarization and radicalization that is very hard to imagine how that reconciles
and with a tremendous amount of fear on both sides and trauma on both sides and associated
with that, the desire for secession from the nation, the desire for whatever that leads
to war in a world where our military technology is such that we don't get to make it through
war is the way we did in the past.
And so the idea, hey look, we fought a war with the British to come get this area and
it worked well.
Yeah, we had fucking muskets, right?
And as the military technology goes up, it becomes more and more problematic.
And when we get to the level where you have decentralized exponential technology, which
is where we're at right now, we don't get to make it through wars anymore.
And humanity has always had different dynamics that led us to polarization and radicalization
in the war.
And we have to actually learn how to fucking deal with that.
And part of it is we have to be able to understand how to take multiple perspectives.
They have partial truth, find the successful parts and figure out how to do dialectic,
how to do synthesis, and be able to find a solution that doesn't just solve for some
things while externalizing harm to something else that's affected, but actually solve for
the whole set.
So that's just the postmodernism snowflake part.
That makes perfect sense, because to me, looking from the outside, I'm like, I see the trauma
and I see that these young people that are wrapped up in that ideology, I see them as
victims.
But I didn't think about the past, I'm just like, you're victims of a perspective that
you've adopted.
And I guess because there was trauma, and I'm just like, God, I feel so bad that this
kid thinks that communism works.
I mean, it's just like, I want to address this part, when in the depression, there were
people openly in the streets discussing socialism, Marxism, laissez-faire capitalism, because
the system was failed, right?
In a failed state, people are open to like look at any possibility.
