normal healthy diet, but we probably don't get enough because of depleted
topsoil and whatever else, right?
And those are just nutrients that in our evolutionary environment were
necessary for brain function.
Now, we also didn't try to do 12 hours of productive work that was cognitive
pertain, evolutionary environment.
So we're using nutrients differently.
So we might have increased nutrient need.
We've obviously got radically decreased topsoil density.
Interesting, right.
So going out and collecting acorns for a couple of hours that day or hunting
for rabbits or whatever is quite different from sitting down and solving
the complex problems that we are in this technological age.
So, you know, deficiencies, pretty rampant, different kinds of toxicity.
Like, you know, just the volatile organic compounds in this paint and this
carpet are, you know, there's hundreds of VOCs in the air that we're
breathing, just normal stuff, right?
Let alone industrial pollution, the atmosphere and, and glyphosate and
agriculture and whatever else.
And they're almost all either carcinogens or neurotoxins or endocrine
disruptors and like, it's a significant issue.
So we've basically as, as tool builders, we've built a world that we're not
adapted for.
And so how do we deal with that?
We were looking at the cognitive issues, one of the first ones.
There are many, we looked at, you know, issues related to anxiety and
depression and pain and addiction and sleep.
And those are all things we'll talk about.
But, you know, we saw this meteoric rise of energy drinks.
So they're doing $15 billion domestically per year of, you know,
300 milligrams of caffeine at a time.
And God knows what else, man.
Anytime I see someone drinking one of those things, I'm just like, I mean,
could you, every once in a while in a seven, 11, I'll just pick something up.
Not like I'm going to buy it, but I just read the ingredients out of just morbid
curiosity and I'm like, Oh my God, it's like so toxic, man.
So, you know, the artificial flavors, sweeteners, colors are not adding to
brain health.
Dude, and just the thing when you go buy a drink is the water.
It's fluoridated tap water in most cases.
That's really the bulk of what you're getting.
And when you buy a 12 ounce, whatever drink, you're drinking a bunch of tap water.
You've got, you know, that kind of rise.
Then you see with smart drugs, obviously we have a lot of people on
prescription, Adderall, Wilbutrin, Vivance, Mdaphanel, for psychiatric
disorders, for cognitive disorders.
And there's a pretty big question about what percentage of those actual
prescription cases are good for people.
I'm stating that conservatively.
Um, but then we have all the people on off label, right?
Use, which is not even prescribed.
They're just black market, you know, universities, midterm and final Adderall
sales everywhere, right?
And even Wilbutrin, Depranel, lots of different things.
Um, and so estimate is something like $15 billion a year, also in off label
smart drug sales, something like five billion in Adderall.
And they work, right?
Like they work for a very narrow set of metrics.
So if I want to focus, get my midterm done or my tech start up or whatever it is,
the dopaminergic dynamics from the Adderall are going to make me focus
better and have more motivation and more drive.
Now, some of the interesting things that we find is because it's just
modifying dopamine and not looking at acetylcholine and how it's involved
in memory, not looking at glutamate, not looking at all of the rest of neuro
chemistry and not even looking at all of the dopamine process.
Just typically one small part that one synthetic molecule is going to override.
You get certain effects and certain side effects and certain missing effects,
right?
So we get increased focus, but we don't get increased memory.
We actually get decreased memory of certain kinds of Adderall.
Decreased creativity and then decreased empathy.
Increased anxiety, aggressiveness, sometimes depersonalization,
derealization, decreased task switching, you know, et cetera.
And these are really important things.
So, and because even insofar as we're affecting dopamine, we're just
overriding a regulatory system, providing a whole bunch of an in-chain
chemical, not actually saying, how does this system regulate its own dopamine
and how can we support it to do that?
Then we're going to create dependence and addiction.
And so these were the things that I saw was a scaling amount of dependence
and addiction and very narrow positives with a lot of the positives that were
necessary, missing and meaningful side effects.
So the question in that space, we worked with people in an integrative medical
clinical environment to when we had their genomics, we had their blood labs,
we had brain scans to customize chemistry that helped them tremendously.
So we knew we could do that.
And the question was, can we do that at scale without personalization?
Which I didn't know because personalization is a big deal and we're
working towards methods to be able to personalize.
There are some things that I just won't do widely because they have to be
personalized.
They're so different person to person.
So like we don't have any type of folate or folic acid, because whether
someone should be on a methylated or non-methylated folate makes such a
really big difference that we just don't fuck with that axis if we can't
personalize it.
But there are a lot of axes that everyone who is self-selecting into a
particular kind of thing like something for cognitive enhancement do pretty
well across the whole board.
So, you know, high success and well tolerated.
So what we wanted to do with quality was say, can we make an alternative so that
people don't have to go to just tremendous amounts of caffeine or off
label smart drugs or just suffer without the ability to focus that will
actually help them in what they're looking for with enough subjective
effect that they actually feel it.
And that will actually have a much wider host of positive effects that we're
getting focus and concentration and drive, but also emotional resilience and
task switching and creativity and analysis and synthesis.
And, you know, so we started by doing a kind of cognitive map of what are all
of the states and all of the capacities that people are looking for when
they're really wanting to do productive work and then saying, what are the
underlying physiologic pathways that mediate those that we know about from
the various neuroscientific and bioscience fields?
And then can we understand how those systems work?
So how does the body regulate dopamine?
So, you know, as you start to look at it, you say, all right, so protein
comes in dietarily, gets broken down to amino acids, phenylalanine converts into
tyrosine converts to anesthetal tyrosine converts to L-dopa, crosses the blood
brain barrier, converts to dopamine and a presynaptic neuron, transport a protein
down an axon, crosses a synapse, has to get by synaptic enzymes that will break
it down in different ways, hydroxylase and MAOB and COMT and etc.
And then goes into one of a few dopamine receptors, there's intercellular
dynamics that are involved.
So you just start to look at that and say, how does the body do this thing on
its own?
And are there deficiencies in any of those key nutrients or transform
factors or things that are oftentimes under fully supported that we can
support?
And that would be just looking at dopamine, right?
Then you do that with acetylcholine, then you look at glutamate, then you look
at functions like neurogenesis, bodies continuously developing new neurons, are
there things that actually support increased neurogenesis or neuroatophagy,
killing old neurons better so you don't have synapsic neurons?
So we looked at what are the hosts of things people are looking for that are
healthy states and capacities?
What is the underlying physiology involved?
How does that physiology naturally regulate and what might we be able to
do to support the natural regulatory systems so that people both have a more
complete positive state and that rather than create dependence, right?
They're on it for a while.
We overrode their regulatory system and now there's addiction, that it actually
is supporting the robustness of the regulatory system so that when they get
off it, there is elevation from baseline that lasts, right?
The exact opposite of side effect and the exact opposite of dependence.
So that was our goal.
And so we did hundreds of iterations, bunch of testing, you know, after doing
full literature review, database of 500 notropic chemicals and looking at the
pathways of them and then looking at positive synergies, negative synergies,
delivery mechanisms.
And we ended up getting to this formula, you know, that's there right now,
which over a large enough number of people, over a large enough amount of time,
tested well enough that we were actually really happy with it.
And so that's that first product.
And the goal there was to be able to support people having increased
productive capacity, right?
Increased cognitive clarity and the associated emotional states like
resilience and drive that was actually not bad for people and good for people.
Now, I can't claim that we know that because we haven't done long enough
term trials with enough metrics, with enough controls to claim all of it.
But, you know, we've done preclinical trials with pre and post brain scans and
biometrics and seen, you know, really meaningful statistical correlation and
change.
And we've had, I don't know, 40,000 people over three years where we're
collecting data from what their experience is.
Really?
And so we, we're very happy about that.
And that's the first product.
And, you know, what, what it kind of is, is a complex approach because
our brain is a complex system, our body is a complex system.
So rather than here's one molecule to override it, it's how does it self
regulate and can we support itself regulation across many related axes?
Now, if we were going to approach anxiety, we would do it the same way.
If we were going to approach pain rather than, you know, just some NSAID or
opiate, we would do it the same way.
How does the body naturally produce its own opiates?
How does it naturally deal with inflammation?
How does it, and can we support those dynamics?
If we were going to work with sleep, we do it the same way.
So those are the things that are coming up next.
I can't wait to see what you guys are coming up with next.
So there's a couple of things in there that I really like is that you guys
really were very thoughtful about the synergy between the different compounds.
I think there's a lot of cowboys and Indians right now in the new tropic
space, as I'm sure you're aware, where you see the same kind of
formulations on 10 different products.
And it's like one guy just looked at what the next guy is doing on the label.
Oh yeah, I hear that's good for short-term memory, focus, cognition, whatever,
blah, blah, and they just kind of throw those stacks out there without
necessarily forethought as to how those interact with one another, right?
So you have one molecule and it does one thing.
And let's just even say that that effect of that molecule is universal and
you're choosing ones that are kind of universally affecting people in the same way.
But then you combine that with other molecules and other ones and other ones.
And now you have something totally different.
You have a third party compound now, right?
And so that can go well or not based on self-experimentation.
There's been times where I've taken too many different things at the same time
and too much of them and I'm having the opposite effect where I can't focus
and I'm actually, I feel like I'm freaking nuts because I took too many smart drugs or whatever.
But I think what's cool about qualia is that you really looked at how things
