there's just so much dumb bro science in there. And it's like,
but if you don't know the field well, they're all sand shit,
you don't know. Right. So this is something that we're really
working to do is to have a moderation process where
everything that goes there is better.
That's cool, man. That's cool. That's that's a really valuable
resource. Because I that's the exciting, you know, another
positive thing about right now is that I think more people are
waking up to the fact that they don't actually have to rely on
the allopathic medical system. Like I have episodes and I call
them things like learning to become your own doctor. It's
like, you really can do a lot on your own. And then if you're if
you are tied into someone good in functional medicine, and
they're able to kind of, you know, be a step above you in
terms of their body and knowledge. But I like with my
relationship to medicine is I do a lot of my own research and
footwork and order my own labs and geek out and like which labs
are the best and most updated because even my functional
medicine doctor, they're still in the labs that were the best GI
test last year. I'm like, no, man, in the biohacking community,
there's new labs with, you know, new parameters and things like
that. And I really feel the sense of power and autonomy
because I'm, you know, I know my limitations in terms of my
body of knowledge and what I'm even capable of kind of
understanding or care to take the time to learn when it comes to
my biology. But I know what I know. And then I go to the
experts that are higher up the food chain in their area of
special specialization, right? So it's really cool that that
you guys are thinking that far ahead and enabling people to
help themselves.
One of the parts I'm most excited about is a integrative
medical functional medical program. So we've got a number of
doctors who are kind of the best integrative psychiatrists that
I'm aware of. And
psychiatrists or just functional medicine that does
psychoneuro pharmacology. And so, you know, we're not allowed
to provide medical information, prescribe, diagnose, treat
anything like that, right? So if people, and if someone is on
has like conditions or on psych meds, we say don't use our
stuff because this is real interactions that need to be
factored. But we don't want to just say go to your doctor if
your doctor doesn't know anything, we want to provide
better resources. So go to your doctor and here are doctors that
actually know the field really well, they can run a QG on you,
they can run neuro hormones, they can run your Walsh
metabolic labs, they can run your gut brain access, they can
look at your genomics, etc, and actually do the best of what
functional brain chemistry optimization currently looks like.
And so that's something that we'll be rolling out in this next
year. And that we've been already working with a number of
clinics on that.
That's amazing. That's amazing. Yeah, because you do need that
that middleman, you know, unless you're just a freaking
genius and you have the time and energy to devote to yourself.
But I think each one of us can only take it to a certain level.
And we need, you know, we need that help. But it's like, how do
you find a good one? I always get the question of, who's the
best functional medicine doctor? And I'm just, I just made it
easy on myself after working with a number of them
individually. And I just joined parsley health, which is like a
you know, sort of, I think of it as the Uber of functional
medicine, just a modern interface and a membership model
rather than paying per visit. And I find it to be really
effective because they can deal with my insurance and the
billing and they know how to code the labs and stuff. But it's
still very much self directed, like I could just follow their
program, probably be healthy, but I'm always digging deeper.
So I'll do, you know, three different tests for metals where
they might just order me the pre and post challenged urine test
and like, cool, that gives me a certain metric. But there's
hair analysis, there's blood, there's other ways you can dive
into that. But it's helpful to have someone you trust that'll
go along with what you're doing. Because back in the Western
medicine model, I go into the general practitioner and be
like, Hey, I have x, y and z wrong, they send me out to a
number of specialists that are their cronies. And it's like,
you get stuck in that whole thing. And I'm going in there
telling them about some new supplement or technology. And
the doctors like, What? I don't even know about that. You
know, like I was having some problems with like vertigo and
dizziness. And I, you know, went up the ladder and LA medical
system, which I think is probably a pretty good place to live if
you want some, you know, high level medical care. And I got
sent to the, you know, the world's best EMT that people
travel from all over the world. I go sit down with this guy
said, Yeah, man, I don't know, man, I have, you know, have a
little hearing loss over here. It's about 20%. I'm well aware
of that. But I have this thing where I'm getting dizzy all
the time. And I always feel carsick. And he ran some tests
for me, I came in again, he goes, Yeah, I think you probably
should just not drink coffee. I think it's the the caffeine
can do that. Like really, this is what you guys, this is the
best you guys can do is that the caffeine is making me, you
know, it was just like, Oh, my God, I could have done a much
better job of being my own doctor. And of course, I, you
know, finding finding the root of that. But it's a cool time to
be alive, or those of us that are waking up and have access to
information like you guys are providing, can really take
responsibility, and not become this dependent infant on the
teeth of Western medicine and all the inherent expenses and
things that come along with that.
And it's really important to keep the Pareto principle in
mind, which is, it does get complex quickly. And to be able
to synthesize the complexity is a really deep topic. And the
foundations are still 80% of it. And the foundations are not
that hard, right? I mean, they might be hard to do from a
disciplined point of view in a life that is conditioned
otherwise. But if someone is not sleeping enough, sleeping well
and sleeping enough, everything else they'll do is just tiny
diminishing returns and comparison sleeping enough, right?
Right. And if someone is not exercising, and if they're not
generally eating well, and if they're not doing some kinds of
stress management, and mental processes, then biohacking is
actually a way to support living shittily, right, trying to
like symptom manage the fact that their life actually sucks.
Right. And that's just not the way to go. Right. And so if
someone really just does the foundational stuff, it's amazing
how much of it that addresses. And even like, say we look at
heavy metals. So I can do a pre and post provocation test, and
I can test with DMPS or DMS or EDTA, and I'm going to get
different specific bindings. And I can look at hair labs,
which will give me a different time scale of what's being
excreted. And I can look at, you know, metal antibody stands
and then what I'm going to find is, okay, there are specific
chelation or binders that I'm going to use differentially if
it's lead versus mercury, right, or gadolinium or whatever it
is. That's a lot to figure out. It's a lot of expense. And if I
just put the person in a sauna every day, and I gave him
a little charella in the morning, that would be 80% as good.
Right. Yeah. And so it's just kind of important. Like, one of
the things we want people to know is that there are
foundational things that if they don't have the time money
proclivity will really help them be radically healthier. And
then optimization on top of that is nice.
Right. Yeah, that's that's well stated. Sometimes I'll find
myself taking a 50 pills in the morning, trying to turn my
brain on. And then I realized, maybe if I hadn't gone to bed at
2am and woken up at 730, you know, so that's, that's very
true. Some of those things are just basic lifestyle choices.
If you eat, if you think about it, if you're going to eat food
in that's measured in pounds, and that's all nutrient, right,
that's all toxin are nutrient. And then you're going to take
supplements that are measured in grams. The supplement, the word
supplement means to supplement that what you're getting from
diet, right, like getting the pounds right is a big fucking
deal. Right. And similarly with sleep, like, when you
exercise, all that torn muscle that it needs to repair is going
to be repairing during sleep, during Delta sleep in particular,
all those nutrients that need to go into new tissues are going
to do that during sleep. And so if you're not sleeping enough,
like all those such as kind of doesn't matter that much. And
so this is one of the places where I want to empower people in
the face of the complexity to know that there is a simplicity
that is most of it, which is if you live a life that is
relatively closer to an evolutionary environment,
evolutionary life, you'll just do a lot better. And then all
other stuff, if you're sick, you definitely want to go find good
functional practitioners. And if you really want to optimize,
you want to go.
Yeah, also, I love it, man. I've got about the interest of time
we're right around the two hour mark, which is I try to cap any
conversation off, no matter how much more there is to do. But I
have my notes for part two. I'd love to sit down and have another
talk with you. I mean, every time every like, every time you
have an answer to a question, 20 more questions populate, I'm
just like stifling more that have come about. So we're
definitely gonna have to talk again. But I really appreciate
your perspective.
I would love to talk again. This is fun. And
yeah, it's just fascinating. Dude, you're just you're so
full of information. I mean, you really are just the fascinating
guy was all pumping people up on Instagram on the way down.
Like, this guy's really smart, you guys. And you know, you know,
I'm not striking your ego. It's just you are.
It's the thing that you and I were talking about is that
people are actually fascinated by life without being broken,
right? Right. And they can restore that if they were
broken. And if you just spend your life following things you're
fascinated about, you will tend to learn things.
Right. I want to know what's up next with neuro hacker
collective. You mentioned the functional medicine kind of
interface thing. Can you reveal yet what your next supplement
or product is going to be?
We've got about 10 products that have already tested well in
the prototype phase of different types that will be going
through, you know, final refinement and trials and like
that. Before being released, we're actually hiring right now
for additional formulators and VP of product and etc. and
researchers to come help because as we're scaling, it needs
more work to be able to do it as at the speed we want to. So we
will not produce any product that is to treat any medical
condition. Can not do that, right? That's a medical thing.
But things that support sleep, things that support healthy
sensory process, meaning if there are sources of chronic
pain, the chronic pain is not bothering people, things that
help support natural calmness, which is not saying anti anxiety
thing, but is. Yeah, I think our audience is able to read
between the lines. All of those. I find that I dance around
terminology so much on this show in the interest of protecting
my guests that happen to produce a different product or
