We are very near a failed state, and we're actually very near a failed civilization globally.
So when you look at climate change and the fact that we can't fucking get it right, right?
Like we can't get it right.
We keep driving ourselves towards the point of self-induced catastrophe and possibly extinction.
And despite the fact that the Club of Rome identified this overshooting limits in the
60s, right, and limits of growth in the world through model, despite the fact that it's
been called out and we're following the model, we keep progressing on the motherfucking model,
right?
The Paris Accord was not enough for us to make it.
Everything would have been fucked if we did the Paris Accord, and we couldn't even do
that, right?
And that's driven mostly by our current structure of capitalism.
Because if I over fish the ocean, if I use a mile long drift net and I take all these
fucking fish out of the ocean, that's more money for my fishing company this quarter,
and leaving them in the ocean is worth nothing to me, economically.
Now it's worth something in the future, but the other guy's going to fish them out if
I don't fish them out, so it's not like I can leave them there for the future.
So it is a competitive race for near-term wins, mortgaging the future.
So we make 13 species a day extinct on average.
We've fished out 90% of the large fish species from the ocean on a three-quarter water planet
that took 3 billion years to get all that fucking life, and in 100 years of industrialized
fishing, we've fished out 90% of the large fish species, extinct in many of them, 80%
of the old growth trees gone.
That's capitalism working really great, not working really great, right?
We're on the verge of a very realistic AI apocalypse where we should be developing the
AI very slowly.
We should be very intelligently looking at, because when Edison's working on a light bulb
and the light bulb fails, it just doesn't work.
Maybe it blows up.
No big deal.
You do it inside of a container.
You work on AI and it fails, and sometimes it doesn't work, and sometimes it kills everything.
Because it is an auto-poetic tech.
It is a self-organizing, self-authoring tech.
Light bulb isn't.
It works or it doesn't work, but it's built on the outside.
But biotech, right, where you make a new fucking life form and now it replicates and it does
its own mutation, that is a self-replicating tech where if you get it wrong, you don't
get to stop it.
And nuclear wasn't, right?
Nuclear is a reaction and then it stops.
It's really bad.
But nanotech, biotech, and AI are auto-poetic, self-replicating tech that might be, depending
upon how we do them, incommensurate with biological life as we understand it, with faster feedback
loops than us.
Now, we should develop that as slow as fucking possible because the upsides are awesome, but
we should do it in highly controlled, safe-to-fail environments, but all of the fiscal incentive
is getting to market first.
That's a capitalist incentive, who gets to market first, where we're in a race towards
the cliff.
And the arms race is the same thing.
Why do we have, when Carl Sagan showed us in the early 80s that it only took four 100
megaton bombs to kill all life on Earth with a nuclear winter, why do we have 600 times
that many?
Like, why the fuck do you keep making nukes after you have enough to kill everything
down to viruses?
Because if you have a for-profit military industrial complex where you have a source
of supply where you need to manufacture more demand to keep your supply going, it's not
like supply and demand is a real thing.
There's an initial demand, you create a supply, but now you have supply and you manufacture
artificial demand, which is why we buy all kinds of shit that doesn't make us happy,
that we think will make us happy because marketing creates artificial demand.
So capitalism is actually broken, existentially.
So there are people who learned that, okay, Marxism had some nice ideas and there were
some good ideas, it didn't actually end up working out that well, no, of course, if
we really go study it, we never implemented Marxism, just like we've never implemented
laissez-faire capitalism.
We've implemented weird models of capitalism, and by the time the USSR came around it was
nothing like Marxism.
For a bunch of reasons.
But Marxism doesn't actually work at scale.
It works, that kind of model works at 150 person tribal model, it doesn't extend beyond
it.
Capitalism did seem to work, but at the cost of radical externality.
That externality, when you get to this many people and this much tech, actually self-implodes.
So what has worked up to this point worked, worked at the, but when we say it worked up
to this point, we have been utilizing unrenovable resources moving towards the point of criticality
the whole time.
And it has required war, right?
And it has led to diseases we didn't have before because of environmental devastation
and etc.
And we have a world where today almost everyone has low grade mental illness.
Like ubiquitous addiction, ubiquitous low grade anxiety, existential angst, fairly decent
low grade depression, right?
These are not natural to the human condition.
Tribal people don't have this shit in the same way.
So we say it worked, defined worked.
This is optimizing for some metrics at the expense of others in a complex system.
So the fact that there are people questioning is there a fucking better system than this
because we're not fixing climate change in the system where it's still more profitable
to do the fucked up thing.
The perverse incentive is ubiquitous in healthcare.
Why do we do biohacking stuff?
Why doesn't healthcare prevent diseases?
Because there's no fucking money in preventing diseases.
There's a lot of money in treating them.
There's not that much in curing them, but there's a lot in treating them forever.
So what is going to get researched when the money goes in has to have ROI back out in
the capitalist system.
So the fact that people are recognizing that and questioning is a very good thing.
Now the fact that they try to find other things that didn't work as the answer is just a basically
hopelessness and a lack of knowing how to go about solving something so fucking hard.
So one of the core focuses of my life is what is the macroeconomy of the future?
What are the governance systems?
What are the civilization systems that can allow us to actually human together well without
needing to go to war and unremovable use of resource and producing ubiquitous mental and
physical illness that's unnecessary and etc.
And it's not any system that has ever happened.
So we can get into that if you want to or we can go to other directions, but also most
of the young people who say communism, what they're really saying is Denmark looks better
than here.
Like that's a social kind of dynamic where better access to medicine don't have a lot
of homeless people, masters to PhD is average level of education, largely secular because
of that.
Like the Nordic countries just look better.
They are.
They're just fucking better.
There's more socialized dynamics.
Now, are they better on every metric?
No.
Like here, we have a tremendous amount of innovation here because of certain types of
freedoms and a tremendous amount of damage.
And our bell curve is very spread out.
And so for everyone who's not winning at this system to say nobody is losing as bad in Denmark
as they are here and there's a lot less of them and they're not ruining the environment
as fast and they're actually figuring their trash problem out, maybe let's actually think
about this.
And I'm actually not proposing Denmark as a solution.
I am saying there are a lot of things that are actually evidentially better on meaningful
metrics and things that are adequate to the scope of what do we do with almost 8 billion
people and distributed exponential technology don't yet exist.
Oh, my God, that was amazing.
That is a lot to unpack.
And it's funny because I've never actually talked about any of these issues on the show.
It's always very much about meditation or mindfulness, spirituality, or just full on
health stuff.
But I know that you have a systems approach.
So kind of zooming out and looking at like, whoa, what's even beyond, hey, am I optimizing
my sleep or taking, you know, how does my blood work look this year?
I mean, this is stuff that goes way above and beyond that.
And where are we going from here?
Which is interesting.
I just think it, you know, I spurn the question because I knew that you'd be someone that
could answer it in a way that encourage more questioning.
But it's such an interesting time to be alive.
That's why sometimes it's hard for me not to deviate from my format and the basic topics
and get way off into this stuff because I'm watching things happen that have never happened
before as we all are, right?
It's just such a trippy time on earth and there's so many positive things going on.
And I feel that there's this massive awakening thanks to people like you and shows like this
and just the proliferation of information through social media and through the internet.
But at the same time, it's so dark and we are on this, you know, as you said, about to
go over the waterfall.
I mean, we are at the precipice of absolute destruction while at the same time there's
this light that's really, I think we're in this sort of spiritual evolution at the same
time.
It's just so interesting.
Let's just for a minute touch on the, are we talking about biohacking, meditation, spirituality,
individual optimization?
Are we talking about interpersonal, collective optimism?
Well, that's what I'm saying normally on the show.
It's more just subjective, each person optimize in and then that rippling out into the community
at large, right?
But we've sort of like zoomed out and are coming back in from the other direction.
So here's why we have to think about them together.
If we work on increasing our cognitive capacity and our energy and etc.
So that we can do more of what's killing the world and then we go extinct faster because
of it.
Right, right.
We're optimizing ourselves to like integrate into a system that is not working.
And that's most of it, right?
That's interesting.
We watched, as we started, you know, Neurohacker, we were looking at the amount of smart drug
sales going up and smart drugs that increased hyper-competing, increased motivation and
drive while decreasing empathy, decreasing creativity and making hyper-competing psychopaths.
Like Modafinil?
Less, like Adderall.
Oh, Adderall, okay.
But Modafinil can do things in that direction and it's different.
I just came to, I don't do Adderall, but I do Modafinil from time to time and when I'm
on Modafinil, I don't think I've become a bad person, but I definitely, I'm not interested
in interfacing with other humans at all.
I'm like very task-oriented and locked into whatever I'm doing, which has its place, but
it's definitely not like, hey man, I should go out and give some hugs right now.
It's like, get out of my way, don't interrupt me, I'm focused.
So how do we, this is the key thing is like, let's learn how to win at the game that is
killing the world.
No, let's not do that.
Let's learn how to have the capacity to create a new game.
That's really the thing that I want to emphasize here and even the people who are winning at
the current game are not living happy, meaningful lives for the most part.
When we look at hyper-normal stimuli, right, why it's so easy to get addicted to sugar
because in an evolutionary environment, we just didn't have sugar, right?
We had a little bit of fruit and the fruit was not hybridized, so there was a major
evolved dopamine reaction to get it because the caloric density offered increased ability
to survive a famine.
Now we have so much fucking sugar, but we still have the same dopamine response, that's
a dangerous phenomenon, a hyper-normal stimuli.
And then we find that of course, social media is a hyper-normal stimuli because everybody's
pictures are prettier than they actually are and everybody's liking you and you're liking
