screen and go interact with people.
Right, right.
But since we're going to get paid more by more time on site, then we're going
to figure out the most addictive things to do with the newsfeed that will keep
you clicking and, you know, paying attention as much as possible.
And then justify why it's a good thing, because we have to, we have to do that.
Right.
And so then if you look at.
You just, you just described a rift in so many of my relationships, you
know, the woman classic, like, what do you have to be on Instagram?
Like all day, I'm like, Hey, this is my work.
Like, you know, that's always my excuse.
It's part of my job.
You know, it's an, it's an interesting thing because the studies keep rolling
out of the more time people spend on screens, the more depressed they are.
And for a gazillion reasons, right.
Is there, for the most part, there isn't any real intimacy, authenticity,
et cetera, in those interactions.
If so, it's the tiniest fragment of the total time spent.
And even to the degree there is the real kinesthetic feedback of intimacy
with another person is not happening.
It doesn't mean there aren't good sides.
Of course, the ability to have people talk with people in other parts of the
world and be able to have messages that are valuable be shared has value.
Those will be the parts that we solely focus on.
If we have a profit stream associated with it, cause we need to justify that.
Right.
This is where it becomes important to really look at what is meaningful.
Now, come back for a moment to the individual optimization, right?
Biohacking individual optimization.
We're interested in people optimizing as individuals so that they have more
capacity to actually do things that are meaningful.
Cause when people look at climate change and they look at species extinction
and they look at refugee issues and et cetera, they're like, fuck,
I don't know what to do with that.
Let's go back on Facebook.
Um, let's go back to work.
Let's, but for the, and again, back to education, they're waiting for
somebody to tell them what to do and do a good job at it, as opposed to be able
to self-assess in a very complex scenario, what might actually be effective.
Cause if anybody knew it'd be fucking happening, right?
To self-assess what needs to be done and then to actually start to initiate
and, and do that and self-author.
So individual optimization for that purpose is meaningful, but it's
interesting how the pursuit of happiness is core to the mission statement of our
country, right?
And the pursuit of happiness is a, is an oxymoron.
It's a misnomer.
Cause when one is pursuing happiness, they will definitely not be happy.
You're inherently dissatisfied if you're seeking yet.
They're affirming their emptiness, lack of happiness, and they're in a
fundamentally narcissistic pursuit and happiness occurs when you let the
narcissism go and actually connect meaningfully to the world.
And happiness is mostly this direction, not this direction, right?
Mostly.
You know, yeah.
And that also, that also impacts another piece of the, of addiction
recovery is once one has enough stability, I mean, kind of the whole point
of just to then go help the next person that comes along, that is struggling
in ways in which you have.
And then that's, that's where the magic happens.
Like that's when the lights turn on, when you make a difference.
Right.
Yeah.
And it's not just because now you're affirming the principles to yourself
until you want to live them.
It's that, but it's also because now your life actually has a sense of meaning
exactly where it doesn't need a hit from something else as much.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
And I think, yeah, I, I figured that out pretty early on into my recovery, which
was almost 21 years ago, like the first time I was even just together enough to
have a car and give some kid a ride, you know, and just be of service.
And that was like, God, I was experiencing the helpers high and I didn't even know it.
And now to have the ability to do that on a, on a more broad scale of having a
podcast and making these videos and talking to people like you.
And, and the, and getting feedback, although it's not, you know, a true
connection, but like a direct message or a Facebook message is like, Oh my God,
I've struggled with X, Y and Z and I've been listening to your show and now I'm
getting over it.
I mean, it's like, well, okay, my life has meaning and purpose finally.
Um, and not to say that being a plumber or working construction or working at a
gas station or whatever, wouldn't as well, because you know, there's people needed
in all of these different areas, but to do the thing that I really love to do,
it's been so fulfilling and it directly helps people on a, on a really deep level.
Uh, so God, man, that's funny.
I was just going to like touch on, like just sprinkle on a couple of things that
we went into and, uh, yeah, I have a feeling weird.
I'm going to have to be coming down a lot if you'll, if you'll have me because
there's many conversations that need to, uh, the need to happen.
But I definitely want to get into, you know, neurohacker collective, uh, what
you guys are doing, uh, qualia, just getting, now that we sort of created a
framework and a reason that someone would want to optimize themselves is other
than just like, well, now I can get more stuff for myself and be happier for
myself, but to actually, you know, be, uh, a piece of biology and consciousness
that can go out into the world and have some discernment in terms of what I
want to put my energy into or not.
So how did neurohacker collective come to be?
And what are you guys all about for those that are unfamiliar?
Yeah.
So, uh, there's a few founders and they all had the interesting different
stories that kind of, uh, came together.
I'll, I'll share mine here as, um, so I was running a think tank that was working
on the types of issues we're talking about, social issues.
How do we actually have civilization self-organized well?
And so one of the things we noticed, pretty easy to notice is that all the
problems we want to solve are problems that are caused by human action.
Whether we're looking at species extinction or climate change or female
genital mutilation or war, like this are human behavior, mod topics, right?
So how do we support humans to behave in ways that are good for themselves and
good for the whole simultaneously without directly or indirectly causing harm?
So then it's, the question is, what are all the things that influence human behavior?
Obviously we talked about economics.
If a particular action is incented, it's pretty hard to prevent it.
Right.
So how do we create an economic system where the whale is not worth more
dead than it is live?
If we don't, if we want to have any whales, that's a big topic.
Right.
How do we create, you know, social systems and tech influences our behavior, our
environment influence our behavior, our psychology, our worldview, our definition
of what is fundamentally meaningful to us.
But our biology also influences our behavior.
And everybody who has ever had a pretty significant sickness or even just
had their hormones out of balance or a hangover knows that your physiology can
go into a state that affects your psychology and your cognitive capacity
and disposition significantly, where if your neurotransmitters are off or your
hormones are off or et cetera, in a particular way, accessing gratitude or
happiness or hope, it might be very, very hard and staying out of anger, frustration,
et cetera, it might be very hard.
And that's going to affect behavioral, not only their own suffering, but also
behavioral predispositions.
Same with complex thinking.
I've actually got to be able to have a decent working memory to be able to hold
multiple perspectives at once and synthesize them.
If I don't have enough working memory to hold multiple perspectives at the same
time, I'll default into a simplistic perspective.
So, right, which is why malnourished people are so easy to brainwash, right?
That is a part of it.
And, and so the, uh, you know, the thing we started looking at there is how
does physiology affect human predisposition, not just their own experience, but
how likely they are to behave violently or, um, behave charitably, psychopathy,
empathy, you know, types of dynamics, and also the ability to understand complex
things, the emotional resilience to hang in with them in difficult times.
And as we're understanding more about mind-brain interface, there's a
bi-directional interface, both influence each other.
As we're looking at the way the brain and the physiology affect the mind, right?
The, the emotion and the cognitive dimensions.
Uh, we, it's not just a genetic, like, oh, you're, you have a genetic
predisposition for psychopathy there for your psychopath.
Typically the genetic predispositions for a psychiatric thing are, are genes
that do something like process a specific nutrient, right?
Like we'll, we'll look at psychiatric issues from genes that process the
methylation of a B vitamin or the excretion of a mineral, like copper and
zinc or something.
And so if those nutrients are necessary for a specific type of brain function,
like empathy or impulse control, and they're not being processed well, then you
might not be able to have impulse control.
And what we actually can do about it is without changing your genome, just
actually say, oh, the gene that would code for the transform of this vitamin
isn't happening, we can just give the post-transformed version of the vitamin
and that mental illness is actually better.
So this is the kind of field of integrative psychiatry and psychopharmacology.
And I started seeing how many of the dynamics that address the world have a
physiologic component to them and starting to look at, could we up-regulate
the neural networks that mediate empathy?
That mediate impulse control, that mediate emotional resilience, that mediate
complex thinking, that mediate a sense of agency so that human bio-hardware was
not only predisposed to feel better, but also predisposed to have increased
capacity and behave in ways that are fundamentally more pro-social, which just
does correspond with healthier too, right?
And it's interesting because we're evolving in a social environment,
healthy people are pro-social, right?
Think about a psychopath in a tribe doesn't make it very well, right?
They're going to get killed or taken out of the tribe or they're going to get
better, but they don't actually get to be in a deep social environment
without pro-social behavior and work.
And so Neural Hacker started, for me, with a deep exploration into understanding
how we can affect human physiology in ways that decreases suffering, increases
capacity and positive disposition.
The first product we launched, Qualia, was one of many and this next year, a
bunch of the additional ones are coming out in various ways.
Oh, cool.
Oh, I'm excited.
And I want to get into the quality thing because people, I get a lot of
inquiries about it and I'm, I'm so into it, but we'll go into that.
So a little, a little of the framework, but I definitely want to cover that
because it's exciting.
So in a world where we have so much distraction from all of the things going
off from social media and on the phone and et cetera, with so much hyper
competitive pressure to try and produce, almost everyone has a pretty strong
sense of pressure to want to be able to focus better and to be able to have
more sustained attention and get you done while having a pretty significant
challenge doing that.
And not only the, you know, focus issues like from distraction, but insufficient
nutrients that are necessary, certain kinds of toxic exposure that affects the
brain, you know, et cetera.
So, so we see this ramp in energy drinks, so more and more caffeine and then smart
drug usage and, and so with smart drugs in particular, which in
contra distinction to brain nutrients or things that you would just get from a
