That's the key insight is that everyone is born fascinated, interested.
And if you facilitate that, then not only are you helping them learn a tremendous amount
and they're going to be fascinated about different things, some more in the direction of aesthetics
or ethics or fundamental science or athletics, but there will be a unique genius actualization
if it's followed.
And so that was the experiment and we could go on about educational philosophy, but one
of the key like insights there is that we have an educational system in the U.S. right
now and in most of the West that was built in the Industrial Revolution to make industrial
bots.
And it was the...
Thank you.
No, I love going here.
I was hoping we could get into this.
So carry on, please.
And so as we started to look at building industrial supply chains, then we wanted every assembly
line worker before we had automated that task to basically be an automata, right?
They would do the exact same thing.
And so anyone who had been trained into doing that could be replaceable.
They were fungible for anyone else.
And any MBA from a good business school was replaceable for any other MBA, any VP of marketing.
So we want to take unique humans and collapse them into fungible roles.
And so then we can just have an order chart and say, I'm looking for three of these and
four of these, totally replaceable.
In the process of doing that, when you collapse the uniqueness of a human to a fungible role,
there's of course the intrinsic motive to do that is gone, deep competition and comparison
because we're competing on being the exact same role.
So we're competing on the same metrics rather than any uniqueness.
There's no way to compare Salvador Dali and MC Escher and Da Vinci because how the fuck
would you do that, right?
You can't compare them on the same metrics.
And if Dali hadn't done what he did, some other artist wouldn't have done the same thing.
Universe would just have been less.
That was the uniqueness of that being, expressing in a totally fucking unique way, which is
why all artists for history hadn't done that thing.
And so so much of the jealousy, envy, comparison, competition also comes from being collapsed
to categories.
And there were reasons why we did this, you know, for all of human history until not that
long ago, till the beginning of what we call civilization 10,000 years ago, give or take
for eight million years of hominid history, we never got more than 150 people.
And those 150 person tribes, everyone could be pretty unique and actually get along well
because they knew everybody else and they could actually keep track of it.
And as soon as we wanted to go to start having very large numbers, we had to create some
homogeneity between everyone.
So we started making them a lot more like termites or ants, which are animals that can
do a lot of them working together, but within a class, a worker ant or a drone ant, they're
all fungible, right?
They're all replaceable for each other.
So this system is very much like that.
And education is the indoctrination into being going from a unique human to a fungible
bot.
Dude, you just described my whole in a very deeply intellectual way, my whole experience
subjectively with education.
And the whole time you're talking of thinking, this is why I have a podcast and this is why
I do what I do because I'm so curious and so fascinated by the way things work and the
questions of why, right?
And so I was always seeking truth, even as a kid, like, how does this work?
Why does it work?
But the system that I was put into and literally physically the desks I was put into were like
little torture chambers and my creativity was actually discouraged and was almost forced
to join the basketball team because I was having behavioral problems and their solution
was like, cool, make him conform to something that makes him even more insecure and feel
like even more of an outsider being the kid with the long hair and refusing to wear the
right shoes.
So I wore my vans and slid around the core and got made fun of and, you know, harassed
and picked on and stuff like that.
And it's like, once I turned the day turned 18, I quit high school.
I was marking it off on my calendar like a prisoner, you know, putting notches on the
wall as like marking the calendar to October 29th, 1988.
And that was the day of freedom.
And from that moment on, once I left school, then I became obsessed with learning.
And so it's so interesting to look from the standpoint of your perspective because it
wasn't that I didn't want to learn.
It's that I didn't want to learn that way.
Those topics.
And that way.
Yeah.
And so now it's like, you know, here I am 47 and I'm like, I'm like the most curious
childlike energy.
I think there is.
I mean, I don't know anyone that's as curious as me about the way things work.
And it's such a gift to be able to interview people and really learn about this stuff.
So, so that's how fortuitous that your parents, you know, you were so situated that your parents
got that and you had an opportunity to take a different path.
And that was because you didn't actually identify, you didn't actually succeed at school in that
way that you were able to actually do something else to the degree you succeed at it, then
you're trapped by the continuation of that curve forever.
So notice the smarter the kids are, smart, meaning good at that particular definition
of smart.
The earlier we push them into hyper-specialization, right?
We want to get them in AP classes towards their specialty young.
And then the further we push them in specialization.
So by the time they do their dissertation, 10 people in the world know what the fuck
they're talking about.
So they know so much about such a narrow area.
So they're not thinking about big picture things or the interdisciplinary things at
all.
That means that the smartest people aren't actually questioning macroeconomics and questioning
culture and questioning governance, questioning the foundational axioms of how we do academia
or science because they're, they're just doing one tiny little thing.
So we're training them to be very sharp cogs in the industrial wheel.
That's so true.
And the only people who are usually left thinking about any big picture things are people that
didn't have those types of proclivities.
And that is actually a way of taking things that could be dangerous and making them not
only not dangerous, but very good tools of the continuation of a particular system.
And so because you didn't actually do that well at it, then you were able to say, fuck
it, I want to do something totally different.
Right.
That is interesting.
And it reminds me of something I've talked about on the show and there was this, I got
to find this freaking, it was some study or evaluation or paper or something that I came
across at one point and it was talking about entrepreneurship and how the top 10 people
with the highest IQs in the world all worked for someone else.
And all the great inventors in the, you know, monumental colossal entrepreneurs in the world
dropped out of high school, didn't go to college.
I mean, it's this universal trend that the smartest people don't think outside of the
box.
And it's the theory was that the people that you're describing that are highly specialized
and that rise to the top of their class intellectually, that they're so smart that they're able to
over calculate the risks involved in a venture of creativity, whereas if you have a more
of a visionary creative type that doesn't fit within that box, but also obviously still
has a certain degree of intellectual prowess, that they're smart enough to have the idea
and creative enough to have the vision, but just dumb enough to not be able to calculate
the risk and be willing to go out and walk the plank and lose it all for the sake of.
So saying dumb enough is one way of thinking of it.
Another way of thinking of it has to do with the way they're trained in relationship to
risk aversion.
Okay.
Okay.
I like that because I think of myself as that and I tend to be self deprecating.
So I appreciate you seeing in an NLP way, seeing that word dumb enough.
So what is really happening?
Think about this, if the kid who gets a 4.0, one of the keys of getting a 4.0 is making
no mistakes, right?
Like that's how you got that is that you did everything right and everything perfect.
Now everything right means you learned what had already been figured out was the orthodox
truth and you were able to repeat it effectively, right?
And then at a certain point, once you understand that system completely enough, you can extend
it a little bit, which, you know, in the postdoc level, you take the current, whatever the
field is and extend it a tiny bit after proving that you understood it perfectly.
People who got a lot of praise and a lot of success and identity around never making any
mistakes and getting everything perfect are not oriented to do things that have a very
high risk of failure.
That's great, dude.
So when kids are praised for getting things right, you fuck them up.
Because a number of things, one, so think about this.
In general, all the praise that kids get is when they do something that the authority
wants them to do and has already designated as right and good and true, right?
So whether it's the teacher, the preacher, the parent, they get praised for doing what
someone else wanted them to do.
They almost always get punishment for doing things that made sense to them that they wanted
them to do.
So this is how you condition people to be good cogs within an authoritarian system where
we defer our own agency, our ability to assess the world in our own agency to somebody that
knows better than us.
And the teacher, the preacher, the parent, right, they all represent that and then it
becomes the boss and the, you know, macro economy, the state, the et cetera, writ large.
And so if we want people that actually can really be innovative, we can't train them
that way.
We have to train them to self-assess and self-initiate and not actually get hits of praise from getting
something right that others already figured out.
And when we do that, like oftentimes there's a kid who becomes a spelling bee champion
or a math genius because they just happen to fucking figure out like how spelling works
or how math works and they got so much praise for it and they weren't getting enough unconditional
love otherwise that they were optimizing for the extrinsic reward associated with the math
of getting the praise even though they might actually hate math or be not terribly interested
in math.
They just happen to get it.
If you didn't do that, then you might find math is all right, but they're actually fascinated
by art.
And so then they can become very good at something they have no passion for.
And it's all based on extrinsic motive that is damaging intrinsic motive.
Wow.
Wow.
Do you have kids?
I don't have kids.
I'm like, you'd be a great dad, dude.
I was picturing your kids, man, they're going to be so well-developed if and when you have
them.
I don't either.
I think partially because I'm terrified of not doing a good job of it because I still
feel like I'm doing so much work on myself, but it's interesting to think about a generation
of people close to our age that have an understanding of things in this way that can actually usher
in the next generation of human that is allowed to express their full potential without being
confined into this system.
And most of the people that have had the deepest exploration about the nature of reality either
aren't having kids because they see how much is wrong with the world and they're applying
that creative and parental energy to trying to solve problems in the world, or they don't
feel secure enough in the world with nuclear war looming again for the first time and macroeconomic
collapse and climate change, et cetera, to want to bring kids in.
So, okay, so moving on into, I mean, there's literally so much to unpack in any one of
these topics, but there's so many things I want to cover with you, but the education
thing definitely piqued my interest just learning that you're homeschooled, but you're a really
bright guy, so where's the connection and that's making sense.
See, I didn't go to college.
To me, higher education was moved to Hollywood, play in a band, deal drugs, done.
I mean, I had it figured out, so I thought, I think I went to LACC for like two weeks.
I took health and which, you know, later, I guess came to serve me.
Violin made it two weeks and I took health and classical guitar.
I was like, oh, cool.
