service. So those are things that will be coming soon. We have a
new version of qualia also that is just a single step less
total pills. Oh, wow. And right now is testing as effectively.
So we spent a year refining it coming out early this next year.
Exciting. A handful of new products in the nutraceutical
mind brain health space, then curating neurotech across those
platforms. I mean, all types of neurotech with a proper
scientific vetting curation platform. And then the doctor
program are the things that I'm really most excited about.
So when you say neurotech, are you talking about lasers and
light devices and magnetism and all this kind of stuff? Oh,
cool. That's interesting. Those of you listening that aren't
seeing the videos I walked into Daniel's home here. It's a
beautiful home. It's a gigantic house. It's a lot of big
rooms. It's lovely. But in every every where I look, I see
some biohacking tool or something. There's big amethyst
crystals everywhere. There's a semina bed right in front of me
and a bulletproof sleep induction mat and earth pulse,
essential oils in the air. I mean, it's like it's just so in
alignment with my lifestyle. What are some of the neuro
enhancing or just life enhancing technologies that you're digging
right now personally?
Some of the ones that I appreciate a lot that are like
consumer neurotech, they're not still in R&D. I'm a big fan like
everybody else's of red light. And so companies like Juve and
Violite and other ones that are working on intranasal transcranial
whole body near infrared and visible infrared. And we wouldn't
need that if we just spend enough time in the sun. Right. But
if you don't spend enough time in the sun, it is removed from
normal indoor lighting because it's the part that makes it
expensive. Yeah, it uses up more energy to make warm light,
right? So rather than do the whole house, you just do your
body with your clothes off and we photosynthesize molecules like
plants do not as many as plants. Plants are all surface area
photosynthesis. We're not that much surface area, but we it's
a meaningful part. So we know that the bluer and UV into the
spectrum helps us with vitamin D. And the way that it does
vitamin D synthesis is different than only supplementing
vitamin D. So there's meaningfulness there. But
nitric oxide is also photosynthesized from exposure to
light. And ATP specifically is upregulated mitochondrial
output of ATP is upregulated from the red end of the spectrum.
And so up regulating ATP output is kind of just good for
everything, right? This just means increased cellular energy
to do whatever the cells are doing. So that's what I like. And
I do like transcranial and infranasal applications,
especially where there is TBI or tinnitus or things there, where
you don't quite know how to address it specifically. But
interesting, because I do the V light, the 810 nanometers near
infrared, it's invisible, right? I use that one. I used to have
the one that was six something, it was very red, it lit up the
whole front of her face, which I just like that for effect. I
don't know which one does what. And then I do the juve. And I
love both of those as well, like seriously. But here's the
thing, I also get a lot of sun, my vitamin D levels are off the
chart, I still supplement with it. Here's one thing that I want
to get your opinion. And I always say, okay, it's the end of
the interview, and then it goes on for another hour. But in all
seriousness, with the spectrum of light, because I do sun
gazing, I've been doing that for years grounding, all I'm
sun gazing when the sun rises or goes down, I get full naked sun
as much as possible. So I'm getting a lot of the natural
spectrums, I limit blue light at night, like pretty hardcore in
the home when it gets dark outside, it also gets amber and
red inside, like I'm dialing that in my sleep's great circadian
rhythm. But when it comes to the spectrums of sunlight, you
know, different people might have different opinions on this,
but based on being a 47 year old guy and knowing what the sky
looks like normally with planes in it or planes not in it,
there is unequivocally some geoengineering going on on the
planet. And I think anyone that doesn't acknowledge that to some
degree, like a serious psychological issues, having
you know, looked up in the sky and not seen weird clouds and the
formations and stuff we have now, there's definitely something
going on, which is of course, a different conversation. But with
the weather manipulation, what's been going on in the sky
often wonder because it does have apparently something to do
with reflecting the sun's, you know, radiation back out into
space to cool the planet, wherever the fuck's going on. But
the temperature of the light and the spectrum of light is being
altered in an unnatural way from whatever's being done in our
skies. Do you think that that's having, you know, an effect on
our biology, just aside from whatever toxins might we might
be breathing in with just the actual nature of light itself?
Of course, very short answer to a long question. So geoengineering
is an approach to us recognizing that we're very close to
positive feedback loops on certain climate change dynamics and
people freak out. And freak out says, Well, we need to actually
get the temperature down because even before the acid is
killing the coral for motion acidification from CO2 diffusing
into the water is carbonic acid, even before the trophic
cascades are killing the coral from the large fish dying off
from overfishing. The temperature is the main thing
driving them into bleaching and hypometabolism. They can't stay
in that place very long. Most of the photosynthesis of the
world happens in the oceans and a lot of it depends on the coral
and the positive feedback loop on the albedo cycle at the
caps like so it's like, Whoa, we need to get temperature down.
So the idea of let's just reflect 20% sunlight by putting
particles in the atmosphere that will reflect 20% sunlight is
the same exact approach as our cholesterol is high use of
statin. Right? It is a it's addressing the symptom in a way
that will then have effects that are negative for other parts
of it. Because we're scared of the symptom without understanding
what caused it and addressing it at a cause level. So of course,
what we should be focused on is how do we just increase
photosynthesis for sequestration and decrease emissions and what
has to happen to be able to do that at what scale and time. But
yeah, it's very interesting. Allopathic medicine is looking
at individual metrics that we've correlated to something and
how do we exogenously override that individual metric without
looking at what brought it about to be that way. So complex
multifactorial dynamics we suck at, which is why we don't have
a single cure for any chronic illness. We can cut cancers out
radiative amount poison amount, we can't make them stop
growing and understand why they grow in terms of current
medicine, same with psychiatric illnesses, same with neuro
degenerative, same with autoimmune, because they don't
have a single cause. We're actually awesome at acute cause
issues, right? Right, right. If it's an acute injury or an
acute infection, or an acute toxicity, that's really
straightforward and we know how to treat that thing. But if it
is anything other than an acute single cause, then we kind of
suck at it right now because it requires a different approach to
science, this complexity approach, which also requires a
different fiscal model and a different IP structure and a
whole bunch of things. We approach the world the same way. Our
approach to climate change, to starvation, to whatever is to
tweak something to affect that thing here without addressing
the underlying dynamics. It made it that almost always moves
around.
So geoengineering is like allopathic medicine.
It is a statin to the environment.
Yeah, that's, that's funny, man. And definitely, it's
affecting the light going back to like your, you know, your top
devices, a lot of the stuff that's coming out now, they think
it's really effective is ways to sort of use technology to
mimic nature in a sense. And that's how I think about an
infrared sauna or cryotherapy, I mean, any of the things that I
do as quote unquote, bio hacks are grounding, you know, using
earthing technology, PMF, all this stuff. It's all really just
trying to create that homeostatic experience of being a
sentient being on planet earth in its natural state, but we're
not in a natural state, including the light spectrum
that's coming at us from the sun. Like you can't even get what
you would have gotten a hundred years ago.
It's true. Our main bio hacks are actually just putting us back
in something closer to an evolutionary environment. So our
air filter is not making special air. It's just making less
food. I saw that you have one over there too. I have them in
every room. Yeah. And our water filters are also still not as
good as spring water. Right. Do you have a pristine hydro filter?
I don't have a pristine. Okay, they're they're in Laguna Beach,
you know, not far from here. But if I've done a lot of research
on the filters, and I'm going to interview that guy, but I think
if I had to have a filter, he'd probably be the guy he vortexes
the water, he puts magnesium and bicarbonate silica back in it.
I mean, he's like, he's like making spring water out of
municipal water. It's crazy. But anyway,
but you know, whether we're changing our whether we're
pulling toxins out of the environment, or like, you know,
I was mentioning the VOC here, actually, it's not releasing
much because I use the AFM safe coat. No way. And safe coats
another biohack that I think is awesome. If you have a place
that's new carpet or new paint, or you're going to paint or
install things, the non toxic products that if makes a really
good. No way. Cool. That is going in the show notes. But yeah,
I mean, so much of it is just recreating evolutionary
environment, which is why so many people who are ill, go, like,
move to or visit some more rural natural place and they get
better. Right. And so that's a lot of it. And then there's, of
course, advanced shed that is not just doing that. Yeah. What
are the weather kind of tricks you got up your sleeve that I
haven't observed walking by tech wise? Well, QEG based
neurofeedback is awesome. And whether you're doing alpha
theta training or SMR training or delta training should be
based off your QEG and someone knows how knows how to do that
well. I don't know if you've ever went to peak brain since
you live in LA all the time. Yeah. But Andrew's good. Yeah.
Andrew is good. I interviewed him here on the show. And I was
on his show too. Yeah, brilliant guy. So that's a great
therapy. Right now. I mean, TMS is actually interesting. It's
early, but it's interesting for many things. What's TMS
transcranial magnetic stimulation. Okay. Transcranial
ultrasound is profoundly interesting in the early
studies at University of Arizona and some Japanese
universities and curing Alzheimer's through a very novel
proposed mechanism involving microtubules. But it's too
early to really know what it's doing. So there's a number of
high tech methods that are really cool. And specifically,
there's also some of the most high tech ones are are actually
still evolutionary environment ones like the cutting edge of
microbiomics right now is mostly that the vaginal flora and the
breast milk of indigenous people who were never exposed to
chlorinated water and antibiotics and glyphosate have a
whole bunch of bacteria that we just don't have in probiotics
anywhere else that are actually part of our evolutionary
environment that are the most significant factors for epigenetic
modulation or genome. So that's a very cutting edge. Right.
Understanding of epigenetics and microbiomics. Right. And it is
