them and you don't have to face real difficulties of interaction and it can be a huge number
of people in a short amount of time.
And porn is a hyper-normal stimuli and there's a whole generation of kids becoming adults
who don't know how to relate to women, who don't know how to have sex properly, who
have issues, erectile and etc. because they have oversaturated a certain kind of stimuli
and normal stimuli are actually very insensitive to it, right?
And video games are hyper-normal stimuli.
So we've had a world that's just all hyper-normal stimuli, which is addiction, which always
corresponds with less fulfillment, right?
Because it's desensitizing you to actually getting pleasure from life and so you need
the hyper-normal stimuli to get the hit and so you need the whatever it is, however many
likes your thing gets.
And the hyper-normal stimuli proliferates in the presence of hyponormal stimuli, which
is we don't live in a fucking tribe, which is our evolutionary environment where we
actually have real authentic interactions with lots of humans regularly.
And so imagine in a tribe where you're dancing around the campfire regularly.
Most people find that when they go camping with friends they aren't checking their phone
as much.
Right after the first day or two and the addiction kind of chills, in the presence of more authentic
fulfillment there is less emptiness pushing some hit.
And so the society we've optimized for is a hyper-normal stimuli to everything meaningful
where everybody's fucking lonely and has some sense of meaninglessness and a lot of pressure
together.
And so then in that place addiction is going to run rampant.
And most people have 30 to 50 different addictive behaviors, meaning compulsive shit they know
isn't good for them, they keep doing.
Totally.
That's really interesting because in the model of the 12 steps, which has been the most effective
single thing in removing deadly addictions from my life, the model there is what I think
people from the outside of that model think is that, oh, you go there and you quit drinking
or you go there and you quit sex or overeating or whatever it is, you go to some 12 step
group and that that's what your problem is.
But that you get there subjectively, one gets there and you go, oh shit, that was actually
the symptom.
Right.
So I'm addicted to heroin.
Well, why?
Because of everything you just described.
So is this this set of principles then going to just take that addiction away?
No, what it's going to do is it's going to give me a framework to live by spiritual principles,
ineffable laws, right, that I can apply to my life to become more fulfilled.
And then the need for that thing that I was using goes away.
And it's the straight, I mean, I've experienced this again and again and again, using that
model of getting the human connection and a spiritual connection and like living by those
principles that kind of keep your mind and emotions in check, then the problem is removed.
The principles represent a pretty small percent and the human connection represents a pretty
large percent.
Like the group dynamic and the group support, I guess it's that tribe we're missing, right?
You walk into a room and there's 25 people in there that you might not know, but you
understand one another on a deep level because you've both suffered in the same way.
Think about it, how many people get the blue book read on their own, apply the principles
and quit their addiction.
Right, probably nobody.
Nobody.
That's funny.
Now, whether they join that group or they join the Christian group or they join whatever
fucking, it's mostly the fact that we are actually social primates, right, involved
in a tribal environment.
And so when in the 12 step thing, what's happening is the main thing happening in those rooms
is you have people having authentic sharing about things they don't normally get to share
about.
So they feel seen, they see other people and there's real intimacy, right?
And most of the time, again, the world praised us for certain very narrow things and we're
optimizing for a lie all the time.
Now just because this is adjacent to a topic I want to discuss, this is one of the things
that is most gruesome about social media and I'll say most gruesome about the topic of
personal branding.
And I'm using the word gruesome, you know, acknowledging what a strong word it is.
I struggle with this a lot so I'm looking forward to what you have to say.
Then someone creates a brand as a business.
But even if not, they're just social media and there's a persona, right?
But let's take the brand as a very clear example.
They're now a life coach, they're a yoga teacher, they're an Instagram model or whatever the
fuck it is, right?
Which has become radically easier.
I used to be a few people did that with based on the media tech now.
Everybody gets to do some degree of this.
Then what happens is I have a feedback, I have an analytics mechanism of how much people
like my persona, which is how many likes the thing gets and how many clicks and impressions
and purchases, whatever, you know, thing.
And so I'm going to now split test optimize my persona based on what people are responding
to and they're going to respond to hypernormal stimuli.
And so the brand is going to get based on the financial driver, based on the analytics
is going to evolve in the direction of what gets maximum engagement, it's going to get
further and further from who I actually am.
There'll be whole areas of who I am that I definitely don't share because they will
actually be anti correlated to what gets the like hit.
And the more people are liking that thing now that I feel different than the more depressed
I feel, right?
The more addictive desire I have in that depression to go get a hit and put out another fucking
thing that's going to get a few hundred likes.
And the more I feel like a fraud and a phony and that if anyone really saw me, they wouldn't
love me and I'm really unlovable and et cetera.
So in the 12 step room, the opposite of that's happening, right?
Someone is actually saying, I'm a fucking fuck up.
I just did all this dumb shit and they're like, I get it.
Me too.
Whoa.
A real human interaction just occurred, which is rare, which is really rare.
And this starts to be the basis.
It's not sufficient, right?
But it starts to be the basis of a human life that doesn't drive addiction as a way to deal
with the emptiness, right?
The emptiness and then the need to run from it goes away.
It's interesting as you were talking about the social media persona and the profile because
I've owned a company for nine years and it's a company.
It has its own identity and then myself and my partner were the drivers or the face of
that company at a certain point, but then we've sort of phased out as we've gone in
our own separate career paths and things and minds gone away from fashion.
So I really enjoy the process of building a brand and a personality and coming up with
your core values and the mission and like, it's a thing.
It's a living entity, which has been amazing.
But I really struggled when I started the podcast and decided to get out of having this
identity as a fashion stylist and a musician and all the things that I was so identified
with before that I don't just ran their course or weren't my true heart's passion.
And so I decided to do this podcast and make this brand called Luke Story, have this thing
the life stylist.
I really had a hard time with launching it.
It was about two years ago because I didn't know how real I wanted to be or that I would
have the courage to be and how forthcoming and just transparent and authentic I wanted
to be about my past and my struggles with addiction and just current struggles and everything.
And so I kind of paused for a moment before I put anything out until I really was sure
that I was willing to accept a possible rejection or other consequences of just being me.
And I've done this social experiment now for about a year and a half where I've just pushed
my own boundaries of transparency and authenticity just to see what would happen if I am in fact
disliked or rejected or abandoned or ostracized by the world at large or what we call a following
or a fan base or listeners or whatever.
And it's been so bizarre, I've been talking about this a lot.
The more goofy and real and just true I can be like treating social media and my outward
facing persona and brand like I'm in a 12 step meeting and just like, Hey, this is the
shit I'm going through.
I'm at a certain degree of, you know, prudence, I guess, you know, I don't you don't want
to be lose your tact, you know what I mean?
But I'm finding this spiritual explosion of growth and just allowing myself to finally
be seen and to really accept myself and love myself.
And what's so weird about it, and this is just this cosmic joke that I'm just constantly
giggling at is that I actually get more approval from showing these aspects of myself that I've
always hidden because I was embarrassed about or, you know, my insecurities, my struggles.
It's like, actually, people like me more for the things that I've been afraid for them
to see my whole entire life.
It's like this strange paradox, which on the other side of it, I've lived at the side
you were describing is like, Oh, I'm going to present things in a certain way so that
I'm like, I'm sure that's there to some degree, but I've kind of flipped that on its head
and just like, All right, how myself can I be?
And what point at which do people go, All right, you're too much, we're abandoning you.
We actually don't like you, which is that sort of, you know, primal, egoic fear.
And I'm just having such a great time, like using social media actually as a tool to make
myself uncomfortably vulnerable.
And then to find that it was a boogeyman.
It's like a phantom fear who gives a shit.
If they like you or not, it's like if you have that self worth, which I'm really starting
to cultivate more actively, then I don't know, even the response doesn't matter, but it's
fascinating when the response is positive to things that I would think like, Oh God,
now people are really going to think I'm an idiot or whatever, you know, just letting
that be seen on a macro more public level.
And then it's giving me the ability to do that more as you mentioned the word intimacy,
you know, just with my friends to be like, Hey, I just want to be real.
I think it's one of my goals in life is to, you know, to someday pass on.
And if anyone could say anything, just be like, at least he wasn't fucking phony.
Yeah.
You know, it's like just to be authentic and real, despite whatever false one might have.
So so in the world where we have ubiquitous loneliness and ubiquitous
depression and without talking about it, everybody knows that there is a longing
for authenticity, right?
And a longing for intimacy.
And so people will respond to that.
And so that's awesome, right?
And I love that you're having that experience with people and sharing that
experience with people and anyone who wants to share themselves where there will
be a personal brand.
That's the only way to go.
It doesn't make their life suck and actually propagate shit in the world.
Now there will still be times where there is something that is less authentic,
that sells better.
And this is where you have to say, okay, choosing between two masters,
where it's a tricky one sometimes, but it's one to just have continuous
awareness of and vigilance of.
So at a certain point, I guess you hit a threshold, perhaps where you really have
to start looking at things from scalability and from having a brand that's
sustainable.
Are you saying that at a certain point, you are faced with the decision on
editing the level of authenticity in order to our analytics, say, this particular
market will like this part of your message, but not this part.
If you gear it like this, you'll scale significantly, right, right.
And this particular hypernormal stimuli will get a lot of people to
respond because addiction actually sells.
So now come back to capitalism for a minute, again, in the problem of it.
The more addicted people are, the better capitalism works.
GDP goes up with more addiction, right?
Because this is why there are not salad bars that have the scale of McDonald's.
Is because if we make shit that is addictive as fuck, because we just exploit
the hypernormal stimuli button, people will buy it and have to keep buying it.
And we do that with cigarettes, we do it.
And, you know, with social media, this is like, you know, when Tristan Harris
left Google and started talking about this and people started waking up to
social media, Facebook, you know, or platforms of any kind, Google, they get
paid by how much time, how many eyeballs spend, how much time on site.
Because the marketers are, you know, the advertisers are going to pay for that.
So the goal is keep you, have as many people spend as much time on site as possible.
Now, what's actually good for you in your life is to get the fuck off of the
