No, in particular, though, there were, well, I just lost my, uh, okay, earlier you're saying that like passive voice creates a distant feeling of authoritativeness.
And in particular, Eliezer was talking about Orwell's writing because it was authoritarianism that he was trying to, like, he was trying to point out all of the tactics that the authoritarian or the totalitarian governments were using by using
extremely simple language. And Orwell was trying to prove that if you, like if you took Trump's rambling and actually like truncated each one to like a basic summary of what he had just said in simple language rather than all the meandering, you'd be like, wait a minute.
My funny thing on Trump is like, you know, whatever a week or two ago, it's hard to say because how many, how many 50 new cycles that was, but like, he said something along, someone asked him, like, what, you know, QAnon and, you know, as a big fan of yours, what do you have to say about that?
And he's like, well, I don't know who they are, but I hear they like me. So whatever, like, on the one hand, that's a very trans, like to someone who believes in dog whistling, that's a very transparent dog whistle that like, oh, yes, I support all this and stuff.
I never want to rule out the fact that he literally is just that stupid and out of touch. Like that to me is a much more plausible explanation.
Oh, it's entirely what I thought, like, I think that it's a common interpretation, though, that he's, you know, like a fox.
Well, or that he's, you know, he's aware of everything and that he's playing, you know, a convoluted language game. I don't think he's playing a game. I think he's just rampaging through the field, not knowing what sport he's in, right?
I think a lot of people don't know who QAnon is or what they're about.
But the president should.
At this point.
Maybe they're like a weird fringe cult.
But they're weird, like, so here's another one.
The reason they...
He was endorsed by David Duke, the head of the KKK.
He's like, I've never met the guy, I don't know who he is.
Like, you...
Didn't he, like, really denounce him just the next day?
I don't remember.
He really should have done it the same day, though.
Well, but...
It wasn't in politics with the capital P before he was elected.
That's true.
He was in politics to get viewers.
And once he got in politics, he didn't...
Like, suddenly start reading up on anything of note there.
He just continued along.
But, like, if you don't know who the KKK are, it's like, you're not going to excuse for being out of touch.
Like, your dad was in the KKK.
Like, this is...
What's his dad in the KKK?
Yeah.
Holy shit.
He was arrested and everything.
Trump's dad?
Yeah.
Oh my god.
So, like, you don't get to pretend like you've never heard of it.
And he also said he didn't know the flu could kill people, even though the 19...
The Spanish flu killed his grandfather.
So, like, this substantiates my running hypothesis that he really is just that dumb.
Like, this isn't a clever language game.
It looks like dementia to me.
It does to me, but without even armchair diagnosing him, I can at least say confidently that he
seems stupid as hell.
Anyway.
We're getting away.
We're getting away.
Politics, again.
But there's a MindKiller podcast for that.
Sorry to our Trump supporters.
If you want to have your MindKill with politics, that podcast is also available.
That's right.
Check out the MindKillers.
But this ties to...
And this is why it all kind of came up, is that meaning doesn't excuse impact.
It doesn't matter what you meant.
It matters what people took from it.
And so...
Which anyone who's skilled at communicating will know.
Right.
And so, like...
Well, and so this is...
This post is in the context of, like, writing deliberately.
But even if you're just saying things in front of a TV, like, it doesn't exactly matter what
you meant, because if everyone takes the wrong thing from it, well, then you said the wrong
thing.
You didn't convey the message you're trying to convey.
I do think that's part of his genius.
But his words don't mean anything.
You don't even have to look at what the words are.
But the impact always is what he wants to be.
He stumbled upon a good strategy by a complete accident, like, just by being dumb.
People think that he's so dumb that he must be up to something.
No one's possibly that dumb.
He's so smart.
It's a fifth-dimensional chess.
Eliezer ends the post with,
And can we, like, switch it and be, like, democratic processes should develop AI?
Right.
It's all you have to do to be, like, if you simplify it, does it, like, still make sense
and, like, make you want to applaud or do you go, like, wait, what?
Hold up a minute.
Which is really why I just stopped for a second.
I was like, right.
Like, wait, what does that even mean?
How does a democratic process create an AI?
By voting for, like...
There was a great episode of the Orville like this.
They come across, like, basically a parallel Earth, but everything runs on 100% direct democracy.
Literally everything.
And so, like, and they're all, like, so...
Like, can you...
Yeah, so he violates a statue in a joking way and it's posted to social media
and everyone's voting for him to go to prison.
And, like, just everyone on their app or on their touchscreen TV, whatever,
they see the news clip and they just click the red X or the green check mark.
That's how justice is decided in this culture.
Just for a sec, could you tell me, like, were there other hilarious things in this book
that were, like, controlled by a democratic process?
This was Seth MacFarlane's Star Trek TV show called The Orville.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, no.
The book is a modern-day detective story that I was plugging earlier.
Ton of French is in the woods.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, that's different.
No, I was saying the world you were just describing,
where you were saying everything is run on a democratic process.
It was a single 45-minute episode.
Oh, okay, so that was the only...
What?
The Incidents of the Dang, because I was trying to...
I was, like, I mean, if there's, like, a whole book about this.
That would be fun.
I don't know if it was everything, like, coffee prices and stuff,
but it was at least every matter of legal stuff.
Yeah?
And so, like, your legal defense was going on an apology tour.
Right.
It wasn't explaining that you were actually, you know, innocent.
It's creepy because that's kind of how, like,
a lot of things you're done on Twitter.
Yep.
That is why Twitter is the worst thing in the world.
canceled. Yeah, Twitter being able to basically cast tweets as votes as to
whether you're canceled or uncancelled. Twitter is a good example of this
democracy thing, except for the fact that you don't need a majority vote to win on
Twitter, whereas you would. I mean, you have to be able to sway the you only
need 60 angry people to. Yeah, but I mean, they have to be able to sway the
opinions of all the other people that they. Or it's good to shut up. Yeah. But
that's a good point. They have to, they have to at least not shut up everyone
else or not. They have to succeed and not. Like it has to be too embarrassing to
like this person. Yeah. You know, if someone said or like, I don't know, some
actor said something racist and then like, and even if you don't think that he
said something racist, if all of your friends do, you can't defend him. You
can't watch his movies or whatever. Which will get into our topic later on. And
speaking of how Twitter is the worst, this brings us to our next post, human
evil and muddled thinking. You're so good at segues now. I can't think of a better
segue. It's like that was on purpose. I got to say this, this post is not like
one of the famous posts that people talk about a lot. And after having reread it,
I don't know why not. I keep thinking that about a bunch of the sequences we're
reading though, where I'm like, why isn't this one more popular? And I'm like, oh,
I guess I did that thing of reading them all really fast. Okay. I think this one,
combined with the one just before it as a setup, really should probably be one of
the foundational ones. And I'm kind of surprised it's not. I don't even remember
either. Were they even included in AI and Zombies?
They were. That's how I listened to them on the drive over.
It's annoying because my podcaster doesn't let me search for episode titles. I have to
just scroll through them because it's not in order as it is on the sequences. I just have to
find them. These two happen to be next to each other in the book, but it was still
scrolling through 300 posts or whatever. But yeah. Anyway, human evil and muddled
thinking intertwine like conjugates strands of DNA. Nice.
And then Orwell, political speech and writing are largely in defense of the
indefensible. If you simplify English, you are freed from the worst follies of orthodoxy. You
cannot speak any of the necessary dialects when you make stupid remarks. Its stupidity
will be obvious even to yourself. And that's kind of pointing out that if you take everything
that was said in the last post about how these passive voice and other tricks are used to
hide the actual evil of things, if you can strip all that sort of, you know, muddling of words
out, it becomes obvious what is actually being done, that Mr. Johnson is being thrown in jail
forever without due process, without a trial. It says thus political language has to consist
largely of euphemism, question begging, and sheer cloudy vagueness. So that's like the three
categories of things that you have to strip out specifically. And Eliezer says right after this
quote, this is the heart of overcoming bias. That you cannot speak any of the necessary dialects
and when, and when you make a stupid remark, its stupidity will be obvious even to yourself.
And that was like, that should be on a t-shirt. It should really. Yeah. And on the back of the
t-shirt, this is the heart of overcoming bias. And also at the time, overcoming biases and italics,
Les Rong was still hosted on the overcoming bias blog. So that is why, you know, he nowadays,
this would be translated as this is the heart of Les Rong. Well, an overcoming bias is also
like a verb. Yeah. And so it works both ways. But I mean, it's capitalized on italics. Yes. Yeah.
But I'm thinking next time, if like somebody's like, what's rationality, I'm going to be like,
like, what do you guys do? Like, we make our stupidity obvious even to ourselves. Yeah.
It's a good tagline. It is. Like, I feel like I should, we should make business cards that say
that. Like, pass them out. We make stupidity obvious even to ourselves. Like next time,
we're having a meetup somewhere. Like, who are you guys? What are you doing? Pass out the business
cards. Nice. Even to ourselves modifiers, like the most important part, because we make stupidity
obvious is the punchline of every group that hates another group, right? Yeah. We point out how dumb
you are. But it's like, no, no, we point out how dumb we are. And we strive to do better.
So he says evil sneaks hidden through the unlit shadows of the mind. For perpetrators of evil
to avoid its natural opposition, the revulsion must remain latent. Clarity must be avoided at any cost.
I feel like you chose today's topic, like, with the intention of reading it after reading these
two posts. I did not. It ties in so perfectly. It does. It was the most amazing coincidence,
and I'm so happy. So many things seem to be falling into place this episode. Yeah. It's almost
like we should try to pick topics in the future that way. Right. That's a lot of work, though.
That sounds like planning. So I'm curious if Tyler Coleman's updated on this, or if this is like,
if there's a steel man of it. But apparently, according to the post, Tyler Cohen apparently
feels that overcoming bias is just as biased as bias. I've viewed Robin's blog as exemplifying
bias and indeed showing that bias can be very useful. Yeah. I don't, I mean, he points out his
incredulity with that statement in the post, but I still don't quite know what that means.
Like, I know what it means, but I don't quite know how someone can say that without, like, you know,
I guess, like, sometimes bias can be useful. Like, the whole point of religion is to tie groups
together in pursuit and, you know, in attacking a common enemy. That does totally tie into a lot
of bias, but it's very useful because they're talking. That's what we are going to get into.
About what when bias can be useful. But I also hear similar things about like, people say that
about logic or science. They're like, well, logic and rationality are constructs of Western
imperialism. And science was done almost exclusively by rich white guys. Yes. And it's like, okay,
sure. But how fast does a bowling ball drop when you drop it off a building? That's racist.
How dare you? Like, wouldn't it be a remarkable fact of nature that if you're a black trans woman,
it fell at five meters per second per second when you dropped a bowling ball? If we live in
that universe where depending on who you were changed what happened, that would be insane. Dude,
