we would have to start paying people to become black trans women so that we could get things
into orbit cheaper. I was going to say space travel would be so much cheaper.
Like, anyway, I didn't mean to like, I'm not picking on a group. I'm just saying that like,
I'm picking the opposite of Isaac Newton, right? I'm being upset about this because there is evidence
that late transitioning trans women have like average 130 IQ. And like, science shows this,
but social justice means we can't talk about it. Because everybody's equal. Yes. I've heard that
from people that there's no difference between how many like, what's Chelsea Manning like?
No. God damn it. I'm trying to think of anyway, like, basically, if you think of who we're like,
I don't know, what's like the primary profession, you see a lot of trans women and
it's probably engineering programming. I would say that, but I also have a very skewed group
selection bias thing. So like, most of the people that I know are programmers. The Lesterhorn
community is very largely over represents educated white men, but also LGBT specifically
trans women. It's like three to four times the rate of trans women as the general population,
right? I think more, more than that. I'm not really sure. I'd have to see this, you know,
the latest SSC numbers, but I mean, even three to four times more is a lot. It suggests to me
that we're not trans exclusive. But you know, if you're coming on, I'm still annoyed with the charge
that that's the case, but that's not what we're talking about. Is that a charge? Absolutely.
That rationalism? Or that rationalists in general? Yeah. Oh, no, we're equated with like,
the alt right, if it's the SJWs, or if it's the conservatives the other way around, like,
you know how like, people have to paint their political enemies as like, as evil as possible?
Yeah. Okay. And all being in the same bucket. So like, endorsing all of the same thing, you know,
like the, why do you care about gun control and abortion? Right. Like, so if Dave Rubin doesn't
like social justice warriors, and some rationalists don't like social justice warriors, well,
then they're both obviously opposed and thus on the exact same side. Right. And so they all have
to endorse all of each other's opinions, because it's like, people don't realize there's different
reasons people can hate you. Or really confused by my politics and a lot of other rational,
where they're like, you know, they assume that if you're a Democrat, then you don't like,
that you hate guns and, yeah, or pro abortion and anti capitalist. And it's like, well, no,
I like, have different opinions about each of these things. Like, I don't just pick, you know,
an affiliation, and then that decides my opinions about everything. And like, really? That's weird.
Do you see the meme of the Virgin centrist versus the Chad centrist?
No, I did not. You know, the political compass, the Virgin centrist has all their beliefs, like,
overlapped right near the center. The Chad centrist has all their beliefs in a big old ring
around the entire thing. So they average out in the center. But there, I guess on the Chad centrist.
It's perfect. We really, we're moving quickly into crony beliefs. We are. Okay.
I'll go. Do you want to do this one? I'll actually ask if we could take a tea break
before we move on to the main subject. Yeah, we'll do that before we move on to the main
subject, but we'll push through this. Maybe overcoming bias doesn't look quite exciting
enough if it's framed as a struggle against mere accidental mistakes. Maybe it's harder to get
excited if there isn't some clear evil to oppose. So let's be absolutely clear where there is human
evil in the world, where there is cruelty and torture and deliberate murder. There are biases
and shrouding it. And I mean, bullet point there, that's fucking tight. This is a really well written,
like, sort of manifesto of rationality. Well, and yeah, exactly of clear thinking and the virtues
of it, where people have clear sight oppose these biases that concealed evil fights back.
The truth does have enemies. If overcoming bias were a newsletter in the old Soviet Union,
every poster and commenter of overcoming bias would have been shipped off to labor camps.
In all human history, every great leap forward has been driven by a new clarity of thought.
Except for a few natural catastrophes, every great woe has been driven by stupidity.
Our last enemy is ourselves, and this is a war, and we are soldiers.
High-fiving us if you can't hear. I even heard that in the voice of Lawrence Fishburne from
Matrix. Oh, nice. Yeah, this is a war, and we are soldiers. I wonder how much we have to pay him to
like do a reading of this. Too much. That's a good point. Unless he's listening right now, Lawrence
Fishburne. Or anyone who sounds like Lawrence Fishburne can do a good impression. We'll settle
for that. You know what? The first time we have a celebrity-endorsed rationality, we're going to
blow up. I don't know how you think. I'm just like, would it be fucking hilarious if, I don't know,
when if Paltrow or something was just like, oh, I'm like, you know, instead of like,
I'm doing numerology or whatever thing celebrities talk up to over about, it's like,
I got into this, you know, overcoming bias thing. I would rather do without when if Paltrow's
endorsement, but- It's going to be some random- She would be like a big convert, though, you know,
it'd be like- Oh, if she converted, sure. If she said that's why I made- If she used to torture
the Christians, now somebody becomes one. You know what? I want to register this prediction somehow,
because like, it has to be like, some random celebrity is going to say something about like,
the lesser-owned community, and suddenly we'll be on the map. I want it to be Keanu Reeves.
It would be awesome who is Keanu Reeves. He's like, this was the secret to my immortality.
Nice. Alright, so you added a brackets here. I do have a question for us. Go for it.
So I love that idea that evil hides in stupidity and in bias, and the more we can
shine light on things, the more we just root out all evil. But my question is like, how true is this?
I think that- I don't know if he's saying all evil resides there. Well, maybe-
He kind of says most evil seems to reside there, from what I can tell. And I think it's true.
A lot of his argument is that you have to hide evil because otherwise,
the vast majority of people would reject it. They would be like, no, I'm not okay with Mr.
Johnson being held in prison forever without a trial. And I just- I don't know if that's
true anymore after like, seeing Guantanamo Bay. But you have to see some like, obscurity and muddy
thinking to make that the case, you know? So like, the muddy thinking is that everyone in Guantanamo
deserves it because they're dangerous. And waterboarding isn't really torture. It's just an
interrogation technique, right? Like- And Jews aren't really human.
Right. Well, that's pushing it a little like- That obscurity is a little more obvious.
I think a lot of people, like, a lot of Germans would not have let Hitler come to power if they
didn't have those crony beliefs. And of course, we're gonna get into that of, yeah, it's those
damn Jews. You know, like, and they probably all like, well, I know Jewish people, they're not like
monsters, you know? But like, but they were willing to accept that belief because it,
I guess, I'm kind of just getting into the next thing now. It's served a purpose.
Yeah, but like the- It's beneficial to them. The examples of like, modern evils, you know,
like the, the ice internment camps and stuff. Like, people who are big fans of them because
they hate, you know, they hate the people in them. Even they won't come out. They don't come
right out and say, most often, they're like, I hate Mexican people. That's why I like that.
They're in print that they're in these terrible prisons. Races will never say that they're racist.
And they don't think they're racist. They used to. Like in the 50s,
racists were actually like, yeah, you know, white people are just better when it was acceptable.
Right. And it's not acceptable now, but they still like, they'll be like, well, I'm not really
racist. I believe in like scientific determinism or whatever the hell it's called. And they'll,
and they'll say like, you know, I just want to protect our, our heritage or our culture. They,
they couch it in all this muddy thinking, right? But if we're able to point a big spotlight at it
and, you know, actually address it directly, it would come out and being the same, you know,
1950s bullshit, right? And society is less tolerant of that now.
I just, I think that there, there are actual legit people out there that I would call evil,
but they're people who really only care about themselves and don't care who they hurt.
And, you know, I think one of them is our president, which is how we have proof that these
sorts of people exist. But, but if you like, but he only has support because he gives plausible
deniability and couches everything. And like we were talking about with the muddy thing,
with the muddy language and vagueness, right? If he came right out and said, you know, like
during the debate, when he didn't want to denounce the proud boys, he had said what,
stand back and stand ready or something. Stand back and stand by. Right. And so like, if that's,
that's not him saying, you guys are the best, keep your guns polished, right? That's the,
that's the level where like, he's able to muddy the thinking by not engaging it directly. And
everyone else then is now given cover to say, Oh no, he didn't really say that he supports them.
In fact, stand back kind of sounds like he's telling them to, you know, take it easy. So it
allows people to play this game. So you think if, if more of the world, if the sanity waterline was
raised and more of the world was not, if people knew about their own like, if he wouldn't be in
power, I guess. Yeah. Okay. Even the people who agree with some of his policies wouldn't put up with
it. Yeah, I think that that's the main thing. And that, that actually is where I'm really glad
that the next, that our big post ends up or our topic for today on raising the sanity waterline,
because that is apparently the solution, I think, right? Yeah. It's just a matter of building a
community and hopefully the community encompasses everybody of people who are okay, changing their
minds and thinking critically about their own beliefs and biases, right?
It does sound like the perfect time for rationality. If you think about what he was talking about with
Orwell and other writers and whenever, you know, whenever shit starts to happen to the human race,
and right now we've got this like, Trump presidency possibly like going into, well,
see what happens with COVID, but well, and COVID and yeah. And also a lot of things are on fire,
although that's only affecting those of us with constant forest fires as part of our weather
pattern now, but every climate change is affecting everybody. I don't know if those two have to do
with each other though. That was a tangent. No, it's all good. Well, it was I was trying to make
a point and then I kind of got lost in the weeds of my point. But should we should we wrap up the
posts then? Yeah, I think we we got to mention that next time we're doing double think, choosing to
be biased. Why I'm looking is that that is what it says I double checked. Yeah, it's a combination of
blogging and booking. All right. Well, I hate it. It's hard to say. And planning fallacy. And we're
doing three because of why I'm looking is very short and almost nothing. Perfect. It's like
vlogging. Yeah. At least vlogging. I now I know what it says, blocking. It just sounds like the
misspelled booking or looking. Some things don't work very well as Portmante's and we just shouldn't.
Or maybe we should because they like vlogging is a hilarious word.
Portman doing things is tight. I still thought it was really like, or I continue to think it's
really funny that like, when the president was using Twitter and like the fact that Twitter became
politically relevant and like important political people had to say the word Twitter
and talk about the fact that like now policy is being done via tweet. This is the weirdest future.
Yeah, that was the thing is like, that's how the world learned that the president has COVID
because in a tweet after midnight, I've got I've got COVID. There was that one. I mean,
I don't want to do that voice. It's my version actually from BBC Sherlock's Moriarty.
When in the finale of the second season, when they're on the rooftop, and he's like,
it must be true because I read it in the newspaper. I love newspapers. Like that's my like,
you know, sheeple voice and impersonation when I'm trying to be tongue in cheek about it.
Cool. Also that actor fucking nailed that character. Oh, he's so good. Everybody did a great
job. Yeah. Our main topic for today is an article on melting asphalt.com called crony beliefs.
And I'm betting a lot of people have heard of this, but I'd heard of it for a long time,
but I've never gotten around to reading it until it was assigned reading and I fucking loved it.
At the top, he also links to now inactive podcast that reads, I think it did like 18
cool essays, one of which is meditations on Molek that's like an hour and a half.
So I got to listen to this on the drive home yesterday and it was fun. But I'm like,
what I like about this too is I'm going to share this with a friend who texts me once every two
or three weeks asking like, how do you deal with this kind of crazy person? I think this is actually
good foundation for why is this person crazy? And I'm using that term broadly because we're
going to explain what that means throughout it. But the, it opens up with talking about how like,
in our head, everything makes sense. Our beliefs don't feel, you know, like they're incongruent or
that they're, that they're out there. It just feels like the way things are. We all know that
because we're all rationalists already. But then you consider the beliefs of other people.
It's an epistemic shit show out there. And when believe this stuff, like no, seriously, how? And
that's the point of the, that's the, that's the exploration here, like, or the, the, the points
of exploration here. Like it's, it is not sufficient to say because they're stupid. That's not a good
answer. And it's a, that's a lazy response. It is worth or they're evil. Yeah. Or they're evil.
But like you just picture something like astrology, like they're not, you know, it's easy to say
they're stupid because they believe in that, but it's like, no, but that, that, that paints
way too broad a rush. You know, you can find otherwise smart people who believe in astrology.
So like, what are they selectively stupid? Also evil isn't a thing that exists. That always bugs
me. Like we're, when we took a break, we're just talking about SJWs, but like, nobody does things
because of evil. Like in their head, they're not like, man, wouldn't it be evil if I did this evil
thing? Like, I could score more points with my evil God. You know what? I really want to do
this thing to help this, but I got to do, I got to not do that for the sake of evil. You know,
that's why. So I've evolved more from methods or from not methods of rationality as such a
boring character or like Palpatine. Like any villain that is just evil, like a Disney villain,
even Disney villains, they generally have like, tried to make them more like three dimensionalized
characters rather than classic Disney where it was just like, I am an evil witch and I will
put that cast a spell on you. I love being evil.
You're poison apple because you're pretty and I'm evil.
I mean, not to say that doesn't sound fun. I did have a story that I wrote in middle school or
like a kind of ongoing, I don't want to reboot this, but it was just like, it would be really fun
to write from the perspective of like, I was like, it's the henchmen of like the evil character
and your like typical hero versus villain thing. And the henchmen also is evil and enjoys being
evil, but it was just like, the sort of actually like, let's put on our dark cloaks and laugh now.
And like, it's like, it would actually be really fun to live in a world where like, it's that kind
of slapstick silly, I don't know, this is sort of how I felt about worm different in a different
way too. We're like, it is kind of fun, you know, being being the bad guy, it'd be nice and relaxing
if like reality was that nicely, they still don't think that the bad guy, right. Anyway, so the
there's still some controversy about whether she's the bad guy. Taylor did nothing wrong. Exactly.
I don't think anyone thinks that she was the bad guy. They wonder if she did bad things.
I don't think you get to save the world. Let's say she's the bad guy. I don't think you get to
save the world. She knew she was doing bad things. She thinks they were justified. And
some of the readers think they were not justified. Right. And I and actually like that maybe that
was the point of the book. Assume it was intentional by the author. I have not read it, but I people
could make the case that maybe the world could have been saved in a different way with a not
evil person, right? Not really, actually. It was it was a necessary evil. Okay, like, like,
like in this game. Yeah, like, like, like, I don't think this game was necessary evil.
You have to genocide the aliens. Actually, I only brought that up because when I read the book,
um, they probably still do this, but what's the author's name card? Orson Scott card had like,
at the end, there was a bunch of discussion questions. And I remember being like,
I've never read like a fiction book where at the end, the author's like, and here's some discussion
questions that like, you could bring up if you're talking about the book with your friends or if
it happens to be like read in school, I was just like, that's cool. And one of them was like,
was this justified? And I was just like, why is it? I mean, I was, you know, kid,
and I was just totally on Ender's side because like, I related to Ender a lot. Yeah. And it seemed,
you know, it was used. He didn't know he was genociding aliens. He also like all of his things
he was thinking of made internal sense where it was just sort of like, I'm trying to protect myself
