completely blown. And like, just kidding. Sorry. Yeah. Anyway, so one of the things is like,
in our social circles, we basically can't say when Trump does get things right,
was every now and then he does. And every now and then I'm like, I still have the suspicion
like, is he just, is he just trying to completely discredit republicanism forever? Is that a secret
master plan? But, but it's not. But like, you can't bring but he might do it anyway, because
then people like, what are you, some kind of fucking MAGA, Trump or like, no, no, I hate your
soldiers, you need all of your soldiers to fight the enemy. Yeah. Yeah, pointing out that he has
actually as far as I know, been donating his money to charity, donating a salary to charity,
that is that is shooting my soldiers in the back. And it makes it sound like it makes you sound
like a Trump supporter. I'm not. But it this happens, assuming it's true, which I think it is.
So assuming that it's true, that that is a, that's just a fact of the world, right?
Anyway, so how do we identify crony beliefs real quick in, in, in relation to what we were just
talking about, he also points out that it's important to remember that we have many different
audiences to posture and perform in front of, right. These include friends, family, neighbors,
classmates, coworkers, people at church, other parents at kids preschool, etc. So a belief that
helps us with one audience might hurt us with another. This reminds me of Jordan Peterson
saying different things, depending on which audience he's talking to. Oh, really?
To just do it in front of a microphone is just, I mean, that just sounds so
intellectually dishonest. But you're describing Jordan Peterson when you use those words.
No, I think it's just an extreme example of this thing. But like, I guess the IDW people,
like I see that a lot where it's sort of, they have a more moderate viewpoint.
And then like when they're talking to the like, Jordan Peterson's case, like if he's talking
to incels, then he'll be a lot more about like traditional family values. And like,
women actually are much happier if they work in the home. And we should really like,
think about their happiness, not just what's politically correct. And then when he's talking
to like, I don't know, different audience, like the media says something much, much gentler than
that. It just takes me like just a vacuous person who wants to get airtime at that point.
Like, but like, but he's talking, he's saying the things that the different people want to hear
and sort of morphing the severity of his beliefs or like, different components of them,
depending on who he's presenting them to. I just wonder if he actually believes it,
either one, right? Like, or is he just saying what people want to hear, which it's hard to
distinguish from the outside. Yeah, I'm not in his head. So I don't know. But the impression I've
got is that like, yeah, he does have this belief set. Right on. And he just thinks that these
ones are like, I mean, I don't talk about some of my like, less like social justice, I have like
some social justice friends that I just don't like talk about, you know, things like, like saying
that Trump is giving to charity. Or the thing about like, there's this weird thing where there's
a certain category of trans women have much higher IQ than average, what's going on there,
even like, that would be like, if you say that black people are like much physically superior as
specific sports, like, it's like positive racism, or Asians are good at math. It's still racism,
that's generalizations, people are all just as good as each other. That's one that I always find
weird. Is that something people say? It's sort of like, it's, you can't talk about IQ in SJW
circles, because IQ doesn't isn't real, because it's unfair. Okay. I mean, I admit it's unfair.
Like, I agree that it's unfair. But I mean, like, people saying that like,
their people are just born with different IQs as being like, well, you're saying some people are
better than other people. And I'm like, I did not attach a value judgment to it. But I think
some people are born taller than others. And they're like, well, you're saying some people
are better than others. Yeah, it's a lot like that. Yeah, that's that's that's not what I say that
like people are willing to be like, okay, well, like, on average, there are more black basketball
players. And like, maybe it has something to do with like having a physiology that's good for
basketball. But like for things like IQ, it's like, even if there seems to be like, it makes sense why
borderers have the culture and like the that they didn't prioritize IQ, because they were like,
were in a war zone. And what made sense was to prioritize like, aggression, aggression, and
physical strength and loyalty. And you know, but like, I mean, that's sort of getting more into
Stephen, lead us back onto topic. Yeah, segue master. Give us a segue. I will just grab the
wheel and yank us back on the road and just say that. So when you're identifying crony beliefs,
like the other thing to keep in mind is that like, it's not labeled in your head as crony,
right? Yes. Otherwise, like, so you've got, and he doesn't mention this in the post, but you've got
you're your PR representative that Robert Hansen talks about in the the elephant in the brain,
right? That person, you're kind of like, you're kind of like the person doesn't make the hiring
decisions, you're just sitting there in your office, and then you've got your HR reps that
comes in and reports how things are going. HR rep isn't going to say, by the way, Robert, you know,
the mayor's son sucks at his job. He's going to say, Yep, numbers look good. And it's great.
Thanks. So, but crony beliefs are designed to mimic ordinary merit beliefs, like, you know,
the mayor's son in this analogy still has to show up and clock in every day. Otherwise, you would,
it'd be way too obvious he's not doing his job. So he needs to come in and pretend like he's
working, right? Even if he's just playing Gallagher the whole day, as long as he's looking at his
computer. So, and he says that, yes, something has to be aware that their crony beliefs or
else we wouldn't be able to give them the coddling they need to survive. Exactly. That's the other
side of the coin is that it's not labeled bullshit, but there's something there where you, where you,
where you treat it differently. And there's a reason why. So party right knows that it's
different. I remember, sorry, I'm just following up on that. Go ahead. Do you remember?
In one of like this, the video game company is like a startup company I was working for,
like, I think they actually bring this up as an example in this essay or something similar. But
it was like, okay, we're going to like do employee evaluations. And my boss being like, oh, man,
we, we got to get the, the crony, like the, the person who was like the CEO's friend or whatever,
like, oh, we got to like train him to look good for the HR. And like, but like not in a, it wasn't,
if pressed, I think he wouldn't have said, because he's bad at his job, it would have been, but
well, because, you know, he's kind of new here. And we're still all kind of trying to figure out
like our culture and, you know, like we want us to all look good together as a tea, like it wouldn't
come out. The dragon is permeable to flower. We need to make sure the city, it looks like he's
doing his job. So they don't squint at him too hard. It immediately reminded me of that interaction
with Draco and Harry. Right. Yeah. He's like, obviously you, some part of you knows the truth,
because you have to come up with the arguments beforehand. Yeah, that the, I think the parable
of the dragon comes from Carl Sagan's, the demon haunted world. And I think Harry does pull that
straight. He does use the dragon analogy, right? Yeah. I knew that there's a less wrong post that
talked about it, but I can remember if Harry used it or not. But yeah, so, so he says the trick is
to look for differences in how they're treated. Exactly. So how do we treat chronic beliefs
versus merit beliefs? The dragon thing's actually really good analogy here, where it's like, what
was it? Like, what if I throw, the thing was I have an invisible dragon and then, okay, well,
can I touch it? Well, no, it's also like permeable to human flesh. Well, can I like throw some flower
to see if it makes the outline of a dragon? It's like, well, no, it's gluten intolerant.
Where like, can I measure the respiration? Well, it doesn't actually, you know, breathe,
you know, like all that stuff. They're making advanced excuses, because they know the kinds
of bullshit they'll have to explain away. Yeah, you have to be able to defend it.
Wasn't there a list of the other? They're what I think. We're not quite there yet. Before we get
to the list. Yeah. I think the thing he points out that was really helpful to me was that
merit beliefs lead to attitudes at like the fear of being wrong, or even an eagerness to be criticized
and corrected. It does seem like opposites, fear of being wrong and an eagerness to be corrected.
Well, because you actually don't want to be wrong. You want to be corrected if you are wrong.
Oh, okay. That didn't make sense to me. Oh, fear of being. Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah.
Fear of my belief being false sounds like a little different if you read it the other way.
It's like, oh, no, I can't believe, you know, if there's a height disparity between races or
something. That would be scary to believe. So I don't want to believe that. Right. No.
Okay. Yeah. That's a bad wording then, I think, right there. But yeah, an eagerness to be criticized
is a much easier way to put it. Yeah. Or corrected. A meritocracy experiences no
anguish at letting go of a misbelief and adopting a better one. Even it's opposite. In fact, it's a
pleasure. And he gives us a great example. If I believe that my daughter's soccer game starts at
six, but my neighbor informs me it's at five. I won't begrudge his correction. I'll be downright
grateful. It's perfect. That actually runs me over thinking about being corrected with grammar.
Yeah, that's what I was thinking of too. It's like, yeah, I don't want to sound stupid. Thank you.
I don't want you to make me look stupid in public. Right. That's the way people get
all mad about being corrected. I look plenty stupid in public just by saying things. I at
least want to use the right words. So crony beliefs mostly don't care about whether they're
making accurate predictions. We have little need to seek out criticism for them. We should
expect our brains to take an overall protective or defensive stance towards our crony beliefs.
And you make excuses when the rest of your staff is like, what the fuck is Robert still doing?
And why is he getting paid so much? Robert is the example he chooses for a reason that he gives
in the article, but I didn't would stop pulling out in the notes. That's the name of the crony
belief on this imaginary company that we're talking about where beliefs are employees.
Can we call them Roberts? Yeah. Now we don't have to just the purposes of this episode, but
it's not going to translate into the wider world. What crony beliefs calling them Roberts?
I was just jokingly saying like, you know, if you like God damn it, Robert kind of like,
I was like, God damn it, Murphy. Robert is the name of the protagonist in in the woods that
taught a French book. I won't shut up about anyway. So like you if you're finding yourself
needing to defend the belief and being worried about criticism coming for it, that's that's a
good red flag of a crony belief. So then he then this is the I like this part a lot. I when I was
in the car listening to it, I played this part twice. Here then is a short list of features
that crony beliefs will tend to have relative to good faith merit beliefs. And we can take turns
on these, but I'll grab the first one. Abstract and impractical merit beliefs have value only in
so far as we're able to make use of them for choosing actions. We need some skin in the game
to use. Fuck, I had the guy's name. He had that book called skin in the game.
I'm losing point to David Youssef right now. It's a common saying, though, even before that book.
Yeah, but that was his name. Or that was the name of one of the books. Nassim Talib. Nassim Talib.
I always forget his name too. All right, well, yeah. All right, so Nassim, I think that that's
why it's in quotes, though, he puts skin in the game. Anyway, if a belief isn't actionable,
or the actions we might take on them based on the belief, like voting, don't provide material
benefit one way or the other, then it's more likely to be a crony belief. He put voting in
quotes, not me. Yes. Do you want to take next? Sure. Benefit of the doubt. When we have social
incentives to believe something, we stack the deck in its favor. Or to use another metaphor,
we put our thumbs on the scale as we weigh the evidence. Blind faith, religious, political,
or otherwise, is simply benefit of the doubt taken to its logical extreme. Conspicuousness.
The whole point of a crony belief is to reap social and political rewards.
But in order to get these rewards, we need to advertise the belief in question.
So the greater our urge to talk about a belief, to wear it like a badge, the more likely it is
to be a crony. Beliefs as attire. The more the more conspicuous, yeah, it's called conspicuous,
but I guess the brighter the attire for this belief, the more crony, the more like it increases
the croniness likelihood, right? The more the more you want to post about this belief on social
media, the more likely it is to be a crony. Love it. And you've got overconfidence related
to the above. Crony beliefs will typically provide more social value, the more confident we seem in
them. If Acme, the fake company here, hires the mayor's nephew, but it seems constantly on the
verge of firing him, the mayor isn't going to be happy. Overconfidence also acts as a form of
protection for beliefs that can't survive on their own without, within the meritocracy. And
this is the kind of thing where you see people, again, not merely defending the idea that like,
and I hate the IQ example, just because it seems like it's overplayed in the whatever intellectual
dark web, but, but running with it, it's like, I realized as I was talking about it, like,
it's great though. Like, but so it's one thing to say that one of these days we'll get canceled.
Keep trying. It's one that I don't like, like the thing is, it doesn't make me happy if it's true,
you know, like, it's like, yeah, it is unfair. That sucks. But either way. So it's one thing to say,
like, without evidence, or, and I'm not saying there is evidence, but if there was in face
evidence that like, no, no, there's no difference in IQ across any populations on the earth. Everyone
randomly distributed across the planet as that has roughly the same IQ. It's one thing to say
that it's another thing entirely to be way overconfident and say there's no such thing as IQ.
Right. IQ tests don't measure anything.
Right. I guess that's more abstract and impractical than it is overconfident, but still. All right,
Jason, want to grab the last one? Because this one's perfect.
Yeah. And here's the one you can use to test yourself and should reluctance to bet.
Betting on a belief is just as good as acting on it. Both mechanisms create incentives for accuracy.
If we're reluctant to bet on a belief, then it's often because some parts of our sake,
you know, the belief is unlikely to be true. Hence the challenge put up or shut up.
This is why there's a rationalist virtue to bet, or at least,
it doesn't even have to be about the money. Like, no one's looking to make, I mean,
some prediction markets or whatever. But like, if, if I bet, I think it was David,
that more children, more not children, but young people will come out to vote in 2020.
And I forget what margin I gave on that and what percentages of more I said.
But like, it was like 10 bucks. Like, it's not, it's not money that I'm going to miss or be happy
that I won, right? It's just a matter of me being confident enough to put my money up,
you know, put up a shot up here, right? I wonder if that's, I mean, obviously,
there's good social reasons to have norms against gambling. Gambling can really ruin
things for a lot of people. But I wonder if that's one of the reasons that, like, that norm,
people tend to always extend it to these sorts of low stakes bets on beliefs. They're like,
no, I don't, I don't gamble. I'm like, is that, is that just a social adaptation to protect
chronic beliefs in general? I think it's socially bad to ever bet.
If you won't play, you know, nickel poker with your friends, it's like, unless you're,
you know, a recovering gambling addict, it seems like you're, you're just doing it because you,
you want to never have to be in the position where you might be challenged, you know, to put
a nickel down on whatever it is you believe, right? You can also bet nothing, but like,
I do first of all recommend that everybody who hasn't tried it before take, like,
a week with your significant other or a friend and just like, start putting like five bucks on,
like, oh, I bet like so and so hasn't unloaded the dishwasher yet. Like, bet me five bucks.
Like, you will immediately, if you haven't tried this before, realize how much like over,
how much overconfidence you have in things. Plus imagine how much cleaner your house will be if
you start betting over each other to like, that this isn't done or that this isn't clean,
to the person will be incentivized to clean it before you get home or something.
But even like, it's like, it works, it works especially if you do use money, or if you use
something of value, that's the whole point of like, I realize I don't actually want to lose this thing.
But I've even done like the version where it's like, I bet you like a high five or something.
My wife and I bet cheek kisses. Because I'm secretly super cute.
That's adorable.
I'm not sure that counts though, because you both want the cheek kisses.
Exactly.
