Okay.
Remember?
I remember that one.
I remember that one. I still think it's kind of a legit episode.
And yet people came out in record low numbers and we got Donald Trump.
So like the thing is, and that was my case during that episode,
like the people who are inclined to seed the reasoning of that argument
are the kind of people we want voting more because we don't want...
And granted, they're a small population, especially the subset of that population
listens to this podcast, but like we don't want to convince smart people
that you shouldn't waste your time voting because then only dumb people are voting.
And voting still is a thing.
I think it's legitimate to say don't waste your time voting.
If it's more than a half hour, I have my ballot mailed to me.
I already know who I'm voting for.
So it's going to take me all of five, 10 minutes to fill it out and mail it back.
I think it's a legitimate use of five or 10 minutes.
I don't think I'd be wanting to spend hundreds of hours in a month
like really working towards one person's elections.
I'm not sure that would be worth the energy.
Or even spending a full day standing in line.
Really good.
I feel like doing like a year of activism
would be worth more probably than casting your one individual vote.
Unless that wasn't what you were saying.
No, I think the total impact would probably be a little bit more
than casting my one individual vote.
But I think both are pretty close to negligible.
Like the amount of energy put into these campaign efforts,
in my opinion, is ludicrous.
The key is just to spend 30 minutes writing a script
and then buy a bunch of phone numbers from the dark web
and just text every phone number vote for this person.
If someone does that, I will vote against that person.
That's low effort.
Fuck that.
That's low effort and it hits a lot of people.
Yeah, so I...
You're literally advocating for defecting right now.
Defects.
You are advocating for everybody clogging everyone's phones with trash.
The audience can't see me joking about that.
I was saying that'd be the solution to not wasting a lot of time
and having high impact.
No, you don't want anyone to do that because everyone does it.
I'm just saying that's the solution.
Okay, all right.
It doesn't solve that problem.
I'm just saying that's how you would.
And you're just so visibly upset at the idea of getting all this spam text.
I get an idea of how many more resources will be wasted by society
for net zero impact.
I get five or six texts a week from strangers.
I know, it's ridiculous.
I'm always nice to the people because I know it's usually humans on the other side.
I just ignore it.
That's a completely fair response.
I'll say, are you prepared to vote?
How are you going to understand it?
I said, we're set.
Thumbs up.
Thanks for your activism.
That's basically my canned reply.
I got a call from one of those people trying to convince me to come vote
and I said the script for them and they were really happy.
Oh, that was the other thing that I guess I forgot I wanted to respond to.
You're right.
I had this weird impression growing up that mail-in voting was a thing across the country
because it's super easy, barely an inconvenience, and makes sense across the board.
And it turns out Colorado is one of three states that does it by default.
So since I've lived here my whole life, that's how I've always voted.
Voting has always been, I don't want to say super easy,
barely an inconvenience again, but there it is.
Yes, you do.
So I always assumed that was the amount of effort it took.
Some people are like, oh, you shouldn't waste all this time.
I'm like, it takes five minutes.
You know who you want to vote for.
And yet that's just my weird case because I live in one of the three states that does it correctly.
But yeah, get your asses out and vote.
Especially if you live in Colorado or one of those other states, the mail-in votes.
Yeah.
Anyway, that's all I wanted to say.
Thank you for writing in.
I don't want to read names of people who write in emails because
sometimes they don't want to be broadcast.
So anyway, you rock.
Thanks for writing that stuff in.
I figure if it's just the first name that's common enough, it doesn't matter that much.
Steve, you have a great first name.
It's one of the best first names.
Well, it's second to Steven, but it's right up there with Steve Rogers and,
I don't know, yeah, Captain America's first name.
So well done.
And Captain America advocating for political activism.
I hats off.
I did a little Ant-Man salute like he does.
What happened in America?
He did a little salute.
Steve shares his first name with Captain America, and he's advocating for a better America.
Okay, okay.
All righty.
I think you're literally, I'm fine.
It's a stretch.
That's fair.
You're like, when does Cap talk about voting?
Yeah.
All right, fair.
And that's how you know we've gone too long.
So thank you for listening, everybody.
We'll be back in a fortnight with an episode that we haven't decided on the topic of yet.
But first we have to thank a patron.
Oh, thank God.
Because this patron has helped bring you this crazy rambly episode,
the old school episode that I certainly enjoyed doing.
This patron is, this patron is Anton Kulikov.
Thank you very much for your support and for helping keeping everything going here.
Thanks, Anton.
Inyash put it best, but you rock.
Yeah, that was a very good suggestion of post.
And thank you for reminding me that Melting Ass Fault, the blog,
does in fact exist and has good content on it.
Was that that one?
That was that one.
That was my suggestion though.
Anton didn't write in about it.
Anton's just next on the list.
Yeah.
Anton's just an excellent person who is helping support us.
I see.
That's right.
You can probably cut that part out then.
Anton's probably one of the best people in the U.S., at least in terms of top 1%,
because we get less than 1% of the U.S. funding us, right?
We have no idea if they live in the U.S. or not.
Damn it.
We have less than 1% of the world funding us though.
So he's in the top 1% of the world in terms of how well they support the Bayesian conspiracy.
That's what I was going to say.
Perfect.
I always fumble over this part where it's like, it's really, I don't know,
I just, I guess I just feel sort of like, oh man, there's a reminder that people listen to this show
and they're giving us money and, aw, that's great.
What do I even, thanks, thank you.
We bought new microphones stands that aren't falling apart and have managed to stay upright
and balanced and work and store properly with your guys' generous support.
That's right.
And they look really sleek.
Oh look, I just got a text from Trina telling me to vote no one, Proposition 155,
I know from the election.
Do you know what Proposition 155 is?
It's the abortion one.
Uh, what would no vote mean in this case?
Your pro-abortion.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
I saw this, I saw this big, big, whatever you call it, display of like, probably 100 little
crosses by making little graves and like a bunch of signs saying vote yes on this thing
and then a picture of babies and it was a picture of babies that are clearly like three months old
at the womb wearing cute little, you know, like it's not a picture of a,
I, one time, I, one time I photoshopped a picture.
I don't know about you, but I came out of the womb wearing my onesie.
I was adorable.
I think I said it to you guys, but one time I got mad and I like took a picture of one
and I photoshopped a fetus, like a, like very early stage development, the human and put
like a fedora on its head because it was just like, it was one of those like the heartbeat
starts at 18 weeks.
And I was like, here's what an 18 week old looks like.
It looks like a lizard, an eyeless lizard.
It's adorable.
Perfect.
All right.
We'll be back in a couple of weeks and thanks for listening, everybody.
Thanks.
Bye.
Oh, hold up a minute.
We've got a quick addendum.
All right.
So we are here because, uh, because you requested links.
And so I went and looked for links and upon looking for links, I found out that I was
wrong and I have become less wrong now.
But I need to tell that to everybody else as well.
So that, uh, Hey, that's the name of the show.
It is.
Yeah.
So, uh, like a pitch meeting that that's the name of the thing.
We are recording this after a hectic workday.
I'm having an above average hectic day as well.
And anyway, we're here to issue an important correction because being less wrong is tight
and we like to announce when that happens.
So, okay.
So in short, uh, this is regarding the forest fires and the effective climate change on
forest fires and, uh, I had been presented with the argument, which I felt was, uh,
you know, entirely, uh, reasonable that the most important thing driving forest fires
is the presence of fuel, just the, you know, broad dry wood on the ground, uh, that burns
up and that that used to be taken care of through natural processes.
And over the past roughly century or so has really been building up due to, um, land use
management and specifically our constant suppression of any and all natural fires
so that the, uh, Tinder just kept building and building and building rather than, um,
rather than burning up as it regularly would.
