Uh, and that climate change itself is not really a big driving force because, uh, it's
recent ish compared to the hundred years of Tinder buildup and also because it just,
you know, it doesn't impact on the presence of fuel, which is what the fires is all about,
how much fuel is out there.
Um, and I discovered upon the researching that this is not entirely correct.
Uh, the, the misuse of land management and suppression of fires leading to lots of buildup
of fuel is in fact a thing that has happened and is a big part of this.
But the, uh, what I, the side that I hadn't been presented with and didn't think of on my own
was that, uh, the quality of the fuel also matters.
There is much more wood out there than there ever would have been due to, you know,
these things that we've done, but, uh, when the climate was not as hot and as dry,
the wood, some of the wood wasn't, you know, completely dried out.
It was, there was some mixture of the wetter stuff, things that, uh, weren't quite so flammable.
And as the years have gotten, yeah, as the years have gotten hotter and drier, uh, the wood that
is out there, which is the main problem is also a lot more combustible because it is more dry.
And it makes for fires that are bigger, hotter, last longer and are harder to put out.
So that's, uh, climate change has certainly contributed.
Um, how, how much of it is, you know, the drying out of the wood that's there, as opposed to
there being more wood is hard to say, but every single source I found said that the climate change
drying out is definitely, uh, a part as well.
And there were, you know, there were disagreements as to how big of a, how big of the deal the
climate change is, whether it is a large driving factor or a smaller contributing factor.
But it's definitely also important.
Well, that's good to know.
And it's good to get everything, uh, you know, updated properly, which is great.
And it has, you know, we're not, we're not going to sit here and stick to our, uh,
you know, stick to our guns and something that's wrong.
If we come across information that contradicts what we thought we knew, we change our minds.
Absolutely.
And, you know, especially, uh, the, the hotter, drier climate also makes it much harder to fight
the fires. So they go on longer than they would have, uh, otherwise, just because it's a lot
harder for us to put them out too.
Oh yeah.
Well, you know, if we make it through the next century, I'm optimistic that things will,
I mean, you know, it's, uh, I mean, all right, so here you can tell we're tired and distracted,
or at least I am, but the, uh, on the plus side, having had the entire western half of the United
States be on fire means that the fire season next year probably won't be so bad.
We can certainly hope so. Yeah.
I can't see how possibly could be. We've burned everything.
I don't know if we have burned everything. Like I'm actually not sure how much of a
percentage of what's available this year is burning out. If it's only like two, three percent,
this could go on for a while, but, uh, if it's like a significant fraction, then yeah,
it should definitely make the next few years not as bad.
Well, I was maybe being optimistic. I didn't actually look at like maps of how much was covered
versus like the area that is actually flammable, et cetera. Right.
Yeah. We were totally fucked and, you know, spending our summers inside hiding for smoke
will just be a thing from the rest of our lives until the smoke, until the fires eventually
consume our homes. Or until we create dry wood eating nanites that we can release into the wild,
and they will just render it down into something wet and not flammable.
Fire eating nanites. Nothing has ever gone wrong in the world by releasing nanites that
consume things into the wild. Sounds perfect. Is that all we had for this?
Yeah, that's it. Just a quick update and I have to get back to work because I'm going to be working
for quite a while still tonight. Damn. Well, crush it and sorry for, uh, pulling, having to
pull you away to do this. We, anyway, no, no, everyone have fun. Y'all learned something.
We all changed our minds and everybody, uh, remember the name of the game is less wrong.
Have fun. Heck yeah.
Yeah.
