I think in like 2009 or 10 before like this was, you know,
the, the popular consciousness of like, uh, trans rights and issues didn't really like
hit the radar to like 2013, right?
And so it was ahead of the curve on that.
And everybody who was being mean about quagmire's dad was obviously the dick in that episode.
So like, I actually thought that that was-
I remember like the, the Brian did do that,
but like the point was that Brian was the dick.
Exactly.
Family guy does a lot of satire in a way that's really hard to tell is satire,
which I find it a bit annoying.
Like, because like, they also would like have Peter be like,
oh, law, that's why I can't drive.
Ha, ha, ha.
And the thing is that it's supposed to be a satire of bad like sitcoms,
but like they just sort of would play the thing straight.
I think they got better later on at like winking at the camera where it's like,
we are doing a satire here.
I think, I think the main difference though is that like Peter isn't the hero
that we're supposed to all be behind, right?
Everybody's supposed to be like, what a douche.
Yeah, exactly.
And so like with Ace Ventura, he wasn't like a hero, but we're all rooting for him.
And so then when he does the terrible, you know,
bullshit in the third act of the Ace Ventura movie.
Oh no, we were totally split.
Like they actually like strip this character down to basically like-
To expose the penis.
Yeah.
And then, and then like it's supposed to be this moment of like,
she's evil and also a man.
Right.
Yeah.
But that's the point is like-
Like it wasn't, oh, she like stole the dolphin.
Okay.
I don't remember the part of this movie that well.
She could steal the dolphin out of her bag.
But that wasn't the, look, she stole a dolphin.
It was a, she's a man, throwing jail.
The movie was weird.
That said, the depiction of how he's delivering the package at the beginning of the movie is 100% accurate.
The thing about the movie is that it's like really funny.
It's just super transphobic at the end.
Is that the-
God damn it.
But it used to be acceptable to like, again, trans women were funny.
It's an acceptable target.
Haha.
Was that the first or second Ace Ventura where he's climbing out of that fake rhinoceros?
That was the second one.
I had such, okay, I remember being a child and having to leave the movie theater.
Like the only time I've ever had to walk out of a movie because I used to have such bad
secondhand embarrassment that I could not watch.
And I actually loved Jim Carrey, but I couldn't watch a lot of his movies.
Like Dumb and Dumber, I was just hanging out with Charlie the other day.
I was telling Harry that like, I don't remember how he got on that topic, but I was like,
oh, I like, I actually have never seen the end of Dumb and Dumber because I can't,
like, couldn't sit through the part where they reveal that they like,
were just idiots and had been fucking things up the whole time.
Yeah.
And I was like, and the funny thing is that like,
Jim Carrey's character probably didn't even give a shit.
Like, he probably wasn't even embarrassed, whatever, to be like,
no, he didn't.
He was too stupid.
I was like, that's the part of the movie.
And I was like, I know, but I knew it.
Yeah.
Quick Jim Carrey tangent to bring us not even closer to the topic, but relevant.
He was on last night's SNL.
He played Joe Biden in the presidential debate.
Oh, man, I want to see that.
When he was on SNL 10 years ago, maybe 15 years ago now,
it was one of the funniest SNLs they've had in ages.
How was the last nights?
I haven't seen the whole episode.
I saw clips, the parts I saw were fine.
Like for the most part, like their scripted parts that they do like second, you know,
the routine bits, like the weekend update and even like the opening, the cold open,
those are usually pretty good.
It's like the, it's like totally a coin toss,
whether like the random skits that make it in that week, whether those are good.
Okay.
So just a typical SNL then.
Exactly.
What he came on when he was younger, you could tell that like he was still all in the comedy
and he had contributed a lot to every single skit because they were all just better than average.
Nice.
I'll have to find that one.
So back to strong emotions.
Yes, sorry.
Which we were having.
Actually, I wanted to say that on, because you were saying that,
not to say emotions are bad.
And I was like, well, actually the fact that like this emotions are,
are those red flags telling you like something's wrong?
Like they're actually sort of emotions are rational in the sense that
I feel angry for some reason.
What's going on there?
Like is my belief that, all right.
So we'll, let's take the one that he gives then I'll,
I've got another candidate for crony belief that I want to talk about.
Okay.
All right.
So I loved this.
This is the part where in the car, I was just like,
I could feel the grin creeping across my face.
How do you pronounce the title here?
The little subheading.
There's a subheading.
Oh, sorry.
I think I'm looking at a different part in the notes.
Oh, Jacuz.
It is French for I accuse.
Is that the part that you were about to say?
I don't even see it on mine.
Are you just going through the notes?
Yeah.
Oh, God.
I was giving the notes because the essay, I don't know.
I'm just lowering it.
I didn't want to pronounce this.
I don't know how to pronounce French words.
I was like, I'm going to fuck this up.
Jacuz.
I've heard that one on TV.
Oh, really?
I'm sure.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm more, you know what?
Never mind.
Keep going.
All right.
I'm most familiar with it in the context of a chess match
where you could.
Is that a chess thing?
Well, I mean, you could use it as a chess thing,
like saying someone has broke the rules.
We're tangenting.
Yeah, we are.
Sorry.
Stephen, fingers back.
I charge the two of you and everyone listening
that you are harboring a crony belief about climate change.
I don't care whether you subscribe to a scientific consensus
or that you think it's all hoax,
or even whether you hold some nuanced position,
unless you're radically uncertain,
your belief is a crony.
And this is the part where I'm just like,
I was grinning because I saw where he was coming with it
and I was like, oh, wait, oh, man.
And anyway, I'm not accusing your belief of being false.
I'm just accusing it of being a crony.
What makes a crony belief is how we're rewarded for it.
The problem with beliefs about climate change
is that we have no way to act on them,
by which I mean that there are no actions
we can take whose payoffs for us as individuals
depend on whether or not our beliefs are true or false.
And so there's a couple of caveats.
Like one, he says, all right,
if you live on the Florida coast and you move,
you clearly are an actual believer in climate change
if you're moving because you're avoiding the future floods.
But that and aside from hedge fund investors.
I want to say, if you lived in Florida 10 years ago
and moved, then that was, because now it's already happening.
But then of course you picture people that's like,
well, hold on, I bought a hybrid car.
Well, no, no, I used recyclable straws or something.
And it's like, yeah, those aren't for you.
Those are loud signals to your friends and neighbors
that you care about climate change.
When you bust out the metal straw, yeah.
It's not because you're saving the environment.
Right.
It's because you think you're saving the environment
and you want to signal that to everyone else.
That's the things you actually might believe that you are, right?
Straws, as it turns out, are not a problem.
Like they're not good.
You know, you don't want to throw two billion of them away.
I think there's a really marginal good that you are doing,
but like it's just not the main incentive for buying.
I think you probably use more energy cleaning a metal straw
than you would by using a disposable plastic one.
Be really surprised if it didn't waste slightly
in like a helpful direction.
Probably not like in that.
What I'm saying is it's not the most useful thing
you could be doing.
It's the fashiest, most visible thing you could be doing.
It's like buying a hybrid.
You know, it uses a little less gas,
but like the gas from a consumer vehicle
is not what's ruining the planet, right?
Not from your car.
