It's from these gigantic barges
that are burning three gallons of a foot.
I'm making up numbers,
but like it's the ones that are putting plumes
into the sky that you can see for miles.
Those are the ones that are putting out more gas
in an hour than your car will in its lifetime.
Well, if we were to overhaul
the entire car fleet in the world,
then it would make like a good bit of difference.
I think 12, 17% or something.
I was guessing something more like three.
But also, in either case,
that's not neither of those are negligible numbers,
but that's not your car.
The creation of the batteries
with the rare earth minerals that it takes
to mine those things out at net.
Some people are saying they're maybe only slightly better
than carbon neutral when compared to a regular car
that they more or less are the same right now
until we find a less energy intensive way
of extracting those rare earth elements
to make the batteries and shit.
Like manufacturing.
At least batteries are renewable to an extent.
Okay.
Yeah, that's the perk of like a Tesla.
I have no idea how hard it is to get the battery
out of the components out of the ground,
but if you drive a Tesla for your whole life,
I'm betting you come out carbon positive on that, right?
You get the battery once that lasts for 200,000 miles
or whatever.
That said,
I heard most reusable bags are actually
worse than using the discardable plastic bags
because it takes so much more energy to use them.
I think that's true.
Or to make them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In the vast majority of cases,
they will be lost or thrown out
before it makes up for how many paper plastic bags
they're in place.
There's a good Skeptoid episode,
I think on both plastic straws and on reusable bags.
Because like there are some...
Metal straws take a lot of energy to make.
And there are some stores that like ban plastic bags.
You have to bring your own.
And it's...
Like this is the...
I remember this in elementary school.
The three R's, reduce, reuse, recycle.
Right, right, right.
Recycle is one of the three.
If you can reduce the amount of crap that you're throwing away
and reuse the amount of crap that you use.
Like I use grocery bags.
I save them because I use all of them.
I use them for trash bags every single day.
I heard someone say that they are in that order for a reason.
Oh, I like that.
The best thing you can do is reduce.
The second best thing you can do is reuse.
It was a well-designed slogan.
It's at least the easiest way to do it too, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, there's a bunch...
Anyway, point is, I love the example here that he gave
about climate change.
Because I was like, well, hold on,
but I think I'm actually right.
And I put money on it.
He's like, that's not the point.
The point is your belief about climate change is a...
It's not...
It's a social signal.
Right.
It's not...
I mean, and you can do little things.
But like, me buying energy-efficient light bulbs
is not going to save the planet.
Sorry, Al Gore.
Like, we need large overhauls to solve this problem.
And I had another candidate for chronic belief
on it run by the two of you.
But it will make your house cooler and cost less to keep it...
There are good reasons for doing it.
Totally.
I really love LED lights.
Like, the fact that I can have my light shining forever
and it doesn't make my room hot is nice.
Phoenix programmed our hue lights to have blue spectrum
in the day and dim and have a red spectrum at night.
So it doesn't interfere, like, with our circadian rhythm.
We have flux on all our devices
and all of our lights are timed like that.
I want you to send me a link to whatever light bulbs you have
because I need them for the bedroom.
You need the API, too.
Phoenix could show you how to do that or probably just send it.
And some of them, too, have apps that you can put on your phone anyway.
So I'll look into that.
Yeah, you can manually do it in order to...
They have the API just available and you can do what you want with it.
Sounds fun.
All right, I've got a belief in my head
that I'm worried it's a crony.
Okay.
It doesn't mean it's false.
Right.
I think death is bad.
I mean it.
This, I think, is a great example.
And I'm broadcasting it with a very expensive signal of cryonics.
It doesn't mean I'm wrong.
But this is something that I feel passionate about.
And I was talking...
In fact, this comes up all the time with Brian.
We want more because he thinks that deathism isn't a thing, which is fine.
But my...
I have a book for him.
You mean half of all books?
No, I specifically have a book that I bought that was an atheist.
A new atheist wrote it.
And it was something about better ways to think about death or something like that.
Or happier ways to...
And I remember reading it and it was just all deathist propaganda.
But the point was it was supposed to be for making people who had recently, I guess,
deconverted or dealing with the fact that, okay, you're an atheist.
And now you've given up believing that there's heaven.
And we'll press it on him.
Well, the thing is, I imagine he would respond.
He would say, sure, they're saying how to deal with death.
They're not saying that if you offered them immortality, they'd say no.
I actually think that...
Unless that's in the book.
Well, it was all the arguments that you hear about overpopulation.
And death is actually good.
Was it a sequence where they were talking about if everybody got hit in the head with hammers,
people would be coming up with reasons like, oh, well, it makes you more like...
It makes you tougher.
Yeah, like mentally tough.
It gives you good moral fortitude to be hit in the hammer with the head every day.
In fact, and it's like, okay, well...
Anyone who wants to avoid getting hit in the hammer must be a bad person.
They're just hedonists.
And it's like, well, just suddenly he stopped being hit in the head with the hammer.
Everyone did it once.
Would people pay money to like, no, please hit me in the head with the hammer every day?
No.
But they don't ever think about that.
So yeah, I guess I came up with the death one because I was trying to think of...
I went through my head like, all right, what beliefs do I have that have emotional salience,
that this one happened to be on my mind?
And I'm like, oh, that's fucking obvious.
Or even that you want to prevent.
Because there's very little anyone can do in their life to change the outcome of dying.
I mean, the only thing we really have is trying to extend our lives until we get to escape velocity.
But many people do that anyway.
I guess, no, I guess quite a few don't.
I know several who don't.
And also, signing up for cryonics.
Those are like the two possible things.
Trying to invent science to either working in the field yourself for donating money to
life extension foundations, participating in clinical trials.
There's a lot of stuff you can do.
But I like that example, Stephen, because when they were having...
When they were doing the list earlier of signs that a belief is a current belief,
one of them was like, noticing that you want to project it.
And I was kind of having a hard time with that one where I was imagining,
okay, Robert, the shitty employee, does that mean you walk around going,
Robert's great.
Because I was like, that's not really my experience with that.
It's like if you hear anyone else saying Robert's a shit employee, you'll be like,
no, he's not that bad.
Or no, he's all right.
But even like, but wanting to project it, I was like, I wouldn't imagine it.
But that example, though, is you do want to tell people death is bad.
And here's why.
It's the same reason religious people want to proselytize.
Because like, I have this belief, I think it's great.
And I also want other people to like, I want to share it,
not just because I want to project that I have it.
And I'm so cool, but I want other people to also have this belief.
I think like the six o'clock news test could help with this.
There's, there's this thing where you basically don't, no one has to watch the news.
Like, basically almost nothing that you see in the news has any impact on your life.
You can't change anything you're doing with what you know about what's in the news.
And anything that's like really super important,
you're going to find out anyway from friends or family or something, right?
And, and that's one of the arguments to like, not watch the news.
All it does is make you have more anxiety, makes your life worse.
I do cut down on my news watching a lot because of that.
Yeah.
And so like, it does skew negative.
Yeah.
