And it gets more clicks if it's outrageous.
And if a belief is like that, if you could completely eliminate it,
like you could eliminate the six o'clock news and it wouldn't affect your life in any way,
then maybe it's a crony belief.
And if you completely eliminated the thought death is bad from your beliefs,
would that change anything about your, the way you live your life?
Yeah.
And you give some examples later on, like, like your,
your answer to the trolley problem is a crony belief, right?
Right.
Like, I like his example, I have free will.
Right.
What you think about that doesn't change anything.
You actually think it does?
Well, no, I was gonna, I was talking about the trolley problem where I was like,
I actually like sort of am kept up nights metaphorically,
maybe literally thinking about like, would I do the right thing if the trolley problem
were actually presented to me?
I haven't had that kind of experience really where I've had to like,
can you imagine like actually being in the moment, you don't know what you would do, right?
It's like the whole.
I absolutely don't know what I would do if it was strangers.
It only gets hard for me if it's like something that I love involved.
It reminds me of the like question of would you like jump in front of a car to save a child?
And you're like, I want to be the kind of person that would jump in front of a car to save a child.
I don't know if I would.
Is this child related to me?
Yeah.
I mean, like that's the thing is, you know, the answer to the trolley problem is yes,
if there's two people on one track and one on the other, you turn it.
So it hits the one person because that's half of the number that'd be killed the other way.
If it's my wife on one track and 150 people on the other one,
I turn it so it hits the other 150 people, right?
I think it is because it's not a good moral thing to do.
And yet, and I would start having trouble sleeping.
But this is where I'm being the cronyism, right?
The point is like, luckily, I don't hang out a lot.
I don't remember the last time I even saw a trolley, right?
So I guess the real question is, if you were tied to the track,
would you want your wife to flip the switch to hit you or to hit the 150 people?
See, I'm going to go ahead and just like skip the question because like,
That's my question.
What kind of person would I want to be married to?
Well, I would be the same kind of person.
Yes, I would want to be and, you know,
she would also want me not probably to kill 150 people to save her, right?
But like, again, like, just as far as this goes,
I haven't seen a trolley in maybe 20 years.
You know, they have them in Berkeley.
Well, I haven't been to Berkeley.
So it's not in 28 years.
Four columns used to have a little tram that would go through downtown,
but it hasn't been very forever.
If you visit the rationalist home, maybe don't bring Rachel, just in case.
Or just don't let her lay down and take a nap on the tracks.
Just be careful.
They're everywhere.
So like, it's one of those things about like...
Cut off both your hands so you have a pre-commitment to never flip switches.
And I get that the intuition pump of the trolley problem
isn't for literally standing at a trolley switch.
It's for other circumstances where you could save many or sacrifice one to save many.
But that, you know, again, I strongly anticipate that I will go through my entire life
never running into a situation like that.
So, because luckily I'm not like a, you know,
a hospital administrator or something, right?
If I had to make hard decisions like this,
I'd be spending more time thinking about them.
Apparently one of the jobs that has like the highest incidence of burnout
and like PTSD is being an airline traffic controller,
where you are making trolley problem decisions all the time.
Or like there's the possibility of one having to happen at any moment.
Maybe this is the reason that the example is about police mistreatment wear in my head.
Because that's actually one of the examples he gives about a crony belief.
Belief is about identity groups.
Like whether men and women have statistically different aptitudes
or whether certain races are mistreated by the police.
Those, again, those beliefs, I think this is one of the lynchpins that make it confusing.
Crony beliefs aren't necessarily false.
Robert could be a great employee.
The point is, is like you have this belief and you shot it loud and proud
because it's an important belief to you.
I think the one about men and women is particularly resonant to me
because I do believe that they have statistically different aptitudes and aggregates.
That's a really well like phrase.
Different statistically different aptitudes.
Like very carefully actually just walking around saying anything.
But it also doesn't matter in my life because I don't deal with, you know,
an aggregate population of men and women.
I have individual people that I know who may happen to be a man or a woman,
but it has no impacts like what their attributes are.
Yeah, like luckily, since I'm not dealing with the statistical aggregate of humanity,
I don't have to care.
I know like I know what they're good at.
Something or not.
And I know like 50 people.
So like my circle is small enough that these these giant impacts don't really matter.
I was going to mention bubble effects too.
Yeah.
Well, everybody has a weird like bubble effect circle thing going on.
No one has a perfectly statistically average social group.
Yeah, which is actually like kind of funny.
I remember.
I know I've heard that's why a lot of people don't like ever talking
about things like statistical averages among groups
because it can't impact anything you do in your real day to day life.
Hmm.
Even if you're, you know, someone hiring for a major company,
you're never going to see a statistically significant portion of the population.
Yeah.
You still have to evaluate every person on their own merits.
Something I thought was cool.
Derek Sivers, whose blog I really like.
One of his like beliefs like that he professes or his like philosophies,
I guess is.
So I just assume that men and women are exactly the same.
And I make a point of assuming that men and women are exactly the same because
and I know that they're not, but I know that my tendency to believe that they're
like way more disparate than they actually are is really strong.
So I think trying to norm that belief will push me more towards the correct belief
about how men and women will behave.
And in any individual interaction, you're better off going with either basically identical.
Yeah.
I remember having a conversation with somebody once that said there are no differences between men
and women.
I used to believe that.
Well, that was what I had said.
I was like, wait, so you're saying that, and it was a woman who said this,
you're saying that if you went into, you know, to the doctor with stomach cramps and they checked
you for like, well, you had to pay for a testicular cancer screening and you don't have testicles,
wouldn't you be pissed?
Or like a vignage went in and they went into stomach cramps and they tested him for pregnancy,
wouldn't that be a waste of money?
Would you pay that bill?
Right.
So like at the face of it, that's a stupid thing to say.
I think what people say like mean when they're saying that and the thing that I used to believe
is that they have the same aptitudes or the same like basically personalities.
And like, you know, like, all women are as good as math, as good as math.
Okay.
Well, it's like that's the thing about like not dealing with statistical aggregates of people
is like all the women programmers I know are women programmers, right?
So like, I'm not all the women I know are just as good as math, if not better than these men I know.
Right.
Like, so that that's the thing, like my my circles are so small and not representative that
I guess I like that.
I don't even know if there's as good as that's actually the like, apparently women perform
just as well in math, like up until a certain point in their careers.
And then they mostly either like teach math or do something else semi related to math,
like business, because they're more interested in people, whereas men are have more interests in
things, which we're like, even like stereotypes that people have are actually like a lot more
complicated. Even if they are true, it's like they're true, but for a different reason that
yeah, anyway, that's so basically what we're saying is all these beliefs that we have just been
going on at length about our crony beliefs, because they don't really affect our lives.
And we are signaling who we want as our allies right now, right?
Or solidarity with our groups or our hate of the group, that sort of stuff, right?
Yeah, it is ally signaling. That's just of course, the same way to put it,
but like signaling serves a purpose to survival.
I was actually thinking about like, I've never like put a political bumper sticker on my car.
And I was like, no, that's not true. I got a Bernie one. And I was like,
okay, that was definitely a signaling thing, right? And then I was like, well,
yeah, but then I think I had like told myself when I put it on the car, well,
maybe other people will see it and then like be more likely to also vote for Bernie.
So it's also a bit instrumental. And I think the
Have you ever been persuaded by seeing a sticker or a yard sign for a candidate?
I actually like, I think you're just screaming to your neighbors who you're voting for.
I actually was convinced a few times, like, but in like minor elections, I would first of all
be reminded that those existed. And then second, it's like, sometimes I'd be like,
who the hell is like, vote for whoever is that and look them up and be like,
Oh, actually, like this person's policies are pretty good. I don't really have.
I could see like, if you literally lived in a small town where every single person on their
lawn had a name, then you would feel a lot of pressure to also vote for that name.
But like, if you're in a city when there's just the huge smattering of every,
every opinion, it won't.
But if someone sees my like, my pink Chevy spark with the Bernie thing and like,
maybe, you know, if they hadn't felt super political before, but it's like,
you know, somebody who's an in crowd, like, I definitely drive around and we're and see all
these houses that like have rainbow flags in the windows and like that sign that has like,
the rainbow text that's like, I believe in science and black lives matter.
I saw one of those yesterday.
Yeah. And like, I think if I saw a house that had all the signaling of like,
this person seems like the kind of like my grand people and like also saw like vote for whoever,
I would be like, for school board. And I was like, I don't know about school board.
But oh yeah, that person who had like all the cool shit, like this person, I'll check that name.
Right. Or like, if your car broke down on that street and one one sign or one yard has that
that rainbow sign, the one has a Confederate flag hanging, I'm going to knock on this door first.
Um, they're going to see who has the flag with the just all black
flag with mascara and stuff. I want the spider webs. I'm like, whoever's living in that house
must be the cool. There's a person on my block who has a ton of like dragon sculptures,
like like these big gargoyles out front of their house. And I was just like,
I have no idea the space that it is, but like, I want to be friends with them.
You're like, they're voting for Voldemort, not even on the ticket.
Meteor 2020. Yeah.
All right. So we've been going super long. Let's get to the end punch here.
Yeah. I want to finish this up because this is where when I was listening, I said,
aha, I actually challenged this and he kind of gets around to the solution, but I did.
So anyway, conventional wisdom holds that the more accurate beliefs is critical or the way to more
accurate beliefs is critical thinking less wrong as an example. The problem with this
approach is that it addresses the symptom irrationality without addressing the root cause
social incentives. And that's, that's where I was in the car and I said, I, I, I said in my head
