Oh my god.
That's like, I can't even deal with you dude.
That's so sweet. I just got a cavity.
All right. The biggest hallmark of a crony of epistemic cronyism is in this, God,
I love this whole fucking post. I can't believe this went so far.
So many years that it being on our radar.
Melting asphalt in general is like, when I was leaving in it, like, oh, what topic are you
doing? I was like, this thing on melting asphalt. And they're like, what's that? And I was like,
this thing that I keep remembering is really good, but then forgetting exists and I want to
read more of it.
Do we know the author's name? Is that somebody's name I'd recommend?
Oh, it's Kevin Simler who wrote this post, right?
Yeah, I think so.
The name definitely rings a bell.
Yeah, Kevin Simler.
I love to just Google the name to figure out why I know who that person is.
Anyway, so the biggest hallmark of epistemic cronyisms, I bet some of our listeners have
already guessed it, is exhibiting strong emotions. And when we feel proud of a belief,
anguish over changing our minds or anger at being challenged or criticized,
that is not how one treats a merit belief, right?
Imagine being pissed or scared that you're, you know, or angry that your neighbor told you
that your daughter's soccer game was at five and being defensive of like, no, it's really at six.
And it's like, no, no, like that, that, that is such an easy, I mean, it's obviously also a
low stakes belief. Well, actually high stakes, if you missed your game, you'd be disappointed,
you know?
Can anyone?
Yeah, that was like, that's the thing I kept trying to think of a word for it.
Maybe red flags is a good word, that feeling of pride, anguish, or
pride of the belief, anguish over changing your mind, anger at being challenged.
That was that red flag that I would get when I would like start to be like,
like the whole feminist like shitting on men thing where it was like feminism is good.
There was that like, but that's not good.
Where it's this little like, like sort of flashing alarm in some corner of your mind.
Yeah.
But like the rest of, and then it, but it's really hard to see.
And it's like, you're really sort of incentivized to just let your eyes roll off it.
Like, yeah, but I, I, I know that feminism is good.
That's just probably a few people on Facebook that, that are saying this one dumb thing,
but like the rest of the, you know, nobody else would ever say that.
I'm defending it.
That's the problem because I'm feeling strong emotions.
Yeah.
Cause then like, do you feel, do you feel a reluctance to say to people, Hey, you know,
this is just a few, a thing, just a few crazy people believe, right?
Because if you say that out loud, do you feel like you're going to get attacked by the group?
If you identify as part of the group and then like,
that's, I mean, that was, that was one of my problems when a group I was in said
some crazy things like that.
I was like, ha, ha, that's pretty crazy.
No one actually believes that.
And then the whole group turned on me.
I was like, Oh, whoops.
I had seen like people talking to shit about men, like who were men.
Like I suppose it was, you know, like white cis men, you know, right?
As like the joke in, uh,
That's the worst kind of cards against humanity or something.
And then everybody laughs even like the white, like the person who threw the card,
some of his like white cis friends, ha, ha, ha.
Yeah. Like it's like, you know, Hitler, ha, ha, ha, white men.
And you're like, you don't get that little red flag there.
Yeah. I have a red flag that goes off whenever anyone makes a shitty generalization about an
entire group.
I don't care if it's, you know, even groups that it's like, if you're, you know, if it's, uh,
like Republican, and I like Republicans don't get wrong, but I'm just picking people on the
other sides of aisles that I'm on, you know, if someone says all Republicans suck,
I'm like, I know nice Republicans suck a dick.
You guys, you guys are being mean.
That's the worst part because I actually do know some friends who are Republicans and
are my friends.
And in a group, if someone says something about all Republicans, I'm like,
no, not, not there's some good ones.
And they're like, oh, so you're, now you're not all menning us, you know, and you get jumped
out for shit.
I'm like, just don't say that about all Republicans.
I don't want you shitting on my good friend.
This is why I don't talk at people because they get involved in those terrible traps.
There was a Republican in my, in my Grimsman party at my wedding.
How dare you, right?
How dare I have a diverse group of friends.
That was like one of the things that ended up breaking.
Like after I had enough red flags was when like people started saying,
well, they should know that by all men, we don't mean all men.
Yeah, yeah.
It's like, what would you mean?
What are you talking about?
This is the same kind of bullshit where people like will defend Trump statements,
right?
And it's like, all right, what would you say if you meant all men?
Would you use the words all men?
Like that's what I would use.
What are you fucking kidding me?
No, like seriously, or like, or even if they say,
like we obviously didn't mean you're one moderate Republican friend who, yeah.
You should know that.
But that's the thing is like, they'll even have like the ones where they say literally
all men.
It's like, oh, I didn't mean literally all men.
It's like, those are the words you used.
We're getting off on too late.
So as you can tell, our beliefs that, you know, about the, our beliefs about how bad
crony beliefs are is a crony belief.
You're right.
Obviously getting emotional about this.
Right.
That is a red flag.
I don't know.
It doesn't mean that like emotions have no place like.
No, emotions have a place.
In a, in a, in a, in being a human with experiences and beliefs, but when you're,
when you're analyzing your beliefs and trying to decide what is true,
it shouldn't have an emotional component to it.
It might be scary to acknowledge that something that you once believed is false,
right?
Or that, you know, a belief that you feel like is important, but that's the point.
That is what a crony belief feels like to, to challenge.
It feels like grieving actually.
Like when I had to like basically be like, I'm not a feminist anymore.
Like it felt like I really wanted to believe that there was like this group of people that
did want to do good things for this group of people and also weren't like willing to be
hassles to the other groups of people.
I think there was in the past.
Maybe I'm wrong.
They're probably, I don't know.
Well, and you can still say you're a feminist, just like not those feminists.
Like that's the thing is that's why I also don't like ist words, right?
Like I, that, that, because that's the problem.
People assume that you fall into this entire blanket statement of the first person they
met on this, right?
So like some, some nice person, you know, their first encounter with the, with the
so-called rationalist community is some 14 year old dipshit on Reddit.
And they're like, oh, that's rationalists.
And it's like, well, you know, no, first of all, but second, like, so that's the problem
of like uniting under a banner.
I see this, it's hard to coordinate a group without that.
And yet like, if you, so, you know, Jay, you say it's bummer that you're not a feminist.
I bet you believe everything you want feminists to believe.
Yeah, I actually, when any of us said that used to believe that, I was like, yeah,
basically, like I'm like a nineties feminist, I guess, or I don't know.
Like they're definitely with the different waves of feminism and they changed, uh,
be like official party lines.
And I think that the official party line has changed, uh, to like sort of the regressive one.
That is my impression as well.
Yeah.
And this is, this just falls back on.
There's terfs too, which is super weird.
That, that I think is a good example of like, if someone says, you know,
what's wrong with feminism?
And it's like, well, here's a bad branch.
Like, oh yeah, we all agree that that's a bad branch.
No, terfs aren't real feminists.
Well, that's what the F stands for in their thing.
But they, they, they would disagree, right?
Yeah.
No, they'd be like, no, we're the only real feminists.
Exactly.
And, and again, they're wrong.
They're, and they're, they're, I was going to say mistaken, but that almost sounds too nice.
But they're, they're wrong.
I'm a mistake theorist.
I mean, I think they are mistaken.
Yeah.
But like they're, they're just as convicted about the well-being of women as you are.
They just happen to disagree on a very important, you know, subcomponent of that.
Presumably.
I'm not really sure.
I'm not, I don't read any of their, anyone's official literature, but-
J.K. Rowling like said that, apparently said something terfy.
And that was like, but like she, I think she genuinely believes the trans women are just
men in drag who like lurk in bathrooms, trying to like get into female spaces.
Or maybe, maybe that there's a risk that that could happen.
Right.
That's what terfs think.
She's scared of the men who will do that.
And she thinks there's a lot of them.
And that's the problem.
So she's got bad data.
And if, if someone can get, you know, like-
That's the mistake there.
Exactly.
So, and I, I don't know.
Like that's the thing.
If you watch 90s comedies, trans women were an acceptable target.
Like there's Ace Ventura movies where he like made out with a trans woman.
And then the entire third act.
Yeah.
It was like him vomiting and screaming.
And like that was, they even, they made fun of that and family guy again,
where they had like the same thing happen,
but they just made him vomit for like two whole minutes.
Oh, right.
Cause family guy.
You know, I actually, that was the one where quagmire's dad was trans, right?
And it was Brian that was vomiting the whole time.
Yes.
I think so.
And I referred to the same episode.
I think that was-
He was like dating someone who's trans.
I think I think it was quagmire's dad.
And so what I liked about it is like, this was like,
