out loud, out loud in my head, I said, aha, challenge. You challenge that? Yes. Why? Because
part of rationality is the balm that subsumes all that is good and makes everything better.
It includes and it doesn't, it doesn't exclude actual solutions like fixing social incentives.
Oh, okay. Well, okay. So that's literally what he was getting to in his next paragraph.
Right. Yeah. But the thing is, he says, we should do this. I'm like, we already are.
Some of us, yeah. Well, but that's, that, that is, that is part of the point of rationality.
It isn't to be the rational person in your house and the only one on your block.
It is to raise the sanity waterline of those around you and to have a community.
It's a belief you want to spread because you like it genuinely.
Yeah, that helps too. But like, because you like it, because well,
because you think it'll make a better world if more people believe this thing.
Yeah. I want to, I want to read like what he said,
because I thought it was really well put and he said that if you imagine some clueless but
well-meaning executive noticing that Robert and a handful of other workers aren't getting fired
despite shoddy work, not realizing their cronies, the exact naturally suspects the problem is not
enough meritocracy. And then he goes through all the programs he implements to make things more
meritocratic so that shoddy shitty employees get canned. Meanwhile, everyone else is panicking like,
oh, no, Robert's going to get canned. And so he said, if our executive understood the full picture,
he might instead direct his efforts outside the company at the political ecosystem that
allows strong, strong arming and corruption to fester. If he could fix net Neppetsville city
politics, he'd be quashing the problem at its root and ACME's meritocracy could then begin to heal
naturally. So that's he saying, that's the problem. If you give some of the tools to purge their
crony beliefs by giving them the sequences, for example, without a community, without fixing
the ecosystem in which they're embedded, it's a prescription for trouble. They'll either one,
let go of their crony beliefs and lose out socially, or two, suffer more cognitive dissonance in an
effort to protect the crony beliefs from their now sharper critical faculties. The better and
much more difficult solution is to attack epistemic cronyism at the root, i.e. in the way others judge
us for our beliefs. If we could arrange for our peers to judge us solely for the accuracy of our
beliefs, then we'd have no incentives to believe anything but the truth, which is I think kind of
what we do as a community. The whole point he was driving at is that we need better community,
better social pressures. Totally. And yeah, like I said, he got there to the point, but I just liked
where when he said the first thing, I was like, you are wrong, sir, we already do that.
You were two steps ahead of him. I was saying when this was written, but when was this written?
I was thinking it was written around the same time as the sequences. I think it was after,
because he says he references the sequences when people stopped including dates on the internet.
It's gotta be evergreen content. I was literally still putting up the page,
the actual page to find the date on it and he didn't. Maybe it's at the bottom.
Or maybe they just didn't include it. Nope. Great. No. Oh, wait, there it is.
Originally published November 2nd, 2016. Okay. So the community had been a thing for a while.
Oh, yeah. Anyway, the next thing was I lost. I've already moved my notes. Sorry, you go ahead.
In other words, we do need to teach rationality and critical thinking skills,
not just to ourselves, but to everyone at once. Yeah.
That trick is to see this as a multilateral rather than a unilateral solution,
which reminded me of Brian. If we raise epistemic standards within an entire population,
then we'll all be cajoled into thinking more clearly, making better arguments,
weighing evidence more even handily, etc. Lest we be seen as stupid, careless, or biased.
The beauty of less wrong then is that it's not just a textbook, it's a community,
a group of people who have agreed either tacitly or explicitly to judge each other for the accuracy
of their beliefs, or at least for behaving in ways that correlate with accuracy. And so it's
the norms of the community that incentivize us to think and communicate as rationally as we do.
And right here, I would normally try to drop in some sort of call for action like,
hey, start a less wrong group in your local city. It'll make your life great.
It's not that hard. Here's how you can do it. But now we're in the middle of Corona. So no one
can do that online communities. They aren't, but they're the only placeholder we have while the
world. They're gonna get better because of that. And I'm looking forward to that because I hate
sketch the worst. I hate Zoom. I hate all of them. Is there a good one? Hangouts is all right-ish.
There's no good one because latency is the problem. You will need to be either have zero latency or
see people IRL. And I mean, that's not the only problem. There's also just, it's better to be
in physical proximity to people. There's a lot of other things you can get that you can't get just
through video and chat, but latency is a huge problem. It is. It is. But if you're hearing this
and you're like, God, this all sounds great, but I don't have a community, online is a substitute
that we can all live with for now because we have no other choice. So check out the Bayesian
conspiracy discord. Check out the University of Bays. There are online community, and of course,
like less wrong is a tech community, but it's not, you're not talking with people in real life.
It's like a subreddit basically. No, they are in real life, just not in real time.
There's rational communities on most of the major social media platforms and other places
where you can talk to people. Yeah, I forgot that Facebook is a thing. There's probably a
less wrong Facebook group. There is. I believe you, but it's not worth it to me. Brain debugging
discussion because they never were able to rename it. I like how this wraps up. He says,
all of which brings us to a strange and, at least my mind, unsettling conclusion.
Earlier argued that other people are the cause of all our epistemic problems.
Now I find myself arguing that they're also our best solution. It's not unsettling. I mean,
I don't think it's unsettling. It's not paradoxical. It's not even, it's not contradictory. It's just
yep. We need a good community. People are the problem and people are the solution.
Everyone needs community and having good community is good. So, yeah, I love it. So,
yeah, that's it for this post. I know I've been going for a while. It was a really good one.
I think so. There are some things we didn't touch on. So, again, I recommend people to read these
and the less wrong posts. The less wrong posts are super short. This one is a little bit longer,
but still totally worth reading or less wrong sequences. Yeah.
Less wrong posts also tend to be, well, I have how many, like I have 12 of them open right now and
they vary in length, but there's a lot of short ones. If you don't have to, like the time,
you, I love the fact that they actually tell you on less wrong about how long each article
takes to read. Oh, yeah, they do that now. That's cool. It's like, yeah, here's this article. It's
about this thing. It's in this category. It'll take you about nine minutes to read. Why doesn't
everybody do that? It's so good. I've seen it on more and more websites recently. Yeah. See,
things are getting better. All right. So, did we address the feedback at the top of the notes here
about shooting? We did not do any feedbacks yet. We've been going for quite a while on this episode.
Do we want to? I want to head these really quick. They'll only take a second. So,
I, let's see. I think I found the thing about guns because I asked our guest about that when
we got the email. So the question was basically that our number that was cited in the episode was
ridiculously under. I was skimming through everything I talked to about the- Wait, are you
going to read the thing? You go ahead and read it while I search. The comment that he makes about
our number? Yeah. Oh, okay. Because I asked our guest on that episode about that. I'm not sure if
it's fair to- Well, I'm going to disagree with this thing. I guess might as well read it. Read it.
Okay. It's going to be really unsatisfying if you don't know what we're disagreeing with.
Yes. Jared, in an email, in the follow up to Oregon episode says,
Hello, Conspirators. I come from Stockton, California where shootings were fairly common
place. Sorry, Jared. I look for my hometown every few days at, it's a website, gunviolencearchive.org.
slash mass shootings. I thought you might enjoy this after a guest estimated one mass shooting
per week. Ha. Keep up the great show. And if you go to the website, it shows a long list of mass
shootings. There's multiple every weeks at that one town. Yeah, Stockton. But like, I dispute that
definition of mass shootings, the problem. It's like, everything they have at that website is
where multiple people were shot in a single incident. And that doesn't surprise me for places
that are high in crime. But I don't consider that mass shooting when someone says mass shooting,
the typical thing everyone thinks of is someone walking into a large crowd at school shooting,
or someone walking into a crowd with the objective of indiscriminately killing as many
strangers as possible, not like crime and drug deals gone wrong and rival gangs shooting at each
other. And so I wouldn't call those mass shootings. I would just call those like shitty things that
happen a lot. I do think there's an important distinction there between this is a terror event
that you could get caught in. Like if you're trying to evaluate how dangerous an area is,
if it's all gang violence, you're unlikely to get caught up. And if you're not part of any of that,
if it's like, this area has a bunch of indiscriminate shooters, I don't know. I think you can't
actually like, like when Gray estimated one mass shooting per week, I was like, that is ridiculously
high. Mass shooting to me does not count as a mass shooting if it doesn't make it to the next.
They're saying even that was quite... They were saying it's extremely low. The writer was.
Yeah, I couldn't find Gray's response. I don't know where I asked him, but apparently it wasn't
in discord down in the time you look everywhere. But I'm with you. Like I think... He lives at my
house now, so I could just ask him. Yeah, but if you do define a mass shooting as anything where
more than two people are hit by bullets in a single incident, then yeah, there'd be a ton more.
Different definitions in this case. Yeah, and you know, it's one of those things that I don't
know what's worth splitting hairs about. Like I can't remember exactly what context it came up in.
Like we're talking about guns, but like I don't know what the specific thing regarding mass shootings
was. It was whether gun laws, having stricter gun laws would reduce mass shootings. And if you
define it the way we think of mass shootings as these terror events, then no, they wouldn't.
If you define it as these random crimes on corners, then maybe they would.
If they would prevent more guns getting into criminals hands. I realized that I'm
doing the thing of... There was even a, wasn't there a sequence about this? I'm reading this as
Jared, I don't know if he want to take his name out or not, and I don't know if that's a...
I think he came in an email, so... He him person, but it sounds like, like they were just coming
and saying, this number seems really low, haha. And I realized that I'm like, oh, this person is
in favor of, and they're trying to argue in favor of, they're being stricter gun laws, and then we
should have Kravak going to argue. And then I'm like, wait a minute, there wasn't an argument.
They were just, I think, yeah, that was one of the sequences where earlier, as you said,
a fact, and someone was like, do you mean that you're for this thing happening? And he's like,
no, I just said a fact about it. Right. Yeah. But I would be annoyed if someone were to say,
we could reduce mass shootings by having stricter gun laws. And then they pointed at this, when they
knew that everyone in the audience is thinking about like school shootings. That's a classic
Martin Bailey switch, right? Yeah. All right. So I think that's it for that one. I just do what
you're saying, and shootings suck, and should go down. Maybe if Gray come back on and address that,
if anybody cares, Gray will want to. We can ask Gray what the response is to that. But I wanted
just to bring that up and move past it, because we don't have time to dig in too much. But there's
another quick one I want to get to here. This one came in just yesterday, actually. First, let me
say I really enjoy the podcast. Thank you. It is like hanging out with interesting friends every two
weeks. But I disagree with the position that global climate change is not the cause of the wild
fires. They say that it's definitely true that bad forest management provides more fuel, but
higher temperatures and higher winds make the fire spread faster, makes them harder to put out,
and the higher CO2 content might actually result in denser growth, more stuff to burn.
That seems like a stretch. Really? That was my impression. I am not an environmental scientist.
There might be something to that. Maybe things would be slightly less bad without climate change.
How long have we had higher CO2 concentrations? How much higher are they? How long does it take
a tree to grow? That's part of my thinking on it. The other thing is that the bad forest management
would lead to a bigger problem a lot faster than the currently slow but terrible gradual
increase of CO2 levels and climate change. We can get David Spearman on and then set these
two against each other, and then we can just coordinate a bunch of arguments between different
people. From everything I have ever read on the subject, climate change certainly is happening,
and it is due to all the carbon we're putting into the atmosphere, but it is having a
very small effect on the wildfires. The wildfires are mostly due to bad management and
disrupting the natural ecosystem of that coast. Like our personal vehicles contribute to climate
change, but they're not a real metric or they're not a real impact on it, right?
Technically, it increases CO2 output, but it's not an actual factor.
I think all the cars in the aggregate have a...
I was pointing just you and me.
Oh, just you and me?
Yeah, just the person's car.
Right, right.
Yes, this is causing a marginal effect. No, we should not be aiming all of our resources at
this though because it's so marginal.
Right.
It's a weird argument because I do think we should be aiming some resources at climate
change and fighting climate change, but it's not going to solve the forest fire problem.
That is a different problem, so it annoys me that that is used as an argument.
If you find sources that we can share, we'll put those in the show notes.
No way.
All right.
Or we could orchestrate some fights.
Fights are more fun.
A little column A, a little column B.
Okay.
And then I needed to get to this part. This is the main reason I wanted to do feedback this
episode. As long as I'm at the keyboard, I have a suggestion for a topic for the next episode.
I don't think we're going to do the whole episode, but I'm going to mention this
every time we get an episode this month, so I guess twice.
Could you possibly discuss the upcoming election?
As rationalists, it seems like we ought to do everything we can to prevent the re-election
of the most anti-rationalist president imaginable, one whose re-election objectively has a very
high likelihood of bad consequences for almost everyone.
I think I can think of no better use of time than that.
I agree.
Everyone should get out.
That's all I want to bring this up for is everyone get your asses out and vote.
I agree he's the most anti-rationalist president ever.
I'm not sure that's the best use of all our energies, but maybe.
If we... I don't know what our energy output... I don't know the difference between doing a whole
episode on it versus doing a plug to say, by the way, don't sit this vote out like you did last term,
actually vote this year or vote this election.
I felt silly last term. It feels like 5,000 years ago when...
Did you not vote last time?
No, I did.
Oh, okay.
But we had an episode on about don't waste your time voting.
