Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Emi Hashbrotsky, I'm Steven Zuber, I'm Jay Sticky.
And today we are going old school talking about beliefs and how to overcome biases and such.
Feels like we should talk about that more often.
Yeah, I'm looking forward to this because we got a whole new thing going on, not a whole new thing.
An old school thing, I don't know.
A new old thing.
Yes.
Shall we just jump right into the less wrong posts then?
Yeah, first less wrong post was rationality and the English language.
And you know what, I'll save my comment until afterwards.
Okay.
Um, this was about how somebody had told Eliezu that his writing reminded them of politics in the English language by George Orwell, which he was honored by because he then goes on to say why he really loved Orwell's writing and why it's rationalist.
Yeah.
It's trying to serve the same purpose that rationalist writing is of pointing out where there are biases, but in this case he was talking about the way that you use the written word can be used to manipulate.
Orwell was very much about how you can manipulate language to manipulate people.
I mean, ultimately, I've always considered humans to be, the main thing that makes a difference is that we run on language where I don't think any of the other animals do.
And like if we didn't have language, would we even be human?
Maybe not.
I kind of don't think we would because that's like where all your consciousness comes from, right?
Is this stream of thought of inspecting yourself through the filter of language?
Yeah, I don't think we'd be recognizably human.
I imagine like if we just didn't talk and that we had other ways to communicate gestures or something, you know, if we still managed to somehow be social animals, it'd be so different.
Our inner lives would be changed.
Some people report to me because I've asked about this back when I was way more into like philosophy of consciousness that they just think in worthless concepts.
I don't think they do that.
And it says that too.
I don't believe you.
I believe, like, I have, you know, intuitions.
I don't think that way.
Yeah, I have a very hard time actually.
Like, I mean,
because how do you crystallize a thought?
Like I have lots of things that come up as like wordless intuitions or nudges or, you know, and a lot of things happen automatically that don't get assigned to work because there's doesn't need to be or there's no time.
I feel like I don't understand the stuff going in on in my head unless I translated into words.
That's exactly it.
Yeah.
Like, I don't know if you guys have read Peter Watts blind site, but I get the feeling that both the aliens and the vampires in that novel are basically that they're as intelligent as humans, but they don't have a like language self reflective center and that is why they are not conscious.
Right.
And so I think that's like they can still use language, but they don't think in language and that that is why they're like P zombies.
We're not like dbt for.
Yeah.
We've got a lot of meditation where there's like they talk about the person saying words and the person hearing the voice saying the words, which is really weird when you start thinking about it.
But that's like the process is going on in our head.
That's what makes us conscious probably.
Yeah.
The both the speaker and the listener.
So we have gotten off topic or off track.
We're still on topic.
You're right.
We are keeping an eye on the ball here.
People don't sweat it.
Yeah.
But the the thing that I don't think this is as I was making this point, but you know, by way of of Orwell's writing, he says that if you wish to imprison people for years without a trial trial, you must think of some other way to say it, then I'm going to imprison Mr.
Jennings for years without trial.
You must muddy the listeners thinking prevent clear images from outraging conscience.
You say unreliable elements were subjected to an alternative justice process, which he was talking about use the use of the passive voice.
And then I don't remember having read this sequence before because this is awesome.
But this is absolutely fantastic.
He says this sentence, writers are told to avoid the usage of the passage voice.
And then like, and he's like, and then if you're like me, that sentence kind of makes you scream on the inside a little and told by whom.
Yeah.
And then like, yeah.
And if you're not a writer, or like aren't sure why that sentence is so wrong.
You're there's like as a writer, if you're writing fiction or even nonfiction, I think articles like you're told to use the active voice, which is not writers are told to but it's like, I am telling you writer or whatever.
That's one of the biggest tells between a amateur writer and someone who's been doing it for a while is how often they slip into passive voice.
Yeah.
But then, and this kind of blew my mind because I hadn't ever thought about it this way.
But it's like, journal articles are often written in passive voice.
Pardon me, some scientists write their journal articles in passive voice.
And I was like, reading as many like journal articles as I have, I never really picked up on why they were doing that.
It just feels like this is the format.
And I was like, oh, that's the format of science because they want to leave the data and it sounds so much less professional to say the I gave each college student a bottle of 20 Prygenitivarix and told them to take one every night until they were gone.
It sounds more authoritative to say the subjects were administered Prygenitivarivox.
Yeah.
He's the main point is that passive voice removes the actor leaving only the acted upon and that just sounds so much more authoritative.
I really want to just the state of nature just happens.
I want to rewrite or maybe like train an AI to just like find another place.
But like, I want to see a journal article now written in like active voice where I feel like it would just sound really fun.
And then I told the subjects to spin around three times and Joe, because he's an idiot, only turned around two times.
And I was like, this ties nicely into the like the difference between like learning from something and experiencing something.
Right.
And I like this line that I'm glad was pulled out by whoever put the notes together.
I'm assuming in Yesh where it says nonfiction, nonfiction conveys sorry, nonfiction conveys knowledge fiction conveys experience.
And that is like the takeaway.
The fun thing is that you can get both like you can you can learn from fiction.
You can learn real things, but it's told in a story that lets you experience the knowledge or the process itself.
In a way, it's like, like all books are teaching you something because you're experiencing things from the perspective of the characters.
I know he wrote in one of the authors posts, maybe maybe it was a comment on a Reddit instead.
I think it was an author's note though.
I also wrote that that was part of the reason he wrote HPMOR was that so people would have the experience of using rationality rather than just, you know, reading about how it could be done.
Yeah.
Right.
The that's my favorite genre of book.
Also, the like, but basically rat fic, but like the thing where it teaches you something like it's a it's not only I'm enjoying the shit out of watching this assassin try to sneak around this diplomats house to kill him with a magic sword.
But it's like, you're also learning diplomacy as like the assassin is learning diplomacy.
And like that's the author's purpose of writing the book to not just because I wanted to tell a fun story about an assassin, but also I want to teach people about this cool thing.
Yeah, I think that the inception and creation of method of rationality is one of like my favorite just things that have happened that had so many purposes to it and I think it hit all of them.
And the fact that there was that the like term rationalist fiction that was coined now and now it can be a genre that people can sort of aim at is like my favorite thing that has happened in literature in my lifetime.
Basically, if I look back at all of my favorite books and I have done this and like I did a critical analysis of all my childhood favorite books because I do that for fun sometimes.
They're all rat fic for kids or or or not for adults but watching people figure out problems is fun.
Yeah.
And when you get to experience figuring out the problem with them, it's extra fun.
That's what I really liked about the BBC's take on Sherlock as opposed to like the Robert Downey Jr. movie.
Yeah.
Great, both great actors, both great approaches, but like what I liked about the BBC one was that you get the clues and you get to try and solve it with him.
Rather than just like at the end, Sherlock tells you that this smelled like this and that guy's the mud on his pant leg indicated that it's like, well, I didn't, I didn't see that going through.
It's a totally different genre, I think, where basically you're watching a superhero show if you're watching the Downey Holmes because you just see somebody who's smart and uses smartness like a superpower where they're just, I will apply smartness.
And he whips it all out at the end.
You know, like you see him at some point like taste the the the gravel on like this exploded grave or something, but you don't know what it tastes like.
You don't get the information.
In the BBC version, it puts text across the screen when he's looking at like the woman's wedding ring.
It shows you what he's looking at and then like a bunch of.
Exactly.
The inside is clean indicating that she takes it off a bunch and like little things like that.
So you get the data too.
I heard it got worse as it went along though.
It did.
Okay.
Stop at the end of season two.
That is where I actually stopped.
Yeah.
Because they started season three and I was like, this, this doesn't feel as good.
It ended well on season two.
Yeah.
That's like, I love Batman, but like there's things about Batman that are just ridiculous.
One of them is the slow.
He's actually the world's greatest detective.
And that was like his original title and they pushed that a lot more.
Now he's more like rich guy that just buys mech suits.
But it would always be this like ridiculous plot armor thing that they would like pull out at the end where it wasn't like I deduced that because I like
I wrote a computer program that analyzed your thing and just like, you know, it's just like it's it's bullshit.
He's just they're just fully like it's not anything you could reproduce.
Because I knew this about you.
I knew that you were going to use this attack, which is why I'm wearing this special attack repellent.
I recording we want more in a couple of days.
And I love after like the, uh, like the coup at Hogwarts, Draco becomes like, he's just obsessed with like acting like a Sherlock game detective.
And so he brings in like all the stack of books.
And it's like, well, wait, John O'Ranger read all of those in two weeks.
And he's like, well, no, all we know is that you check them out.
Actually, all we observed is that the ledger says that you check them out.
And then later on, it's like, how'd you come to discover this, Malphoy?
I deduced it from evidence.
He's just having like, he's just saying the words, but it gets an answer.
He's just having a good time with it.
Or at least I'm having a good time with him having his whatever kind of time he's having with it.
So it's kind of like when they were also pretending to be like, well, I don't know how much Draco was pretending, but they were pretending to be like evil generals.
And like, didn't Harry have like a lawn chair that was like sprayed with black spray paint and covered in glitter?
I don't know if it was a lawn chair, but it was definitely a chair that he heavily modified.
And he had like a hood over his head and he was talking like...
Yeah, he would make people quote things from the Jabberwock as part of their pass codes.
I deduced something in general, Malphoy.
He's like, especially imagining an 11-year-old kid with like a Halloween cloak.
Doing his best Palpatine.
Yeah, that was too much to think of Palpatine.
Anyway, do we have more to say about...
All of that's relevant because the experience of enjoying fiction, you get to learn stuff and experience at the same time.
See, it all comes back home.
I'm really good now at like driving segues straight back to the topic pretending like it was on purpose.
Because we're 60% segues and we want more.
So he brings this along to why the writing is important.
Again, because the passive voice sounds authoritative, it's not like someone did something else to people.
It just like happened, you know?
And when things just happen, it feels inevitable. It feels like a force of nature.
It's not like something that someone specifically did for a goal.
So people are much more likely to accept it.
And he says in this quote that I pulled,
a writer knows that readers will not stop for a minute to think.
Which actually is the thing that comes up quite a bit with you and Brian when you talk about the...
We want more podcast.
When you're like, yeah, when I first read this, I just kept reading and going through it.
Like I didn't stop after every couple chapters and think and record for a number of hours.
That is not the usual process of consuming fiction or consuming anything.
So that's why I like reading critical analysis for fun.
Like I wasn't joking about that because I do that with everything.
I mean, if there's something I'm really into, I'm just like, next chapter, next chapter, more, give me more.
And you see this.
That's why I was like, oh my God, it's 3 a.m. and I got to work in four hours.
Yeah, but then like, but there's stuff even hidden in there,
even though you're enjoying the hell out of it, but you're skimming over so much of it.
And when you go back and like, you figure out why you liked it.
It's so satisfying.
It's and yeah, there's, there's a whole, you know what?
That's critical reading theorem.
I'm not going to get into that.
I was just going to say there's a medium is the message and maybe let's not launch into.
But as he was saying to complete the quote,
a writer knows the reader will not stop for a minute to think a fictional experience is a continuous stream of first impressions.
He continues on.
I truncated this a bit to make the claim that often steel manning leads to losing track of the first impression.
What the audience sees or, or feels, which is to say that like people will go back and analyze what someone has said and be like, well, I mean, maybe he meant this and it is technically true in this sense and all these other things.
And maybe all that is true.
And we see this especially, in my opinion, a lot during Trump's speeches.
I was going to say in politics generally.
Yeah, where like Trump says something and afterwards you're like, well, you know, technically he didn't say that that neo-Nazis are great and he loves white supremacists, right?
When someone says, do you denounce them?
Sure. Yeah, sure.
Why not?
That's not the, that's not the first impression when you're just listening to the stream of consciousness that comes out of his mouth.
What you feel is him saying, whatever, sure, whatever, like it's, you know, like this, the white nationalism is not a big deal to him as opposed to yes, he's agreeing that he denounces them.
And that is kind of the whole purpose of using these sort of manipulative language to cloak the actual impression that is conveyed behind the sort of technical legitimacy.
