by doing x, y, and z. And yeah, because the adults had actually manipulated him like,
and because the adults made it very clear they would never protect him. Yeah. And he was on his
own. Yeah, it was, it was a really good book. And I was just floundering on Taylor and Wyrm because
I do think there was literally no other way to save this. Like so it was a lot of fun. It was
great, great setup. Okay. And then so it forced you to think like, okay, is it all right to do
bad things with a greater good? Yeah. And that's a whole like, you know, going back to crony loose
here. Yes. So get back onto the topic then. Where even if you know you're doing bad that
like most people who are doing bad things, like can't know they're doing bad things,
but think they're justified. It's like, again, there's, there's not, because this person's
stupid, they believe this or because they're evil. It's like, it feels internally justified.
I do like that. He kind of brings attention to the fact that most people when they say,
how can anyone believe this stuff? They, they aren't actually asking. They're just, that's
applause lights for those. I know, right? Yeah. That's why he says, no, seriously, how? Yeah.
People are dumb and suck. And, you know,
so the essay opens up with like an analogy that isn't perfect, but I think the author says,
I think it gets us 70% of the way there. And it's a way to think of, imagine that your beliefs are
like employees at your company, right? And for the most part, you hire them because they do a good
job. And that is to say they're accurate, they pay rent in our, in our lingo. Their employees,
they get paid, they pay rent. Exactly. And, and yet you live in a society with a corrupt city
council and they, if you're, if you don't hire people who work for the, you know, that aren't,
you know, the cousin or nephew or whatever city council member is, well, they don't give
your company permits and you eventually get, you know, just beaten down by something. Exactly.
You get beaten down into oblivion. So you need to hire some crony employees for this nepotistic,
terrible society you're in, just to stay afloat in the world that you exist in.
Every company needs one employer that's like a cousin to the mayor or assistant to someone on
sister on someone city council or something. Exactly. They're the director of something.
Yeah. And so that, the, the analogy here is that the, the cronies that you have to hire,
these are the beliefs that you have for basically, I was going to say not good reasons, but there
actually are, that, that, that is a good reason, right? It is, it is for survival. He says like
every belief has a job to do. And for the merit based beliefs, like the merit based employees,
it's a job is to help you survive and to have more reproductive success. Yeah. And any, that's
the bottom line of the organism and any belief that inaccurately models the, models the world
and leads you astray would generally be let go like an employee that isn't doing their job.
Yeah. I would want to call those like instrumental beliefs where whether it's a good or bad belief
it like it's, it's helping you achieve a goal. Yeah. I found the word or the two they had merit
beliefs and crony beliefs. Yeah. Yeah. I kept finding the word merit belief to sound too much
like, I don't know. That's like my one nitpick with this essay. You don't like the term merit
belief? I prefer the like instrumental because it sounds like a good belief merit. I don't know.
Well, crony beliefs are also served the instrumental purpose of keeping you afloat in
society, right? Yeah. Yeah. He says the crony employees earned their keep not by doing good
work, but by keeping the mayor off the company's back. So they do have the purpose and it is
valuable to the, to the company. Yeah. He said, what was it right here? Right. That they're hired
not for actually modding the, modeling the world, but these beliefs are hired for social and political
kickbacks. And he quotes Stephen Pinker saying, people are embraced or condemned according to
their beliefs. So one function of the mind may be to hold beliefs that bring the belief holder,
the greatest number of allies, protectors or disciples, rather than beliefs that are most
likely true. And yeah, he says that both beliefs contribute to the bottom line survival and
reproduction. They just do it in different ways. Merit beliefs help us by navigating the world.
Chronic beliefs help us by making us look good. Yeah. Can I actually read the definitions that
they put here? Where they were saying that the two different reward systems they're talking about,
there's a meritocracy where we monitor beliefs for accuracy out of fear that will stumble by acting
on a false belief. And then cronyism was the reward system where we don't care about accuracy
so much as whether our beliefs make the right impressions on others. And yeah, I pointed out
that like, it's a political social. And then I think the author kind of was like, but basically
just like only social. I mean, that's what that means. Like, it seems like the main reason that
we have these kinds of crony beliefs are to specifically navigate social interactions.
And he points out that a brain that doesn't adopt any crony beliefs would quickly be disadvantaged
relative to playing brains that are more willing to play ball, much like that company that doesn't
to drop to any crony employees will find itself out of business in five years, just because of
all the all the pushback from the political politics. And it's like, this is an exercise for
the reader as they go through the whole thing. But you try and identify like what sort of beliefs
do you have that fit this bucket? And luckily you have you had, it's easier, I think, to look back
and identify ones that you had in the past, yeah, that ones that you have currently, and if you
find any that you have currently like, hey, now you know what to work on. And like this might be,
I mean, so easy because, well, it's, it's a hard to not think of politically charged examples,
because most of your crony beliefs will be politically charged, right? That's why you have
them. They're, they're not to serve as an accurate map of the territory, but as a
signal to your tribe that yes, I'm in your group. So I'm trying to think of one that
isn't like too inflammatory. I mean, I could say my, I had a motivated belief that my company
that I was working for was a good company because I liked everything else about this job. And I knew
that like, if I agreed that this is a bad company to work for, then I would have to face the fact
that probably this isn't a good job for me. A lot of, yeah, a lot of companies try to instill
that in their employees too. And it always annoys me. But it really felt like a true belief until
they started until they like did three things as a company that I was like, this speaks to a
pattern that they don't, they're not actually like behaving the way that they keep saying that
they do. And that everybody keeps saying, oh yeah, this is such a good company. They, you know,
they support their employees. Yeah, no company during the onboarding Kool-Aid drinking process
will say, by the way, we suck, right? It's all about how great you are. They put on a really good
show of it. And I super believed it too, until like, I feel you until I started like getting
evidence to the contrary. And then I like realized I was like, wait, I have never actually questioned
this whole like they were, you know, I have to look at this and be like, I don't know if it's
because my parents are just kind of contrarians and hate the system in general, or if it's because
I read so much cyberpunk as a kid or something. But I have a intense distrust of any sorts of
corporations. I consider them dragons. And whenever they're trying to win my loyalty over, I'm like,
fuck right off. I know what you're doing. I know you don't care about me. Yeah, you're here for
the bottom line, which is profit. And you're only doing this because whatever it is you're doing
helps increase that profit. So yeah, I'm sorry, kind of my luck, monster.
He he points out that because this is a less wrong reader. When we say politics is the mind
killer, it's because these social rewards completely dominate the pragmatic rewards
rewards. And thus we have no incentive to get at the truth. Yeah, we're basically really
and your social rewards for believing your company was a good company, we're pretty high.
Yeah. And yeah, if you were the one person walking around the floor saying this place
sucks, and can you believe it to make money, like you would you would be a pariah there, right?
It would also I realized it was going to kick the legs out of a bunch of my other beliefs too.
Like, that was like there was this framework of, well, I don't know, I don't want to get too like,
deep into this story. But it's interesting that I can kind of look at things like that.
There was a similar one where like, I had a belief that I had a good relationship with my parents
and like a good childhood. And like, that was supporting so many other like stories that I
had about myself that I like, after a while, I find myself defending that belief. And you can
and I could actually go back and think about like, when I, you know, believed in religion,
it felt that way. And it's hard to remember after the fact, I think a lot of people who are atheists
can't remember what it felt like when they were a true believer, like, how real it felt.
It can be hard. There are a few memories I still have, like, when I was a kid, and I was hiding
under the covers and like, praying for God to protect me from Satan, who was just outside the
covers and maybe under my bed really helped. I was like, sweet, God's keeping him away now.
Which I mean, it's super immature, because like I said, I was a really young kid, but that really
felt like, oh, sweet, I got, I got, I got this and it's helping me. Yeah, I think when you
I don't know, I just, I remember especially when like new atheism was a thing and a lot of people
were talking about like, how could anybody believe this? It was stupid. I always know it was stupid
or like, it's a really easy belief to, and I'm just like, or I even remember newly, like,
de-converted people like, no, it's not like, you just don't remember. It's really hard to see when
you have fake beliefs or like, crony or merit beliefs, I guess. And then like, realize that,
okay, now I have to change this belief and then realize all the mental architecture that has
to be restructured. It's like, that's so much work. Yeah, it's better to practice on small
things that aren't of like, huge actual life consequence. You know, like, I'm trying, they're
all political examples, like, it's a, it's a, it's a popular conception that like,
all right, well, let's just go ahead and get canceled. That like the, the police violence
problem is like exclusively against the black population of the United States. That is a
popular belief. And if it's not exclusive, it is overwhelmingly so, or it's like 95% or something,
right? It turns out cops are dicks to a lot of people. But acknowledging that in the circle
where it's like, no, no, we're here to protect the black population from the cops, that, that
not just loses these social standing, but like, ostracizes you, right? And so the bummer is that
like, if you're trying to actually solve the problem of like, you know, cops are out there
kind of being a lot more aggressive than they need to be in a lot of situations,
irrespective of who they're pointing the gun at. It's a, or like,
that's a really typical identity politics thing. This reminds me of when, when I was like,
super into feminism, and one of my like, evidence to the kind of like, you know,
there's like a word for this. Anyway, um, I remember a bunch of people going like, well,
oh, what about the men boohoo? What about the men? And they're always like,
there's always some guy that'll come into a conversation about like sex trafficking,
you'll be like, men are sex traffic too. And they'll be like, well, we're talking about women here.
I remember being like, yeah, wait, what? Like, you know, like men, men get raped too. Well,
like, but we're talking about women who get raped that we're trying to get resources for women,
because it's the much bigger problem. I'm like, but it's still like, men do get raped. Wait a
minute. Wait, I thought we were like on the side of good here. Yeah, I think people like,
I forget what the baseline guess was when I saw this, this number, but it was people assume that,
you know, men being raped is like under 5% when it's closer to 30%. Yeah. And so it's like, yeah,
one, if, if I told you, like, 0.5%, that's still people that were raped that need resources and
shouldn't be like dismissed because, well, you have, you know, social privilege now,
so it doesn't, it probably didn't hurt you as bad. Like, I saw people bend over backwards like that.
And that is a great symptom of a crony belief where you're, where you're bending over backwards
to defend it. And it's to be defended. We'll have to, we'll have to keep digging through this,
because I want to, a lot of this, a lot of our seeming tendons will become much clearer when
we start talking about the specifics here. So like the, the, the other contention of the
post article, whatever you want to call it as a, is that social incentives are the root of all of
our biggest thinking errors. I think that's probably true. I mean, yeah, at least when I first
heard that I was trying to think of counter examples, and actually I couldn't think of any,
like, I think that that's correct. Yeah. I mean, other than like just bad information, which it's,
it's, it's, it's not a crony belief that it's not trying to protect anything. Yeah. But like,
of, of, it is still a thinking error, you know, if you have bad data, right? Cause you're thinking
on wrong information, but you're not incentivized to defend that wrong information. So yeah, I,
I can totally buy into that if you say basically all of our biggest thinking errors are the root
of them is social incentives or specifically the having crony beliefs here. Yeah. And this is
actually another, another important point this comes up. It's important to remember that merit
beliefs aren't necessarily true, nor are crony beliefs necessarily false. What distinguishes
the two concepts is how we're rewarded for them via effective actions or via social impressions.
The best we can say is that merit beliefs are more likely to be true. Right. There's probably a
bunch of crony beliefs that are actually true. And maybe they were arrived at for good reason.
But the point of crony beliefs is that you believe them because of the social pressures,
not necessarily because they improve your life and your decisions. He gives a great example,
which I want to get to at the end, because as, as it was coming up, but like I said,
I was driving listening to this, a smile was creeping across my face. And then I was like,
but wait. And then the next thing is like, yeah, but wait, you're probably thinking this. And it's
like, oh, I fucking was thinking that. Oh my God. I nailed it. Yeah. It was awesome. So we'll get
there. That big reveal. Stay tuned. The other important subtlety is that give a given belief
can serve both pragmatic and social purposes at the same time. So like, it's just like,
you know, your crony nephew of the mayor hire can also be a good employee. You know,
and a good crony belief that you didn't hire him originally because he was a good employee,
but you're like, oh, let's keep him around. I'm trying to think of one that serves kind of both
of that, you know, what about it's not really a belief. I'm trying to pick one that isn't the one
that he gives at the end of the post. What about the belief that Trump is a terrible president?
That's a, yeah, it's probably, you know what, that's probably a really good example.
And like, because people were saying that on November 5th of, wait, when is November 8th?
They're saying that November 9th, 2019 or 2016, right? Like the day that he won, they were like,
he's a terrible president. It's like, well, we don't actually know that yet. It's a really
safe bet. I'm not going to lose money challenging. He's the whole choice of president. Yeah. And
like, you're like, yeah, like he hasn't, it might, I actually had this moment of like,
what if he does a good job? I had the same thing. That would be super weird now.
He said that he would like donate his presidential salaried charity, which
to his merit, he actually has been doing. $400,000 a year has been going to various,
I think a lot of like veteran charities and that sort of thing. That said, he's siphoning more money
out of going to his golf courses more than any other president in the history of the world.
But it's kind of like a Hitler supporting like dog. Was it like dog shelters? Sure.
And he was a strict vegetarian. Yeah. I think that might be an apocryphal
rumor about him. I don't know if he's a vegetarian thing. Yeah. We'll have to double check. But
in any case, it doesn't matter if he was a vegetarian or a vegan or not. Doesn't play on
Hitler at all. But the, like just the, anyway, whether or not Trump's a bad president in social
circles that I run in saying that he is is socially beneficial to me.
It's how you establish camaraderie. I actually started seeing a couple's therapist and
one of the things that like Phoenix and I were like, oh, and we're with transgender.
And like, and he's like, oh, no, no, like, I'm totally cool with that. You know, like,
fuck Trump, right? And we're just like, what? What does that have to do with anything?
Trump literally came out pro transgender. I mean, like, I get all the leaps of like,
yeah, like, I'm on your guy's side where I was just like, yeah, I'm an insider. And I was just
like, oh, okay. That's true. It's something he said in 2016. His actions don't reflect.
No. But I mean, like, just, I don't know, it's funny that like, it's sort of like a little catch
phrase now. It would have been really great if like, it's one of those things you could rewind
time by 10 seconds. And like, you could just make this joke where you and Phoenix look at each
other and be like, I think we're going to see another therapist just to blow their mind. Like,
wait, I pissed off two trans people by saying Trump sucked. And just to watch their mind be
