Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and I'm here today with author
of the pendulum, Julie Lindahl. Julie, welcome. Thank you. So, Julie, we're doing this in
a little bit of a different situation than I usually do. You've been staying with us
here in Los Angeles in our home for several nights, and we did not know each other beforehand,
but you are on a book tour. Is that right? That's right, and I got very lucky staying
with you. No, we've been having a blast talking to you and just really enjoying your stay.
Can you tell us a little bit about who you are and what book it is that has brought you
from Europe over to the States? Yes. Well, I am a cosmopolitan who ended up 24 years
ago settling in Sweden, had the pleasure and surprise of ending up living on a small
isolated island in Sweden for about a decade, where I had some time to start to reflect
about my family's past and also grew some roots to start to be able to become grounded
in order to be able to do the work. I didn't know I was going to do the work, but then
in April 2010 went to the Bundesarchive in Germany and asked whether they had any material
on my grandparents who were German. I was born in Brazil in 1967. My mother was born
and occupied Poland in 1941, and most people around me always laughed a bit that I hadn't
put two and two together, but I guess I had tried to look away from those facts. So the
documents I received there set me off on a very long journey. I didn't know that it
would be that long, a six-year journey through Germany, Poland, Brazil and Paraguay to learn
about the role my grandparents played in the Third Reich. Wow, that's a hell of an answer
to a question. So here you are talking about, I guess, secrets deeply hidden from you about
why a German girl would be growing up in Brazil. Can you tell us a little bit about your evolution
as to how you came to understand that there might be something fairly interesting in this
family story? Well, first of all, there's a part of me that's German, so my mother's German,
but my father was an American, which also made matters more interesting because I also had an,
I guess, an outsider's perspective as well as an insider's perspective into my German heritage.
The way it started is hard to say, but the way I usually think of it is back in a time when I was
a two-year-old and put into a German Dirndl, so a traditional German dress, whenever my German
grandparents came to visit from the interior because they were settled on an estate near the
Brazilian Paraguayan border. And I noticed from the albums that I always had one of these traditional
dresses on when they came to visit, which to me seemed very strange given that I was the daughter
of an American and a German, and I was living in Brazil. There are large German communities there,
so maybe you could argue it that way, but it was a little strange. And in that girl's eyes,
I can see, and I also remember growing up bearing very considerable shame, and the nature of shame
is different than guilt. When you feel guilty, you know what you've done. It's a reaction to
something you think you've done wrong, but shame is something else. It's a feeling of self-worthlessness,
and you don't necessarily know why it's there. So I bore this with me from a very early age,
probably because my mother was very frustrated about her past and didn't really know how to deal
with it. I think she wanted to love her parents, like all children, want to love their parents,
yet at the same time understood that they had this troublesome past that was simply not acceptable
in the new era that she was living in, and so therefore I had this with me. Then I got educated,
but I had a very close relationship with my grandmother, who's affection, I guess I saw it
because I didn't have a close relationship with my mother, and my grandmother remained a devoted
Nazi to the end of her life. I just didn't know. I hadn't realized that she was a Nazi.
Wow, so your grandma was a Nazi to the end of a fairly long life, 103 years old. So she died
in what year? She died in 2014. She was born the year the Titanic sunk. Oh, wow. So it's pretty
amazing to think about a diehard Nazi in 2014. Well, obviously she wasn't a Nazi until the
1930s. Right, no, no, no, of course. But one sense is from a little bit that you've said that the
commitment was made and there was somehow no digging out of it, and so it was just kept going
full speed ahead. No, I think you can can compare it to the commitment of some people today to
alternative facts. At some point you've just gone too far and you can't back out. But it does
leave its devastation. You know, she was not free of nightmares and depression and so forth
after the war. But anyway, she and I became quite close or so I thought she was a well read person.
She loved classical music. She loved nature. We spent lots of time together, even more time when I
got a Fulbright in Germany. Let's humanize her a little bit. What kind of classical music did she
love? Oh, well, she loved. She loved the classical German composers, particularly from from the north
of Germany. She also loved Handel. She listened to a lot piano music, German piano music. I'm trying
to think of it's not coming to me right away now, all of them that she liked. But, you know, she
listened to Beethoven and Bach and Mozart and all of those. So very clearly, culturally, high German
culture. Absolutely. And high German literature. She passed on a number of the books that were her
favorites to me. And a lot of it, you know, well known high German literature. So when she then
started tossing out shards of this old ideology during our meetings in her apartment in southern
Germany, where we were having a cup of tea or a cup of coffee and a piece of cake, I was always stunned
and shocked and didn't know what to do with it, except to get up and go do the dishes. And over
time, though, doing that gets to you because you end up in the position of the bystander. You end up
feeling rotten inside when you don't stand up and say, but that's wrong. That's not true. And this was
particularly so when she tried to convince me that the Holocaust was a plot by the international
media to keep Germans down. So after the war, and I was at that time studying international affairs.
Later on, I went on to study German Polish relations in the 20th century at Oxford University. So I
knew what she was telling me was of course completely wrong. And yet I didn't say anything to her
because I was so frightened of losing her affection. That's really an interesting conundrum that we
can all worry about. But you've really been been through this where you're you realize that your
deepest emotional and loyal, your loyalty connections are running to people who are a mixture of pure
evil and pure normal and goodness. I mean, you know, an educated family from from everything I can
discern a family where there was love and caring. And then there's just this horrible,
festering. I don't know what even to call it. I mean, it's just some stain that can't be removed.
Yeah, absolutely. And which is why when I go out to schools and talk about this, I take out an
image which is painted by an artist in Michigan called chemo. And it's a face that has many
different surfaces and dimensions. And you can't really figure out where exactly the face is at
some level. But the point is that there are many different facades. And that's what I learned speaking
with my grandmother and when I when I think about her today. But our conversations as time went by
ended up troubling me a lot. And particularly my own reactions troubled me. I was also troubled by the
fact that I was was influenced by her perspective of Jewish people. Because, you know, she kind of
imparted in various ways that Jewish people were dangerous to us, which was kind of a reaction
of her generation because they were being punished for what they did in the Holocaust. But I didn't
know that at that time, of course. And I did a number of kind of crazy things to try to counteract
that inheritance of mine to really dig deep into myself and blow the whistle and say, hey, that is
a totally insane idea. Jewish people are not dangerous to you.
Well, you have been taking your life in your own hands, staying with us night after night, Julie.
I don't feel that way at all. I feel very well taken care of.
So, do you think your mom knew a great deal of this history that you somehow were screened out of?
Or do you think she was also in the dark about it? Or is even the idea of how much we know about
our histories, is that word too sharp and that there's some need for a kind of layered concept of
knowing where you sort of know something, but maybe you don't know, you don't keep a copy of it
that's too crisp in your mind, because it's too dangerous to have it in that state? What's
the right question I should be asking here? Maybe start with facts. Do you think she had
a lot of facts that you didn't have? No, she didn't. I know that she didn't,
and neither did her siblings, and neither did their mother, because my grandfather went to war
in the autumn of 1939. And first of all, not all of that is documented, what those men did in Poland.
Secondly, a lot of the documents were destroyed. Thirdly, they haven't seen any documents. I'm
the one who has bothered to go and find the documents and read them, and there were a lot of them.
And so I probably know more than any family member, because I've read primary documents
specifically about what my grandfather was doing, and also just what people around him were doing
in the areas where he was. Can you name your grandfather so that we have an individual? I
just call him Opa. I don't name his name because the people are, there are people who are alive
who bear his last name, and I don't want to make their lives difficult. So Opa for the purposes
of this podcast. Yes, and as to these layers, I think you're very right there. In my experience,
for the sake of the family unit, you look away from certain very glaring facts. I did that.
I think my mother and her siblings did that. The family has been our most important unit of
survival since forever. And so that's probably a natural knee jerk type of thing to do.
I think my, or I know that my family knew that my grandfather was in the SS,
because later on I met an uncle. So he was the oldest of the siblings. I met him in Paraguay.
So Opa not only volunteered in 1939, but went straight for the SS.
He was, he joined the SS back in 1934 already. Oh, wow. So he joined the Mounted SS. I think
what you should remember is that the SS in 34 was a political, primarily political organization,
and the Waffen SS, so the military wing of the SS, emerged out of this as the 30s went on.
But he joined as one of Hitler's political soldiers, and specifically the Mounted SS
in 1934, mainly because, well, the Mounted SS was very prestigious. The organization was also,
the Mounted SS was created out of writing associations that were drafted into the organization. So
some people argue that they didn't have a choice, but it's more complicated than that.
But so he was pumped full of propaganda throughout the 1930s, because he was a member of the SS
throughout, so that by the time he got into Poland, he was really quite full of it. And,
you know, Hitler and Himmler and the other Nazi leaders didn't really give very precise
instructions to the SS when they went into Poland, because they trusted that they'd pump these
people so full of propaganda that if they just unleashed them, they would fight a very brutal
racial war, which is exactly what they did. And with no documents indicating that they had been
instructed to do so. So that in part, and I think this has a lot of relevance for today, so let's
go there. One way of making sure that your fingerprints aren't on something is to pump
people full of ideology. And then we know enough about how ideology sits in the human mind
to know what's likely to happen next. I mean, there's this famous example from history
of the king saying, well, no one rid me of this troublesome priest and he doesn't have to give an
order to execute. He just has to say this idly to himself and then he knows what happens.
And then there is no record. So in effect, there is no trigger pulling finger from the central
command. No. And this is also reflected in the way my grandfather and others who had a similar
role as he had as the war went on in occupied Poland is reflected in the way they behaved.
Because he became engaged in a mission set by the Ministry of Agriculture, so the
under the Third Reich to transform West Central Poland to the bread basket of the Third Reich,
because he was a trained estate manager. He knew something about agriculture.
And that can sound benign. What it in fact means is deporting or murdering the existing landowners,
enslaving the local laborers and murdering anyone who's slightly troublesome and torturing people
on a more or less daily basis. Early on in the war, Himmler passed a law which
established that these estate managers were the law in their estates. There was no higher
law over them. And it's exactly what you're saying. It's a law that says, I don't need to know.
Do do what you have to do. That's terrifying. Yes.
Okay, so here you are, a young woman who has grown up in this unusual developmental environment.
You went to college with my wife. You guys knew each other perhaps vaguely. And you're living this
very modern American existence at that time. How is this playing out? I mean, American father,
you're in an American college. You're somehow also the granddaughter of an SS member who has,
you have an inkling at this point that your grandfather has done unspeakable things in
Poland or not? Not so much at Wellesley. I didn't think about it so much, although I was very
affected by it. Because these types of secrets, when they're this heavy, kind of inhabit a family
at a cellular level. I mean, it is physiological. Yeah, absolutely. Okay. And spiritual. Yeah.
I mean, I was very sick when I was at Wellesley. I didn't eat most of the time.
And so that was the way it expressed itself there. In fact, Pia and I worked out that we didn't see
each other that much probably because I was hiding out a lot from people because I had
pretty serious eating disorders. But these were all connected to a feeling of low self-worth that
were connected to the shame that I went around with. So I knew that there was something wrong.
My relationship with my mother was extremely troubled. And as the years went by,
our family relationships, in fact, all of them became quite troubled. Because when you have
something like this in the family that the adults knew something about, they didn't know the whole
story, but they knew enough. And that they try to keep from themselves. It's not so much they're
keeping it from the next generation. They're trying to keep it away from themselves because
they don't want to think about it. Then it starts to strangle the relationships. And that was already
going on at that time. And that affected me at a cellular level. And so when I returned to Europe,
I only spent three years going to college in the US. That was my American experience. Then I returned
to Europe to do a full bride and then went to Oxford. And of course, then I went back into the
European realm and of course got closer and closer and closer to this. And I wasn't that surprised,
or today I'm not surprised in retrospect that my mother was a bit so-so about my learning German
because learning the German language was a path into this history. Without it, I would not have
been able to do this work. You couldn't have gone through the archives. No. So I kept getting closer
and closer and closer to this history all the time without really knowing that I was doing it.
But I think there was something in me that was so desperate about what was happening in my family
because I love my family. It's not because I don't love my family that I've done this work,
which is what some family members may think. It's because I do love my family. And I realized that
there needs to be a little bit of pain in order to try to allow some sort of healing to occur.
Well, Julie, you were at Oxford after college in the States. And I think you've picked up some
British understatement when you say that there needed to be a little bit of pain.
It sounds like a heck of a lot more than that.
Well, I mean, I'm happy to sort of glance at it using our peripheral vision,
but we're talking about an unbelievable burden.
Yes, it's an unbelievable burden.
But, you know, let's put it this way. It was interesting to me that when I decided to actively
start to pursue this work in April 2010, as I was moving towards a decision to go towards the
archives and really exercise my academic training, there were quite a number of people around me who
knew what I was about to do who said to me, that's not necessary. Why do you have to do that?
That's past. Let it be past. It's over. You know, they were frightened. And some of them really were
extremely animated when they tried to convince me not to do this. These are well-meaning people
who want the best for me. But what I knew all the time was that, no, that is just going to prolong
the suffering, not only for me, but for other people, for my children. My children were a very
big motivator. So do you think that the people who were trying to dissuade you were dissuading you
because they knew what you were going to find or was it because they didn't know what you were going
to find? Some people, I think most people thought I would find something because they knew me too well.
They knew how troubled I had been. They knew these different pieces of my background. It was as though
they already knew and just wanted to put on the brakes because they didn't want me to go into that
pain that you name, which is a caring response. At the same time, I also think that there is a selfish
dimension to it because there is this idea in our society that looking back and particularly looking
back at what our ancestors did and those before us did is a dangerous thing. It's in the myths and
legends of Western culture. So I think there was a little element in that of trying to spare
themselves as well, which I sensed and it annoyed me greatly. At the same time, I tried to keep in
my mind that these are people who care about me. There was one person in particular who was an
elderly professor of German literature, a scholar of Moses Mendelssohn, a very great Jewish scholar,
