who I knew from Wellesley. I went to see her just before I went to the archive. She lived in a
Wulfenbeutel, a town not too far from Berlin. She was 92 at the time and could barely walk, yet
she came with me to the train station and stood there and stared at me. She had survived the
Holocaust because her father had sent her away to Britain in the late 30s. She stood there and
looked at me and said, please don't do this because she knew my family very well and realized
that I would find something. All right. I got to ask, what did you find? When did you start
finding specifics that really caused the story to advance and caused you to change?
Well, the first find was at the German Federal Archives. It was about 100 pages, which
included mostly information about my grandparents. It was my grandparents'
application to marry as an SS couple, which required them to demonstrate their racial
suitability. They went through medical examinations and there were photographs of them from all
angles and their life accounts written by themselves. There was also information about
all the places where my grandfather had been stationed and occupied Poland. From there,
I went to a number of archives, found his denazification papers, which denazification was
a process that all people who joined the party had to go through after the war
and declare what they had been up to. Of course, most of them regarded it as a joke.
Eventually, I ended up in Poland at the Institute of National Remembrance in Poznan,
where they handed me a wad of documents that were eyewitness accounts of people who had
experienced what my grandfather and his comrades had done in local areas. These were
eyewitness accounts recorded in 1946. They were fairly fresh accounts, fresh in people's minds.
There, I saw the accounts of the brutality and of the beatings and the way that he behaved.
How bad? I mean, I should say, just so you know something about how I react,
I can't in general go to Holocaust films. It's not a topic that I can even almost talk about.
It's too hard, but I'm asking you because this is a journey that you've been on where I think that
the level of pain and the level of bravery and the uncertainty and the complexity is what animates
the story. And so I'm willing to risk it. What did you find? Well, probably what
made me just sit there and stop and look completely paralyzed when I sat in the Institute of
National Remembrance was the information about beating of labors to
now I'm thinking of a Swedish word, to unconsciousness on a regular basis.
Then in those documents, I did not find evidence of murder, but there were other documents I found
later on that pointed to that because he would not have tried to leave for Brazil later on
had he not murdered anyone because in order to be put on trial, you had to have murdered somebody.
And these would have been the local landowners. So I did find some evidence of that.
But still indirect? You spared any kind of direct account of it?
Oh, no, I would wasn't spared it. It spared a direct account. There were direct accounts of
beating people to total unconsciousness. But not to death? No. But I did find evidence later on of
engagement in a really awful episode where a small number of these estate owners would drive
the existing landowners to a nearby forest, tell them to run towards a trench that they dug
themselves and shoot them. Wow. So that's what I learned about later on as well. So there was
evidence of that which wasn't confirmed, but it was there on paper. And really that's what would
have got him to leave so quickly. So to me, it would seem very unlikely that he that wasn't true
at all. So anyway, there were some names of people in those documents so that the people who had
given testimony were named in those documents from the Polish National Archives. So I set out
to try to find, see if I could find some of those families, not expecting to find anyone,
because we all know that after that, the Soviet Union came in and redistributed everybody.
And so I really didn't expect to find any of these families in these places. But to my great
surprise, with the help of a wonderful young Polish archivist and historian who could see how
distraught I was and just simply decided to join me, found five families over different visits to
Poland. And those meetings were very important. They were very important to me. I don't know how
important they were to those people. But to me, they were important. And my friend who drove with
me, who's a young Pole, whose family had also suffered in the Second World War, said, trust me,
this is important to them. So I would say that for me, those meetings
showed me why I was doing this work. Because what I realized in retrospect I was doing
was looking for a transformational dynamic, which is the portal, which is how do we
take everything that we know about the horrible things human beings have done to one another,
and our own experiences of that, perhaps, and transform it into a force that's powerful enough
for us to take another path. And those meetings provided one answer. There's lots of answers.
Do you think it gave any relief to those people that you were meeting with? Do you think there was
a double portal just to riff off you riffing? And I can't answer the question. All I can explain to
you is a few of the reactions, and then you can decide yourself. So the first meeting
was with a person who didn't want to shake my hand, because his memories of what my my grandfather
was name was recognized instantly by all these people. By the way, no one had to remind them
of who he was, which is probably a chilling phrase. Yeah, which is incredible, whatever it is over
seven decades later. Right. So so he didn't want to shake my hand. And he was very sick.
He was dying, this man. And but he was conscious and able to register who I was. And my friend,
the archivist said, I don't think there's much point in carrying on with this conversation,
because he doesn't want to know he experienced too much. But what was in my mind was I must
shake this man's hand. I need to show some form of compassion. I can't ask for forgiveness,
because I didn't commit the crime. But I want to show humanity and compassion. And I did eventually
take his hand and shake it. And he looked completely bewildered. He didn't think that someone like me
was capable, I think of shaking his hand and showing compassion. The next person I went to see
was a person who had dementia and was in his 90s. So he couldn't remember what happened yesterday,
but he remembered things that happened over 70 years ago. And his great granddaughter was there
and started shouting my grandfather's name into his ear, which his reaction was to go back to an
episode in time in which he was hiding in a barn because some people were being shot and there
was violence going on outside. I don't know exactly what the details of it were, but you could see
he was recognizing a moment in time. And so I begged everyone present to switch this off. I
didn't want this to go on. And I decided that my journey was just a selfish journey. It was just
for me to somehow take care of my shame and all that. And so I said to my friend, the archivist,
we must stop now. This is enough because this is just bringing back bad memories for people.
And he said, no, believe me, we have to go on. So there was a third guy we met who was
healthy, a healthy 85 year old who had a very nice garden. As it happened, his
father was most likely my grandfather's gardener on this estate where his parents had worked.
And he'd been beaten over the head when he was a 10 year old. And my grandfather had
passed him and he'd forgotten to doff his hat. So he had a scar over his right eye.
Well, wait a second. He was beaten directly by your grandfather. So your grandfather's mark
was still visible on his on his head at 85. And when I when I realized this, I sat there and
I listened to him for several hours. And I felt awful. And but I didn't really have very much to
say. Of course, what should I say? I was there to listen. And there was a feeling welling up in me
of wanting to beg for forgiveness, because that was really all I felt I could offer. But he realized
that without my saying very much, he was a smart, very intelligent person, emotionally intelligent
person. And he stood up and took my lower arms and shook me up and said,
this wasn't your fault. You didn't do anything. So I want you to go out into my garden.
And I want you to enjoy my garden. And furthermore, I want you to enjoy your life.
And then I went out there and stood there and he and his wife and his daughter was also around
his grown daughter. And they have been very kind to me, serve me cherries picked from their cherry
trees in his garden. And anyway, I went outside and stood there and did exactly as he told me to do.
And he and his wife came and stood next to me. And it was almost like we were holding hands,
we were touching our hands together, and they were we were just silent together. And later on,
I thought, well, of course, it happened right there. This transformational dynamic happened
right there. It transformed everything that he knew, and that I knew about our violent past and
what we had experienced into something else. And what it what it was for me was that shame became
energy, it became responsibility. It became a feeling that you need and have to do something
with this get moving. And without him and without that,
I wouldn't have been able to carry on. Really? No, I would have given up. Because it would just
have been miserable and horrible and terrible. Well, the thing is, it's so disruptive, because
I think there's so many different layers going on in the in a story like this, that
most people have never been called upon to have to pull to pull apart so many different layers of
meaning, importance, guilt, responsibility, shame, the subtle shadings that make make us need so many
different words, we probably don't even have all the words that we need. And the idea that, for
example, two people could have been harmed, let's say, by the same person. And the person who was
harmed more might be much more capable of showing compassion, empathy, mercy to a descendant of the
person who would harm them than the person who had been harmed less might have been less capable.
So that it really isn't just about what happened, but it's also about how strong people
have become, how they're weak, how things played with their psychology. And the sadness that I
have in listening to this is I don't know how many people in our modern consumer day and age
have been pushed through this many layers of metacognition and self introspection that I
don't know when you give a book reading. How much variation do you think is in the audience in terms
of people who sort of can deeply relate to stories like these and people from the sounds almost like
too fantastical to be true? Do you find that these stories consistently find
enough depth in those who read and hear them to fully appreciate them? Or do you think that in part
you need to be close to a story this profound to have to be forced into this level of self-understand?
That's a very, very good question. On one hand, I think that
people who come to events to listen to me by their own free choice, there are events where
at schools and things where they have to attend, so they don't have a choice,
but the ones where they have a choice and they register to attend. Most people have, of course,
there's something in them that attracts them to this and that there's some level of reflection
that has taken place that is bringing them there, something in their personal histories usually.
At the same time, I'm always surprised that after I give these talks,
often people come up to me to express their thanks for the work that I've done,
but then they'll add something to that that demonstrates to me that there's no way they
could really understand the very complex dynamics of what I have encountered because
people then fall back on terms like forgiveness and guilt and things like that, which to me are
there's a whole vocabulary that's been developed around this history and the descendants of this
history, whether they're the descendants of the victims or the descendants of the perpetrators
or the descendants of the bystanders, there's a whole vocabulary. And to me, it's just old
stuff that we fall back on because we're not prepared to go deeper. We're not prepared to
let ourselves in to other levels, other experiences. And so when people start to talk to me about
forgiveness, I try to say to them, yes, well, I've already explained to you that I was seeking
forgiveness, but it was a rat wheel. It didn't lead anywhere. It didn't lead forward. And it
didn't lead forward because for me to ask my grandparents, victims for forgiveness is
not, doesn't lead us anywhere, doesn't lead me anywhere, which is what I had to learn
from one of his victims. And so but people fall back on this and other aspects of vocabulary
that are that we formed around this, the legacy of this history to kind of protect ourselves from
the pain of it somehow, I think that's my read on it. Because when you get into the
into the into the pain of it and really get your hands dirty, you start to come up with other things.
Well, you know, I have to tell you that one of the things that's been very weird about this
is I've used the opportunity of your visit with us to explore how many different dimensions of
reaction I myself am having. And you know, you and I have been talking about this a little bit. So
I don't mind trying to talk about it, but just it's fascinating to become metacognitive and look
at your own kind of automated reactions to a story like this. On the one hand,
I'm just really impressed by the work that you're doing with this book and telling this tale. And I
think it's really important. And we'll come back to this, to tell these stories right at the end of
living memory of the actual Holocaust. So it's hugely impressed. Second of all, just two modern
people hanging out having great conversations, been great talking to you. Third, maybe I have this
third, maybe I have this attitude of, I can't believe I'm stuck with the granddaughter of
an SS member in my house. Do you understand that? Which is like this lineage to lineage level,
which is that, you know, it's not just me and you, it's like the Jewish people and their murderers,
you know, are under the same roof. And then, you know, there's like this selfish thing,
which is this is really important for, I think for us Jews to do some hard work, which is
Germany was one of the most impressive cultures anywhere in terms of its intellectual artistic
contributions. And I am all wrapped up in the incredible contribution to world history that
is German. And my belief is that it is not safe to have a very guilty Germany. Perhaps as we saw
with the refugee crisis, where you're making sort of almost performative decisions to assuage guilt,
that it's the wrong tool to attack the problem. On the other hand, you don't want a super triumphalist
Germany to emerge and say, none of this was real and the Germans have been kicked to the curb.
So you're trying to figure out, in my opinion, should the Jewish people use the end of living
memory of the Holocaust to finally extend a warmer hand up to Germany, not that Germany is
suffering economically. I mean, but Germany was also just the seat of unbelievable genius
at a level that we've scarcely seen in the world. I mean, you have the Italian Renaissance, but
there was a period of German contribution, which was unparalleled. And I think that we have to do
this really hard work that I'm sort of not prepared to do. And we talked about a very weird metaphor.
Now, I wonder if we can draw you in. We were talking about how people get angry,
that the untrue story gets disturbed when you do this kind of research. And I went into one of our
smartphones and I found this triptych of three images, originally of something, I think it was a
fresco or a painting that had been beautiful, that in the second panel it had gotten damaged.
But in the third panel, there was a terrible restoration of the damaged painting. And it was
almost cartoon-like. And I worry that what we're left with right at the moment is a bit of a cartoon.
And what you're really trying to say is, I want to go back before this bad restoration,
in the case of your family's history, let's say, and look at both the beauty and the damage
that was your family more honestly in the hopes of maybe a better restoration.
Can you talk about sort of, I know that you're in a strange place with your mom. Can you talk about
kind of the love that you feel for your family and your mom having done this work and having
me tell you that I'm just being open, that I'm struggling with the fact that you're in my home.
And I think that this is just really courageous work to be doing. Can you talk about what you're
trying to do for your family? First of all, I wanted to say that you're having me in my home
and having this conversation is the work. So you are doing the work. So you don't have to say that
you are not doing the work. You are doing the work right now. And as far as my,
as that image goes that you shared with me of this poor restoration, I reacted to that immediately
as the best representation of what has happened in my family that I have seen so far really,
visually. You grasped it so fast and
which means that we're getting somewhere with our conversation. But if I think of,
you asked me about the love of my family and
if I had not done this work, I can safely say that I would have hated several members of my family.
I don't want to say which ones. You don't have to. No. I really would have hated them,
not just the generation that committed the crimes, but the generation afterwards too.
I would have hated them for lying to me about very serious things
and leaving me with a shame that I felt at a cellular level. Not only me, but my sister too,
and she's younger than I am, so my job was to protect her and I couldn't.
I couldn't protect her from this. It messed up her life for a long time.
