But going back and, for example, getting in a jeep with a Brazilian genealogist in Brazil
and driving out into the interior of Brazil where my mother and her, some of her siblings,
ended up because my grandparents went there because of what they'd done in Europe.
And seeing what a young teenager faced, a life in a wilderness, a dangerous wilderness,
a place dominated by the drug trade, having your youth taken away from you,
not being able to grow up in Germany, which, after all, as you said, had a very rich and old culture,
having your, just having your opportunities taken
in, like that. And as I stood, actually, on this estate was the, this place where they
had established themselves and the interior of Brazil looked at the structures that were still
standing there. The man who was with me said, so I take a picture of you in front of this,
and I said, I never want to have a picture of me in front of this ever. This is the source
of our suffering. This is the source of my mother's suffering. And I realized then
how much sympathy I had for her situation and for her siblings as well. I don't think they
really realized that, that that's part of the consequence of this work. Today I have a sympathy
for them. And it's not like feeling sorry for just a hurt person. It's a deep love of them.
As you would love a person who you can see is enduring the unbearable.
We all have children. You have children who are teenagers. I have children who are just over
the teenage years. And if you just think of them in that situation, their future just taken from
them pulled out from under their feet by parents who had committed crimes. It's a terrible thing.
And so for me, I, there is a healing in that awful moment because otherwise I would have
remained in a space of hatred, which is exactly where we need to not be, which is exactly
that what everyone needs to get out of wherever they can.
Yeah. I mean, I'm finding our current vogue for talking about oppression very bizarre,
because to me, much of it lacks the, I don't know what to call it, the texture of
really deep discussions about how do these crimes perpetuate themselves and propagate
really as a wave in the, in the medium of our generational structure inside of our families,
that you see something that goes wrong and then it cascades generation after generation.
You know, in my own case, one of the things I wrestle with is that my family,
I think for the best of reasons, became interested in far left politics and that blinded them to
the horrors of communism and Stalinism for a period of time when the US was, you know,
not fully aware of what exactly had been going on in the Soviet Union. It was possible to think that
maybe the Soviet Union was trying to build a better world. They were more open to, you know,
blacks migrating to, to Moscow or, you know, interracial marriages or whatever that,
that were less comfortable in the US, who knows. And from that, you know, a blind eye is turned
because we don't know how to die in a la carte politically. It's very hard to say, well, these
aspects were positive, these aspects were negative. And we keep finding very simplistic
solutions that work their way through the, you know, the world historical spirit. But, you know,
tens of millions of people can die at a time as dumb ideas are explored. What work do you think
we should be doing now? Like, what do you think the most important thing is for people who can
make the leap to metacognition and kind of look in on themselves and say, isn't it interesting
that I'm simultaneously feeling, you know, like the both the blessings of multiculturalism and
the need to have cultures that are exclusive in order that there are cultures that can be made
into multicultural. So, you know, that that's a great contradiction right there that culturalism
is based on exclusion multiculturalism is based on inclusion, we can't resolve it.
What is our work right now? Do you think
for 2019 this time? Yeah. Well,
I don't want to go into this typical diatribe about we have to reduce polarization and all that.
You know, no simple answer. Yeah, because in some ways the polarization induces a lot of
thinking and reactions and forces new things to emerge and forces people to look for a new way,
new ways and a new way out of this situation.
Well, I can only refer to what I've been doing. I can't tell other people what they should be
doing. And so what is a person who has been done this kind of work? Do you live in Sweden?
Yes. So that's your base of operation. Yeah, yeah, I live in Sweden. And
although I come to the United States and I write in English, so therefore I speak here really,
I've been involved in doing the work in Sweden. And the direction that's taken me is that
I have become engaged in different circles of individuals who
have very different areas of expertise, but are working at a very high level of their field,
but have decided that it is insufficient that they remain in their fields.
We will not find a way forward that way. We have to come together in different networks with our
different areas of expertise and address problems that come up. So when I was pulled in by a bunch
of IT experts who are fighting white supremacy on the internet, I don't like to use the word
fighting, let's say counteracting white supremacism on the internet, and asked to
participate in some of their projects, I was wondered what it was I could do,
because I don't know anything about what they do. But as it happened, they saw that there were
things I was doing they couldn't do. And so one of the manifestations of this collaboration is that
we were called upon to
help an area of Sweden that was being blamed by white supremacy. So there was a neo-nazi party
that had brought a town to a halt. And as it turned out, the solution was not to try to get at the
neo-nazis, the solution was to move into that society and to inspire it to mobilize itself,
so to bring in all the major stakeholders, business, the church, local government, whatever,
everyone who played a role there, and to get them to decide that their community was too important
to allow the things that bound them together originally, which had weakened, to just fall
apart. And I think this is a story that is happening in many parts of the western world,
it's why we see this situation that we're in, that at a community level,
there isn't the things that bind us together, I don't know what we're going to call them,
the bonds have weakened, they have weakened in quality, in fact they're becoming so weak
that groups like the neo-nazis and in other places other groups can just move in
and finish them off, so basically finish off these bonds between us and just slice right through
them. And so by going into this community and saying come on everyone, let's all sit down
in this church, which was usually the largest gathering place in a Swedish town, not because
people are particularly religious, but because that's where people gather, and talk about how we can
strengthen the bonds between us, within one year people stopped moving out of that town,
and business had doubled down on its investment in that town. And to me, I guess what I should
extract from that as a sort of general thought about what we should be doing, it's seeking to
strengthen the bonds between us in whatever way we can, which is in my view, what you and I are
doing, despite the fact that we have to get over a number of emotional hurdles to do that.
But we're doing it, and this is what needs to happen everywhere where it can, especially
among individuals who have quite a lot of hurdles to jump in order to, you know,
where there are a lot of emotional, difficult emotional feelings that you need to overcome
in order to strengthen that bond. This has also been true for me in my interactions with the
Islamic community. I've been approached by people from the Islamic community who know that there
has to be Holocaust education in their communities, but who also know that their communities will not
welcome hearing it from a Jewish person or, you know, a descendant of a Holocaust survivor,
which is terrible. It's not always the case, but it is the case sometimes, because there are lots
of descendants of Holocaust survivors who generously give their time to go around speaking about what
happened to their parents and grandparents in the Holocaust. But often, at least what I have
encountered in Sweden is that in a number of Islamic communities, they just can't emotionally
break through. They can't get over the hurdles. They can't sit down and listen.
You know, even in the U.S., there's this very bizarre thing that we're going through where
suddenly slavery, which was one kind of a disaster that obviously was bound up in the
founding of the United States, has a tremendous salience inside of the media commentary. You have
a more recent situation like the Holocaust, which was not a North American phenomenon,
it was a European one, but it's much more recent. And the, you know, the body count is
spectacular, and the mechanized horror and deliberate nature of the whole thing, etc., etc.,
is fairly unparalleled. And it doesn't have the same kind of salience, because it's somehow
bound up in this question of, are we really talking about oppression, or are we really talking about
financial distribution and redistribution? Because the Jewish community is always vulnerable
in a violent way, but it's often very successful in a financial way. And so I've had this theory
that you can tell who's really focused on envy and who's really focused on oppression
by how do they treat whatever the minority communities are that are very financially
successful in some spheres. So like overseas Chinese, or you have Indian communities in East
Africa that are vulnerable, but often doing well in the Jewish communities, often, you know,
if you're measuring oppression financially, but you're talking about it as if what you're really
upset about is, you know, murder or one human owning another human, these things get pulled
apart based on the, on which community you're discussing. So for whatever reason, slavery
is very central to the current American discussion. And the vulnerability of Jews is
increasingly invisible to the far left and the far right. And I don't know what to do about that.
It's too weird because this, I mean, in human terms, this is super recent.
You know, there isn't anyone who can remember slavery. And thank God it's
moving into the past. So we have to, you know, rely on records, but we still have people walking
around who are quite old now, who were, you know, in the camps or exposed to what was going on.
And, you know, most of those people were children now, if they have any contact with that at all.
But it feels to me like we're, we're unable to remember the horror and the vulnerability
because somehow we just feel like it doesn't matter anymore. I don't, I don't know if you
have this feeling. Well, the thing is that you and I can't remember the Holocaust because we
didn't live through it. No, we're both in our sort of early mid fifties. Yeah.
So, so that's gone. But what we remember, and I think we remember it intellectually,
some, I don't know if you want to call it emotionally or spiritually,
and we recall it in ourselves. What we recall is the legacy and the reactions of our families
to the Holocaust. That's what we remember. And in some of us, it's more acute than in other people.
And in those of us where the memory of the legacy is more acute, as in my case, for example.
I think those people have a very strong responsibility to
support remembering the legacy of that time.
Remembering is gone, or will be gone soon. Will be gone soon. It's not entirely gone.
I shouldn't say that because there are Holocaust survivors out there doing the work
and continuing to do it. But I also know I Holocaust survivors have been and their descendants
have been my the greatest supporters of my work. They're the ones who have stood up and said carry
on when I just didn't feel like, you know, I could do well, there's a selfish aspect of
but you know, there's also this very weird, I don't swear that much on these programs,
but I will swear a little bit for emphasis. There is just this incredibly beautiful fuck you to
Nazism, when you invite somebody from that lineage as a Jew into your home, and you say,
boy, did you guys get us wrong. You guys were just such dicks, you know, it doesn't,
it's meant not to do it justice because there's nothing you can say to the Holocaust. But like,
all of these things that I'm reading on the internet about how Jews control everything and the narrative
and you know, spend time with Jews. I don't know anybody who's being invited as elders of Zion to
examine its protocols. It's just, it's a very bizarre thing that when people become divorced from
Jews and Judaism, they start telling incredible stories inside of their mind as to what it must
be and what it represents. So, I mean, I think that there's a way in which we need you to tell
the story. I think that there's a way in which we test our own strength and do what, you know,
because this is a struggle for me, Julie, a little bit. It's not the easiest thing in the world
because there's a lineage to lineage thing just as there's a human to human to human thing.
I couldn't be more admiring in the lineage to lineage thing. I'm thinking like, what am I doing?
And so, you know, the ability to sort of share, to be able to share that with you at a metacognitive
level and to also just like laugh at the whole thing, you know, that two modern human beings
are talking about something that we can't even imagine going through ourselves.
But can I say something? The what am I doing question is what we, where we need to get to
to open up this new space that is the purpose of your podcast?
Well, that's the thing is that we've got to break out of these things. I'm very concerned for them
at the moment in our country in the US that the Democratic Party has gone into this kind of
emotional feeling. We can't say no to anybody and
diversity is strength and we should sort of, there are no people who are illegal and why should
somebody born outside the US be any less fortunate than some. So this sort of Christ-like stance
on all things, which I think is incredibly irresponsible and very, very dangerous because
it's not sustainable and only Christ was Christ if anybody at all was Christ. On the other hand,
you see this troglodytic perspective, which is just like, you know, I'm tired of feeling guilty and
this is our country and very close to ethno-nationalism, even if it isn't as the media portrays it,
it's certainly inching in directions that I find terrifying. I don't know what to do about it because
I just want both of these parties to go away for very different reasons and I think that they're
feeding off of each other and our worst instincts and I feel like the hard work is done when people
sit down with people who are very different than them and find out that the conversations they end
up having don't don't sound anything like the conversations we might have imagined.
Yes, and who are
prepared to be open to an evolution because humans, humans like everything, like all other living
beings on this planet, develop, move forward in an evolutionary way and so when you have these
parties screaming out, visions to me are very dangerous, visions of things, of how things are
going to be unbelievably dangerous and, you know, all of the most destructive leaders have had them
and but people who are inching their way forward in this evolution
and having, doing the slow work of repairing the bonds between us is what is needed
and the other stuff to me is, it's always going to lead to a repeat, you know, just a rerun of the past.
You know, I've mentioned this before, I was going to start the podcast with this cousin
who I'd never met but I've been talking to a little bit on and off over the years
who lived in Indiana and she was a Mengele twin who had an incredible story in the camps and I
spoke to her just before the podcast started and before she left on her annual pilgrimage to Auschwitz
and she was really excited about about it. She had freed herself by having to go to the
extraordinary length of forgiving Dr. Mengele and the first time I heard that I had a cousin
who had forgiven Dr. Mengele, I was so pissed. It's like, how can you do that? You cannot let
this person off the hook, you know, there is responsibility. When I talked to her, I realized
I hadn't understood what a genius move this was so I was like, I had to take this anger that I felt
and realize that first of all, she had been through this episode and me getting angry on
behalf of her was a little rich when she wasn't angry herself. It was one thing if she was going
to carry that. Her perspective was I and her name was Eva. I, Eva needed to free myself from victimhood
by doing what he couldn't, what Dr. Mengele couldn't stop me from doing. He couldn't stop me from the
grave from forgiving him when I had every reason not to and she had no desire to forget or to let
him off the hook but simply to use her power not to be his victim and this woman was at incredible
powerhouse and she was a next level thinker and I'm sorry that I only got a chance to really even
connect with her at the very, very end. She dies on this trip to Auschwitz so she can't make it
onto the portal as my first episode. I learned a ton from talking to her about that which is
that we do have bizarre powers to write off things that still might have some value
to let people go or to find arrangements in which we can pass power back and forth and I'm talking
more about this on the podcast. The way I see it is that we Jews have the power to celebrate German
