Welcome to The Basin Conspiracy, I'm Yannesh Brotsky. I'm Stephen Zeeber. I'm Jessica Dickey.
And today Stephen's jumping us right into the rat chat.
Yeah, I was talking about it before we actually started, so I insisted that we just start the episode so I can plug these things.
Excellent. Plug the things.
Plug the things. They're actually both podcast episodes.
So I was just talking about episode 150 of Very Bad Wizards, Paul Bloom insisted that we talk about sex robots, is the title.
And the main thing that was really funny about it was they go through, I don't know, half a dozen of famous thought experiments,
but they substitute everything out with porn, or porn related things.
Wait, is there like a porn trolley problem? Please tell me there is one.
There must have been. I can't remember which one that was.
Okay, I'm going to listen to it.
We were joking about, because we had some pre-conversation, or pre-episode conversation for the Patreon subscribers.
If you guys listened to Ward, this one was all about the most recent episode of We've Got Ward's Discussion question about Kenzie's surveillance.
If you don't listen to Ward, you have no idea what that means.
So we were talking about that, and then that was sort of like our fluffer topic to get our brains engaged for the podcast.
And then I said, yeah, but then who fluffs the fluffer?
And that reminded me of the Very Bad Wizards thing.
Oh, okay.
And they have one about, like, and it was like their last one.
It was more of just kind of like a logic puzzle.
Oh, yeah, it was the all sets that contain themselves, right?
Yeah, and the fluffer fluffs all those that, it was some twisting on that, but it was funny.
But the one that I remember was like, that epistemological puzzle of knowledge is a true justified belief, unless you find the weird education where it's not.
So like, the standard one would be your neighbor pulls into the driveway in a Ferrari, and you're like, oh, my neighbor owns a Ferrari.
And it turns out that that's their, like, brother's Ferrari, but they have one in the garage that you didn't know about.
So like, is your belief that they have a Ferrari true?
Like, kind of maybe, but like the thing that gave you your belief isn't the thing that you have a belief about.
So that's kind of the way to get back to that.
But they twist it in that like, all right, so Enya, you're really into like incest porn.
Oh, right.
And so you're watching, oh, you said you heard the episode.
I did.
Oh, yeah.
They're like putting words each other's mouths and putting porn taste in each other's browser histories.
It's kind of funny.
But they're like, all right, so say you're really into incest porn.
And, you know, these two girls are pretending to be sisters and you're really into that.
But they're not.
They just met that day on set.
But then it turns out that they actually are sisters.
They just didn't know about it.
They're separated at birth.
Did you get off to incest porn or not?
So they all come back to some twists like that.
It was pretty funny.
I'm plugging that.
And then it was the, I think most recent or second most recent of Sam Harris's podcast
with Rebecca Tracer on the Me Too movement.
And I thought it was really well done.
She was awesome.
And it was probably the, I haven't done a lot of digging into like the history and impact
and motivations and all that of it, but I found it very informative and fun.
So I thought it was a great kind of dive into everything that's going on there.
And I'm sure there's good, good conversation the other way, but probably not in a podcast.
No, I mean, Harris pushed back because I mean, he's, he's one of the intellectual dark
web self masturbating people.
So his whole thing is like, yeah, but you know, what if it goes too far?
Like when Matt Damon was like, let's, let's all kind of be reasonable here.
And he just got castigated over it and dragged through the mud.
And she was like, all right.
So what actually happened to Matt Damon?
As we just talked about, he was on SNL last weekend.
He's fine.
You know, what happened to him?
People were mean to him on the internet, Sam.
That's what happened.
Like, oh no.
And so it was a really, you know, yes, there are cases where, you know, someone's injured
or something.
Well, maybe, but the point is that like she was really level headed and responding to
him, trying to entertain some of the not so reasonable concerns.
Yeah.
I mean, yes.
I mean, it's weird because there's different levels of power in society.
I heard someone say once, I think it might have been from the last psychiatrist that
you can tell who actually has the power by who is scared.
And in that interaction, it was Matt Damon that was scared and he shut right the fuck
up and apologized and then dropped off Twitter.
So, I mean, saying that he's fine.
Yeah, okay.
He is fine, obviously, and he has power in certain aspects, but in that particular interaction,
he was the one who was scared for his career and his reputation.
And so in that case, he was not the powerful one.
That's a really good point.
So, Matt Damon's specific example aside, I had fun with it, but I actually still had
fun with it, even hearing like I like what you just said.
And actually, again, I do this a lot.
I'm now moved back to your position.
I think maybe someone disagreed that definition of power.
I hate the idea of like taking statistical averages of power and saying, therefore, you
have power.
All right.
People have different power in different contexts.
But some people will do that.
So, I'm shutting that down right away because I think it's pointless to go up to some homeless
white guy on the street and saying, you have more privilege than Barack Obama.
Right.
So, Jennifer, like in a in a back alley shank fight, that guy's got some power that I probably
don't got.
Yeah.
Unless you're the one shanking.
I've never shanked anyone.
He'd probably have an advantage on me.
He probably also gives less fucks.
That's probably true.
He's shanking people.
Anyway, so those are my two, my two ratchets.
As long as we're plugging podcasts, I had a really good time with the Planet Money Halloween
episode where they told a spooky tale of haunting economics and it was, it was kind of fun.
I like that.
I have no recommendations.
So, but thank you for the ones that you guys gave because I just ran out of podcasts to
listen to.
So, I'm definitely going to check those out.
I tend to just jump on whatever Steven's doing.
Like when he was recommending a video game, I was like, oh, I don't want to recommend.
And now he's recommending podcasts.
I'm like, oh, I had a fun one.
So.
Well, I need more podcasts too.
So, Planet Money sounds like a lot of fun.
I love Planet Money.
They do such a good job with everything.
And last psychiatrist is a blog, right?
Yeah.
But hasn't been updated in years.
Yeah.
You've plugged this before.
I think I have this bookmarked somewhere, but I'm going to actually read stuff on here
because it sounds interesting.
What was the one that you mentioned?
The, that was the with the power thing, right?
I have no idea.
Like I said, it's been years since he's updated and I don't know what post it was, when it
was.
I'm going to just put power and balance and Google and leave it there.
All right, cool.
It's always worth doing the five minute Google.
Yes.
Well, especially it's worth it to me to do it now because I'm definitely going to forget
in five minutes.
So.
Did you find that a death note fan fanfic thing?
I forgot to keep looking.
No.
I have a tab open in on my phone to keep looking.
So fuck it.
I'll put that in here as long as I'm distracted.
For people who are listening, there's a really cool, like, I don't know what the term is
for a fanfic.
That's actually manga, like fan manga.
Oh, um, don't Jinchi possibly.
Is that the term?
That's usually like an amateur.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Okay.
It is usually like a fan comic of something, but you just say that it's a fan comic.
Yeah.
That takes, takes, continues the story after, um, after light has died and he wakes up in
the afterlife and immediately starts munching his way into taking over the afterlife.
Sounds dope.
Yeah.
Kind of like a shishio in Kenjin.
Is that what he did?
Yeah.
There was there was a brief thing at the end of the Kyo-ri arc where what's that his devoted
guy who threw the gun away during the fight because he trusted shishio to win and his girlfriend
that he stabbed as a whatever visual obstruction to stab through her to hit Kenjin.
They meet, they all meet up at the gates of hell and shishio is like, yeah, no, we're
going to take over this place.
Shit.
What happened in the, in the anime?
I apparently didn't get that far.
Yeah.
I might have seen it half a dozen, 10 times as a kid.
So.
Okay.
Cool.
I got to go back and watch that.
There's actually pretty decent jobs in my, uh, in my Kenjin watching.
There's just a number of episodes I missed.
Oh yeah.
That's cool then.
Then that's going to be a lot of fun to go back through.
I should probably just read the manga.
I've tried to rewatch the show and it's there's so much filler and it like every episode drags
on for so long.
It's almost unwatchable.
It's really weird how my attention has changed as I've grown because I've gone back and
rewatched anime that I loved and it's just unwatchable now.
Yeah.
They, they really drag things out way more than they need to.
That's fair.
Definitely a background show maybe.
And then tuning in for the good episodes.
Or just read the manga.
I tend to like the manga a lot better because you can read at your own pace.
Yeah.
And there's, there's, I like the artistic style in a lot too.
