like buy a computer instead of a typewriter.
Yeah.
I feel like I shouldn't mention things like that that are obvious though.
Like that most people tend to struggle with the Crescia and there's things
that you can do to fix, you know, uh, or, or not.
Like if you don't have money, then you can't buy a computer and that sucks.
But we don't really like understand how a Crescia works or how to fix it yet.
Uh, see far and, you know, psychologists, people are working on it, but it's
really complicated and it's really difficult.
I think we should quickly define that as I can say, as far as our vocab game,
the Crescia is basically knowing what you should do and not doing it.
Cause of basically lack of willpower.
The old, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak kind of thing.
Yeah.
It's, it's, or it can also mean like working against your own interests.
Right.
That too.
Yeah.
I mean, failing to keep to a diet or something, right?
Or playing video games instead of doing your homework.
I can relate to that.
It's whenever there is a slight immediate reward, it's somehow managed to
overpower the really awesome future reward that is further away in time.
Yeah.
Hey, if I look back at like, I mentioned, I probably saw a Kenchen.
I probably saw every episode at least six times as, you know, as a teenager.
And, uh, I probably saw the Kyoto arc probably 10 times.
And so yeah, wow, it was right.
So imagine like if I'd spent the time reading fucking books or something,
right?
So, um,
or even if you had like been fingering a guitar as you were watching, you know,
right now you'd have some muscle memory down.
Yeah.
That'd be pretty cool.
Instead, I just watched it and hung out.
But did you hang out with other people?
No.
Oh, okay.
You think people are going to watch reruns of Kenchen with me?
You did learn, you learned fantasy, Japanese history.
That's right.
I sure did.
Which was based on real history.
Somewhat.
Yeah.
They got the names of some of the people, right?
Some inspiration from real historical figures, but they changed a lot of details.
Historically inspired is probably a good way to do it.
Although I would say as far as like, you know, I just question of like, are these
like mental hacks or like physical hacks?
So like, yeah, get a computer instead of writing everything out with a pencil is
probably too obvious, but like maybe getting under the, under the desk, um,
electric bike or something is not obvious, but it is a thing you could buy.
Are these like tools to have, like that cost money or things that, you know what
I mean, like stuff you can carry around and have to drag to work or the things
that you can use, uh, as like mental tricks.
I think it was kind of what you're getting at.
I was mainly just asking to differentiate this from things like, you know,
increasing industrial productivity, the, the reason that our standard living
keeps increasing being things like inventing tractors and the steam engine
and computers productivity on a, on a wide scale, as opposed to personal
productivity talking about on an individual scale.
Okay, cool.
Yeah.
Last time I actually made three bullshit categories just to try to kind of think
more efficiently about what I was talking about.
So I had a brain hacks, which was, uh, for example, like the illusion of
accountability when you're in a public workspace, if you're working at a
Starbucks or in the less strong study hall, um, there were actual tools, which
were apps, things like rescue time that blocks websites, uh, Habitica, which
gamifies productivity.
And then there was, uh, methods or philosophy of productivity, which were
things like getting things done, uh, promoter rows or the procrastination
equation.
You said you just read another book recently, right?
Better, faster, stronger.
Yeah, smarter, faster, better.
It's something like that.
Did, did you talk about that in the last podcast?
No, I just read it.
Um, you told me about that.
Someone was talking to me about this book and now I can't remember who it was.
Oh my God.
It was Drake.
We listened to it on the, we listened to the audio book of it on the way to
burning Jesus Christ.
So you have actually read this book, uh, about half of it.
Okay.
We didn't have time to get through the whole thing.
But yeah, disappointing.
Cause the end of it, they talk about, um, using like Bayesian updating.
Oh, like that's like the last chapter, I think the last segment.
Cool.
But, um, no, that was a really, that was a really interesting book.
Yeah.
That's a good one.
And they did actually talk about kind of more of the industrial productivity too.
They had the, uh, I don't even know if you got to that part.
I thought it was really interesting where they were talking about, um,
the Japanese plant.
Uh, yeah, I forget what it was called to, um, the on, on something cord.
Yeah.
The biggest, um, the biggest productivity hack they had for the entire creating
cars in a huge factory, their big productivity hack was making people feel valued.
And so they cared about the product and that, I mean, that's all they did.
And it, it seems like it would be something that would slow down production
because this guy can stop the entire factory, which apparently cost them
like $1,500 per second that the.
Yeah.
Stopping the assembly line.
Yeah.
They're not cranking out cars at the same rate.
Yeah.
But if the guy's like, no, I see a problem.
I want that fixed cause I don't want that car to go out into the world being a.
Product of my labor, you know, I have some pride in my work.
And sure, you lose some time when you're fixing these little things, but the
fact that everyone now had pride in their work meant that they put out better
products faster overall, uh, than as opposed to before, when people were
literally getting high and drunk on the job and throwing things into like this
parts of the car that you can't see to rattle around when people bought them
because they're like, fuck it.
I don't care.
You never, what are you going to do?
Fire me.
Brrr.
And because they just did not give a shit, simply making people give a shit
at a huge impact and they did it just by listening to them.
It's and making them feel valuable.
Not speaking for personal experience, cause my employer is amazing.
When we, um, yeah, it's amazing how hard it is to keep staff motivated and
wanting to do quality work when you don't recognize them at all and seem to
completely not give a shit about them.
Right.
But if your input is valued, all of a sudden you care.
Yeah.
And it, yeah, exactly.
And it's, it's amazing.
It's, it's a big turnaround cause then suddenly you feel like you're proud to
have your name to stuff rather than like, I'm just getting a paycheck.
So Steven, does your workplace use agile development?
Uh, yes.
And quotes.
Yeah.
And the same chapter in a smarter, faster, better, which I hope I'm getting the
name right.
They actually talked about how agile uses a similar system where of giving
people ownership of, or making them the expert to whatever's closest to them.
Yeah.
And they're, to their, to their credit, they do everything kind of by the book.
They kind of do like the improper use of humility style thing where they're,
they, they're doing agile, but in their defense, everything's all fucked up and
confusing and you know, whatever for them.
But yeah.
So like at the end of everything, at every two weeks, at the end of every, uh,
12 weeks, every big increment, um, there's big chances to get feedback to your
managers, to your team, to your, uh, managers, managers.
If you want, I mean, the VP of development is there on the, you know,
every 12 weeks and we're doing these big planning things and she'll, she's happy
to hear whatever you've got.
In fact, a confidence vote from everybody involved is, is required.
So they try.
And I think it's not really any one's fault.
It's just like everybody there feels like we're just going through the motions
of doing agile, but you're right.
In real life or in real places, it's definitely an awesome tool.
It's like, as long as I'm pitching about work, which I'll be, I'll be brief.
When I was hired on a year and a half ago, they were, we were told, all right guys,
we're building out this cool new floor at this building and it's going to be great.
It's going to be, you know, this is a very developer centered company.
And I've been there a year and a half and maybe in six months will we have that
floor that they were talking about?
So two years later, my, there's fruit flies in the office for like the
last three weeks that no one's taken care of.
Like it's hate fruit flies.
Yeah.
No, they're super annoying.
The, the fly is like the only thing that's actually annoying.
I, I'm not, it's bizarre.
The amount of entitlement that I see in this industry from the people who work
there, like for a while we had free cereal and like now it's gone and
everyone's bitching about it and they haven't stopped bitching for like three months.
We tried to get like cereal dispensers at our office because two guys were
bitching about like, oh man, it would be so nice if we had cereal.
You know, this other, this other company has a cereal bar.
Oh boy.
You know, it would really hit the spot right now.
A cereal bar.
They've kind of like got one and I feel like we used it like a few times and
then like the cereal went stale in it and nobody wanted to replace the
stale cereal and so it just went away after all.
I think ours was that it was too expensive.
Like we were, we were tearing through that stuff.
Oh, okay.
I was going to say because you were, yeah, like.
Oh yeah, people, people were just eating it for two meals a day and whatever.
Right.
So, it seems pretty gotten healthy too.
Definitely.
