And don't get me wrong.
I admire aspects of the project, like that motivation.
Um, I'm not convinced that every player in this game is, is doing it for those
ambitions, um, but it's, it's a compelling argument.
Yeah.
No, well, it's a valuable one too.
You're right.
I, I think about this, um, I had this, I don't think I could dig it up.
In fact, they were taken down because they were copyright infringement.
I may, maybe I can find them.
They were these 10 minutes cuts from Carl Sagan's audio books, usually put to
music or something with, you know, cool strategic breaks in the conversation and
stuff.
And one of them was talking about dragging the elderly Galileo through the
torture chamber underneath the church, showing them all the cool things we can
do to you if you don't shut the fuck up.
He just, he paints this picture of walking this elderly man through the
torture chamber and he's saying, why would the church do this?
If they're right, they don't need to.
Can truth not defend itself from truth in that line?
If I were to ever get something, you know, tattooed on me, you might be
something like, if I had to get a quote tattooed on me, it might be that that
if you're hiding facts or you're lying, you're, you're on the wrong side.
If you're right, the truth is on your side.
And some truths can be pretty ugly.
That, and that, and that sucks.
So it's worth being like handling them with care, but I don't agree that you
should cover it up either.
Yeah.
Handle with care is different.
You cause more harm that way.
The, the example of like the nuclear bomb might be a strategically released truth.
The, the prospects of good from that are too good to not, you know, to try and kill
everyone who might independently discover nuclear, nuclear energy, but yeah,
certainly you don't just publish it on Wikipedia or something, right?
So relating back to like why that perspective doesn't exist in this is
because it was chosen to be a, a physical fact of nature that was super
easy to observe.
And there was like no discussion once people saw it, right?
And it was one that, um, it's slipping away.
What was your, your discontent that there wasn't a position that
well, it was because that it's not an ugly truth, knowing whether the sky is
green or blue.
Oh, right.
Well, except for it is for some of them, but it's not for us.
Yeah.
Right.
But the actual fact of the sky being blue or green, isn't going to hurt anyone.
Except like only to the extent that other people's, you know, other beliefs
are tied to it.
Yeah.
And I think it was a carefully distant example for that reason.
You know, if, if he had used the example of racial intelligence or something,
people would have branded him a, you know, a eugenicist or supremacist or
something, right?
So, um, yeah.
Anyway, these ones are fun.
They're parable ones.
Man, we got heavy.
Well, yeah.
No, I actually like my response to these was that these were pretty depressing.
I think they're cool and important, but like when I say the stories are delightful,
I don't mean that they're all like really positive and happy.
Yeah.
And these are depressed, depressing specifically because what they point out
in a bad human society.
Yeah.
And not even just society, but our, our minds.
Yeah.
And it sucks that we're built this way.
And yeah, it is, it's not a happy note.
And, you know, Ferris's thing is more of like a relief and you're, you're more
just glad that you read that one last, not, not because this is the way it turned
out, you know, it could have gone any other ways.
But because this is the most joyous.
Yeah.
Kind of a historical rationalist point.
Uh, I think when these sequences were written, they tried to make a norm that
people use the words blue and green to talk about politics as opposed to bringing
up real world examples.
Eliezer would say politics is the mind killer.
I think he was the one that, um, kind of popularized that.
Yes.
That is the name of one of his posts that's coming up pretty soon.
Yeah.
And then after kind of, there was the rationalist by Asper away from less
strong people stopped using that norm and the world didn't explode.
But there, uh, there's probably more political conflict than there was.
There's less, yeah.
There's slightly less joy and slightly more acrimony.
I find it to be pretty good though.
For example, in Slate Stark, I think it's so much nicer reading the
comment section than anywhere else on the internet.
The weakness of trying to use blues and greens to discuss like today's politics
is that the second you name a political belief, you know, again, why is your
position on global warming, a political belief?
And yet it is, right?
So if, if you told me, oh, yes, even I accept the science ban global warming,
I can pretty much guess who you voted for.
And now I think the strength of using blue and green instead of anything
that's done in the real world is because these sequences aren't about trying
to do any sort of actual debugging of the world.
It's about just looking into the mechanisms of the brain and how to correct
for those and fix those without getting wrapped up in all the other crap.
It's like before you worry about who to punch, first figure out how to
form a fist and swing it correctly afterwards, you can decide whether you
want to punch Nazis or SJWs or whatever.
This course is just about how to train your body.
And for that, you have to distance yourself from those things that will
hijack the conversation.
So I think it was a very good idea for less wrong.
I, yeah, I like it there.
I guess I meant as far as discussing, um, real world stuff.
But as you, as you correctly pointed out, that's not the point.
The point is, is get your mind in shape so that you're prepared to actually
tackle problems and you're not going to do that by breaking your hands against
the test bin as I butcher this analogy by carrying it too far by, but by breaking
your hand against a test dummy when you weren't ready.
So don't try and attack politics.
First, if you have to talk about politics, use a vague, use a different thing.
Right.
So, yeah, even just don't derail your discussion.
That's not about, uh, the libertarian party.
Do you think we derailed the thing by going into actual real world stuff?
Should I edit it out?
Oh, you mean did we do that?
Yeah, just now, should I edit it out?
No, I thought that was valuable.
It was only for a minute.
Like we talked about how police are, that relates to, yeah, I just, I, now I feel
like I tainted the post by letting real world stuff get into it.
Real world's happening.
Well, it also brought up the norm.
So, yeah, yeah, I brought up, you know, what are we going to, as far as I don't
know, what are we going to do with Mueller gets fired tomorrow.
Today's Wednesday, the seventh, this is the day that sessions was fired and, uh,
replaced with a crony as opposed to the, the standing, uh, deputy attorney general,
which is what usually happens, but when it's usual, ever the case here.
So there's a good chance that things will be really weird when this
comes out in two weeks.
Anyway, so the real world's already here, guys.
Let's go, let's go be bummed.
Nope.
Fuck that.
I don't know.
I am all done talking about this post, but, uh, guys probably have something else.
No, that was it for me.
Do you want to plug your book release again?
Just so nobody misses it?
Yeah.
This comes out in two weeks.
So at this point, when this comes out, the first two chapters should already be
up online at whatliesdreaming.com of my novel that I have written and that I'm
publishing every week on Sunday.
One more chapter for our next episode, we are going to be reading the less
wrong sequence posts.
Some claims are just too extraordinary and outside the laboratory and there
will be links to both of those.
And once again, we didn't get around to listening to feedback, but we enjoy it.
So please don't hesitate to write us at the basin conspiracy.com on any of the
comments section.
So you can write us that Bayesian conspiracy podcast at gmail.com r slash
the basin conspiracy on Reddit or leave us a review on iTunes.
And, uh, that's what we got.
All those things help.
Uh, would you like to thank the patron this week?
Yeah, sure.
Our patron this week is Sebastian Moore.
Thank you very much for, uh, everything.
It means a lot.
Thanks, Sebastian.
You make this thing feel more warm and cozy when we do it.
Everyone here is, I think, how I flounder every time that this part is right.
It's, yeah, same sentiments all the time.
It's great.
Thank you so much.
Thanks, man.
Thanks, Sebastian.
And with that, we'll be back in a couple of weeks.
All right.
Peace out everyone.
Bye bye later.
