Yeah.
Art tends to be better in manga too.
And I really care about art.
Um, what was I going to say about Kenjin?
Oh, skip the third arc, uh, after the Kyoto arc.
I mean, if you're going to budget your time.
I'm not snuck in.
I'm like the Kyoto arc is the only really good arc, right?
That's true.
Yeah.
I would just stop the Kyoto arc.
Yeah.
But I need someone to, cause there's a number of enemies out there that just have, you
can skip all these episodes and I need to find that list for Kenjin.
Cause I remember like there was some episode about a sumo wrestler or something when I
was done watching and I was like, why did they make this episode?
Yeah.
There's a handful.
I could probably skim through the episode list and tell you which ones to skip.
I should probably find a list online.
Like I'm, I'm sure that there's websites that do that for you.
Right.
It would just be fun for me if I could remember.
I enjoyed seeing the one for Dragon Ball Z with their like, and then you can skip these
next hundred episodes.
I want so badly to write a rationalist DBZ fanfic, but I can't be arsed.
There's probably someone trying it.
Someone mentioned it one time on Reddit, but I don't think anyone's actually written
one yet unless, uh, unless I haven't seen it yet.
Okay.
You should write it.
All right.
Didn't we have a topic or something?
We did.
Sorry.
I didn't mean to.
Yeah.
We did have a lot of episodes.
The sequences first.
But we're all over.
No, no, no.
Let's do the productivity thing, and then we can do the sequences after that.
That sounds good to me.
So Jess, what are we talking about today?
Well, we're going to do the second half of the productivity tools.
I actually don't remember where we left off the last time.
Oh, I wasn't going to pick off where I left off.
I'm just going to talk about other stuff.
Cool.
All right.
Although no, I did have, um, there was feedback that I missed on the productivity tools one.
It was, uh, Will Lando on the subreddit who commented, uh, first of all, he recommended
Cal Newport's deep work.
Uh, I haven't read that one yet.
So thanks, Will, for that recommendation.
And I will check that one out.
I've heard that recommended by a few people and I just, uh, was reminded of it again.
Um, Will said, long and uninterrupted periods of isolation and concentration are incredibly
important.
This was in response to promoteros, uh, the longer we've been continuously thinking about
a task, the better we perform, as long as we still make an effort to recover from strenuous
mental activity, the contemporary workplace with too many emails, too many meetings, instant
messaging, open office environments, random interruptions from colleagues, and the sensation
of being watched all the time obstructs productivity.
So he strongly agrees with any Ash and Steven that it takes too much time to recover from
interruptions.
Will says he'd advise against tools like timers that pull you out of your work every 20 minutes.
I think we read this on the, uh, the follow up episode.
I think you might be right.
Yeah, I think so.
I didn't have an answer for it, but, um, I think if I had to repeat what I'm guessing
I said last time, which is like, probably whatever works best for you, especially if
you're stuck on something and you spend 20 minutes poking at it and nothing happens,
then you get up, grab a cup of water and come back because you've changed, you know,
your environment enough to trigger a new thought.
I'm assuming there's different strokes or different folks here, right?
Different things work for different people under different circumstances.
So I'd be, I'd be against a blanket recommendation pro or against something on any of this stuff.
Probably.
Yeah.
It kind of, uh, depends on the task too.
Like I have my anecdotes as far as interruptions, uh, which was that I partially agree with
what Will said, and I don't really use the Pomodoro method that often.
I mentioned it because it's one of the most well known and a lot of people, uh, find
that it really works wonders for them.
I sometimes use Pomodoro as like a mind hack to just get started.
Uh, sometimes getting started is a really difficult, um, hurdle that you have to
overcome.
So just setting the timer gives the illusion that I'm on the clock and it makes me
feel like, okay, now I've got a 20 minute deadline to get started on this work.
If I'm working on something that I like, uh, like I'm doing my own art or my own
writing, I actually prefer not to take breaks if I'm in the flow.
But if I'm doing something that's like boring and wrote, uh, Pomodoro's help,
I've used Pomodoro most successfully when I did work in an office and I was doing,
for example, uh, like managing social media.
And I really like, it wasn't my favorite thing.
So it's like, all right, I got to post all these, uh, you know, stupid things with
hashtags and then hashtag Motivation Monday, uh, you know, set the
tomato timer and try to just kind of space out while I do it.
It's like, all right, just get it over with.
I certainly see the, yeah, like we talked about if you're in the zone, you
don't want to be out of the zone, but, um, breaking up like undesirable work.
If you know you're only going to be doing it, you know, for 20 minutes, it
makes it easier to dedicate like, all right, cool.
I get a break in 20 minutes, not like when I'm done or when I get too
tired to go on, maybe that's motivating to keep you going for the
you know, small increments.
I find it good to just get you started because you're like, okay, I'm
going to do this for 20 minutes.
And that makes it a little bit more approachable.
Yeah.
Rather than saying I'm going to do this all morning or until I finish this
big stack of crap, right?
I like that there was even, uh, they have studied promoter rows and
show that even, uh, you know, the five minute interruptions did actually
help people to maintain their focus and they did better work over time.
And it was in like a test taking or a school setting.
So again, it probably like makes a difference, which tasks are using it for,
but it's might be that thing like where, you know, sleep-deprived people tend
to like self-report as being at 100% capacity when they're not.
So it might be a good idea to try to, you know, take breaks anyway, just for that
reason.
That's interesting.
I like that.
Well, thank you all for that feedback.
We're all sharing the same notes because we're bad asses now.
This is amazing technology.
We all started this when you did your productivity.
Oh, really?
So it actually, yeah, we've never had outlines before.
Nope.
And Steven jumped on that grenade.
I was like, outline document sharing with people.
And I was like, holy shit, now we got something to work with.
Well, to be fair, it was like the productivity thing kind of encouraged me to
get off my ass and start doing a couple of things.
I was like, all right, I'm going to like start looking for things that I can do
to whatever make things better.
And I got this idea from, uh, we've got Ward because they share several pages
of notes for all the episodes.
And that's how they talk for two hours without dead air or whatever, because
they do it live too.
So like, they're not, you know, hanging out and doing all the crap that we do
where we cut all the shit out.
So, um,
That's really impressive.
I didn't know that actually.
Yeah.
I thought that they had a prerecorded it.
No, it's, they, they do a live one or rather they do it live.
And then I mean, they put out the episode like the next morning.
So there's minimal editing involved.
Anyway, so they do that's, I stole the notes from them, but I stole the, the
motivations, they still the notes from them from you.
Yeah.
Whereas we have to go through and, you know, take out all the parts where we
get sidetracked talking about fluffers, fluffing the fluffer.
Oh, that's, that's staying in there.
That's about a premium content.
Yeah.
That's right.
People got to pay for that one.
Oh, can I throw this in there before I forget?
Yeah.
Um, if you guys are Patreon subscribers, you'll notice that, uh, you probably
got two emails within the course of 12 hours, um, Sunday night.
You know, shouldn't I take turns editing?
And when he posts to Patreon, he checks the boxes that has charged patrons for
this thing and I don't, cause I'm an idiot.
I don't know what I was thinking.
I guess I was thinking that they got charged anyway.
And this was like an extra thing.
I, I looked at it and I've ignored it every time.
So we've, if you guys have noticed, you haven't been charged for roughly
half of episodes for the last.
What's, yeah, five, four months, four, five months.
Yeah.
So, um, I wouldn't have to reposted that one and charged it.
And so I'm going to be doing that from now on.
Okay.
Um, anyway, you notice that.
And if you, I don't know, keep track of the, the, your Patreon numbers,
you might see them return to what you thought you were paying going forward.
Cause I will now check the box.
All right.
Back to your regularly scheduled podcast.
Yes.
We were talking about how to be productive.
Okay.
Is this productivity like in our personal lives or our office lives?
I guess they're both, yeah.
Yeah.
It tends to be like the same tools that you're going to use either way.
And when we're talking about productivity tools, it seems mostly these are things
like to fight a crazy or crazy, I'm not sure how to pronounce it.
About when you want to get things done, but you're having a hard time actually
doing them.
Yeah.
Okay.
Just one, cause you know, there's a lot of productivity upgrades that are things
