you've written it.
Um,
back to, you know, so the task list, um, I talked about to do this before
briefly, I'll just plug that one again.
That's a task list app for people that love apps that have lots of features.
That is one where you can actually assign a different icon to each of
your tasks and color code it.
And, uh, it's neat.
You can sync your tasks with your Google calendar.
Uh, you can assign tasks to yourself on different days, which is kind of cool.
And what's really cool is they have an AI task scheduler that, um, works.
All right.
It kind of, uh, is it supposed to watch when you do tasks and then
kind of start to estimate after a while?
Well, you seem to do more tasks on Mondays.
So I'll assign you, uh, you dump your task list into it.
And it's like, well, I'll assign five of these tasks for Monday and then
three for Tuesday and then you never get things done on Wednesday.
So I'm just going to leave that day blank.
Um, it's all right.
How does it know you never, oh, cause you never check your task is done on
Wednesdays.
Okay.
Wednesday's my masturbation day.
I never got tested on a Wednesday.
I don't know why Wednesday is not a good day for me.
Oh, so you were speaking from experience.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I also got most tasks done on Monday, which kind of, I guess that kind of
makes sense because that's like the middle of the week.
You got all your, you know, momentum on Monday and then you start to lose it.
And then you realize you're losing it and you go, oh, shit.
And then you get a lot done on Thursday.
Or maybe that's just me.
Or you're putting off work on Monday morning and you're doing all your tasks.
Yeah, maybe.
So there's task lists with built in accountability, like be minder and stick.
Those are ones where it'll, um, charge you money, which you consent to.
If you don't get your tasks done on time.
So then you, you know, if, if sticks work for you better than carrots,
there's no task list with built in a reward systems that might be neat.
And at least not that I know of.
You know, it'd be cool if like be minder or stick evolved to, they use some of
the money that you give them instead of giving it.
So stick, I've mentioned before, that's where you say, Hey, I'm going to quit
smoking and you're going to be my judge.
And if I don't quit smoking in three months, the 50 blocks that I gave to
stick, they're going to give the KKK.
So you get to pick where it goes as like your carrot or as your, as your stick.
And so we want to really push stick among people with the opposite
ideology from us.
Right.
Well, what would be fun is instead of giving it to like whatever bad charity
that you used to incentivize yourself, they keep some of it, and then they
can use that to pay people who actually keep to their stuff.
That would be neat.
But then the thing is like, you're my independent judge, but we each stand
to make, you know, 40 bucks if I quit smoking and quotes.
So that sounds easily gameable.
What's really, because if you guys talk that out ahead of time, you also could
have just, I mean, you're just taking each other's money.
No, no, we're taking sticks money from other people in the, in the
shitty business model I'd split together and then shot down.
I was saying that say if I gave 50 bucks, um, stick would give 40 of it to
the charity, the anti-charity of my choice and keep 10 for themselves.
They'd put that 10 in a pool that they give to people who actually
commit to actually do their things.
So they would get their 50 back plus 10 or something.
Right.
So yeah, then, then the idea would be like, you know, now it's split the
difference.
So that, that, that way of doing it sucks.
Why would, what, what do you mean we would split the difference?
If you were my account, if you were my accountability person,
Oh, so I would lie and say that exactly.
Yeah.
If you cared more about the money than, or I would invent a third person who was
going to be my independent entrepreneur or something, right?
That said, there seems like a meat space option here where like,
you know, I'm going to quit smoking or in three months to slap me across
the face as hard as you can.
I, but say wouldn't slap you.
That is how I'm the person who invented Pavlock.
That was like the wristband that shocks you.
Apparently he got the idea because he hired someone to slap him.
If they saw him go on Facebook.
And this seemed a lot cheaper to just like, you know what, you're not, you're not,
you're not going to follow me into the bathroom when I'm Facebooking on my
phone. So I'm going to have my wrist shock me instead.
I think that's hilarious.
I like that.
I don't know if I'd learn from that, but it would be funny.
Yeah.
Why not?
The humor aspect is a big important thing for me.
So yeah, I mean, so, um, last thing I'm going to say about task list is it's
helpful if you can memorize your task list.
I like to do this, but I also like to keep my task lists, like 10 items are under.
So, uh, you can use a mnemonic device, like the one bun method or the memory
palace.
I know what a memory palace is.
What's a one bun?
Yeah, I could define quick of them.
It's, it's, there's a list where you say one is a bun, two is a shoe, three is a
tree, and then you take each of your tasks or whatever you're trying to remember
your grocery items that associate it with that.
So, uh, one is a bun.
You imagine, you know, something that has to do with a hamburger.
I was thinking of a bunny, but either way.
No, I mean, you just come up with some of, like, you know, the more ridiculous,
the better image in your mind.
Okay, cool.
So that's a good mnemonic for memorizing lists.
With memory palace, you can memorize more items for people that don't know.
That's where you use a place that you go frequently.
You use your house, um, your grandmother's house, school, and you kind of
associate each item that you're trying to remember with a physical, uh,
location, for example, like, okay, this thing is hanging on the door handle
that I need to remember.
This other thing is on the doormat when I walk through the door.
I read a book when as a teenager, and that was based on like the method of
loci or loci, loci, it was that Greek.
I don't know how to pronounce it either.
Yeah.
It was that story about that person who has had some fancy dinner and paraphrasing
and the roof collapsed and killed everybody but him.
And he remembered all 20 guests by picturing where they sat.
And I'm, I'm good at that.
And I liked that kind of special visualization.
And so when I was reading this book, it gave the example of go through your
house and put stuff around.
I remember half the shit from that list.
And this was 15 years ago.
I guess I don't remember how long the list was.
I remember a handful of things from the parents living room where I put a deck
cards and like a big diamond and other things around the room.
So, um,
so that's like a way to enhance your memory palace, make it more memory.
Yeah.
Cool.
So, um, yeah, I like to memorize my task list, uh, so I can kind of
just recite my task list throughout the day, which helps keep me more focused.
And, uh, if you're a scatterbrained like me, it'll help you remember the
things you said you're going to do.
So you're not constantly running back to your task list and checking it.
So the last one was task capture systems.
Yes.
And so you had basically what you have to do, list making tools, brainstorming,
a project or list, bullet journaling, tack list, task list, apps, um, task
list with built into accountability and task list memorization.
Yes.
All right.
I think, yeah, we might spend less time in the next couple.
I will try to speed through them.
No, I don't want to rush, but, uh, we were in out of time.
We are.
All right.
Prioritization.
You want to figure out if your task list items are, is this something that
should be one item of my task list?
Like obviously, uh, walk the dog, check the mail, call your mom.
You can just use a task list for a more complicated project.
Like sell your house, uh, you need to split the tasks into lots of sub tasks.
You can use, uh, the getting things done.
The GTD system has something called the project planning guide that they use
for multi-step tasks and they use a philosophy called natural planning,
which I like because it's easy.
You make a project planning guide for every major task and then the project
planning guide or the PPG structure is you start by first defining what,
why, and how, why is connect the task to your values, what is to find your
ideal vision, how is brainstorming?
So you could do your mind map and then you would do your next actions.
So you do that with the entire task list or like with one task at a time?
No, from one project.
Okay.
That's how you create a project list.
Um, and you kind of prioritize the tasks by first of all connecting it to your
values that you do some free form brainstorming and then you just decide
what is the next action?
Like, what's the first step that I need to get this project started?
Or if it's already underway, okay, what's the next step I need?
I really like the whole connecting it to your values thing,
giving you motivation to do it.
Yeah.
This sounds a lot like how you break down, like customer asks to your software
company into, if you're doing agile methodology into like user stories, like
as a user, I want a submit payment button so I can make payments.
You break down, if it's a big feature, you know, like I want to be able to pay my
bill online or something, then you break it out into small little things, break
it out into small things, like the why it connects to your values.
It's more connects.
That's why it's like a user story.
Like as a person who's using this on to be able to do this thing.
And, uh, man, if it wasn't so boring and academic, the history of agile and lean
is actually really cool.
Um, I was actually thinking, it's like, oh, we should do an episode.
But it ties into this a lot expert.
Well, yeah, it would be nice to have an expert too.
I know an expert, but I don't know if he would want to go on the podcast.
