I did all the tricks for that one.
Cause it was just a bunch of bullshit.
Like which enzyme is involved with, you know, uh, leg muscles, but
not pulmonary muscles.
And I'm like, come on, man.
Like, first of all, even if I was going to be a doctor, knowing that off the
top of my head doesn't help me be a better doctor.
So it was, it was just a trivia class.
Um, that said, I did speaking.
All right.
I'm distracted again, but, um, he, he would do the lectures in person, but
he also recorded them and put them online for the class.
And so I wouldn't go to class.
I would watch them on my computer, which probably was veteran to my learning,
but those, these were the kind of, he was such a great lecturer.
They were the kind of lectures that I would watch for fun on other subjects.
Like he was, he was passionate.
He'd move around the board.
He was really good at illustrating on the white board with black sharpies.
And, um, yeah, it was, that was outstanding.
So he was a great lecturer.
And what he said was really engaging.
And that's why I think I had them saved for a while.
I hope I still have them somewhere.
Cause it'd be fun to go back.
They'd be fun to watch and get the content of again, without having to sit
there and like try and hear out like key phrases that like, is this
going to be on the test?
Does my life depend on knowing, you know, the name of this bullshit?
Um, cause that takes a lot of the fun out of it, but if you're just there to
enjoy it, then I found that to be a fun way to take that in.
So I got a soft topic success.
I'll just shut up for a minute.
You're good.
You're good.
I hear you.
I know it's more fun to like keep talking about things.
We'll power on.
It's important to, to stay entertained.
Cause if we're just here to get facts, then we get bored.
And it turns into school, right?
Just like biomedical science 300.
Exactly.
Yeah.
We're here to bullshit and have fun too.
The entertainment value is very important.
Fair.
That's, that's totally true.
All right.
Okay.
Uh, the other task list apps we'll go through quickly.
Um, bullet journaling is something I just started doing recently.
So look that up.
It's pretty cool.
Um, it's a task list system where you just keep a free form notebook, kind of
like, you know, just doing the free form journaling.
With whatever pens and markers you want.
And you see lots of people using pretty highlighters and whatnot.
Uh, the only things that you do are you add page numbers in an index and maybe
also look at calendar and a planner.
So you make an index so you can just find all your notes all the time.
Um, I like this cause task lists tend to evolve over time and starting from scratch.
I find to be mentally refreshing when I'm stuck on tasks.
I like that again, it's, it uses actual writing by hand.
Uh, you can have your notebook with you whenever and you can write anywhere on
the page and doodle and draw mind maps and scratch things out, which, uh,
I find really useful.
Speaking of which, I bought that, uh, little metal bound notebook that you can
take everywhere with you that has the pen to keep it.
Yeah.
That you recommended last episode.
It's very handy.
Thank you.
I'm a hipster and I make my own notebooks.
Okay.
It's, I'd recently, well, I guess it was months ago at this point, but I took a
book binding class.
There's something really cool about making your own notebooks.
And I find that it also makes me more likely to write in them.
Cause I've always like, as an artist too, I
have this weird thing about, well, I can't draw on my good sketchbook.
Cause what if it's a bad sketch?
So I got a lot of my art done on like shitty sketchbooks or the back of
printer paper because I always had a much easier time starting if it was like,
well, I'm not going to waste this paper.
So I feel the same.
Oh, I made this notebook.
So it's not like I'm ruining a good notebook that I bought from a store.
It's a weird, stupid, like brand thing.
Yeah.
You could think cause like the store one would have no logical sense.
Yeah.
But I poured time into this one.
That's what I was going to think too.
But yeah, you know, that's, depends on how much you value
your own products or it's like, I made this, I can do whatever
what I want with it, but if you go out and buy it, then it's like, no,
I feel like I need you to just use this for its intended purpose.
Whatever your, your algorithm is there.
It's one of the reasons I never get tattoos.
Yeah, exactly.
I will get them when you can move them around or delete them.
But I know I'll get sick of them.
I'm just worried about having a limited amount of skin space.
That too.
I also know I'll get addicted to them.
I don't know if I would.
That's one concern I have too.
I'm told that when you get, when you get an edge to get more, I don't
have any, but my, my thinking on it is like, yeah, you might change
your mind and what you like or something, but so far to get one, I have
ideas of things that I'm very confident that in 30 years, I could look
back and say, I understand why Steven at that age got that tattoo and I, I
don't regret it.
I want to get like Mickey Mouse flipping someone off just so that
you would probably end up regretting that.
Well, maybe not.
Maybe not.
Maybe it's really important to you.
No, I would like that because I fucking hate the intellectual property
laws we have in the country.
And I would be, this would be a giant fuck you to Disney, right?
You don't own my skin Disney.
Which technically they might based on the recent Kobe Bryant fucking lawsuit
that went around.
What happened?
Uh, the tattoo artist that tattooed Kobe Bryant is suing 2k games for rendering
his tattoos in their game when, yeah, Kobe Bryant, you know, licensed his
likeness to 2k games for their recent NBA or whatever the name of the company
is that you still own the tattoo after you place it on someone's skin.
That's weird.
That's, see, that's, that's what they're trying to hammer out in the
courts right now.
Is it?
I mean, I guess it is your original art if you designed it, but that's super
weird because it's on somebody's body.
Yeah.
No, that's, that's the thing.
Like I obviously understand that if I got a tattoo of something, I can't then
take that art and like make prints of it and sell it at conventions and stuff.
Right.
That's way beyond.
What about every time you get photographed?
Exactly.
But when I get photographed or when my likeness is to reproduce somewhere, if
I'm, you know, okay to that, then yeah, that's part of me now.
That is literally my fucking skin.
Yeah, that sounds like a really screwed up precedent.
And I get like having your artistic integrity or whatever, but then like,
all right, so say Kobe Bryant puts on a MAGA hat and murders three people.
Like, are you going to say, I want my artwork back?
I'm not going to represent it on that person.
And then what, like, are you going to make him like get, get coverups?
Oh yeah, or take his skin, but you can't take a skin.
Are you going to like legally mandate that you get cover up tattoos or something?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I, I have several illustrator friends now who are a bit conflict on
this because the rights to their work are very important to them.
And they're like, you know, there is very standard contracts that you sign over
all your rights, you know, like this is now your art.
Congratulations.
And you people usually pay more for those contracts.
And basically what my position is, is that even though it was never written
out in any tattoo contract I've seen, generally the contracts are things
like I am over 18 and I am not drunk.
You know, I am of sound mind when I choose this contract or when I choose
this tattoo to be put on me, but none of them like talk about rights in that way.
And it was, I always fall back to the common law understanding that like it
was understood that I give you this money and this is now mine.
And, uh, but since it was never actually spelled out, I guess that's
something the courts might get into now.
That's insane.
Yeah.
Luckily, I would think of something was literally part of my body that bodily
autonomy rights, Trump copyright rights.
Like I said, I see, I, I see, I hear what you're saying.
I kind of see where they're coming from, but at the same time, well.
And which is why I want the Mickey Mouse tattoo.
Yeah.
And I'm, I'm, I'm guessing that the like tattoo art lobby is pretty small.
So this probably won't go through all the way.
But, uh, if they win this case, it might set a dangerous precedent.
So it was actually interesting.
It was kind of the, the, then again, I bet the guy who, who makes, who
does Kobe's tattoos is probably fucking loaded.
Well, here's the thing.
It, this is the same, the equivalent of the copyright, uh, or the patent
trolls that we all hate.
Uh, it was a company that went around and bought the rights to the tattoos
from various tattoo artists of NBA players.
So it wasn't even the tattoo.
No, it is a, yeah, it is a company that bought the rights to the tattoo
art from the artists and now is suing the, the game makers.
Of course it is.
Yeah.
So like this is a really great fiction opportunity for someone to
write a version of the repo man, but like, they just come for your skin.
Come from my tattoo back.
I'm not going to write that.
But anyway, if anyone wants to write it, just like send me a link to it after
