information you don't.
And then you're like, Oh, okay.
I hadn't thought of that.
Like, I don't, you know, that seems like a bad reason to not say, I don't know.
Because somebody else might have an idea.
You know, they're going to have an idea anyway, regardless.
Although this post does dive into ignorance priors, where if you're talking
with another rationalist who will know what you mean when you say, I don't know,
to mean I've got nothing to update my ignorance priors, then somebody won't
inject their, won't, won't privilege a one, one hypothesis in the pool of all
possibilities.
If you're dialoguing with somebody who gets it, right?
Yeah.
Um,
and he defines ignorance priors for us quickly in this, which is handy as a prior
which distributes probability evenly across all possibilities.
And assigns only a very small amount of, to any individual possibility
because there are so many.
One final thing before we move on, actually, you guys probably have final
things too, but one final thing for me, before we move on, he says in here, uh,
this quote, the meaning of the sounds that issue from your lips is whatever
occurs in the mind of the listener.
If they're going to misinterpret something, then you shouldn't say to them,
no matter what the words mean inside your own head, which I was,
eugenics, right?
Well, yeah, eugenics, but, uh, I was surprised to see that because one of the
things that annoyed me about rationalist Harry in HPMOR was that he would
think he wasn't lying when he would say things that are technically true, but
that he knows will be interpreted in the exact wrong way by his listener.
I'm like, you have implanted a falsehood in your listener's brain.
It doesn't matter if what you said is maybe technically, literally true,
you know, they're going to misinterpret it.
Well, he was intending to manipulate people though, which I guess is dark arts.
Yeah, yeah, but he was like all proud of himself about like how, uh-huh, I am
not breaking any moral laws because I still didn't lie to them.
You know, and I was like, you're totally lying, dude.
That didn't seem consistent with the rest of his ethics.
Well, it did cause he's turning somebody from to the light, but his,
his rationalizing it saying, I didn't technically lie.
It doesn't matter if you're technically that or not, you're, you're, you're,
yeah, you're, you're painting someone's map in a way that you know is inaccurate.
And I was kind of annoyed by that.
And for some reason, even though I know much, much better, it's still to me
seemed like that was a position.
Yes, or wasn't dorsing because sometimes I'm stupid too.
Uh, and so like seeing him literally say the exact opposite right here.
I was like, Oh, oh yeah, that was just a character in a book who was shown
to be wrong many times in that book.
I don't know why I impugned those motives on to Elias or I
shouldn't have done that.
Well, to be fair, Harry's so often a mouthpiece, right?
So in his defense at the top of the book, he says, don't, you know, don't trust
everything that the main character says as something that I would say and, you
know, be distrustful of bad advice or a vice from darker characters.
Um, so he's basically saying is like, I don't endorse Quirrell's politics.
But I think he had to say that I'm sure he did people that even if you
endorse Quirrell's politics, you got to say that it'd be one of Quirrell's
first rules is don't agree with me.
Even if you agree with me, don't agree with me in public.
Yeah.
Um, jump back to my, my dumb example of like Stephen, what do you do about the
refugee crisis in Syria?
Me saying probably don't walk them into a volcano is that's not
helpful, right?
That's like saying it's not zero Kelvin out.
It might be helpful to a strictly Bayesian AI.
It'd be like, aha, I will reduce my walk them into a volcano option by 100%
now.
Yeah.
Lower down all the things that you're going to do that will involve killing
them, you know, so like, yeah, but if you're talking to like a person, right?
So, which is so hard.
Yeah, you still don't know what's inside people's brains and how they, you
know, I mean, the example of, um, saying eugenics when you don't
actually mean, you know, uh, eliminating people who, you know, the weak races,
right, when you're actually trying to say like curing people of terrible
diseases and making sure that they, you know, have the same or better health than
average, but, uh, if you use the word eugenics, people are automatically
going to assume you're talking about the first thing.
So maybe just don't use that word.
And they'll, they'll try to use it for you anyway though.
Yeah.
As soon as you're like, I want people to be healthier than normal.
They're like, aha, eugenics, you want to kill the Jews.
I didn't say healthier than the Jews.
I meant healthier than all of us.
In fact, I want the Jews to be the healthiest first, just so that it were not
eugenics.
And on that note, speaking of, of, of fables of science and politics.
Okay.
A fable of science and politics.
I'll give a real, real brief summary of what this is.
Yeah.
I just want to point out this is the first, uh, like little short story sequence post.
There's a handful of these throughout littered throughout over the next, you know,
and they're delightful.
They are.
This one, yeah, it's fun.
And it's alluded to in method to rationality as well.
Not alluded to.
It's directly referenced.
Dumbledore read this.
So in the, uh, he starts out by telling us that in the time of Roman Empire,
civic life was divided between the blue and green factions.
The support of a faction became necessary to every candidate for civil or
ecclesiastical honors.
Uh, there were fights in the streets.
People actually murdered each other, uh, for being on, you know,
opposite sides of factions and these factions were sports fans,
the partisans of the blue and green chariot racing teams.
So he starts the story by asking us to imagine a future society that flees into
a vast underground network of caverns and seals the entrance.
People forget what the sky looks like, but they have texts saying that it is a
cerulean color, but there is a disagreement as to whether this means a blue
color or a green color and their society splits into two factions arguing
over what, uh, the color of the sky is.
They have the same kind of thing as the ancient Romans did.
Eventually a piece is born of a growing sense of pointlessness.
Uh, people think about how many people died, how little changed as a result of
these arguments and, and violent conflicts.
Uh, but there's still a blue and a green position on almost every
contemporary issue of political or cultural importance.
Things like how you feel about city density and your taxation policy and
stuff like that can be reliably predicted.
Once someone knows if you're blue or green.
Um, and then there are five, six little vignettes of someone who sees
a, the actual sky and how that affects their personal psychology, what
they determined to do now that they know what color the sky actually is.
Yeah.
These were kind of fun.
And we don't have to go into all of them, but they're the kind of
paint characters of different kinds of like either pragmatism or like
esoteric, you know, kind of like religious the audit or not the
odyssey, but, um, apologetics where it's like, Oh, you know,
greenness was always really more of like, uh, of a way of thinking
about things than it was about the actual color of the sky.
And yeah.
And one person was like, it was blue all along.
I'm going to go out and kill those people.
The war is back on.
What did you guys think about this?
I liked it.
I thought it was fun.
I find it depressing actually, because I know that there's, you know,
issues that if we did find a factual answer on people would absolutely
have those reactions where some people would be like, Oh, I need to
change the way that I think I'm going to reject my old way of life.
You know, I'm going to probably have to cut ties with lots of my friends
and family, but I want to be correct.
I want to be correct.
I want to, and then there were the people that were like, I'm going to kill all of
them.
I thought the most interesting one was the person who was a green and saw
that the sky was blue and was like, now that I know the sky is blue, I
have to change all my opinions on taxation and city density.
And I was like, wow, those two don't actually correlate, but I can totally
see how they would in that person's mind and in that society.
Well, and like that, that happens in our society basically now, right?
Yeah.
I mean, there's, you know, nothing that really kind of logically ties
together, uh, being a pro abortion, I guess, and like gun control.
And, you know, like there's, there's things that separate down party lines
that don't really like connect together and make sense, but just historically.
Yeah.
They're, it seems bizarre to me that if you tell me that you're, what do you
call it, pro life, uh, anti-abortion, that I think of pro life.
I couldn't, I, cause it doesn't make sense for me to call it that, but in
the case, uh, yeah, you can reliably predict somebody's, you know, position on
like drugs and guns and immigration, immigration.
Why are these tied together?
So that's, I thought that was kind of fun.
So yeah, it's super depressing and then how realistic it is.
Um, then there was the one that says, Oh, fuck me.
This is going to start a war.
I'm going to close this off, not telling anyone that we found a way to
the service and just ignore this and not tell anybody.
How long can I hide this from society?
Because that person knew that that like the first three stories were going to
happen, which is also depressing.
Cause I can kind of sympathize with that character.
This made me think about like me personally, like, how would I react if I
found out that something in my political sphere was provably undeniably true?
I guess I really feel that way about most of the things, but like,
I've had that happen.
Yeah, but it's pretty awful.
Is it like, if you find out that something you thought was true, is true?
No, something that, like, you know, I really strongly believed, uh, for
example, that men and women were exactly the same.
And like, I would have like, you know, fought to the death over that, maybe
not literally, but like, I definitely fought people literally over that.
Like I had like fist fights as a kid.
Like it was like, you know, really core tenant and then like,
But you never got kicked in the balls in those fist fights, thus invalidating your point.
Getting kicked in the vagina hurts a lot, actually.
It's probably not as bad.
But no, but I meant specifically, I was being pedantic and pointing out that
there are, that there are expressed phenotypic differences because you don't
have balls to kick.
I meant like, uh, you know, exactly the same in terms of personality types and
preferences that it's all.
