That's right.
Okay.
Cool.
Thank you for reminding me.
Yeah.
And it's more complicated than that, but that one's neat.
Cause you can scale it up and down to be as complicated as you need it to be.
It has like reviews and stuff too.
Excellent.
Um, I said, excellent.
And steepled my fingers like Mr.
Burns.
You need a cat, right?
I would like a cat.
That sounds great.
Mr.
Princeton, have a cat though.
He didn't, I thought he had a cat.
No, he had a Mr.
Smithers.
Oh, well, it's kind of the same.
So there's just basically his cat.
Then there's that one.
It was like a Halloween special and I haven't seen the show in 15 years, but
I remember this, they were like Smithers is a snake.
His name is Slyther's.
Just a funny little thing.
It was Dr.
Evil that had the cat and Dr.
No, and every other cool.
Yeah, I think it was just like, yeah, that they became like a bad guy stereotype.
Which is weird because cats are great.
So they're also evil.
That's just not true.
You met my last cat.
She was the best.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's true.
You know, you can't say anything bad because she died.
I think cats that aren't evil may be catting wrong.
I've met a few non-evil cats and I'm like, you're not doing cat right.
Oh, they're just, they're just doing their thing.
People tend to call them dog like cats.
All the dogs are also prone to just want it, like really enjoying killing things.
Who doesn't enjoy killing things, really?
I don't.
Okay.
Inches away from me, Nyash.
Yeah.
So once you've got your list, then you want to kind of brainstorm the steps of
your project or your list, which you can use with a, you know, a pen or paper.
Always works.
There's digital equivalents of brainstorming tools.
So this is for, you know, if you don't have off the top of your head, oh,
these are the items that I need to add to my list.
Or, you know, if you've written something down, that's a project and it's a multi-step.
I used to have that issue where you would put something that like is too
complicated on a task list and then you just stare at it and you end up not doing
it because you're like, okay, I have to do this thing.
I found that brainstorming things that you have to do is incredibly handy when
you're doing renovations, because sometimes you will find things, remember
things that you have to do in a certain order, which you might have forgotten if
you're just going through doing, you know, what you see, and also saves you a
lot of time driving to the hardware store when you see everything that you need at
once.
I'm sure you went to the hardware store plenty of times.
Oh, yes.
There's always something that I forgot, but going through first and like
brainstorming everything and being like, okay, got to do this and this.
And then I was like, oh, measure first, then cut.
Stick that on your task list.
Ways to brainstorm.
Uh, I like to just free form journal sometimes because that's how my brain
works.
You just do a total brain dump and then you can kind of refine that into a
list afterwards, just writing down a list of tasks in no particular order can
help and then editing that.
Cause sometimes you get really caught up in thinking, okay, what do I have to
do first, then what do I have to do second?
And sometimes it really helps to kind of just, uh, you end up drawing like your,
your memory into thinking of other tasks as you're coming up with, for example,
feed the dog, sweep the floor for complicated tasks.
It can help to make a mind map.
And that also helps when you're stuck mid project.
Like if you were in the middle of your renovations and you're not sure what to
do next, that's where you, uh, kind of create bubbles.
So you could do a bubble.
That's a, you know, the very middle of your page is renovate home and then you
kind of draw a little line off of it and it's like, okay, uh,
carpet the stairs and then you draw a little arrow off of that.
And it's like research carpet companies and prices.
And, uh, what's neat about mind maps rather than like journaling is that it kind
of, it kind of simplifies a bunch of the tasks where when you're journaling,
you're writing maybe whole paragraphs about like, Oh, I don't know which
companies to choose.
There's this one.
Then I know that my, you know, dad's friend works for this one, but they
might have higher prices.
It kind of forces you to be brief cause you're sticking everything in little
bubbles and it also, um, is a linear.
So if you did it like free form paragraph style, you're going to have to go back
and read that and extract the meaningful chunks later when it's time to do the
thing.
Yeah.
You can look at a mind map and kind of
exactly.
Yeah.
It more easily and you can see how things connect together in a way that you
can't like do as easily with journaling.
That's the same thing as a word cloud.
Or is that different?
Um, I think it's similar.
They look the same.
I think there's different kinds of mind maps too.
I just always tend to do the bubble one.
I like it.
There's different structures you can make.
Um, Scapple is, uh, one that I would recommend if you want to use a digital
mind mapping tool, I think, um, it, the same company that makes Scrivener, which
you might be familiar with, Aineash, it's a writing tool makes that one.
And it's good for writers, but it's just a good mind map tool in general.
Um, I really prefer just using paper for mind maps because digital tools aren't
as amenable to free form.
I tried a bunch of them and I found that, uh, the process of trying to digitally
create a word cloud kind of defeated the purpose of it being like quick and kind
of intuitive, but I haven't actually tried Scapple myself.
I've just heard it recommended really highly.
So I do want to look into that as, and if anyone else uses it, maybe you can talk
about your experiences with it.
Yeah.
And you might also just try using paper, uh, when you get stuck because apparently
writing on paper might help your memory.
I found a couple of, uh, studies that I'm going to link to the post about how
handwriting facilitates memory better than typing.
I would imagine maybe with, you know, that's the difference maybe between the, uh,
digital mind mapping tools and the paper ones.
I saw that too.
And I'm not sure why that is the case.
Does anyone know yet?
They actually talked about it in Smarter Better Faster.
Um, I think it was that book where they were talking about, um, adding, it's a
word similar to discontinuity and now I can't think of the word.
It was diss something, but they were talking about basically making a task
more difficult, um, actually helps encode it in your brain better because
you're devoting more of your attention to it as you're struggling with it.
You're spending a longer time on it.
So, um, writing by hand is more difficult.
It involves more, I guess it's more, I don't know, um,
it certainly takes more time and more muscle groups and typing.
I'm not actually sure about that.
Steven's making typing motions.
Yeah, but I don't know why you're, yeah, T-Rex typing.
That is a very inefficient way to type.
That's my miming.
That's how I always mime typing.
Oh, okay.
I feel like I hadn't said anything in a while.
So I just made a soundless gesture and now we're talking about it.
So here we go.
I do remember always taking notes by hand in college and could have typed.
Well, no, I couldn't have, I didn't have a laptop.
I always found taking notes super distracting because I have pretty
eligible handwriting and if I'm speed writing to keep up with what they're
saying, then I have a hard time reading it myself and I also find myself
focusing more on like writing shit down than just listening.
And I have fairly good retention of like what I hear, luckily.
So I found that to be not to my benefit for the most, for most classes.
I found it really focused me.
Like I would pay much more attention and my mind wouldn't wonder if I
was writing as I was listening.
And also I don't understand why exactly it helped, but I found like if I
just listened, then I wouldn't retain things that well.
But if I was writing them down, I very, very rarely like almost never went
back and actually read my notes, but just the fact that the writing it down.
Yeah.
Made a big difference.
That's super common for people.
Helps commit it to memory two different ways.
You're hearing it and rehearsing it immediately to get it on the page.
Yeah.
Um, that just didn't work for me a lot of the time, but maybe I'd
remember more about actually, if I had written stuff down.
So everyone's brains are different too.
So that just might be one of those typing works better for Steven.
Cause that's how your brain works.
Oh, just, yeah, just listening work better for Steven.
I, I, cause I also need to record recording lectures.
I have, I, for the most part, I could like hear it once and do fine.
I guess I also had an easy major, psych major.
So in the one like really trivia heavy class that we had to take, because it
was a science major, we had to take biomedical science 300.
And that was like kind of referred to as like the senior fail class.
I think I had like a 25% fail rate or something and it sucks.
Cause it was a senior level class.
And so you had to basically wait to see if you're going to graduate on schedule or
not.
So that one, I took tons of notes.
I went, I like, I helped coordinate with people to like study groups and flash
cart.
