like marijuana.
Well, just a regular gummy or starburst work for you.
Well, someone blows smoke in your face.
I think you still get, I don't know if you get secondhand marijuana, but, uh,
I just, I really like the way that they taste though.
I wish somebody could just like make ones that don't get you high, but it's just
tastes like, okay, that's enough for this tangent.
On that note though, I have some CBD oil that tastes kind of like marijuana.
Um, because I've CBD that I've tried tastes like grass.
Yeah.
It's not the good kind of essence.
Yeah.
Not the devil's grass.
It tastes like essence of marijuana, maybe.
And that's probably because it has essence of marijuana in it, but there
might be hope out there for you.
If you want to spend a lot on an experiment, it's just more of a minor frustration.
All right.
What was I talking about?
Habit building.
Yeah.
Oh, stacking habits over time.
Yes.
So when you're making a new habit, you want to start small and easy and then
build from there.
What is this your, your usual method for filming habit?
Um, yeah.
Well, yeah.
You just want to start with like the smallest version of the habit and then
like build it over time.
So I started, um, there's a fitness center in my apartment.
And I finally started using it after being here for like a month.
I started by just, okay, I'm going to run on a treadmill for five minutes.
And then it's like, okay, now 10 minutes, now 15 minutes.
And then now I'm going to also do stretching exercises and lift weights.
So the first like thing was just getting into the fitness room regularly and
getting used to it.
And then you can start to, you know, so I'm stacking other habits with that one.
Um, I think I mentioned this before, but I, when I was first starting to work
out, I had a fallback plan, which I found was really important because you
don't always feel like exercising.
So it's really good to have a fallback plan of what you're going to do when
you don't feel like exercising.
Oh, so like, you don't feel like you wasted your time going there?
Uh, well, I mean, I would just always work out in my bedroom.
So I didn't have to go anywhere.
Oh, so, okay.
So you're still working out.
You're just not going to the gym.
Is that what it is?
No, well, I mean, my fallback plan was really stupid.
Okay.
The fallback plan, I guess was genius.
What's stupid is that it worked.
Uh, my initial plan was I get home from work before I eat dinner, do
anything else I work out for an hour.
And if I really, really didn't feel like it, my fallback plan was I work
out for an hour instead.
And it's ridiculous how often that actually worked.
That's pretty funny.
Give yourself your second choice of doing the same thing.
My version of that is doing the bike at the gym instead of the treadmill.
Cause I, I usually won't put either two miles on the treadmill or five
miles on the bike and the bike is easier.
So it's like, how engaged I want to be cause I can't play on my phone
while I'm running, but I can while I'm sitting on the bike.
So today I did the bike and it's still working out, I guess, but it's not,
it's not as direct as your hack.
I'm still surprised how well it worked.
I just, I feel like you have higher than average will power.
That's definitely wouldn't work for me.
I don't know.
I think you might be.
Yeah.
You know, I think I'm not sure what the average is.
If you're comparing to me, definitely.
I'm not sure where I'm out on the average scale, but you're like the kind
of guy who could take a year off and write a book and like dedicate yourself
to working on it every day.
Whereas like I had six months off and I could barely get myself to like get
out of the house.
Like I couldn't even bring myself to like play video games that I felt like
playing.
Yeah.
I need structure.
Big unemployed is terrible.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, but that's the thing.
I had a structure, which really helped.
Yeah, but it's a self-imposed structure.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Well, it's still a structure.
It is, but some people can do that.
I would, I would feel grave disappointment for myself.
No, you still feel the grave disappointment.
It just doesn't motivate you to create a structure.
Yeah, we get it.
We, we still hated ourselves.
We just didn't motivate us to do anything.
Yeah.
But no, I think, I think that's awesome.
Maybe we've been talking pretty long.
We should drop this out.
I just wanted to, the last thing I wanted to say was about the mental and
physical health.
It's that kind of, you know, uh, I think this is probably the most important
thing for productivity that I guess people do talk about it a fair bit, but
it's overlooked sometimes, especially when people talking about like tools and
other things, like the most important thing is to keep yourself healthy.
Your tools aren't going to do anything.
If you're, if your brain's not engaged with it, so.
Which means things like, I'm not, I haven't looked at your list yet, but
I'm betting it includes things like get good nutrition, get all the sleep you
need regularly and work out regularly.
Yup.
And picture diet.
Yeah.
You got it in the wrong order in you, but you listed the first three things.
I think sleep should come first, actually.
That which ones?
I think sleep is probably the most important of those because, uh, yeah,
the whole, you know, sleep deprivation, like being legally drunk and, uh,
it just messes with your whole body, messes with your, you know, physical and
mental state.
And I was joking in that you got all the things on the list, but they were in a
different order.
So, but yeah, right.
Sleep sounds important.
I guess I found that sleep, at least for me anyway, sleep doesn't work as
well.
If I don't work out regularly, like somehow they're connected.
So it's good to know then that way maybe it's more motivation to work out.
If you're like, well, if I don't work out, then I won't sleep.
Yeah.
And then I can't do anything and then I'm miserable.
And then it also kind of sucks that they're connected for you because you
have to do one to get the other.
What I'm hearing is that my chronic sleep problems are fucking me up hardcore.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
It's been a problem for years.
I don't know what to do about it.
I, we got a nice new bed and mattress topper pillows.
I don't know.
I'll figure it out.
Somebody on the less wrong Facebook had compiled a lot of sleep advice in a
Google doc, which I could share with you.
And I could also put, assuming that person put that out there in the public.
So I'll, uh, credit them.
If you have it, that'd be great.
Yeah.
Do you keep your door open?
Yes.
Okay.
I keep it a jar to keep the temperature of the room, circulating the rest of the
house.
We have a fan going.
Yeah.
There's like a million interventions.
Yeah.
I just recently saw the thing that CO2 build up in room with doors and windows
closed.
I think that actually didn't, uh, like Scott tested that and it wasn't, the
effects weren't as strong as he was hoping or expecting.
Yeah.
I remember, I saw that as well, but it still seems to make intuitive sense.
That you should have oxygen.
Yeah.
I think it's helped me a bit anyway.
And also, um, your body temperature is supposed to drop at night.
So being too warm can inhibit your sleep.
So that might also have to do with it.
Like air circulation.
Interesting.
Okay.
There's a lot of stuff.
Yeah.
I want to, I want to see all of it because I get good sleep, like where I wake up
feeling awesome less than once a month, probably on the order of like once every
three months and those days, those mornings are awesome.
And like, I get by, I'm productive in the morning.
I get stuff done, but I'm kind of just like, I wake up and like, man, I wish
I could, I don't know.
Dude, when I have days like that, I don't do anything.
Those are the days where, like you said, I can't even motivate myself to play
video games.
Maybe eating ash has average motivation and it's just everyone's sleep
deprived, although you're pretty sleep deprived too.
So yeah, I think we have a serious problem with sleep in our society.
Absolutely.
I was sleep deprived my entire school life.
I was like one of those shifted sleep cycles and I'm an extreme
night person naturally.
Well, there's also the problem that teenagers have a naturally later awake
cycle and we all forced them to get up at fucking six a.m.
to go to school.
So they can be on their way to work.
So I got like four hours of sleep, like four to six on average, like throughout
all of high school and college.
