I can, I can test it.
I was one of those people.
It's not so much that it's more just like, as one coworker put it, like soda
machines are like indicative of like, does the company give a shit about you?
And all right, not really bitching about it.
We can cut all this.
It's really boring.
Works fine.
I've got a fine job.
Like, all right.
Yeah.
I remember another chapter.
I think it was an earlier chapter before the, uh, the Ford plant one.
He went into detail about what happened in the, um, the plane crash.
I don't remember which one it was now, but a French plane crash, right?
That was a really good, uh, well, I just really liked all the
anecdotes that he picked out.
Yeah, that one was really intense.
And yeah, that was really good.
And basically what he came down to was a really, a person who knows what they're
doing in any situation has a model of what they expect to see.
Yeah.
Mental frameworks.
Yeah.
A mental model, like perhaps a map in their brain of what they think they're
going to be seeing and they notice when, what they expect to see doesn't match
up with what they're actually seeing.
And that's what makes them really good.
They know like how to maneuver in this terrain.
They, they notice when things are different and the people that fuck up are
people who didn't really have a map.
They're like, okay, I'm going through the motions.
Not really sure what's happening, but going through the motion.
So things will be okay.
And usually they are okay, but sometimes they're not.
And that's when it's really good to have a model in your head of how things are
supposed to be and, and checking that against the real world.
I was like, this is, this is awesome.
This book reads like it was written by, you know, a rationalist or at least if
everyone is looking the world the same way, they should eventually get to the
same kind of ideas.
Right?
I like when people dog whistle rationality.
Like we're not, we're not, we're not going to drop the word less wrong, but
we're going to use map and territory.
Yeah.
Directly talk about like busy and updating in the last chapter.
So I'm kind of wondering.
Love it.
Sorry.
We've got sidetracked.
I want to get back to, to the topic at hand.
Yeah.
Let's talk about productivity.
It's funny that we keep getting derailed.
Well, I think we are being productive in our derailments though.
We're talking about things like, you know, keeping yourself passionate and
valued and keeping models of the world.
All good hacks for doing things, which is what productivity is all about.
Right.
Yeah.
There was such a thing as productive, uh, procrastination as well.
I found that the best way to like the thing that helped me most with the, uh,
when I was doing the Harry Potter methods of rationality podcast, uh, I would
always have something else to do when I heard this tip somewhere else too.
Always have something more important to do so you can procrastinate that thing
by doing your second most important thing.
Which is still pretty damn important.
So whenever I didn't want to, I don't know, write or work out or do some kind
of, um, less fun work, I'd procrastinate by doing methods of rationality.
And smart.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, you know, if you don't want to write your novel, you procrastinate by
writing a short story, have, have a, a less important task that's still important
that you can procrastinate into.
Is that the productive procrastination technique that you were talking about or
that you alluded to?
Yeah.
Basically, it's, you know, when you're still getting things done, but it's
because you're avoiding something else.
And, uh, yeah, that was a good hack.
I guess that would be like one of the brain hack, uh, category of productivity
tools.
You can either choose a real task or you can kind of like make one up, like, uh,
you know, oh, figure out my 401k, uh, which, you know, and whenever you look at
it, you're like, Oh, I don't want to do that.
So you stick that at the top of your, uh, to do list and you stick the thing
that you want to like actually do underneath of it.
Every year between February and April, you can have, you know, uh, work on my
taxes after I'm done working on this other thing that is important to do.
Cause you know, you always have to do your taxes, right?
So you can procrastinate on your taxes, doing something that's more important.
Like the way you guys think it sounds like something I can actually weapon
or I actually utilize for myself.
You were about to say weaponized, weren't you?
Yes.
Fuck yeah.
Um, but it's that, it doesn't feel like an appropriate use of it.
Cause I'm just going to use it to be more productively lazy.
So you're weaponizing your laziness.
All right.
Bad ass.
Yeah.
It's still like taking a step forward.
Yeah.
That's not good.
Anytime you can use a word to make yourself sound cooler, life's more fun.
Well, I propose that what's the, what's the, what's the, I tried.
Yeah.
So last time I covered brain hacks, uh, some tools and methods and philosophy.
Uh, this time I want to cover task capture systems, uh, task prioritization, habit
building, and then maybe talk a little bit about mental and physical health,
which is pretty important to your productivity.
Uh, task capture systems are task lists.
Usually it's, what do you have to do?
Uh, most productivity systems, like, uh, getting things done, start with making a task list.
So there's a lot of different list making tools that you can use the most obvious
one being old fashioned pen and paper.
There's one that I used, uh, called work flowy, which is a free web app.
And they have a, um, I think they have an Android and an iOS app too that syncs with it.
And it's basically just like a text document, but what's neat about it is that
you can, uh, nest like sub topics underneath of topics.
You can either hide or drop down sub lists.
So you could kind of make like, uh, a bunch of projects by just making like, okay,
here's like, uh, write a book and then like, you can make more sub tasks under that.
Like, uh, you know, outline all the chapters and do research.
Yeah.
And in my experience, just having a list of chapters that, that becomes your
task list and it is so fucking handy.
And I mean, the, the chapters that you're going to write change as you're going
along, but having that task list at the beginning is much, much better than like,
okay, write 400 pages in a coherent novel story, character arc, go.
Yeah.
This way like, okay, I got 40 tasks.
Each one is one chapter.
I can write one chapter.
Well, I just interject really quick.
Sorry.
We, we talked about agile development and agile, I guess, uh, production methodology.
Um, lean is related to that.
I think I talked about that in a previous episode, but part of that is batching
things into small, small, small manageable chunks.
And so yeah, imagine, you know, this doesn't really work with books, but you know,
you make 800 pages and it turns out you made a mistake on the first one to start
over, whereas if you did 30 page chunks, then like, Oh, I only lost 30 pages.
And so that's that philosophy is built into agile too.
And so that's why you do two week sprints and you do iterative feedback every two
weeks.
So at worst you've wasted only that much time because you demo in front of your
stakeholders every two weeks.
So if they're like, no, wait, we wanted it like this, you don't like finish the
six month project or the year projects and deliver that.
And they're like, no, wait, start over, you get that on a two week basis.
So small, small, and that's, that's one example of batching things into a small
way and also makes things less imposing and scary, right?
Right.
Cause you're only committing to doing 30 pages this week or something.
Right.
So dope.
All right.
Yeah.
So that's why lists are important.
Uh, one more thing that I like about workflow is that you can also drag, like
unlike, you know, just using a text document or a writing on pen and paper,
you can drag and reorder your tasks, which is, it's, uh, still like just a really
simple, uh, paired down tool, which is kind of why I like it.
The other, um, list making tools, there's some that tend to be more complicated.
And that can be great for people that really like to mess with all the widgets
and they want to color code each one of their tasks and like assign it an icon.
Uh, I'm thinking of Todoist right now.
I'll talk more about that one, but, uh, that can get to be really distracting too.
If you end up spending all your time, just like working on your productivity
system and not doing the work, obviously that's an issue.
Uh, other list making tools that a lot of people really like ever note,
it didn't really work for me, but, uh, it's a lot of people swear by that one.
I think just because it helps you, like a lot of people, they use getting things
done, the GTD method, like that one, because you can pull from, you can use
like photos, you can, you know, save snippets of websites, it's multimedia.
So it's really good at capturing everything.
Uh, I like Google keep, which I mentioned last time, so I won't go on about it again.
Um, I also just like to use a text edit on Mac or, uh, wordpad on PC.
Like just, you know, the basic pared down text editor that I can kind of
keep floating on my desktop.
It just keeps things simpler, less distracting.
For my, my version of, I use notes too on my, on my computer, cause I use a Mac,
but I can also just open up reminders the same way.
And it's thanks to my phone.
So if I wanted to jump in like, Oh shit, I want to do this when I get home.
I don't have to pull up my phone.
If it's in my pocket, that's way too far away.
Cause my hands are already on my keyboard.
Um, you mentioned, uh, the GTD get things done method.
Did we talk about that or what is that?
That was, yeah, we talked about that one last time, uh, to like catch people up
if they didn't get that, or if they forget, uh, getting things done as a
productivity system or philosophy that involves, uh, capturing all of your tasks,
uh, sorting them, uh, deciding, you know, uh, there were, for example, if there's
like a five minute task, you do it now, then you decide whether you're going to
do it, like do it, um, do it, don't do it, delegate it, delete it.
