Here's the blank space for me.
Perfect.
No.
Uh, okay.
Uh, so our two less wrong posts for this week where I don't know.
And a parable of science and politics, politics.
Yes.
We're starting with, I don't know.
Uh, which one is this?
I don't know.
Are we going to do who's on first joke?
I don't know.
Thank you.
Yes.
So this post, uh, takes the form of a conversation that Eliezer had with, um,
an unnamed other individual over the phrase, I don't know.
And when it's okay to use and how it works within the Bayesian
rationalist worldview.
And it was sparked by a post on overcoming bias by Robin Hansen where to
summarize briefly, it's like, um, you aren't entitled to your opinions.
Honestly, I'll let you summarize it.
Cause I think this goes directly against maybe Hansen's just updated and
changed his mind on this in the last, what, 12 years.
Um, but he said the exact opposite on time.
Harris's podcast when he was here in what February last year.
That doesn't, that doesn't sound right time of year.
It doesn't matter where he, he's, he said that he's moving more towards
not volunteering an opinion when he doesn't, when he doesn't have an idea.
Yeah.
And so let's talk about the post and I'll talk about my objection.
And then you can explain why I'm missing the point.
Oh, I, I don't know if you're missing the point at all.
Okay.
Uh, the primary objection that Eliezer seems to have with people saying,
I don't know, is that it's a cop out because in the real world, you can say,
I don't know, but you still have to make a decision.
The first example he gave was that if someone asks themselves, what are the
chances of cryonics being successful at some time in the future?
Their answer very often is something like, I don't know, but regardless of what
they know or don't know, they still have to either sign up or not sign up.
And by saying, I don't know, that usually defaults to a position of not signing up.
So what he's saying that is in the general parlance, usually I don't know,
is just a screen that people think is defensible and unarguable before they go
on to do whatever they feel like.
And it's usually the wrong thing because they refuse to admit themselves,
what their actual guess is, or examine their justifications or even realize
that they're guessing.
I think I figured out what my discontent here is that, and I gave the example
here in the notes, you know, if you asked me, Stephen, what do you think we
should do about the refugee crisis in Syria?
I don't, I don't, I don't know.
And that doesn't feel like a cop out.
I don't have enough information on how to, how to satisfy this, how to
satisfactorily respond to this problem.
I think the difference between that and something like cryonics or whatever is
that I'm not making a decision on what to do about the Syrian refugee crisis,
right?
Right.
Um, you know, if someone said, Hey, Stephen, you need to pick right now what
we're going to do with them, then I need to, then I need to decide.
But if someone just asks me on the street, Hey, what's, what's your thoughts
on, I don't know, name something random and complicated.
What do we do?
What do we do if, if Robert Mueller's fired tomorrow protest?
Okay, sure.
But that's not an ad.
I mean, I can go to a protest or not, but that's, that's not it.
Like, I don't know, right?
So, um, yeah.
And I think that is a big part of where the split lies because they do also talk
about things like, uh, whether there's how many trees, how many apples are in
that tree outside the window, right?
And you can't see the tree right now.
And Elias or gives a number, he says, I don't know, between 10, he did
actually say, I don't know.
He says between 10 and 1000 as a rough guess.
And, uh, his interlocutor says, if it was my job on the line, I'd much rather
say, I don't know, than be wrong, because who knows what the boss will be
do with that information when he loses all that money.
And Eleazar says, just to be clear, this is not because I don't know
as irrational judgment, but because you want to avoid responsibility.
Like your boss is going to go and make a decision anyway.
He's just going to do it without your guess as part of his information.
Yeah.
And I think this is more just like kind of an exercise and like pedantry.
I don't, that might be too critical, but the real question isn't, how do you
answer a question as simple as how many hairs do you have on your head?
Right.
Cause nothing, nothing weighs on that.
You know, this isn't like, Hey, what do you think the odds of this
surgery working are?
Oh, I don't know.
So, you know, I'm probably not going to look into it is what is how it's
how he's anticipating people using it.
This seems to be intended to be read in the spirit of the improper use of
humility, right?
Cause it is a follow on, or like one or two, right after that.
Yeah, it's in the same days worth of reading.
Right.
And so again, makes the same, the same point that you are not, uh, you are
not helping someone when you say, I don't know, rather than to give an
estimate, you are, or a range, uh, you are covering your own butt.
So you're not doing them a favor.
If you really cared about their welfare, you would give them an
estimate, such as between 10 and a thousand apples.
Yeah.
And you know, to some extent that's useless, but like, so a more realistic
example would be, you know, if we didn't know it was freezing out where you
and I are leaving this place and you're like, Hey, Stephen, how hot is it
outside wondering whether or not you should grab a jacket.
And if I didn't have a phone and I wasn't outside and I can't see outside,
you know, my answer, I don't know, doesn't give you information on how
to prepare to go outside.
Right.
Me, me telling you, well, somewhere between zero Kelvin and 6,000 degrees
Fahrenheit, you know, six, uh, whatever, 6,000 degrees, uh, Kelvin, that's not
a helpful answer.
No, but you can usually, I mean, uh, I guess it depends on what your area
of expertise is, but you could kind of look out the window.
You could, you know, go based on your priors of how cold has it been lately.
Oh, welcome to Colorado.
Well, you're going to have those days where you look at like, it looks great
out, you're going to step out and be like, Oh, it's 45 degrees out.
So it's always really hot in my car regardless of how cold it is because of
the sun.
So that's weird.
Yeah.
Everyone just tells me to layer.
And don't get me wrong, there are times where, you know, you can make a good
estimate, but I think they were kind of talking past each other in this
dialogue in a way that was instructive, but not helpful.
Cause like X was trying to think of examples of like, look, what do I do?
If I really don't know, and someone wants this answer and me giving them a
vague, pointless answer, doesn't help.
Right.
And I think like your, your thing with the, the degrees Kelvin, uh, between zero
and 6,000, right?
It is my, my main objection to this argument that's being presented is that
most people, as far as I can tell, use the term, I don't know, in a shorthand
to mean within the normal bounds.
Like if someone said how many apples are on the tree and you answered, I don't
know, that's a shorthand for saying between zero and 10,000, right?
If somebody had some inkling that this might be a magic tree with a million
apples on it, then they wouldn't say, I don't know.
Yeah.
If you looked outside and you glance at it, you would say, Holy shit, a
fucking ton, or you'd say like basically none.
Right.
Yeah.
And that's, and so I don't know is somewhere right in the middle.
Yeah.
I don't know was like within the bounds of a normal app tree, but with maximum
uncertainty therein.
Right.
I like that.
And to qualify my welcome to Colorado to Jess was you last time we were on for
productivity 1.0.
Oh, we talked about, I was all like, altitude sick.
Last episode, but I'm better now.
So that's getting as that wasn't, that wasn't sarcastic.
That was a, that was a kind of nudging welcome to this welcome to the
crazy weather we get here sometimes.
I actually really like the weather here.
Okay.
The one thing I do want to say about the point, the post that I thought was
interesting is that it's, it shows like a divide between strict Bayesian thinking
and thinking in the normal world, because thinking as a strict Bayesian, like as
if one was an AI, you would never say something like, I don't know.
You would just spit out that maximum uncertainty number.
Right.
Well, you have access to it.
If you're a computer, right, your brain's still generating the same number,
which is what I think this, he was going towards.
It's like a true Bayesian operator would do something like that, as opposed to
just saying null value as my answer.
Insufficient data for meaningful answer.
Nice.
That was one of the comments.
Oh, I think it was, but it was also an asthma short story that I can't remember
the name of the last question.
Yeah.
And so first of all, if you have a million years, think of a better way to
fucking ask that question.
That really bugged me the whole time I was reading that.
He did make an interesting point that if you're dealing, there's some people
who will think that saying, you sing, I don't know, is a license for them to
make up their own ideas, which are just as valid.
Like if, if you were to, if someone were to ask, what was the state of
existence before the big bang?
And you say, literally, I do not know as far as we know right now in science, we
cannot know there wasn't anything.
It's just, and they say, aha, therefore God.
I'm like, no, but you don't know.
You just said, you can't know, therefore there's a chance of God.
And I don't know if that's legit of it, like, I literally run into someone doing
that to me a few months ago.
No, and people were going to do that anyway.
I feel like if, you know, that shouldn't stop you from saying, I don't know.
If you don't know, then you call, you know, if they start telling you their
grand theory, just call them out if they're wrong, or maybe they have
