Stephen was just proving that men, all men are assholes.
No, actually that was the example I was going to raise as like a hypothetical.
So like, if this was proven beyond a shadow of a doubt and everyone just had
to either accept it or deny it, um, then it's been pretty proven that they're,
you know, yeah, there's different personality types.
There's different preferences and, uh, it's, you know, along a spectrum, but
they correlate strongly with, with people aren't just blank slates.
Yeah.
And, and, uh, that strikes me as a good real world example.
I wonder if there's another one, uh, man, maybe even more offensive,
like racial differences.
Yeah.
That's too offensive, but no, no, I'm not, so that, that one, if there, if
there's anything, it's, I'm sure it's in the air.
So, but if it, if it turned out that for whatever reason, white people
were just more inclined to be serial killers and that the numbers up to the
state weren't, you know, a fluke or just other factors.
It was like, no, it turns out just like, if you have white skin, you're
more inclined to be a serial killer.
Um, that'd be a hard pill for a lot of people to swallow.
And it was really for the pill for other people to swallow, right?
It'll be really hard if it was something that, you know, was less
cool than that example, totally.
What if it turns out that Asians are both morally and intellectually
superior to all of the races?
I wonder what would happen if that were true.
Right.
So I like these, all these little short story, parable style posts,
cause they're all like that.
They're, they're all carefully distant in a way that everyone could
like, Oh, that's kind of interesting.
And, and look at it objectively, where then you start, you start taking
away the blue and green sky with something you actually care about.
And you're like, Oh, now I can actually feel the emotions of these characters.
And that's pretty intense.
Maybe it's just worth going over all of them really quick.
They all have names.
Um, so basically what they're like on an expedition and then they see, uh, a
whole into, to the surface.
Well, one of them gets split up in the group, the rest of them don't see it.
And so one person, and then it does kind of like a choose your own
adventure of which person made it out.
And then a Tidia, I've no idea if people pick names.
I, I can't even do it for characters in video games.
Like I spend a long time like over, it doesn't matter.
Like more time, like thinking of a name than customizing what they look like.
I love picking names.
I hate it.
I can never think of one.
I have stock names.
I always go with it with smart.
So I don't have to spend two hours doing that.
I don't even have to deal with it for the rest of the time in the game.
It's, it's a big deal.
Anyway, choose one that you know, you always like random name generator.
There's never one that I'll always like because it's, it's different games.
It doesn't matter.
It's, it's my own stupid hang up.
I'll get over it.
Yeah.
Search for fantasy, uh, or I guess it doesn't have to be fantasy, but random
name generators, the behind the name one is very good.
I've used those.
I'll, I'll try what was it called behind the name behind the name because
you can, uh, it gives you like a very, uh, comprehensive list of ethnicities,
like, uh, cultures that you could pull names from, like everything from like
modern day, Hellenic to ancient Greek.
Okay.
And then they have some like names from fantasy, uh, worlds and names that are
goth and names that are, you know, cyber or whatever.
That sounds helpful.
I hope that I can pick a surname too, or just first name and whether it's like
typically male or female or ones that could be either.
So that's all people dope.
All right.
I'll have to give that a shot.
All right.
Atidia, the blue, I don't want to read the whole thing.
So I'm just trying to paraphrase the one that decides to kill.
She's the one who says you were right all along.
This guy whispered down in here and now you can prove it.
And, uh, she curled the hand to a clenched fist, turned around and said,
the truce is over, um, burn the green, stared incomprehensibly,
incomprehensingly at the chaos of the colors for long seconds.
And then a pile of ever the pit of the stomach.
These are worth reading in real.
This is, this should be on, uh, one of your, uh, if you ever do more
like sequence readings.
Okay.
Oh yeah.
It would be cool to do a readings of all the little stories and the sequences.
Cool.
If you want more work, you know what bonus for our Patreon listeners.
That sounds fun.
Yeah.
I'll read this whole thing out for a Patreon listeners.
I'll help if you want.
That sounds good.
Excellent.
If you need, if you need any, uh, if you need anyone to hold you back and bring
down the project, you can call me.
I'd be happy to help.
That sounds fun.
Um, yeah, you probably don't want to commit to a time to do that.
This isn't that long actually.
Well, I mean, before this episode goes up, yeah, no, that's, that's why I was
thinking, yeah, that's not too long.
I could do that.
Cool.
That'd be awesome.
But you still want to like summarize each of the people real quick.
Yeah, I'll summarize them.
But yeah, it's a fun little, fun little list.
It'll be, it's a fun read and it'll be a great little listen.
So Baron the green is terrified of what they see and, uh, I'm just giving it,
but it looks at the sky and says, how can you be on their side?
And, uh, and then Charles the blue.
Yeah.
He's, he's the apologetics.
Oh, that was the one.
Um, professor of a mixed college, mixed college.
So they're the one who, um, who decides to hide it.
Right.
Yeah.
I'm trying.
I thought that was the one that tried to say, well, you know, it wasn't really
that important.
It was just more of a way of thinking.
So like green is still kind of right.
Oh, okay.
This was merely a natural phenomenon.
Nothing to do with philosophy or society.
Oh, he still might be misinterpreted.
So he, yeah, tomorrow he'll come back and block the passageway.
Yeah.
Diara, the green, she's the one who decides to change over to a blue, along with
taking all their positions on everything.
Ditching all her family members and friends and yeah, being this heavy sacrifice.
She's bummed and says, I guess I, I have to go, you know, change all these other things.
Eddin, the green, it's the one I kind of sympathized with.
Yeah.
It was the one who said that the whole war was stupid and pointless.
And now I'm going to have to hide this from the world to make sure that the
world doesn't tear itself apart over the realization.
Yeah.
And leaned against the cave mouth, weirdly trying to think of a way to
prevent this information from blowing up the world and wondering if they
didn't all deserve it.
And then Ferris is the, the, the right answer.
Notice no color on Ferris's description here.
Maybe they were unaffiliated or they, they didn't hold it that way.
Right.
Ferris gasped involuntarily, frozen by the sheer wonder and delight.
Ferris's eyes started hungrily about fastening on each site in turn before
moving reluctantly to the next.
The blue sky, the white clouds, the vast unknown outside, full of places and
things and people that no underground or had ever seen.
Oh, so that's what color it is.
Ferris said, and went exploring.
And that's the appropriate scientific approach to coming across challenging new
facts.
Yeah, I don't know about that though, because if you did discover, well, if
you did discover that white people are more likely to be serial killers, then
you're not going to go happily explore that.
That might be the kind of fact that you, I mean, you do want to explore it though.
I guess, yeah, in the sense that like, maybe it turns out that because white
people eat more of whatever food and we cut that food out of their diets, it'll
be less likely to be serial killers.
Now this, this, this is a deliberately stretched example.
But yeah, I was going to suggest that this might be the kind of thing you just
don't publish and hide from the world, but you're right.
The only way to do something about it, if there's anything to be done is to
learn more about it.
I felt like that was the viewpoint that was missing here.
The person that, I mean, because he picked the example of a sky color, it's
not like you have to go change the sky color.
That's just a fact that doesn't really matter.
But, uh, except, you know, to the extent that it changes other people's
opinions on other things, but something like, uh, figuring out that like, oh,
that these people are less intelligent.
It's like, oh, we could just hide that because it's kind of offensive or we
could figure out how to genetically engineer people to all be the same level
of intelligence or more, like, you know, you can't fix a problem by pretending
it doesn't exist.
So that's what really bothers me about it, uh, about like the mindset of people
that want to just like be willfully ignorant.
Like it, you know, the truth is true.
And I think the, the point that the intellectual dark web people that, uh,
term that Steven hates because it's masturbatory, but one of the, one of the
things that they say is that when all the good people refused to talk about this
and just hide it and the only people that are willing to talk about it are the
bad people that use this as an excuse for racism and hatred and other things.
Then if someone comes across a fact that is inconvenient and has been hidden for
so long, the only people that are talking about this fact are those evil people.
And they'll be like, the evil people must be right because if the facts are on
their side, they must be right.
So discussing certain facts and the interpretation of them that is not evil is
also very important so that you don't let the evil people dominate the
conversation and have the weight of being correct on their side.
Yeah.
