I could ask.
I know a bit.
I know enough to bullshit about it for an hour, but not.
Well, I know a guy who was a like scrum master and taught agile.
Nice.
But, uh, yeah, again, I don't know if he would want to be on the podcast.
I was a scrum master for four months, but only like I said, in agile and quotes
way, so yeah.
All right.
So natural planning says use your gut to figure out how to prioritize your tasks.
And after you've, you know, connected to your values and done your mind map, you
can sometimes just go completely off of intuition.
Uh, when, for times when you can't, you can use the Eisenhower matrix, which is,
I might have talked about that in the last, uh, productivity tools, but I'll go
over it again.
It's a two by two grid where the X axis is, uh, important and not important.
And the Y axis is urgent and not urgent.
So the idea is you assign all of your tasks in this grid and then you do the
urgent and important tasks first because they are urgent and important.
Then you do your not urgent and important tasks, which seems counterintuitive until
you think about the fact that these are important, even though there's not a
time limit on them.
You've done all the ones that are important than have a time limit.
Uh, then it's recommended that you, uh, delegate or decline the urgent and not
important tasks and just delete the not urgent and not important tasks.
So I like to just drop all my tasks from a mind map into the Eisenhower and
shuffle it until it makes sense and then make out one numbered prioritized list
afterwards, but now they're all in order.
Yeah.
You just want to work smart.
You want to do the tasks that make sense and, uh, figure out if there are other
ways to accomplish what you want to, so you can, for example, delegate tasks.
I forget if I brought this up to you, but there's a tool by clear thinking called
the decision advisor that can help with this too.
If you're blocked by a decision, uh, that's a really great tool that helps you
think through, uh, all the pros and cons in a really like statistical way.
Um, I've had a lot of luck with that one.
So I really like all their tools.
Go check out our clear thinking.
There's another decision making, uh, tool slash method called the SWAT method.
The strength, weakness, opportunity and threat, uh, kind of two by two board.
Oh yeah.
I think I heard of that one too.
That was because it was what, it was a hilarious episode of Silicon Valley.
Did anyone, anyone watch that show?
I saw only a few episodes.
It was too real when I was working in an office.
It's, it takes too long to paraphrase, but basically they're, they're misusing it
on deciding whether or not to let some asshole kill himself on it.
Like, so let me, let me make it less, less psychopathic.
So basically, well, not, not commit suicide.
He was going to do like a jump off a ramp onto a building, onto another building.
And they're trying to point out how bad, like, Hey, you're not counting for this.
And both times they try to tell him, he's like, listen, you know, you fucking nerds,
I'm busy.
Get the fuck out of here.
So they put together this enormous SWAT board and they're like, one of the
strengths is, or like one of the, uh, opportunities is like his girlfriend's
really hot and when she's mourning, I can, I can, you know, I can move in on her.
Um, whatever, whatever, all those things.
So, uh, it culminates with the guy walking in, talking to them, apologizing
for being an asshole saying, man, I noticed this mistake in my math.
I could have ended up on the side of that wall.
Then as he's leaving, he glances at their enormous SWAT board and he's like, you
know, he sees all the things and it was really funny.
So everyone wants to watch you look in Valley.
So is this a tool you could actually use or was it just a joke?
No, it was an actual thing.
It's, yeah.
Uh, a lot of the stuff that they mentioned in there is actual stuff, uh, that
they use for the show for community purposes, but a lot of it is really funny.
If you take a step back.
Yeah.
All right.
Next subject was habit building.
I've heard somewhere that you have to do something 21 days in a road to form a
habit or 21 iterations.
Yeah, I'm sure it's not an actual scientific number.
And it was just like, you know, roughly, if you do 21 times.
So I can, I can smoke for 20 days and drop it like that.
That's how this works.
Yes.
Maybe it's just 20 cigarettes.
Maybe it's 20 puffs.
Maybe it's 20 times thinking about it.
Yeah.
This sounds like, this sounds like bullshit in the Oscar.
Yeah.
Best way to start building a habit is, or one of the, you know, time tested
ways is having a morning routine because your brain is fresh in the morning.
Oh, is that why?
Well, and it's the first thing you do.
So you don't tend to forget it.
There's probably a lot of reasons.
I, I'd like to, if I need to do something, I weave it into a routine I already have going.
Yeah.
That's a, I think called stacking habits.
Okay.
Um, structure is really helpful for most people to get things done.
Uh, so offloading your mental energy and decisions to a system.
It can really help.
Morning is a good trigger point to get started because your brain is fresh,
but you can make a routine anytime.
It helps to have a trigger to start your routine.
I think a CFAR uses trigger actions, which is like when stimulus perform action.
So that's, uh,
I wanted to somebody do an entire episode about that.
That would be cool.
Can we go into it for another 30 seconds?
Yeah.
The trigger action plans, I believe, God, I think it was on Brianne's Facebook
that I saw this, uh, she just commented that she was trying to become more aware
of things in her environment.
And so she started just with whenever I see a red roof, I got this little clicker.
You know, the clickers they have when people go into like a club and they
click at once.
Oh, I thought it was like a dog training clicker.
Uh, I think, I think she said eventually she just switched one of those
cause it worked just as well, but at first it was like a number clicker.
So like at the end of the day, she could see how many red roofs she'd seen.
Whenever she saw a red roof, she would click at once, right?
She really started noticing like red roofs all the time because the dopamine
release on being like, ah, I made my number increase by one was like really fun.
You know, and at the end of the day, ha, I saw so many red roofs.
Just having that, I want to look for this now.
And I do a thing became rewarded in itself.
So eventually she dropped the counter clicker and just had like a little dog
clicker, you just click it and make a noise.
And that was still as fulfilling to like, aha, I see a red roof.
I click the thing and she used that like to form habits instead.
Like whenever I do this thing that I want to do, I click the thing once as a
reinforcement and it apparently works because humans are simple,
little biological machines sometimes works for dogs.
Yeah, right.
Works for dogs.
I imagine if you gave yourself a Skittle every time you noticed something
that'd be, I think Eleazar actually did that.
He was having people feed him M&Ms when he did something good.
That rings the bell.
Yeah.
I feel like I get to give myself half credit for doing a half baked version
of Brian's thing when I was, I used to drive for work all the time and I'd
count blue cars on this, on this, on the street and highway.
And that was just something to keep me engaged with the road.
But I, I only would keep counting my head.
I imagine if I had a clicker, I'd actually have been more focused too.
And less focused on the road cause I'd be reaching for my clicker while driving.
So, but similar, similar style thing.
I'll give myself a, a week high five for that one.
How's that?
How did, how did the M&Ms thing work out?
Do you remember?
I don't remember a follow up.
I remember, I probably not well.
Otherwise they'd still be doing it.
Yeah.
But he did his goal.
I guess it depends on how, how often you got M&Ms.
Like if you had 10 M&Ms a day, you won't get diabetes.
No, I know.
But that's what I'm saying.
He kicked so much ass with his goal that he got diabetes.
Right.
Yeah.
Sometimes you got to take that bullet in order to get your thing done.
Right.
And M&M for every line of code he writes on the AGI, right?
It's a tangent, but I was just talking to one of my friends about how
frustrated I am that we still haven't figured out how to make healthy food that
tastes like chocolate.
Like, right?
Well, why is that?
I'm sure there's a very good reason why this is hard, but it just seems like it
would be.
Well, the reason that it's hard is because calories is what tastes good.
Yeah.
But why can't we just, you know, they created Splenda.
Like, are there more hacks that we can do to just trick like your brain into
thinking one molecule is the other molecule.
If it's got a similar structure, I don't know how nutrition works, but I'm with
you.
There might be, there might be a good reason quote unquote, but not a satisfying
reason, certainly not the reason as satisfying as a Snickers.
I think it's probably just more of a malloc reason where there's more money in
creating M&Ms that are genuinely bad for you and taste better.
Cause they're super cheap.
Yeah, like.
Yeah.
But I mean, gummy Flintstones vitamins taste like candy, right?
Notoriously.
They're kind of a chalky aftertaste.
I've actually had them, but I've heard of people taking too many of them.
So, um, maybe, maybe like gross candy, maybe if you didn't have any other candy in
the house, or maybe it wasn't a full vitamin, right?
If you're not getting your full daily load of vitamin from a, from a gummy, but
it was 5% then you could eat 20 of these gummies.
The downside of the nearing 20 gummies a day.
So.
It's my problem with like marijuana edibles is that me and marijuana don't
get along, but like, I really just want to eat like the candy that kind of tastes
