It was really bad.
I'm surprised I was at functional at all that I graduated.
I think it may be a large part of the emotional disturbances in
teenage hood in our society is just that we force that on people and has a
bad psychological effect.
Well, and school in general too.
Yeah.
Um, if we didn't mention it before, uh, on sleep start codex, there's a
melatonin article that you should check out.
If you're having trouble with sleep, that's just like a, you know,
cheap quick intervention that could help a lot.
That's for example, if you're like me and you have a shifted sleep schedule,
I think there was a more proper word for it than I'm forgetting, but I'm
like an extreme night owl taking melatonin seven hours before you want to go
to sleep will kind of help bring your sleep cycle back to a normal circadian
rhythm so you can go to sleep at a reasonable hour, wake up at a reasonable
hour.
And take way less than you buy in the bottles at Walgreens.
Absolutely.
I think 300 micrograms was the recommended dose, which is like what your
body produces naturally.
And I think you're unlikely to, uh, make yourself melatonin intolerant,
which for the record is about one 10th of the lowest dose you can buy at most
stores.
Yeah.
A lot of places sell like five milligrams, which is an insane amount of
melatonin.
That's a hormone.
So like you do want to be careful with taking it.
Yeah.
There, there is a, a company on Amazon that makes melatonin in the right
amount.
And they're super cheap.
I bought a bunch when I read these articles.
So they're just as much as you would buy, pay at any pharmacy, which is,
you know, a sense per pill.
Yeah.
They're quite cheap and readily available in most like supermarkets and
pharmacies and yeah, melatonin doesn't work for everyone, but that's a, again,
you can buy it.
It's nice when you can take things in pill form.
You can't take sleep in pill form yet.
You can dig medafinil.
Interestingly, um, medafinil actually elevates a rexin or that's one of its
proposed mechanisms.
What is a rexin?
So like melatonin regulates sleep, uh, your circadian rhythm.
When you see lots of blue light, it tells you to be awake when, and, uh, so
you generate a rexin, which keeps you awake.
And then, uh, when you see lots of red light in the evening, you generate, uh,
melatonin, which makes you sleepy.
So I think, uh, it was on Scott's Tumblr.
He had a while before he wrote the melatonin article theorize that you could
completely control your circadian rhythm with, uh, medafinil and melatonin.
And it seems really useful and like something that, you know, should be more
widely known and used.
So if I buy a lamp, I don't know if you guys know the answer to this, but
if I were to buy it, I've got a desk lamp at work that I never used because I
had it when there was, I set a place that had poorer lighting.
If I got a blue light bulb for that thing and left that on, would I feel
more alert at my desk?
Well, not like blue, blue, but more like that white blue from an LED.
Yeah.
Like the kind of blue that you get from the sky.
I think most unnatural lights are blue spectrum lights anyway.
Yeah.
It's kind of an issue.
It's why they have like flux and twilight for devices or like those, uh,
like computer, uh, there's like ridiculous looking computer glasses.
Oh yeah.
Those little yellow things, the newer ones look kind of cool.
Basically never look into screens before an hour before bedtime, because that
really fucks you up.
And if you absolutely have to, and even if you don't have to, if you look at
in screens at all after the sun goes down, get something like flux.
Yeah.
I've had flux and iOS comes with all that built onto it now.
So cool.
Yeah.
Things should come with that built in.
We have the ability to.
That's the things that doesn't cost anything to like, considering how many
children are using devices like all day long too.
I think flux is available on PC, but I know it's available on Mac for free.
So there's a similar thing on PC.
It is.
And it is also free.
And it is also called flux.
There you go.
What's this about if you have depression, anxiety, or ADD?
That's just, uh, saying prioritize working on that.
A lot of people get like upset about, you know, oh, well, I don't really, you
know, want to waste a lot of time going to a therapist or trying out new
medications, cause it's going to slow me down.
But, uh, I like to just kind of think of it as delegating tasks to future you
who's better and better able to handle them.
So see a doctor, a therapist, if possible, if you've got one of those disorders.
If they are able to improve it at all, the productivity boost you get is
absolutely worth whatever time you put in.
Yeah.
And just the happiness boost, like that's really terrible at being depressed or anxious.
So, you know, I found them happier when I'm more productive though.
Oh, absolutely.
So it's a nice positive feedback loop.
Yes.
Yeah.
Exactly.
It's like, I did a thing.
I've made the world slash my life better.
Yeah.
And it gets to be this negative feedback loop.
If you have anxiety, so you can't focus enough to do your tasks, so you don't do
your tasks, which gives you more anxiety.
So fix that.
Um, you can get health insurance through Medicaid if possible in the United States.
Anyway, you can look for low cost clinics.
They usually have those and therapists usually have sliding scales, which are
based on your income.
Uh, so see if you can find a therapist who specializes in cognitive behavioral
therapy, which could help you also with, um, if you're trying to be more productive,
it's cool because they go hand in hand really well, or you could even use a
workbook or an app.
They have those for free.
You can get one at the library.
You could download one.
It's about as effective.
Uh, I've been using one called Wysa and, uh, I, I recommend it.
It's got like this cute cartoon penguin with AI that talks to you.
And then it kind of coaches you through different CBT methods and, uh, it has
like preloaded a bunch of free, uh, meditation exercises and physical
exercises, yoga poses.
So it's like, it's pretty fun.
Uh, it's pretty cute.
So if you're turned off by a cute cartoon penguins that send you like animated
gifts, then maybe that's not for you.
Penguins, then you aren't a monster and you should not be listening to our podcast.
Develop one for that person.
We're just like, Gilbert Gottfried yelling at you like, Hey, I asshole.
That's probably counterproductive.
I would find it really funny, actually.
I'm not even going to talk about in a tropics because we already had a, you
guys had an episode about that already.
We've really dug that into the ground.
So that's it.
Let's, um, move on to the other stuff.
Cause that would, that took too long.
Yay.
Thank you, Jess.
No, that was great.
It was, it was information dense, but I found it valuable.
We'll have a lot of links to some of these things in the description here.
Um, can't remember what I was going to say.
I'm, I'm grabbing back for it now.
And even the straws that I'm had in a second ago were gone.
I just, I'm, now I'm pulling on nothing.
There's some mind hack that you can use for recovering things.
You just lost like that.
There is.
It's called getting better sleep.
Sounds like sleep is super fucking cool.
I mean, you know, everyone knows that, but it's occurring to me that like, I don't
know, my, my lack of, my lack of energy and productivity being constantly exhausted.
I kind of use it like a self-depreciating humor, but it is kind of really wearing me
out and I need that to be managed.
So I don't know what's, what have jagged my ass on this stuff for, I think.
Oh, I'd like sleep is awful.
Uh, I hate the fact that you have to turn your brain off.
Yeah.
I don't, I don't actually, I mean, I don't really mind it.
I used to have.
I do.
I'm just not asleep.
Well, don't get wrong.
Well, I despise the fact that I have to sleep.
Don't get me wrong.
I, I, if I could take a pill that maybe not have to sleep, I totally would, but
that's not what's causing my bad sleep.
Um, it's, uh, I don't know, I think, well, no, I don't.
Well, I, I have suspicions.
Um, have you like tried to bring this up with a doctor?
I will.
I, I'm usually the first step that, well, I, I mean, I have in the past, but I
haven't seen a doctor about anything in years.
Moving on to our less wrong thing.
Yes.
Yeah.
Didn't we have a word for it?
Sequences.
Yeah.
Didn't we have like a, the segment of the show was called something that I recall.
I don't recall either, but we should, we should have something.
Yeah, it's not like, but we should have something snappy, but I'm not smart
enough to come up with something on the fly.
We'll brainstorm this for a while.
Yeah.
And then later.
Yeah.
That can go in post.
In fact, I have a great idea.
It is.
