Does somebody still have the password?
That's what I was going to ask.
I don't know if anyone alive has the password.
She needs to pass it to her kids or something.
But something like, you know, if your grandma came back and, you know, it was like,
Hey, the combination that's safe in my closet is this.
And then you went in and the safe actually opened or, you know,
check behind my dresser.
I dropped my diamond ring back there and it's back there.
You know, just enough things that were verifiable communications from the afterlife.
That would be good evidence.
But, you know, a cold spot in a room?
No.
Right?
Who even said ghosts are cold?
That was my, that was one of my big rights about it.
Dead people are cold.
Sure.
But these aren't, these aren't bodies, right?
If anything, they're concentrations of energy, which might be hot.
I don't know.
But this whole thing of like, you know, we were talking about,
Oh, before, before we started recording about using like a heat gun or a thermal
reading gun to read which parts of my rooms are drafty or something.
If I see a cold spot over there, who decided that that's a ghost?
If anything, a hot, I think a hot spot is like just a priori to me and more likely to be a ghost.
So what I'm getting at is that's bad evidence.
I would need good evidence like verifiable tests.
I really like ghost hunters who kind of just decided a bunch of,
Okay, like ghosts are this, this and this.
And we're going to use these tools to find anomalies.
Yeah.
Like, like, you know, ultra low frequencies or those radio scanners that just jumped
between the radio and like, Oh my God, we just heard the word fuck.
That means the ghost is mad at us.
You know, those, those are, if there was,
We don't know anything about ghosts.
So how, how, you know, like, we've never actually had any evidence of ghosts that we
can say, Okay, this is more or less likely to be a sign that this is a ghost.
Exactly.
I remember reading an interview with a surgeon who,
on like the top of a shelf in the surgery room or wherever it was.
They put a card.
Yeah, they put something and whenever anyone had not a buddy experience,
they'd be like, Oh, cool.
What's, what's that card say up there?
And they're like, what, what card?
And I'm like, Oh, you didn't actually see anything, man.
Yeah, you didn't see that.
Put a jack of clubs up on top of the light.
Yeah.
I don't want to derail us, but we, we talked a bit about the, the next post.
Or do we want to move on to that one officially?
Yeah.
So this one was outside the laboratory.
And this one starts with the kind of tongue-in-cheek quote that outside the laboratory,
scientists are no wiser than anyone else.
And we should be very disturbed by that fact.
So we talked about a bit of, we can kind of skim parts of this because,
A, that's kind of true in some cases.
But as Yukosky, I think eloquently puts that if that, if, if a scientist is only a scientist
when they're wearing the lab coat, they're not a real scientist.
They're, they're following the rituals of science, but they don't know, they don't know why.
Did you want to read his awesome apprentice shepherd analogy?
Yeah.
Also, isn't there an audio version of this full story somewhere out there already?
I don't think there is actually.
Didn't you do it?
I don't think I did.
I don't remember there being one though.
I feel like one should exist.
I mean, I, obviously we've all read it, but I don't think I did an audio version of that.
No.
I will double check.
I think you might have, but I think you would know.
So, suppose that an apprentice shepherd is laboriously trained to count sheep as they pass
in and out of a fold.
Thus, the shepherd knows when all the sheep have left and when all the sheep have returned.
If we then give the shepherd a few apples and say, how many apples?
And the shepherd stares at you blankly because they weren't trained to count apples, just sheep.
You would probably suspect that the shepherd didn't understand counting very well, right?
And I think that's a great analogy.
The shepherd, it's just a ritual.
He doesn't understand what numbers are.
Exactly.
And if it's, if it's the kind of thing that they could only do in this one sense,
whether standing outside the, the, the paddock or fold or whatever you call it,
the, the cage of sheep when they're leaving and coming back and they can't
do anything else, they don't, they don't understand the principle and they're not.
So in this case, this, this shepherd isn't not a scientist, but not a real counter.
Mathematician is probably too strong of a word, but
I'm kind of just breaking my brain, trying to think of like,
whether that would even be possible that someone could count sheep and not apples.
Like, are they using a different kind of math?
Well, you know that after two comes three, after three comes four, after four comes five.
And then once the sheeps are coming in, you go backwards.
So it's just walking up and down, you know, a, a, a path,
but it doesn't necessarily apply to apples, right?
So what I think you're saying, what Jess was saying is that, is that,
is that possible that a human could be that compartmentalized?
And I don't know if it's possible with counting if it's cognitively possible with humans,
but it definitely is in other slightly more complex domains, right?
It's obviously possible with science, with beliefs about the world.
But yeah, I think like math is, I don't know, I know we should just move on.
That was just like, I was confused by that analogy because I was like,
I don't think math works that way.
No, I see what you're saying though.
Like, can you really be that broken?
And maybe not that broken, but slightly less broken.
Okay. It still makes for a very vivid analogy though.
Yeah.
Yeah, kind of ruined it, I'm sorry.
I disagree. I think it's fun to think about.
So yeah, I mean, is it a racialized tradition for testing hypothesis experimentally?
Like, why should you test them experimentally?
If you're, if you're a scientist and that's your job, that's why.
But if you're a lowercase s scientist and it's your job, that's why.
You're capital s scientist and that's who you are.
It's because you want to have an accurate map of the territory
and testing is the only way to do that.
Yeah. He has this thing that I sometimes quote, not verbatim, but I make this analogy
as well that when you look down to see your shoes to see if your shoelaces are untied,
photons arrive from the sun, bounce off your shoelaces, strike your retina,
are transduced into a neural firing, are reconstructed by your visual cortex
into an activation pattern that's strongly correlated with the current shape of your shoelaces.
So to gain new information with the territory, you have to interact with the territory.
His, his thoughts are correlated with the, the photons which are correlated with the shoelaces.
There's this direct chain that ties everything together.
There has to be some real physical process whereby your brain state ends up correlated
to the state of the environment. To find things out, you have to go look.
And then he goes on to say that, uh, what about a scientist who is competent in the lab,
but outside believes in the spirit world? If he says something along the lines of,
well, no one really knows. And I admit that I don't have any evidence,
but a religious belief, it can't be to prove disproven one way or another by observation.
Then, uh, there's just says, I cannot but conclude that this person literally doesn't know why you
have to look at things. I think that's the, that that's, um, the puzzle that that you're
thinking about, Jess, when you brought up the, the counting person, like, is it possible that they
really, I don't know, it sounds like he's being uncharitable, but it might really be the case,
right? Yeah. Like maybe they just see apples in their brain just blanks. Like, no, that's not
what you do with apples. You do that with sheep. Apples are for eating. It's, it's really frustrating
that, um, whole paragraph about the shoes and the sun and the photons, because I wish there was a
simple way I could use that when I argue with people who don't understand why you have to look
at things. Like people who believe in ESP, it's like, well, there's like a, what, what is your,
you know, proposed mechanism for how you can communicate with someone on the other side of
the world with your brain? Do you understand how matter works or energy or neurons? And like,
they just don't, or they just don't care. They're like, well, there's some kind of energy that does
it. I'm like, no, that's not, we, no. And I wish I could just kind of quote this at them, but then
like they, you know, you can't realistically, okay, let me get my phone and pull up this sequence.
And then I'm going to talk at you for a while and you're going to listen.
I could think of a really butchered way to do it, which where you grab a coin and a gun,
catch it in your hand and don't show the person and then say, is it heads or tails? If you guess
wrong, I'm going to shoot you. And do you want to look first? And if they say no, then they're
being crazy, right? But if they say yes, then they're admitting to the value of looking at things,
right? Yeah, but that's not how they think of looking at things. I have actually quoted this
thing to someone before. I mean, I just remember the basic gist of it, you know, did it work?
I don't remember. Yeah. And I think it helped to illustrate a little bit more of what, you know,
what I meant by entangling your beliefs with the physical world.
For virtue, for the virtue of being right, sure. But I think that the literal gun to the head
analogy does illustrate that like, no, look, if you really don't want to get shot, you have to
like admit, you probably want to see what the coin came up, right? Yeah.
It's not socially acceptable to point guns at people. Maybe you could bet a large amount of
money. And I thought about that, but the guns seem to be more intense analogy. But not in real life,
but just the idea, you could give this thought experiment to somebody, you don't have to actually
have a gun, right? Yeah. So I guess, yeah, if you encounter someone that says that like, I can do
ESP, like me and my brother can communicate, that's like, okay, I'll give you $100 if you guys can
communicate something. I bet people money. I've never had anybody take me up on it. Yeah. But
I've also, back when they were doing it, referred people to the James Randi challenge.
And you can't just offer to give them $100. You have to get an actual bet. So they give you $100
as well if they lose. Right. Yeah. And I will do like, Hey, if you can do this, I'll give you $100.
If you can't, you give me $10. Yeah. Yeah. I'll do a 10 to one bet with you as high as you want to
go. Yeah. 101 to one bet, like screw it, let's do this. So yeah, I think that's the virtue, I guess,
of literally putting your money where your mouth is, I guess, figuratively putting your money
where your mouth is, because literally joke about eating money. So the idea that like, no, look,
if you really believe this, you should be prepared to take this bet. If the fact that you won't take
this bet means that you don't really believe it. Right. I think there are, I think it was mentioned
in the post as well, though, that the the sheeps and the apples thing is, because lots of times,
I mean, we live at such a higher level of the world than where physics happens,
that lots of times it does look like different rules apply to different things. Like birds can fly,
squirrels can't. Why exactly is that? I don't know. You know, they appear to work with different
rules. Like the sun is in the sky and doesn't fall down. Unlike every physical thing we've
ever seen. Why does that work? I don't know. There's different rules for the sun and the moon
and things that are up there. And I think, and he, Elias pointed out that once, once you know
why the rules work, you can see that they're the same for sheeps and apples. And where was
what did he say? Oh yeah, Isaac Newton is just revealed, revered, not for his outdated theory
of gravity, but for discovering that amazingly and surprisingly, the celestial planets in the
glorious heavens obeyed just the same rules as falling apples, which is kind of a big deal.
Yeah. I liked the, well, I'm a bit of a digression. I liked the, you know, the bad answer to why
might things be this, you know, if you could be that compartmentalized, it's like, all right,
so if seven sheep go out and eight go out, 15 had better come back. Why 15 and not 14 or three?
A bad, you know, if someone doesn't really understand counting, the reason might be because
otherwise you don't get dinner tonight. If the wrong number come back, but
But if you understand the rules, there's a deeper reason.
Right. And then that's more generalizable. Yeah.
So at the very end of this post, he brings it back to, this is entirely a coincidence,
by the way, I did not plan for these two things to coincide like this, but he brings it back to,
maybe we can beat the proverb, be rational in our personal lives, not just our professional
lives. Maybe we can do better. An ambition that lacks the comfortable modesty of being able to
confess that outside of your speciality, you're no better than anyone else. And that, yeah,
I mean, I guess that helped spark the whole rationalists should do better in the world than
people without rationality thing as well, because you should be able to do better, right?
