So like epistemic rationality,
there are facts to be known about what steps you can take to win.
And then there's like doing those things, right?
So, I mean, imagine how useless Contessa's power would be in Worm,
if she saw the path to victory, but couldn't do any of those things, right?
So it's like, I see all the steps I have.
It's just a crazier.
Yeah.
So she's just got like this awesome, a crazier power where she can see how to win,
but can't actually do any of it.
Well, I mean, what good is it to know, you know, exactly how you should swing a bat
in order to hit a ball to get a home run,
if you don't have the physical skill necessary to actually swing the bat that way.
Yeah.
So that would mean that you'd have to train up a whole different thing, right?
Actually swing the bat.
So I think that's sort of what people are talking about with the different-
I still think it's the same.
You're still applying the same epistemic rules.
It's just, you do have to do this separate thing of, you know,
achieving the bat swinging skill.
But like, I don't think that you combine them together now.
It is a new skill.
Yeah.
No, I agree.
I think to quote Sealer of Vulcan again,
the art of epistemic rationality is how you achieve the value of truth.
And up until now, instrumental rationality has been a catch-all term we've been using
for the arts of winning at every other value.
And I think that's been a problem, that instrumental rationality has been over-defined,
has been used as a catch-all for just doing good at life,
which does not necessarily include the things that we care about
when we speak about this whole rationality thing.
Yeah.
Obviously, we want to do good at life.
There's also the puzzle of using the baseball analogy.
I could be hitting homeruns left and right,
but I have no idea the physics of a baseball.
Right.
Which I think is what Donald Trump is doing.
Yeah, exactly.
And so while hitting a few foul balls and whatever,
torturing the analogy as I often do.
But the, I guess, the claim then from the rationalist community would be that,
no, look, if you really understand the truths of everything involved with hitting a baseball,
you'll be able to more reliably hit homeruns or something,
or maybe knowing why you're hitting homeruns,
you can generalize that to other things.
And yet, there are people who would still, like I said,
be able to hit homeruns without knowing anything about it.
I don't really know how that plays in here,
other than to maybe illustrate that there are kind of two different things,
which I didn't think about, which I didn't,
that wasn't my position going into this,
but now I'm kind of leaning that way.
Can you explain that more?
I guess other than like, you could get really good
without leaving your house about knowing everything about how to hit a baseball.
You could, you know, Stephen Hawking might know everything there's about,
you know, hitting a homerun, except for actually being able to do it.
Whereas somebody else, probably most major league baseball players can hit homeruns,
but they couldn't show you the calculus of how baseball hitting a bat
moves out a certain angle or something, right?
So I guess maybe those truths aren't related to hitting a homerun.
I think rationality might be something that would tell you how better to train your,
or how better to practice so that you get better at it faster.
Or telling you some things like you should improve your upper arm strength
to get more force behind the swing.
Or, you know, if this is an option, which it probably wouldn't be,
make your bat out of different material in order to more effectively get the ball going.
Yeah. And then dark arts rationality, like tricking yourself would be
going with all the superstitions that professional sportspeople have,
like always wearing the same undershirt or something.
Is that dark arts? Because I, well, maybe I don't know if you're hacking your brain.
But if you know you're lying to yourself or you're doing it anyway,
like somebody who writes sigils or prays or something.
I think rationality would be the thing that tells you not to waste time with that,
because it won't make any difference.
Yeah. I thought dark arts was actually using the correct epistemology, but for bad reasons.
I think you're right. I misuse dark arts, but there's a technique of self-deception
that some people advocate of saying, look, I know it doesn't actually do anything,
but it helps because it helps me trick myself.
Well, then it is doing something.
You just have to be careful with it, though,
if you start believing that it works because of magic rather than me tricking myself.
And I couldn't make you a better baseball player by telling you
not to wash your undershirt before you go to play or something, right?
So I feel like I've gotten off track. Sorry.
So they want to know why rationalists aren't winning for real?
I think A, winning is a hard thing to define.
I mean, I feel like my life's gotten better in the last several years,
but I didn't live the counterfactual life where I didn't figure in learning this stuff.
And so it's hard to... I mean, I think Jess and I talked about this a bit yesterday.
Like, unless you're going to do longitudinal kind of blinded studies,
like I think the CFAR organization tried to do a bit of those.
And I don't know if they ever got enough results to publish,
or if I just haven't come across them.
I didn't actually look for them, so they might be out there.
But yeah, unless you're going to teach a random sample of people, all this stuff,
and then follow up with them for the next decade and see how they're all doing,
there's no way to know if it's helping.
You know, who knows, maybe my life would suck if I didn't get into this stuff.
And now it's pretty good, so maybe I am winning.
I do think that'd be a great thing to do if anyone could do that.
Like, if we had the funding to study that.
I think that CFAR is studying that,
and I think there just hasn't been enough time.
But anecdotally, I know people who have gone through the CFAR program
and highly recommend it said that it did actually make a significant difference in their lives.
I know my life has been improved by the whole rationality thing.
Yeah, but I guess why aren't we all as successful as Donald Trump?
Maybe is the implicit question here?
Well, I think it's...
I'm not very afraid of that, because that's a bad example.
We don't want to be as successful as...
Yeah, no, thank you.
I don't know what successful means if you're a miserable, fat old dude, but...
Right.
Well, I think part of it...
His age doesn't come into it, sorry.
Yeah, anyway, yeah, he can't help how old he is.
I mean, I think part of it would be like asking,
well, why isn't every baseball player as successful as Donald Trump
if they're so good at hitting home runs?
I just don't think rationality is supposed to be a thing where no matter...
It's not like some kind of Bene Gesserit magical skill
where you learn it and instantly you're better at everything.
I mean, I think that everything that I try is influenced by this
and made slightly better by the fact that I have these patterns of thinking,
but it's not an instant win code, you know?
It's...
Rationality itself is focused on having a more accurate view and seeking the truth,
and in as much as that helps you achieve your other goals,
it's beneficial, but it's not a thing for winning at other goals in itself.
There's also...
We've gotten a question a few times,
and I wish I could find the person who wrote it in,
but I keep saying we're going to get around to this and we're going to eventually.
This isn't the full reply, but let's be part of it.
Someone asked, or multiple people have asked,
like, what does rationality look like in your real life?
Like, what do you do with this?
And I think there's several things,
but if there's one thing that I do most days is try to imagine
and account for failure options for how things could go.
And so I think as a result, I have a lot less massive fuckups
than I would have had otherwise, because I'm visualizing,
okay, look, maybe it's not the best goal
to invest all of my money in cryptocurrency, right?
Or something like that.
So one thing that this, it's maybe not winning,
but it's definitely not losing to plan for how things could go poorly
if you were to follow through with this option.
And if it looks like, hey, this is definitely...
Your odds of losing here are like 90%, then you just don't do the thing.
And so that's not losing as a kind of winning.
Yeah, kind of betting on probabilistic futures
based on your actions or inactions.
Yeah. In fact, I think Seller Vulcan gets into that too
with betting markets and stuff.
Yeah, although that's more talking about just winning money
by betting on outcomes, not betting on what your actions are.
But that's like, why aren't we all rich from, you know,
or just like highly successful at prediction markets?
Yeah, you're right. That's another thing.
Because I don't lose every time I don't buy all the lottery tickets
and empty my accounts, buying lottery tickets every day, right?
Scott Alexander had an interesting reply to this,
which part of my reply has also been influenced by.
He replies in the comments to the post,
so I'll link the direct link to that as well,
that it was wrong to ever focus on individual winning
and we should drop the slogan.
He says that if you are good at knowing what is true,
then you can be good at knowing what is true
about the best thing to do in a certain situation,
which means you can be more successful than other people,
which is probably where this rational should win idea got its real legs.
He says, I can't deny this makes sense.
I can just point out that it doesn't resemble reality.
Oh, you have a thing in here?
I threw in one because we already brought up the example
and Scott Alexander did too, that Donald Trump continues
to be more successful than every cognitive scientist
and psychologist in the world combined.
And this sort of thing seems to happen so consistently
that I can no longer dismiss it as a fluke.
He, I just wanted to give us credit for thinking of the same,
or he thought of the same kind of, not even wild card,
just like this phenomena that we were discussing.
Yeah, so not necessarily correlated.
He points out that in the history of medicine,
it started with wise women just using traditional herbs to cure things,
and very smart people like Hippocrates came up with reasonable proposals
for better ideas and did much worse than the wise women for thousands of years.
And a lot of people died, but eventually things got better.
And personally, I would not draw the line at Hippocrates
because I, he still didn't use the scientific method.
There, that, that was basically just a different version of, you know,
superstition in my opinion.
