Let's talk about Donald Trump.
Oh.
Nice.
Okay.
Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Minyash Brodsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we
are going to be talking about, well we're just going to have one of those episodes where
we talk about a few things that we have found interesting recently.
And we're kicking off with something that was in the news, not as recently now, still
kind of recently, but by the time this airs, it's going to be like ancient history.
There's going to be something new and more outrageous that has happened because that's
the world we live in and we're actually recording a little fair bit ahead of time now.
So we want, because we want to get ahead of things for Thanksgiving.
And let's be honest, if we released this, we're recording on Saturday, if we released
it on Wednesday, this Wednesday, then there'd be already a new scandal to talk about.
That's true.
Yeah.
So we're not talking just random stuff.
There's a theme around the rest of this, but we're getting kicked off by an interesting
thing about, I guess, why truth matters and we're going to put up a fun example of untruthing.
Yeah.
All right.
This really blew me away.
As probably everyone knows by now, the Trump administration kicked out Jeff Acosta, I believe
his name.
Yeah, but he actually won the suit to be a lot back, but that's not really the point.
Yeah.
They kicked out Jeff Acosta saying that he had like manhandled or attacked an intern
or something.
He's a journalist from CNN.
He's a journalist from CNN.
They were asking some questions.
An intern came and tried to take the microphone away from him and he, I don't know, didn't
let her, I guess.
It's not like he pushed her or anything.
He just held onto the microphone and the White House said, okay, we're evoking his press
credentials.
He assaulted our intern and they released the thing is this was on TV.
Like everyone saw this.
And if someone who didn't see it could see it very easily, you know, it was one of those
things where look at how ridiculous this White House is.
And if you watch any of the comedy shows, you saw footage of it.
And then they said he accosted our intern and put up this doctored video footage from
Infowars, the conspiracy theorist guy that's been kicked off all these media platforms.
So to be clear, this video was, this video was tweeted out by the official Twitter handle
of the press secretary for the White House.
Yes.
Yeah.
And this is why he's putting this out, which would have been egregious enough.
This was the official link from the press section of the White House saying this is
why he's not allowed back.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And the really like the crazy thing is we know Trump lies and his White House lies blatantly
without shame.
Don't acknowledge it.
Don't care at all.
Right.
They will just say whatever they want to say.
It's, it's not even like lying for the most part because lying implies that you keep some,
some image of what the truth is in your head so you can keep your life straight or just
say whatever the fuck or lying at the very least is trying to spin a narrative.
You know, it could be all false presentation, but you're, you're doing it with the goal
of saying, no, believe this instead.
It's not even that articulate with this.
It's just more like, I mean, here's our version of the truth.
Yeah.
Ultimate facts came around just directly.
Yeah.
I remember, you know, when George Bush's White House had the, what, reality based community,
there was that line about that.
The alternative facts is the one of this one, which is, oh, no, you guys have your facts
of our turn.
We have our alternative facts where, you know, starting on inauguration day where he's where
Trump said I won by the most votes or had most votes since Ronald Reagan, I had the largest
turnout ever.
Yeah.
Um, you know, hours after being sworn in minutes, these things were already pouring out.
So what really blew me away was that they released doctored footage, which literally
everyone, even his most ardent supporters can see is doctored.
No, it's doctored and just accept people, expect people to go along with it.
I guess.
But they do.
I don't, I don't understand.
It was like, this is the first time, I mean, there have been lots of comparisons made to
1984 already, but this was the first time that I saw something like this.
And I thought, oh my God, I literally remember the scene from 1984 where everyone is shouting
about how glad they are that we're at war with East Asia.
And then at the stroke of midnight, the government says, actually we're at war with Eurasia.
And everyone's like, we've always been at war with Eurasia and all the banners come
down and are replaced with different ones.
And everyone simply starts touting the new truth as if that was always who they'd been
at war with.
You know, I'm like, everybody knows it's a lie and they're, they're going along with
it.
Like why it blew my fucking mind in 1984, at least the whole society had been explicitly
trained and programmed to behave that way, but it's kind of sadder that people just naturally
behave that way.
Yeah.
That's way worse.
You're right.
It's one thing it was brow-beaten into over, I don't know, I'm just a bigger generation
or two instead of people just like eagerly lapping this up and pushing this out.
So the, the doctored version is, is subtle.
I had to see a side-by-side to really see the difference, but what, what, what shows
up and I'll put a link to the side-by-side, basically Acosta is asking, I guess, challenging
questions.
I saw a gift side to see the sound and somebody kind of ushers this woman over to go take
the microphone.
She goes to get it and he kind of just holds it.
He doesn't surrender the microphone.
You see her kind of tug it and him not let his arm bend.
In the doctored version, there's like a jerking of his elbow when she like moves back as if
she was kind of pushed.
And there's like this quick chopping motion of his other hand as if he was hitting her.
Yeah.
It's, it's a, it's enough to, yeah, it seems like it's a bad.
It's not even a good doctor.
Yeah.
It's a good doctor.
It's, excuse me.
Yeah.
It's a bad doctoring, but it's, it's also like not super egregious.
It's not like, oh, look, and here's the, you know, the, the moment when his fist made
connect, you know, catch where their face looked.
It's just, but the weird thing is you don't have to watch him side by side.
At least I didn't.
Cause I'd saw the original footage first when it first happened and I didn't think anything
of it.
And then I saw the, you know, the doctored footage and it looks convincing enough on
the first pass, but like this was not at all what was in my memory.
And it was so fucking weird to see something like that because I, you know, immediately
I was like, that's not what happened.
How is this, how does this video exist?
I wonder if other people see the second footage and kind of just, oh, that's not what I remember
happened.
I guess I'll just update to maybe this is not what happened.
I guess, I guess I just misremembered.
Yeah.
I didn't remember being that harsh.
Huh.
Yeah.
It's, it's a subtle enough changes that what I'm saying is it's not like they changed
out the, the players involved or something like that or moved the room or something.
So like there's a roundhouse kick involved or something.
But I mean, yeah, the thing is, I don't know, it's, it's hard to not sound like a scare
monger or something when you're saying, oh, look how big a deal this is.
You know, comparing it to 1984 or whatever, people will be like, oh, you're just, you're
freaking out.
This is just one little gift, whatever, you know, three second video.
But I think that the, you know, nothing jumps straight to 11, right?
It's always a crawl.
And you know, for me, there was a few moments already when at some point last year, Trump
said that he had never said the whole got him by the pussy thing, even though he admitted
to it during the debates.
Oh, that was just locker room talk.
And then later he said that never happened and nobody bats an eye because this is already
things that he says every day.
But then when he, he was presenting or he was talking to the, the assembly of the UN
what a month ago, two months, and he had said, you know, my administration's accomplished
more than any other in the, or in history.
And there's a collective laughter from the assembly, which since this isn't a comedy
club, that's not really something that happens a lot.
And when Fox News aired it, they cut the laughter out, which is already kind of 1980 for me.
And that's, that's already doctored in a way.
That's definitely doctored.
Yeah.
It's not like they, they, they put in applause, but that's the thing is it's gradations, right?
So it gets, oh, we just cut this little part out, whatever.
But, oh, we just inserted a few frames, whatever.
Yeah.
So it's, it's, it's little things at a time.
I mean, what really blew me about this, like all the other things were just him lying,
you know, I'm used to him lying.
This was putting out fake evidence and expecting everyone to accept it as real and the fact
that they're expecting us to accept this is what really, and I don't know, did anyone,
a lot of people probably are.
You think that the people, his like, I think are, yeah, going to believe whatever he says.
Yeah, they're going to say our versions doctored.
I mean, like people read info wars.
Yeah.
People are on r slash the Donald people read info wars.
Like it's, I don't know how many of those people are just like explicit trolls.
How many of them actually, you know, exist and how many of them are actually, like true
believers.
There definitely are.
They're, they're out there.
I mean, I've already written off the people at info wars that believe were ruled by lizard
people or whatever the fuck, you know, who they're, they, they're not write them off
because they probably voted for Donald Trump.
Well, yeah, they're both kind of as much as yours, which is
Damn it.
Democracy.
But like his base, if his base believes that stuff, I don't even know.
I guess the other thing too is that this one was put forward by the press secretary of
the United States.
Yeah.
And not the, not just Fox News, which is basically the press secretary, but not, not legally.
Right.
Not officially.
Yeah.
