If you're able to really actually understand the rules.
Yeah. If you think of winning is making your beliefs pay rent rather than a, you know,
your terminal goal should be to run a successful business or to be the next deal on musk,
then that makes a lot more sense. It's just a way of checking yourself.
So you wreck yourself less. Yes. Nice. Yeah. I was, I was, when I read that,
when I read that, I was very, he, he links the comfortable modesty back to the post about that
we covered, I think either one or two episodes ago about false modesty. I almost didn't pull this
to include it in here because I felt like really scared and challenged by this line.
As in I was like, oh, shit, now I have to do better in the real world. I can't just say, look,
you know, I'm doing the best I can. I, I'm just, I'm just another guy like everyone else.
And now I'm like, fuck, this, this is calling on me to be better and not just hide behind the
false modesty of, oh, what can you do? Well, and that's what the community is asking us too.
And that's how it ties in really well to the episode, right? The community wants to know why
aren't we crushing it all the time. And there's people looking at answers for that and how best
approach is, but the sense that there's, there's this sense that I think I agree that we shouldn't
be content to not be doing better. If there's, if there's avenues to success, we should be damn
well able to incorporate them and use them, right? Especially if there are things we actually want.
Yeah. And there are things we want. We listed a bunch of goals that the community did have,
you know, improving AI, improving, you know, epistemic rationality, improving, you know,
people's cognitive awareness of biases and whatnot, effective altruism. If these are things
that we do all agree that we want, then I almost think it's a cop out to not pursue them.
Yeah. And we win by not destroying the world every single day. Yeah.
Baseline winning. That's not losing. All right. I think it also helps us to function
better in a society that is not optimized for us. Yeah. What do you mean by that?
I don't know. I think that society is more optimized for people that.
That just want to, you know, follow baseline reality. Yeah. Have the two kids and the house
and certain salary. I've always felt that I don't fit into the world very well, that I'm kind of
weird and odd. And this has helped me relate to the world and understand it and how I fit in
quite a bit better. And also like finding a community of like-minded people has helped
quite a bit too with that. Yeah, I agree. There was someone in the comments of one of the articles,
I forget, it might have been Sailor Vulcans said that it was a mistake to make a community out
of rationality. And I kind of chafed at that because I was like, well, first of all, I don't
think that it would ever not be a community. If you get enough people who are like-minded,
like they were saying, less long should have just been a project group in the moment that
we tied all of our relationships and our friendships and everything into it. That was a bad idea.
I think not. I think a lot of people actually have like improved their lives a lot by having
groups of people that are like-minded. Yeah, strong disagree as well. Even it just gives me
more accountability if nothing else for like, why are you achieving your goals? If I'm in a
community of people who care about the same things I care about and notice that I'm deluding myself,
you know, I can't check myself all the time, but it's useful to have other people around
me that can say, hey, you said you were going to do this and didn't, what happened?
Yeah, cultivating a community that holds you, that can help you hold yourself to higher standards.
And remind me what my values are. It's pretty important too, because it's easy to fall back
into the, you know, societal default mindset. Yeah, if you're just doing what everyone else
is doing, then you won't even know if you're making a mistake or not, right? You're just
following the script. Jess, I totally believe you can wait six more days for a new phone.
I don't know, man. It's really inconvenient. It's just a few more days. You can do it.
Yeah, I might have already picked out the phone I want anyway, and I doubt there's going to be a
really good Black Friday sale on it, but it's worth waiting just in case.
Okay. And that's the shocking way that I realized that today is November 17th and
not way earlier in the month. So, all right.
So I'm going to get working on that time machine too.
Yeah, geez. At the very least, it's a time-turner. If I could just have a few more hours each day.
I, that's one thing that I just love about this irrationality was his, like, wanting to have a
three-hour wedding with him, Quirrell and the time-turner. It's like, I totally get your love
for the time-turner. I'm as infatuated with it as you are, and I'd be just as ecstatic and
protective of it as you are. Yeah. My favorite thing about it was he's, like, immediately,
oh, I've got the ability to control time. What should I do first? Prank myself.
I only get one chance to fuck with myself this hard. I'm going for it. So delightful.
All right. Next episode, we will talk about the episodes. Politics is the mind-killer.
Dun, dun, dun. It shows up. And just lose hope already. And there will be links to both of those
at TheBasinConspiracy.com. Yep. Cool. Let's see here. We've got, I think we've
been not going for quite a while, right? We have. Oh my God. We should just do an episode on feedback
then, because I want to get to this feedback, but we've been going for more than two hours.
It keeps being more feedback. Yeah. Yeah. Next episode, you want to just hit feedbacks?
Yeah. We'll find some time in the next month to hit a feedback episode.
Cool. Because, yeah, I do, I really do want to get into these, but not enough time now.
I think putting in the less wrong posts is cutting out time for like rat chat and feedback.
So that's true. Yeah. But I think it's fun. So yeah, I really like doing the less wrong posts.
I want to keep that in. Me too. But we'll always have time for us to thank a Patreon every episode.
Hell yeah. This week we've got Glenn Willen.
Thank you so much for your support. It means the world to us.
Thank you, Glenn. Thanks, Glenn. Let's see. If you want support the show, you can find,
you can do so at patreon.com slash the search TheBasinConspiracy.
If you don't have the time or money and don't want to, that's totally cool.
You can give us a review on iTunes. You can comment in the subreddit on the website,
be part of the community building stuff that we're talking about.
Or attend local less wrong meetups or whatever it is you feel like doing.
Yeah. If there's a local less wrong meetup, that,
that, I mean, it'll make your life better to go probably.
Probably. Okay. Good frame.
Okay. Oh, good. Yeah. I went to a couple in Fort Collins before I came out to Denver.
And I didn't have a great time. Well, I mean, I was new to the thing and they were like kind of,
they were standoffishly. And there wasn't, there was like three people there too.
So, but it was fun. They got together every two weeks for coffee or something.
I thought that was great. And then, yeah, then I realized there wasn't one in Denver.
So I wanted to make one happen here. And this one is more fun. It's also way,
like, there's more people here. No, there's was casual. This had a coffee shop. It was just,
you know, they weren't like doing any kinds of exercises. No, no, they just,
they just got together. One of them, they were like two in their early twenties and
one woman was in her thirties or forties, but they just got together and chatted like we do.
But it was just a, maybe I'm also older and more sociable than I was. That's probably
the majority of the factor. So scratch the whole thing. I'm going to cut that all out.
Now you can leave it in. You had, you know, a different experience.
Yeah. So I guess I'll leave that in for the sense of if you don't have fun at your first one,
try again or make your own. You're going to have two competing rival,
less wrong groups in the city. We can have blue and green, less wrong groups.
That's right. I'm going to destroy it, racism, beat each other up.
Exactly. Yeah. I think that's all I got for this week.
All right. Thank you, everyone. Thanks, everybody.
All right. And thanks for joining us again, Jess.
Oh, no, you're welcome. Thanks.
Bye.
