Do you guys, were you cognizant of science yet when dark energy was discovered?
I don't know about when it was discovered.
I remember a lot of discussions around it.
Which I guess continued to this day.
It was the craziest fucking thing when, when people first discovered that the universe is
actually accelerating.
And I mean, that, that was quite the talk of, of me and my friends at the time.
Cause this is a whole new force we'd never known about, right?
I remember the buzz and discussed at least in historical context and books by like Tyson
and Hawking and stuff.
But none of us doubted it when we heard it.
Well, this actually kind of brings me back to like, I have this thought about the argument
from authority that, and I think actually, I think I've brought this up on the podcast
and received flack for it.
Now that I think about it, maybe this is a blog post back when I have a blog.
Do it again.
That if Stephen Hawking says dark energy is real and here's why, I am fully justified in
just believing him because he's an authority on it.
What would be wrong for me to say is that it's true because he said it.
What I, what I say instead is that I think Hawking says it because it's true.
Yeah.
And I, I'm not equipped to challenge him on that.
I'd update more in favor of this being true because Stephen Hawking believes in it.
Yeah.
In fact, I would bet that he's right.
I literally bet with my money.
And if someone wants to take me up on that and then go prove Hawking wrong, they're welcome to.
So it's sort of just, there's this, because this was like one of those things that you get a lot of
easy practice at arguing with religious people in your teens.
If you say, oh, well, you know, the science says that the, you know, you say, you tell somebody
a religious creationist that you're wrong, that the earth is 10,000 years old.
And they say, well, you just believe that it's 14 billion years old because your scientists say
it's 14 billion years old.
Why do you believe them?
That's an argument from authority too.
You're claiming I'm being using an argument from authority just believing my favorite book.
But it's a different kind of belief in authority.
Yeah.
It's because one, one has extraordinary evidence behind it.
Right.
They have this prestige that your book doesn't.
And if they were, if there was some big update in the community of the, you know,
in the next 50 years, they discover something, you know, another weird force of nature or
whatever.
And it's like, holy shit, guys, the universe is probably closer to 50 billion years old
than I'm going to start believing that it'd be weird of me to stick with the, with the
elder science of 1990 that said the universe is 14 billion years old.
Right.
So there's, there's a difference there in that it's flexible to the current consensus
and that consensus has huge incentives to be pushed more and more towards accuracy.
Yeah.
That's another, you know, argument you can give to the person who says, well,
you're just believing in your authorities.
It's like, well, science isn't dogma.
Right.
Yeah.
That's, that's never been good enough for them either.
If they were, we would have, we would still be sitting on Aristotle's shoulders rather
than on Newton's than Einstein's.
Right.
So there's a reason that this, that this evidence is accepted more highly than just
someone's word and it's just the bizarre irony of having that argument online of like,
look, we're having this conversation at like the speed of light and one of us works.
Yeah.
We have shot rockets into space.
We've cured diseases like, you know, what has the Catholic church done?
We have absolutely not shot rockets into space because the earth is flat.
And this is all a conspiracy.
I see.
Touche, sir.
Walks away quickly.
So it ends with the question, what about journals that came to publish replicated reports of
ESP?
So extra sensory phenomena is that what the sense where it's been a long time.
So I know what ESP is.
I just remember if I knew the acronym.
That's the idea that like, I can read your thoughts or.
Or you can push things over with your brain.
Or detect the tragedy on the side of the world with a disturbance in the force or something.
Right.
It's like remote viewing.
Yeah.
All the weird stuff that people are supposedly able to do in their heads.
Yeah.
That's just proof that scientists were, you know, fell prey to cognitive biases twice.
Yeah.
Or a motivated reasoning or whatever.
They wanted it to be true.
They, you know, like because it's.
Why are you rejecting it out of hand though?
Because it challenges everything else that we've uncovered through the laws of nature.
But then we're just trusting other authority, other peer reviewed papers.
Right.
Yeah.
This was the kind of thing that like James Randi, I mentioned, I think Project Alpha
a couple of steps ago where, you know, he sent in dummies to, or not, he sent in students to go
in to do more of like the same magic research that people like Erie Geller were being paid to do.
And at any point if they're asked, are you, are you tricking us?
They were supposed to say, yes, James Randi sent me and they were never asked that.
Because you get motivated, scientists are people too.
And, you know, they're motivated by the same things the rest of us are.
It'd be great if they were just like the super smart robots that were giving us,
you know, just pushing out truth every time.
But they're, they're asking their own questions and trying to answer them themselves.
And the other problem I think with peer review is that like you could,
you could get a peer reviewed creationist journal, and I'm sure they exist,
where a bunch of other deluded morons come together and say, and, you know, nod their heads
and say yes.
There actually are peer reviewed ESP journals.
Yeah.
So it, it has to be in the, the, the special community of real science.
But that, if that doesn't sound culty, I don't know what does.
Right.
And like, how are you defining your real scientist?
Just because it was replicated, I'd still want to look at the studies design.
You like, was it double blinded?
You know, um, yeah, okay.
I did jump too hard onto dismissing it out of hand just because of what Steven was just
talking about, like we've seen this before.
We know why this happens, but.
I would absolutely dismiss ESP out of hand too.
I just had to think for a while about why I would.
I mean, I think part of it is because it directly contradicts a lot of things that are already far
more better established about physics and how reality works.
And because there are much less unlikely explanations for those phenomena as well.
The explanation they give has, has a better answer than ESP exists.
It's easier to believe that some scientists diluted themselves than that ESP exists.
It's kind of the same Jefferson answer.
I'm still open to being proven wrong if they came to me with some extraordinary evidence.
That's the thing.
If like the entire scientific community were to be like, guys, dude, we were wrong.
There is like this whole sigh thing that taps into this other quantum dimension.
And a few people have evolved, you know, enough to be able to influence it just slightly.
And here's how it works.
I'd be like, holy shit.
Yeah, they, they discovered another aspect of reality.
That's awesome.
And we'd all love that.
And that was the, like James Randy's million dollar prize was always like a.
A little bit hopeful, right?
Well, it was, it had a sharp and a dull edge.
It was used as a weapon to call out charlatans.
But it was also like, if we ended up paying out this million dollars,
we'd be stoked because we discovered something new.
And I think, I think James, I think Richard Dawkins asked James Randy,
like, if you had this challenge, you know, 120 years ago, wouldn't you have paid out
if somebody was like using a radio and Randy thought about it.
And it said, yeah, I guess so.
If somebody had invented a radio before they existed and was using it to win our,
or to pass our, our judgment and our tests, then yeah, we would have paid out the million
dollars.
But then, hey, we would have been the ones to have demonstrated that radio existed and
worked.
Sure, they invented it, but we were the ones.
We would have happily paid out that million dollars.
Yeah, and then you'd get the radio, you'd take it apart, you'd figure out how it worked,
and then you'd have a radio 122 years earlier, which would have been a big win.
Exactly.
And so then, then the, the today analog would be like, what if somebody, you know,
proved psi or something through, through a similar thing?
It's like, well, then we just helped discover or helped seriously validate a new discovery
as important as something like that.
And so.
At which point, you can measure it, figure out what causes it.
Yeah, exactly.
And replicate it.
Totally.
So in that sense, I like the fact that you can't do anything with these
supposed ESP powers except some occasional parlor tricks is really indicative.
Right.
And.
Yeah.
Ask Wild Bo what he'd do with it.
Actually dull because he'd probably just destroy the world with monsters.
Yeah.
The, I think, oh man, I had something.
I guess I was going to just reiterate that the point that yes, if science did come out
and say, yes, ghosts are real or something, we'd all be stoked on that.
I'd be stoked.
That means death is fake.
Exactly.
I've always been my thing on ghosts or at least like the last 10 years.
You know, I've, I've always, if, if ghosts are demonstrated to be real, I would be,
I would be stoked.
But the thing is, A, I'm, I really want to be real.
So I need to be extra careful and B, I, I, because of that extra carefulness, I need
to have a very high standard of evidence.
You know, if somebody, we went to a haunted house and a cup fell off a table, I wouldn't
be like, oh my God, spirits are real.
I, you know, so like what would constitute proof for ghosts?
Like a number of people passing that Houdini seance test, right?
I don't know what this Houdini seance test is.
So, so Houdini every year, he'd said, Hey, when I die, I gave my wife a password.
You guys conduct a seance for me.
And if the spirit in the room can tells her the password, she'll know it was me.
So they now, they still, they keep doing the on his birthday or on his death day or
something.
They do the seance every year.
Oh really?
I don't know if anyone alive.
