claim designed by the surrounding process to be more extraordinary evidence than simple verbal
claims.
It is more extraordinary evidence because the surrounding process, and I would place a far
greater premium on replication than on peer reviews, by the way, is constructed to deny
entrance to claims that are in fact false.
In this way, the replicated scientific report becomes capable of overcoming greater burdens
of prior improbability.
So yeah, it was basically a post on why science scientific evidence can be trusted, right?
Yeah.
And I think I had that joke before about like, I won't take your word for it that were always
exist.
But if you brought me up with dead werewolf, I believe you, that's sort of the extraordinary
evidence to just to substantiate that extraordinary claim.
And that's what science does.
And I want to reiterate that when I said that there's already an enterprise that sort of
does the truth seeking thing, that's what science does.
But they do, I think in my experience of not being a real scientist, they focus less on
like the self improvement part of science, like, you know, it's less important that like,
you're a better and more updated, well, well, rounded calibrated person, just more that
your test results are accurate.
Whereas rationality is like, no, it can be about you to there's a virtue of rationality,
but there's a practice of science, maybe there are virtues of science.
I don't know.
Yeah, science does double blind, which, you know, shows that they have some awareness of
the fact that we dilute ourselves, that there's been a lot more work on that like,
pretty recently to true replication.
Crisis and yeah, I found it interesting that he posted in here that he puts far greater
premium on replication than on peer review.
And this was before the replication crisis where he said, you know, peer review is okay
and all, but I the reason I point this out is because I was, you know, part of the whole
atheist scene during the early days.
And whenever people tried to bring about, you know, like, I know that God existed because
I saw my mother being healed from whatever she had.
I the one of the go to replies was, that's great, but that's your anecdotal evidence,
which I don't believe because you're easily fooled.
Is it, you know, has it been published in a peer reviewed scientific journal?
And there was always this focus on peer reviewed.
And apparently that has not really been high enough of a bar.
Lots of things get past peer review because people are just sort of reviewing what you said,
right?
And having the having things actually be replicated is where the big deal is.
And that's where we got the replication crisis when people started trying and failing to
replicate things.
And to be fair, peer review is a higher standard than most people hold themselves to.
Right.
So most people just allow themselves license to believe whatever they want.
No, they won't ask their friends or they're, they're trusted smart allies to, to corroborate.
So doing that, at least science is ahead of the curve there, but it's not high enough.
They can do better.
And I specifically remember because I'm multiple, many times myself said, you know,
peer reviewed scientific journal.
And then I felt stupid.
Yeah.
Cause I used to do that too.
I was specifically focused on the peer review aspect.
I don't even know why probably just cause I heard so many other people say that.
Right.
It was a teacher's password.
Yep.
Yeah.
Well, and, and the, to the thing of scientists having double blinds so they can correct for
their own biases, that's true, but they, but it's possible to do that as merely a thoughtless ritual
and not do that as like a cognitively sapient person, right?
Or again, the, the, the scientists who can fully believe in whatever magic bullshit they want,
but get paper published cause they're, they're doing the rituals, right?
That's where the next post comes in.
But I won't skip straight there, but I'd see.
I did really like the Thomas Jefferson quote because like there, there were three quotes
at the beginning of this post and the latter two were both posted very approvingly.
And when I first read that Thomas Jefferson quote, I was like, aha, that's funny.
Look at how wrong he was.
But after I read the post, I went back and read that quote again.
And I think that was also meant to be an approving quote.
Like this is the correct way to do science.
Like Thomas Jefferson heard from two guys that rocks fell out of the sky and that was
not good enough for him.
And yeah, it really shouldn't have been, but the scientific method does exist.
And so people managed to replicate this.
And at this point in time, no one doubts that rocks fall out of the sky.
We all know about meteors because science has proven it and over and over.
And I don't know if Thomas Jefferson lived long enough to actually see that proven by science,
but, you know, the fact remains that he might have been convinced eventually,
whereas enough scientific evidence accumulated because scientific evidence is a very special
kind of evidence that will convince, you know, anyone in time.
I wish it would convince anyone in time.
Well, it should anyone, anyone who's trying to be accurate.
Is like taking the evidence in good faith.
Yeah, what you're saying is that Jefferson's rejection of the meteorite hypothesis was
it was correct, fully, fully reasonable from where he's at.
And it might have been unreasonable for him to hear this from two people and be like,
that's it.
I believe that rocks fall out of the sky now because all he's had is just two anecdotes
or rather anecdotes from two people.
Well, specifically from two professors, which I think is an important part of that too.
When we were talking about peer review versus double blinding or versus, you know, replication,
the people who are peer reviewing you were also presumably experts in the field,
but you're assuming that that means that they're impervious to biases.
They're not.
Right.
That's fair.
Yeah.
It's like argument from authority.
Yeah.
Jefferson accurately, you know, correctly applied Occam's razor there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he happens land on the wrong side of the position, but that's because he's using the
best tools yet at the time.
You have to imagine that if he had been presented with evidence, he would have said,
Oh, now I have the evidence.
So I'll update in favor of rocks falling from the heavens.
There you go.
And I mean, that, that wasn't just the thing that happened back then.
Continental drift wasn't really accepted until what the late fifties, early sixties
up until that point.
There's still people alive today who, you know, thought that the earth was an unchanging,
solid thing and had to be convinced over a period of time with the accumulation of
evidence that no, it actually moves and changes, which is kind of fucking crazy.
If you think about it, right?
The only reason it doesn't seem crazy is because we already know it and accept it.
There's a lot of wisdom to draw from that last sentence that sure, you know, sciences,
I guess you see that all the time where people don't give science all the credit it deserves
because it's like, Oh, of course we already knew that like stuff's made of atoms and that
germ theory of disease.
Yeah, exactly.
The germs are real or something because we are, we're all taught that in elementary school.
But it's like, yeah, but this was hard to figure out.
And this wasn't, this wasn't born knowledge that our species had from the beginning, right?
This was hard one.
Yeah.
You see a lot of people kind of look back in history and laugh at how dumb everybody was.
And it's like, you're standing on the shoulders of giants right now.
You would have believed exactly the same shit.
Exactly.
And I think it's, it's hard to, uh, you know, I can't remember.
I read Bill Bryson's a short history of nearly everything like 10 years ago,
which is not very short.
No, but it's, it's a short, it's a sort of nearly everything.
Yeah, nearly every comparatively, but he did talk about continental drift.
And I know that like the fact that the continents looked like puzzle pieces that was led together
wasn't lost on people through the fifties.
I don't know how they rationalized that 100 years ago, how that could be a coincidence.
How unlikely is it that the earth has moved so that these massive landmark masses
have moved away from each other?
Well, but it's, it becomes more likely that that's the case every time you look at,
every time you look at the coasts of other continents and be like, look, those fit right together.
But they don't fit right together.
I mean, there's been erosion and other stuff.
They, they, they've roughly fit together.
That explains fault lines.
Yeah.
I guess it, it's one of those things that I think that was one of the, the fact that they
look like they aren't just random shapes, you know, with relation to each other was, was.
That was another piece, but it was, you know, it wasn't
determinate.
No, no, no, it couldn't be.
That's not enough.
You'd have to explain how this is happening and that like land isn't,
I mean, everything about your senses and every experiment you can do without really good
instruments tells you that the land is just sitting there and goes all the way to the center.
And it's just, it's all, it's land all the way down.
How does, how does this move like, like a, like something floating on the water, right?
And even if it isn't land all the way down, how does just solid earth like this move?
It's not like it's floating.
Right.
Even if it was floating, there's other earth pushing against it, holding it in place.
So challenge is intuition.
Yeah.
But I guess for me, it was, I think that was always something that people would have had to
answer going back a hundred years ago or up to, up to whatever, seven years ago when they figured
finally that they bought onto this tectonic plate slash continental drift.
They'd have to at least say, look, why do they look like they kind of fit together?
And they can't just say, that's a coincidence.
And maybe they did, but that seems like a, that seems like a bad answer.
And if anything, that's like enough to incentivize people to keep looking into it and then come
to the right answer.
To me, that's like someone asking, well, why does that tree look like a, like it has a human
face in it?
If it wasn't, you know, if it doesn't take some essence from the body that is buried beneath
it, right?
It's like, look, the bark just happens to look like a human face.
Yeah.
There's a lot of things, but the answer to is, it's probably just a coincidence.
Or it's a not understood scientific phenomena that we can't like explain yet.
It's always frustrating when you do have to give those answers to people.
And it's not like the West Coast matches against Asia at all, right?
Okay.
Yeah.
You got to rotate some stuff.
All right.
Yeah.
That's fair.
It's, it's a funny puzzle and it's not perfect, but it's, yeah.
It's, it's, it's a hint.
Yeah.
It is a hint.
That's, that's what I was getting at.
Thank you for distilling it down.
It took me five minutes to get there.
Dark energy was also a thing that I remember.
