So I think I agree with what you were saying, though, that it sets a bad precedent when
you let things go, like even the lying, even the cutting, not so much the adding, you have
to call it out, I think, every time because it will get normalized over time when people
just go, Oh, of course we just expect Donald Trump to lie about everything.
It loses its impact.
It already has.
Like that's the thing is, I mean, you know, every time something insane happens, you're
just like, Oh, yeah, that's, that's Tuesday.
And, you know, even like at a larger scale, I know this is like not exactly related to
the truth stuff, but, you know, we had the largest massacre of Jewish people on United
States soil, but a month ago, that synagogue got shot up.
And, you know, this didn't even, I was talking with a friend of mine who's Jewish and he
took off the date next day after work or the following Monday, he just, you know, needed
a day to decompress and whatever.
And we talked about it.
And I think, and I totally agree with his stance or his, what really perturbed him about
this, like this just didn't even really jar anybody.
This is just like business as usual.
Just another shooting.
Yeah.
And I mean, in, in a way it definitely is, but the fact that we're so blasé about it,
there's no, I mean, there's definitely probably local, there actually was a great local response
and all that stuff.
But, you know, this isn't, remember how like the world stopped and Columbine happened and
stuff like there's, there's not just the time for that anymore, nobody, nobody's, nobody
bats an eye.
I was most perturbed by the fact that in two weeks later, there was a another mass shooting
and the CNN intro that I saw real quick because, you know, I want to know what happened.
The cameras would just do the, the anchor and he goes, the worst mass shooting on American
soil in 12 days, like, fuck, we now say, yeah, in a double digit number of days for that
sort of shit.
Yeah.
We need a, we need a place in Times Square where it's just like day since our last mass
shooting.
I was just thinking about that.
Somebody has to go by.
Like the workplace injuries calendar.
Exactly.
Yeah.
It's all weird, but someone, I guess this is going to be a bad segue, but to push us
into today's topic.
So what man?
It's, you know, that's your version of truth.
This, this their version of truth.
What's, what's the matter?
What's the difference?
Who really cares?
I know we're not talking so much about truth today, but we're talking a bit tangentially.
Yeah.
So, you know, whatever, right?
This, that's, let them have their, their alternative facts.
They're just as, you know, that's, have your, have your real facts in quotes that that's
what you care about.
What are you, what are you going to say?
These are not real opinions of Steven Zuber.
He's just using air quotes left and right here.
Yeah.
Um, I say that that's bullshit.
I don't know.
I guess I, I don't really know what to say when I, if someone were to earnestly come
out with that question.
Yeah.
And I guess I have something more fleshed out because I've been thinking about it already,
but the, I once had somebody when I was a teenager, we, back when I was in my days of
how much fun it was to like debate the existence of God with people and I kind of maybe moved
her to think that God lot, there's no logical basis for her religion.
She's like, so what?
Then what's the point of logic?
Oh.
And like, then I was kind of trapped for a while because like, how do you logically persuade
somebody, how do you use logic to persuade somebody who's not moved by the necessity
of logic?
And so I was like, oh, I guess, you know, the whole thing, I can't reason somebody into
position that they haven't reasoned themselves into a reason, somebody out of position, but
I think when you're talking more fundamental than that, like truth and logic, you really
just show them like, you do care about the truth and logic of these things.
You know, like, I can imagine somebody, you know, oh, well, you know, I don't really care
about truth and I get by just fine.
It's like, sure you do.
And if you care about alternative facts, if the vaccine that the doctor gave your baby,
he thought it was a measles, mobster, Bella vaccine, but it turned out to be nothing.
You'd be pretty fucking pissed.
They're alternative fact of, oh, I just told you this, what it was and charged you for it.
You obviously care about the truth.
So I can lay out a billion instances where you care about the truth and you can't.
So then it's up to you to defend why these few instances you're willing to say, oh, truth
doesn't matter.
I'm going to wave it away.
Well, it's motivated reasoning.
Yeah.
You really want to believe in your religion.
Yeah.
So you'll say anything to defend it.
And if your religion is your political party or your, your favorite alternative therapy
or something, then your beliefs about climate change.
Yeah.
So that, that doesn't actually bring me to this next post, but I swear that these are
related once we get to it at less wrong.com.
Sailor Vunkin, Sailor Vulcan posted, no, really, why aren't rationalists winning?
And I believe this is the same Sailor Vulcan that comments sometimes at our subreddit slash
the bait, our slash the basing conspiracy.
And because Sailor Vulcan has asked this before on our subreddit as well, too, the, they
say that when others win in places where we fail, it makes sense to ask how, what skills
or knowledge they have that we don't and how might we obtain them to say this came up
before, didn't we kind of cover this before in an episode, the wired rationalist winning
thing?
We talked about it a bit.
In fact, this, this quote here is right after they, they point out what our kind of argument
was on the podcast that we had, we had put forward, I don't know if it was our official
conclusion or kind of are just throwing our hands up and suggesting this.
It sounded like more of a thing that was come up with on the fly.
Yeah.
Okay.
So we, I guess, first of all, we should talk about what we mean by winning.
But before that, I wanted to, this, this, this quote that you just put out was right
after they had said that our position or at least argument we made on the show was that.
Wasn't that like winning relative to past you?
That's right.
Or yeah, it bumps you up a certain amount.
You know, it can give you an extra 20 points of success or whatever, whatever your metric is.
I believe we brought up the example of someone who was living in a developing country somewhere
and said that after learning the rationalism thing, he just noticed huge increases in life,
life outcomes, because nobody else was thinking in those terms and they were failing at a lot of
things that are pretty basic.
Once you have some, you know, standard structural thought patterns down,
he said, if the entire society was structured like this, I could see how things would be much
better.
But, you know, for himself, he was doing a lot better.
I don't remember that actually.
I just remembered that our, our kind of vague answer was saying that it could give you a bit
of a boost relative to your, your starting position.
And this thing here was a, was a response to our kind of cop out there.
That's what Vulcan called out, that, look, it's not to say you get a little bit of a boost.
If you're getting anything, you need to be able to say, yeah.
Like, why aren't rationalists the leaders of industry?
And yeah, or better yet, like if, if, if you're a rationalist and I'm not,
or rather say, if you started from a higher place than I did, I could still ask,
why are you doing better?
If I have the tools that rationality gives me, I should have those capabilities.
Yeah, the ability to actually break it down and systemize it and do it yourself.
Yeah. So, so winning here is achieving your goals.
We've talked about instrumental and epistemic rationality before,
which I've also argued are kind of the same thing.
But the idea that epistemic rationality is using all of your, your awesome rationality skills and,
and background concepts from science and the scientific method to arrive at
accurate beliefs, get a map that reflects the territory.
And instrumental rationality is getting to where you go, where you want to go and achieving your
goals. And you use the truth to do that, unless some people would argue that you use,
you know, phony truths to do that, if that's what helps.
I think some people who argue in favor of like the mysticism or magic would say,
look, it's not so much about epistemic rationality.
It's about getting to my goals, whether I have to lie to myself or not.
I think it's still the same thing.
I mean, talking about why does Donald Trump keep winning, for example,
even though he's a baffling social scientist and psychologist.
But um, whether it's intuitive on his part or not,
like maybe he actually does have some kind of systemized understanding of how psychology works
and he's manipulating that, or maybe it's intuition.
Maybe he's just really good at that naturally.
But it's still because, because of a truth about social science, about psychology that he's winning.
I would not call him a rationalist in any sense, though.
Not even an instrumental one, really, because it's hard.
I don't know enough about his full biography to give an account, but like,
I couldn't say that you're, you're winning a lot.
If you, if you declared bankruptcy, you know, eight times on, you know,
if you've had so many failed businesses, all of your businesses would flourish.
Or you could say you're winning because, look, I fucked up a hundred or a dozen times,
and yet I'm still making money.
Yeah, it didn't affect him.
So, uh, Sailor Vulcan says, uh, rationalists are very good at epistemic rationality.
But there's this thing that we've been referring to as instrumental rationality,
which we're not so good at.
I wouldn't say it's just one thing, though.
Instrumental rationality seems like many different arts that we're all lumping together.
And, um, I, I disagree that instrumental rationality is different arts lumped together.
I feel like it's just applying epistemic rationality to a variety of applicable problems.
Like, I don't think that there's different arts of self-help or of, you know,
improving a business.
It's all just applying rationality to whatever you're trying to do.
I think certainly that applying rationality to what you're trying to do
increases how, how likely you are to do good at those things,
because you have a more accurate understanding of how things work.
But I really, like when I say I wouldn't consider Donald Trump a rationalist,
I think in large part that's because he doesn't seem to care about the truth
or having an accurate picture in his mind of how the world really works.
And no matter how instrumentally successful he is at his goals,
I still wouldn't call him a rationalist.
So I think a large part of what rationality is, is the focus on epist, um, is it epistemicism?
Epistemology?
Epistemology, yeah.
The, the, you know, actual trying to figure out the truth part,
which is less instrumental, really.
And I think, I think you guys are kind of conflating,
or I don't know how much time we'd burn tabooing, uh, rationality here, but, um,
the word rationality.
Yeah.
But the-
Like I call it truth-seeking.
Yeah.
So, so the truth-seeking is different than winning slash doing your goals.
