We need more of people geniuses who are really good at running groups.
But again, that runs into the issue of, first of all,
how do we get them interested in rationality because they aren't now?
How do we market ourselves?
And then secondly, if we do start getting a lot of the people who like doing team building and community stuff,
are they going to shift our focus away from epistemic rationality
towards the self-help-y sorts of things or whatever else?
And for that matter, what do we listen to them?
Because I still, you know, get shivers of you when I think about doing things in group that feel any
at all like church, you know, or like the military,
like anything that is meant to help people coordinate sort of,
I have an allergic reaction to, which is bad.
Well, when you're coordinating, you're giving up your autonomy.
Exactly. I was going to say that, but you're giving it up in the sense as long as you want to keep cooperating.
You know, like you still have it, you can leave, but then you're,
if you're exercising your autonomy, then you're not coordinating with the group.
Part of that is going to be like, look, just trust me and do it.
And that's never something that I think our community will be receptive to, maybe.
Yeah, prove yourself first.
I consider trust me to be the magic words that always mean don't trust this person.
Right.
As soon as you hear those words, it's like, uh-huh.
Unless it's believe me.
Right.
He said making small hand gestures.
Yeah, I don't think we can solve that right away.
But that's definitely.
Identifying as a problem is the first step.
Yeah. And I think it's been identified and I like that it's being broadcast.
And there are people working on ways around it, or at least like part of it.
I think one thing that would help a lot.
Well, there's, there's CIFAR, there's group houses.
There's like unschooling centers that people are kind of talking about.
I'm not sure if they've actually taken steps to making any of them yet, but.
Well, and just like serious conversation about getting rid of the, the allergy to
having leadership in the community.
Yeah, like solstice.
Yeah. You know, one, one reason I think that it's hard to get people to rally behind it.
Cause like if we had an obvious or several obvious case examples of again,
torturing the baseball analogy, but like awesome home run hitters that look,
I've been crushing it left and right.
I can show you how to, that sounds like the title of a self-help book.
But if there were people from the rationalist community who, who were big and had a platform,
that could, that could be models for success.
If you do this stuff right, I think that would go some distance.
Maybe we just need better PR.
Better PR, better bigger, you know, more high name or more high profile names.
More people willing to put the label rationalist on things that they do.
Yeah. And, you know, it's nice hearing, you know, I just, cause I was,
I've been reading Sam Harris' books since he started writing them in what 2004 or five.
And in the last few years, he's been talking, you know, he, he, he, he drops terminology from
us wrong community. He, and then he, you know, he's openly talked about, you know,
concerns from AI and talking with Eleazar Udkowski and this and that.
And this was somebody who's already a high profile figure who, you know, got into this stuff,
learned from a, learned all the, you know, and was otherwise, well, you know,
smart and respected and got into rationality and then came to the same conclusions of the,
the concerns of the community shares about, you know, AI and that sort of thing.
Effective altruism. He had MacAskillan too. So it's a, that's, that's one way to go.
Or at least one thing that would be nice. Yeah. If, if Elon Musk got in front of a microphone
tomorrow and said, yeah, reason that I, you know, am a, a billionaire is because I was a big fan of
Les Rong. That'd be kind of cool. So we're using people to do that. So I think he's been doing his
business thing since before Les Rong was a kid though. Yeah. That kind of comes back to the
issue though that I meant Elon Musk like figures. Okay. Although he could say the reason that I'm
not bankrupt yet or something, right? I don't know. He wouldn't say that, but something like that,
right? You might say the reason I got kicked out of CEO of Tesla is I don't mean to cut you off.
Sorry. Oh, that's okay. It was, I was thinking about, there was some post on social media recently
where somebody had been writing about Bill Gates and Elon Musk and a bunch of other people, you
know, they don't slack off. They get up early every day and they read the news and they're always
working. And if you had their work ethic, you could do awesome things too. And bullshit. Yeah.
Well, yeah, because I forget who brought it up. Well, I forget who brought it up, but there are
also geniuses. I mean, some people do start off at different levels and I'm never going to become
Elon Musk. I'm never going to be as good an engineer regardless of how many hours in the day I have.
Well, not with that attitude. With these, with these nine simple steps, who sure can.
Well, in addition to being geniuses and having a good work ethic, they also got lucky. I mean,
there's other people as genius as them out there who didn't. And there's people doing their laundry
and buying their groceries and, you know, they're freed up from a lot of stuff that people have
to do as well. So that's worth considering. Even just like, you know, not being a third living in
the third world or, you know, being impoverished or being sick. Yeah. Yeah, total health is huge.
Well, and like you said, the slack that you get from being able to spend all the time you want
doing real stuff and not spending four hours a day doing menial tasks like the rest of us,
or 10 hours a day if you go to work, right? Like what are we supposed to do in our free time?
It's hard to do things in your free time when you're burnout too.
That's exactly. That's the point I was going to go into next was that there is something to be said
about the work ethic slash motivation. You know, I remember there was a some talking head thing of
Elon Musk 10 years ago or so where he was talking about how he, one of the things he realized when
he was working on as, you know, a younger engineer was like, I realized I could get twice as much
done if I just worked 80 hours a week rather than 40, like my competitors, I could work at the same
rate and finish twice as much. And it's like, sure, Elon, you can just say that and you can have
what it takes to work 80 hours a week. But like most of us don't. And just not having, you know,
enough fuel in the tank to do that is something that slows at least slows me down. I had a friend
who, you know, he long story short, he was a very energetic guy. I mean, he was just, you know,
always able to do things. And I would look at this guy and like, man, if I had his energy,
I could take over the world. And while that might not be literally true, I feel like I could get a
lot more done. If I wasn't, you know, just a lot of us are just tired. And if you are some freak
of nature like Elon Musk, and you don't get tired, it takes you three times as long to get tired,
then you can get three times as much done. Mental disorders mess with you a lot too.
Yeah, or physical disorders. Yeah, exactly. And there's something, the opposite of mental
disorder, I don't think it has a word, because it's not the kind of thing you go to a doctor to
get diagnosed. But if you just happen to be three times as happy as everybody else, or, you know,
three times as energetic, and it's not disrupting your life, that's that opposite of it's still
it's what I meant by geniuses. I'm not referring to raw IQ, referring to maybe just like has more
motivation than average. Okay, yeah, then that's I would different uses. That's a definition of
the term genius that I think is very on. Well, it's just for lack of a better word. I don't
know what else you would use to describe someone that has the opposite of a mental disorder,
like what you were saying, lucky sons of bitches, maybe genetically gifted or L sobs, we can just
call them that. Oh, okay. Yeah, lucky son of a bitch. Yeah, I mean, like, you're casky might be
someone who's a classically a genius, but suffers from motivational issues, right? I don't know
where he's at with managing that in his life now. But I remember, at least in some of his posts,
he's talked about that being a blocker for him. And I mean, if something like Madaf and L2.0 was
the cure that you could just drink every morning and have no no downsides from please someone
invent Madaf and L2.0. And if it's someone in our community, anybody who's listening to this,
I want it. I'll buy it. And if you need to have a bunch of Madaf and the one point,
do it, then do that. We'll call it Rachelonium. So people will never miss the connection.
So it's gonna have a picture of Harry Potter, James Evans, very snapping his fingers on the
bottle. Perfect. And I mean, so I don't want to belabor that too much or use that as a cop
out, but I don't want to dismiss that as a big factor that we don't all have the the factor,
the luck, the prior powers that people like Elon Musk and Bill Gates have, right? I don't
think we all have to be like them, just being able to be better than we would otherwise is
a win. Yeah, but we would be winning harder if we were all if we had whatever that is, right?
I mean, I guess that's true, but everyone would be winning harder if they were better,
smarter, faster and stronger. Well, that's why I think combating Acreasia and then also coming
up with the Madaf and L2.0 or whatever important steps, important problems that we haven't really
devoted as much time or attention to. Yeah, that's something else we should be working on.
I'm going to say we and not me because someone else who has the time and energy and money to do
it. So we in the you sense. Yeah. I'm planning on actually going to school for clinical research,
because I do actually want to try to develop new drugs and new like medical technologies.
That sounds awesome. Yeah. The closest I noticed somebody doing that was somebody I knew who was
really into psychedelics when they were like in the early 20s and wanted to go learn everything
about that. Now they're like a biomedical science or biomedical pharmacologist or something.
Doing psychedelics did have something to do with it. I had the idea before then,
but like I've always been fascinated with drugs and the way you can when you break the brain,
you can really kind of like see how it works and realize this is just a computer
in some sense that like you can actually you can you can fix this you can make it better than it was.
That's an important insight that yeah, if you're if you're starting from like Wallace,
what I've got to work with, then that's realizing that that's a defeatist attitude,
not a realistic one is an important insight. I like the insight that the reason people
see spiral so much when they're on psychedelics is because that's literally how the the retina
is wired into the visual part of the brain. Yeah, it's super cool. Like you can actually start to
see like your own cognitive biases in a way and just like, for example, I combined two drugs that
I shouldn't have at one point. And I got like really high and weird, but I started being able
to see how my visual system worked. I saw like what looked like lots of photos every time I would
move my eyes. And I realized how much blank space that there was. I was like, how do people do
anything? How do we see how do we drive? This is we're like really bad at seeing and processing
you were able to like see that when you move your eyes, your vision blacks out for a second.
Yeah, I saw like saccades of images. And there was so much blank space, I could see all the
space that was missing in my peripheral vision. Oh my god, what were you on if you don't mind?
I combined a prescription drug with a think it was cemax and midephanel. And there might have
also been caffeine. I don't know. I'm not sure exactly what the combination was that messed me
up. Cemax. Cemax is a what is it a peptide nitropic. It's a Russian developed drug.
Okay, interesting. It's pretty good. So it's more difficult to get now that serotropic doesn't
exist anymore, but you can buy it from Russia. I thought you were gonna say like, you know,
something in mushrooms, but these weren't even psychedelics. This was a nitropic.
Interesting. Okay. And a pretty good one. If you like midephanel, you might like cemax.
And if you don't, if you don't stack them. Yeah, probably. Yeah, don't stack things.
I think Scott had warned about that too. That's a tangent. But if you take the
tropics, probably don't stack them together. I did want to also point out the rash, the last
rationalist on his blog also replied to this and addressed a, like the where they view the root of
this coming from, because the whole rational should win thing is from a, a post when entering in
the sequences. So the last rational says rationality is systemized winning is a slogan that was
adopted to patch a bug in human cognition, namely our endless capacity to loot ourselves,
delude ourselves about how we did in an attempt to save face, because, you know,
it's really easy for someone to say, look, all my plans were great, the expected utility of this
plan was great, but it just failed because of bad luck. And really what a rational agent,
a rational agent is an agent that always chooses the action that maximizes expected
performance, right? You can't always know how something is going to happen. But you know that
you should always bet on black over double zero, because half the items are black on the red light
wheel where there's only one double zero, assuming that they pay out the same, which different
conversation entirely. And alias are objective that saying that in practice, this always leads
to people saying my expected performance was great. I just got unlucky this one time, which was
why he went with the slogan rationalist should win, that if you're losing a lot, that's a sign,
and rationalist should be winning overall. And I think there's some truth to that.
There is. The idea that I'm a great rationalist, but my life's in shambles and I can't get anything
together. You're doing something wrong. You don't have to be a professional pilot or helicopter
pilot to see like if you see one crash in a tree, like, oh, that guy probably screwed up,
probably, or like maybe that was their best emergency landing or whatever, but that's the
parable, right? Like, you don't have to be an expert to see like, oh, yeah, if you knew what
you're doing, that wouldn't have happened. But then people always like get into arguing about
why don't rationalists win? Like every single time something comes up, it's like, well,
rationalists aren't at the top of this. Why aren't rationalists winning? Maybe we're just not that
good at rationality. I mean, that could be one too. But I think it's more like the question is,
as Eliezer said, what wins systematically? And then let's define rationality to that.
What decision algorithm, when it's implemented, will win more than any other? And as opposed to,
you know, have you won in every single goal that you've sought to go after? Yeah. And if there was
like a community of people that was, I think that was seller Vulcan's argument saying that like,
you know, there are people that are winning at business or there's people who are better
super forecasters, although somebody argued in the comments that actually they had met a
bunch of super forecasters and they were rationalists, but oh, they were. But yeah, that was the
seller Vulcan's whole argument was like, we're not doing instrumental rationality as well as
we're doing epistemic because we should be looking at what these people are doing and figuring out
how to do it ourselves. Yeah, but I think what we talked about that a bit that a lot of the success
of those like individual cases was like luck or, you know, having a huge safety net or something,
right? I can afford to take a million dollar gamble if I have $400 million left. Yeah. I think
the other issue is like things like prediction markets aren't something that interests me personally.
I'm not going to go bet on things like they were saying, well, why aren't we all just betting on,
you know, prediction markets? That just doesn't interest me. It might be a good idea to do,
but like it might be a good idea to go start a business. And I probably could run a pretty
good business based on like, you know, what I've learned from rationality, etc. I just don't want
to. Yeah, I think that's like the metrics of how you measure this sort of thing, you know,
but it's just having a lot of money and being happy then. And people define success differently.
So like saying that it's winning, like I think a lot of people kind of automatically jump to, well,
