is there some calculation, some strategy to follow in this step, or do you simply follow
the passion just because there's no other choice?
I think the people who are in universities are always trying to study the extraordinarily
chaotic nature of innovation and entrepreneurship.
My answer is that they didn't have that conversation, they just did it.
They sensed a moment when, in the case of Google, there was all of this data that needed
to be organized, and they had a better algorithm.
They had invented a better way.
So today with human-centered AI, which is your area of research, there must be new approaches.
It's such a big field.
There must be new approaches, different from what we and others are doing.
There must be startups to fund.
There must be research projects to try.
There must be graduate students to work on new approaches.
Here at MIT, there are people who are looking at learning from the standpoint of looking
at child learning.
How do children learn starting at each one?
Josh Tenenbaum and others.
And the work is fantastic.
Those approaches are different from the approach that most people are taking.
Perhaps that's a bet that you should make, or perhaps there's another one.
But at the end of the day, the successful entrepreneurs are not as crazy as they sound.
They see an opportunity based on what's happened.
Let's use Uber as an example.
As Travis sells the story, he and his co-founder were sitting in Paris, and they had this idea
because they couldn't get a cab.
And they said, we have smartphones, and the rest is history.
So what's the equivalent of that Travis Eiffel Tower, where is a cab moment that you could,
as an entrepreneur, take advantage of, whether it's in human-centered AI or something else?
That's the next great startup.
And the psychology of that moment.
So when Sergey and Larry talk about, and listened to a few interviews, it's very nonchalant.
Well, here's the very fascinating web data.
And here's an algorithm we have, or we just kind of want to play around with that data.
And it seems like that's a really nice way to organize this data.
Well, I should say, what happened, remember, is that they were graduate students at Stanford,
and they thought this is interesting, so they built a search engine, and they kept it in
their room.
And they had to get power from the room next door, because they were using too much power
in the room.
So they ran an extension cord over, and then they went, and they found a house, and they
had Google World headquarters of five people to start the company.
And they raised $100,000 from Andy Bechtelstein, who was the sun founder to do this, and Dave
Chariton and a few others.
The point is, their beginnings were very simple, but they were based on a powerful insight.
That is a replicable model for any startup.
It has to be a powerful insight.
The beginnings are simple, and there has to be an innovation.
In Larry and Sergey's case, it was PageRank, which was a brilliant idea, one of the most
cited papers in the world today.
What's the next one?
So you're one of, if I may say, richest people in the world, and yet it seems that money
is simply a side effect of your passions, and not an inherent goal.
But it's a, you're a fascinating person to ask.
So much of our society at the individual level, and at the company level, and as nations,
is driven by the desire for wealth.
What do you think about this drive, and what have you learned about, if I may romanticize
the notion, the meaning of life, having achieved success on so many dimensions?
There have been many studies of human happiness, and above some threshold, which is typically
relatively low for this conversation, there's no difference in happiness about money.
The happiness is correlated with meaning and purpose, a sense of family, a sense of impact.
So if you organize your life, assuming you have enough to get around and have a nice
home and so forth, you'll be far happier if you figure out what you care about and work
on that.
It's often being in service to others.
It's a great deal of evidence that people are happiest when they're serving others
and not themselves.
This goes directly against the sort of press-induced excitement about powerful and wealthy leaders
of one kind.
Indeed, these are consequential people, but if you are in a situation where you've been
very fortunate as I have, you also have to take that as a responsibility, and you have
to basically work both to educate others and give them that opportunity, but also use that
wealth to advance human society.
In my case, I'm particularly interested in using the tools of artificial intelligence
and machine learning to make society better.
I've mentioned education, I've mentioned inequality and middle class and things like this, all
of which are a passion of mine.
It doesn't matter what you do.
It matters that you believe in it, that it's important to you, and that your life will
be far more satisfying if you spend your life doing that.
I think there's no better place to end than a discussion of the meaning of life.
Eric, thank you so much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
