Hello everyone, I'm here to talk to you about a vision of artificial intelligence that goes beyond
machines and algorithms. A vision which embraces humans and nature as integral parts of a cyber
physical ecosystem of intelligence. A vision that is based on first principles derived from physics
and biology. Professor Carl Friston just dropped a paper called Designing Ecosystems of Intelligence
from first principles. And one of the principles is active inference, a formulation of adaptive
behavior which can be read as a physics of intelligence. Active inference says that
intelligent systems are those which can accumulate evidence for a generative model
of their sensed world. In other words, they can learn from their observations and update their
beliefs accordingly. They can also act on their environment to reduce uncertainty and achieve
their goals. But active inference is not about individual agents. It also explains how ensembles
of agents can share beliefs and cooperate through communication protocols. This leads to a formal
account of collective intelligence that rests on shared narratives and goals. So how do we realize
this vision? Friston proposes a research agenda for the next decade and beyond which aims to design
such ecosystems of intelligence from scratch. They suggest developing a shared hyperspatial
modeling language and transaction protocols as well as novel methods for measuring and optimizing
collective intelligence. So why should we care about this vision? It's because it offers a way to
harness the power of artificial intelligence for the common good without compromising human dignity
or autonomy and because it challenges us to rethink our relationship with technology,
nature and each other and because it invites us to join in a global community of sense makers
who are curious about the world and eager to improve it. Enjoy the show.
Our shared human journey is filled with examples of simple ideas that were nonetheless hard to
discover and some that even once explained remain hard to comprehend. Their subtle simplicity
belies their far-reaching and deep consequences. Examples might include the principle of relativity,
quantum mechanics, the principle of parsimony and entropy. I think the free energy principle
is another example, profound and far-reaching yet belied by its simplicity. It has on the one hand
been dismissed as a triviality or even a tautology and on the other hailed as revolutionary
and everything in between. It has the potential to reshape how we view the connection between
inanimate matter and living things and even to answer the question of how and why consciousness
and intelligence might emerge from physical matter and processes. That means a world where
all things from particles to people to the largest systems all move or evolve according to two processes
which combine. The first is a smooth flowing evolution. Think of planets orbiting a star
or waves rippling over water or through quantum fields. The second is a random process that
knocks around the smooth flow in unpredictable ways. Think of twinkling stars or audio static.
You might think of these two processes as a kind of order and chaos or yin and yang forever
intertwined and enmeshed. These two very different effects combine into a chaotic flow which may be
entangled in a kind of tropical storm while still maintaining a semblance of structure
and things. Think about raindrops undulating down to earth in a state of constant flux
yet still droplets or a human being growing and adapting to the surprises of life
all the while remaining an individual physical entity. Biology often asks the question
what must things do in order to exist? Professor Friston has turned that question on its head
and developed perhaps the ultimate existential formalism. He asks if things exist, what must
they do? From the foundation of stochastic differential equations, Friston demonstrates
that things which are defined by a Markov blanket must always move towards a pullback
attractor, a special set of attracting states which maintains the integrity of the Markov blanket
and therefore a thing's coherence and identity over time. One of the profound consequences
of this is that the dynamics of such a system, its laws of motion, will manifest a form of flow
dynamics which can be interpreted as Bayesian active inference. In other words, such a thing
maintains an internal equivalent of a generative model encoding beliefs about the world and itself.
The thing uses the model to decide actions and then performs a Bayesian update based on the outcomes.
For me, the idea that inference, something widely perceived as purely abstract or mathematical,
the idea that it can be driven by simple laws of motion dynamically maintaining the boundaries
between things, maintaining order in the face of chaos is frankly astonishing.
What's more, the free energy principle is so general that it applies at all scales of size
and time leading to an ecosystem of things interacting across scales. Perhaps in that
multi-scale active inference, we might finally find the keys to a mathematics of emergence
and consciousness. This episode is sponsored by Numeri. I'm extremely grateful to them for
sponsoring Machine Learning Street Talk. I mean, remember, I do everything myself on this channel.
It's a lot of time. It's a lot of hard work. It's very expensive. I pay for other software licenses
and all of the equipment. Having that support from Numeri means a lot to me and it means that I
can keep doing what I'm doing basically. Thank you to Numeri. A little bit about Numeri, they are a
data science competition platform to predict the stock market. They've already paid out over $50
million for 5,000 models on their platform. They say that it's the highest paying data science
platform in the world. Now, you can get started really easily for free. They've got a couple of
examples on their GitHub repo actually using XGBoost. The data comes in parquet format so you
can get up and running really easily. You can submit your predictions weekly or daily. You can do it
either manually or you can do it automatically. They provide many, many years of back testing data
as well so you can fine-tune and test your models and do a bunch of statistical diagnostics.
You can work your way up the leaderboard for bragging rights and stake your model with their
NMR cryptocurrency to earn rewards. Staking is a vote of confidence of your model and the reason
they do that is to prevent overfitting and to reduce the bad models from contributing bad
intelligence to their aggregate. Now, a well-performing model is rewarded in proportion to its stake
but a poorly performing model is punished by burning a portion of the stake. Numeri have a
huge community of data scientists of all levels swapping ideas and advice and they have some
community forums as well which you should join. Now, just a personal note from me. This is a form
of betting on the predicted performance of your models which can go up or down. Remember the data
is abstracted from the actual performance of the stocks. They don't correlate to actual stock
performance so there are folks on the platform who've made lots of money but there's also folks who
have lost money as well so please be responsible and only stake what you can afford to lose and
have confidence in. Try to have fun, use it as a place to sharpen up your data science skills
and to be the best version of yourself and use all of the latest models that we've been talking
about here on Street Talk. But yeah, anyway, thank you again to Numeri for sponsoring us.
Professor Friston, it's an absolute honor to meet you.
Well, thank you very much for having me. So we've had you on the show two times now
and in the first show we went into exquisite detail about the free energy principle and active
inference. So you're extremely famous for introducing this existential imperative which is to say
if things survive what must they do? They gain information about the world around them in a
cybernetic loop. We find a model which fits well while maintaining high entropy. If you have a
high entropy model you have greater flexibility to adapt to new information. It's an absolutely
beautiful idea. So welcome. Thank you. Nicely articulated. I was speaking with Keith yesterday
and he said out of all of the guests that we've had on MLST you are by far his favorite and he
says he looks up to you very much so he's very gutted that he couldn't come today to be part of
this. It's very gracious of him though. So you just wrote a paper and it's called designing
ecosystems of intelligence from first principles. You led with this white paper lays out a vision
of research and development in the field of artificial intelligence for the next decade
and beyond. It's denument, I wasn't sure if I was going to say that word, is a cyberphysical ecosystem
of natural and synthetic sense making in which humans are integral participants what we call
shared intelligence. This vision is premised on active inference the formulation of adaptive
behavior that can be read as the physics of intelligence and which inherits from the physics
of self-organization. So you went on and by the way there's an interesting link with Michael Levin's
work here so we had him on the show recently and maybe even transhumanism as well we can get into
that. But you went on you said in this context we understand intelligence as the capacity to
accumulate evidence for a generative model of one's sensed world also known as self-evidencing
over multiple scales and crucially you said active inference foregrounds an existential imperative
of intelligent systems namely curiosity or the resolution of uncertainty and the same imperative
underwrites belief sharing in ensembles of agents in which certain aspects which is to say factors
of each agent's generative model provide common ground or a frame of reference. So can you sketch
some of this out for me? Yes you've used all my favorite words though I presume that I actually
used all the fact to be truthful Maxwell Ramsted was one of the key architect of this so this was a
this white paper was a response to a brief just to think seriously and pragmatically
how this sort of high church theoretical approach to you know intelligence and self-organization
would play out in industry in the way that we actually use technology over the next decade
and that white paper is a product of our machinations and discussions but just drilling down on the
sort of basic message there. The emphasis was as you say on what it is to exist and how that
would manifest in terms of intelligent behavior and to a certain extent certainly I and I think a
number of the other co-authors were reading intelligence as the kind of inference that you
would need to do in order to maintain your existence so hence the existential imperative.
I have to say that's a slightly poetic interpretation of the free energy principle which
is the other way around of course that if you exist it looks as if you are behaving intelligently
if you read intelligence as the right kind of belief updating that enables you to maintain
yourself in some characteristic state so that's essentially what that existential imperative
was all about just one way of reading the physics the mechanics of systems that are open in open
exchange with the rest of their world or their eco niche simply in virtue of the fact that they
are around for an extended period of time and have this characteristic set of states that they occupy
that defines them as the kind of thing that they are. I think the move really that was inspired
by this remit to look okay well that's very nice you can write lots of papers about that and have
nice chats with your friends and colleagues about it about how does that actually work in practice
and of course in practice you have to think about where you're going to deploy this perspective
deploy the kind of technology that would you know ensue from that perspective and of course we're
talking about communication we're talking about a universal world of lots of creatures like me
and you so now we get to the next level of application of these existential imperatives
in the context of not just intelligent behavior and just open brackets behavior here
it's quite important you know often I hear underwriting the move from AI artificial intelligence
to IA where it's intelligent agents that have the artifacts with agency that do have behaviors that
have a sentient kind of behavior or at least an intelligent kind of behavior close brackets
so we're now moving from thinking about a single thing a particle or a person or a computer
and thinking now about having lots of things that are talking to each other and they're
coexisting so now we're in the world of distributed intelligence distributed cognition
and one thing which you mentioned explicitly this notion of belief sharing so now we're in
a different kind of world where we're thinking okay we think we understand the imperatives for
good behavior the necessary kinds of behaviors that you know I think you highlighted curiosity I
think is absolutely central in terms of you know hallmarking and characterizing the kinds of behaviors
that you and I engage with or truly intelligent or sentient behavior would entail but now the idea
is well what would that look like and when you've got lots of these things talking to each other
well we know what it looks like we talk to each other literally so it's all about language it's
all about belief sharing shared intelligence distributed cognition would be one thing that
you might find in the in the life sciences if you're a computer scientist it's all about sort of
the right kind of message passing on very very large factor graphs if you're if you're a linguist
or into evolution in psychology it's all about neat cultural niche construction the
emergence of language so I found that quite fascinating as something which you know you
really had to get on top of to think well what next and what kind of technologies would you need
to realize and what would they look like you know one way that's been framed to me by my new friends
now in industry is you know what would what's it going to look like what what is AI or now AI going
to look like in the future taking the kind of perspective you know over the decades or indeed
centuries where you're moving from sort of the industrial age to the age of information I think
the notion now is we're now coming to the end of the age of information now we're in the age of
intelligence and think about what what that might look like and how would one equip people with the
right kind of technology and infrastructure to you know to realize the potential of shared
intelligence essentially yeah that's very interesting so we spoke with Luciano Floridi
Oxford and he's invented this philosophy of information and he talks about the infosphere
and how we're at we're out we now have third order technology essentially so things like Amazon and
Facebook and he talks about the diminishment of our ontology and agency in the infosphere
and using this information as a substrate thing I think is very interesting because that's kind
of alluding to what you're going to but you said something actually in your paper which gave me
pause for thought you said the the AI age may end up being a distributed network of intelligent
systems which interact frictionally in friction frictionlessly in real time and compose into
emergent forms of intelligence at subordinate scales as you were just alluding to and the
nodes of such a distributed interconnected ecosystem may then be human users as well as
human designed artifacts that embody or implement forms of intelligence now this really did make
me wonder because I think we're already there now and so when when we had Floridion he was talking
about how our digital identity has already distributed we were consumers and then we
became barcodes and now there's this kind of infinite fractionation in the infosphere and
it's almost as if humanity isn't the substrate anymore information is the substrate and he said
you can devalue human skills you can remove remove human responsibility you can reduce human control
you can erode human self-determination but the rock that thought that little drop of water was
nothing 18 years later has a hole in it because drop after drop after drop the drop will shake the
stone will shake the rock and I think what he meant by that is being ensconced and enmeshed in
technology to such a high degree and information being the first class citizen in our society is
kind of truncating our very existence I mean what would you say to that beautifully beautifully
expressed very poetic and I'd have to think about that very carefully I'm sure there are deep truths
and certainly from from the point of view of a physicist your information is obviously the thing
it is it is in many respects the you know the substance of our universe and our existence and
you're also acknowledging that energy is information and energy is just a potential and so
we're all about we're all in the game of realizing potentials in a sort of folk psychology sense but
also literally in terms of minimizing certain potentials for example self-information would be
the free energy potential that you're that you're minimizing the surprise and again coming back to
this sort of making you know belief sharing in the service of minimizing minimizing a surprise
and realizing our potential so I but I don't see that as a negative thing I think that's just an
acknowledgement that you know at the end of the day the way that we model and articulate and talk
about ourselves our lived world whether we're a quantum physicist speak a statistical physicist
or a classical physicist or have an interest in in the equivalent mechanics at each of those
levels it's all about information it's all about the probability of being in this particular state
you just take the the negative log of that that is the self-information of this particular state
so it's all you know if you look at quantum physics you know what else is there it boils down to
in its sort of most elemental and scale free or background free form and quantum information
theory and say if you can reduce it to you know to quantum information theory which many people
including friends of Mike Levin and I think one can then I think there's a there's a deep truth
that we are just realizations of information particularly from my perspective of course
we being a thing what what kind of information processing would be apt to describe us that could
be you know articulate in terms of quantum information theory it's belief updating so we come
back to the Bayesian mechanics that you can put on top of this underlying you know sort of information
