Sweden doesn't have a black budget at all.
Everything that their military does is completely transparent and transparent to their own people
so that people can actually democratically participate.
Obviously means transparent to the US, Russia, China and everyone else.
And he said their idea was everybody, Russia already knows, the US already knows, so rather
than invest a bunch of resource in hiding it, let's invest the resource in just doing
better.
I don't believe that works if they aren't backed up by NATO that involves the US having
a bunch of stuff in black projects that can win first mover advantage on arms races against
Russia or China in that case.
And so what you have to make happen is if you want to be able to solve arms races, you
have to be able to ensure that the various sides actually can monitor.
So you either need transparency or you need some kind of zero knowledge proof type phenomena
where then they can make an agreement and trust that the agreement actually has the transparency
needed for enforcement.
Now that means that you have to make the transparent system beat the non-transparent system.
And I think there's a very real possibility because like in the US the special compartmentalized
information classification means that there's such shitty coordination between the departments
that there's a huge amount of waste.
So if you could remove all of, if you could lose the benefits of classification, but the
benefits of transparency were more game theoretically beneficial for that in group relative to the
rival race out group, then you would drive a race to the top on transparency rather than
a race to the bottom on secrecy, then you would have the transparent basis to actually
be able to solve multipolar traps.
I see.
Okay.
So we would say that's, that would be an example of a design constraint for a third
attractor is if you can make your transparent system categorically out compete the non-transparent
system, you're going to drive significant races to the top.
But you have to, the same thing is, like let's say you try to internalize an externality
in your current system, like you're going to try to internalize the cost of carbon in
the environment.
The reason that we externalize it and just price the cost of coal or oil at the price
of extraction plus a margin is because the more of the cost you externalize, the more
profit you make, the profit, the dollars are basically optionality tokens that mean I have
the maximum optionality for, to be able to influence militaries or media or whatever I
want.
Right.
Whoever maximizes the optionality tokens under rigorous competitive environments wins
against those who don't.
And so there's no real competitively effective way to internalize those externalities unless
you bind a whole system that internalizes its externalities, but also out innovates
and you can't invest in the innovation thing without investing in the whole thing.
Right.
And the whole thing, even with the internalized externalities still outcompetes the other
rivalry system, then you can start to get somewhere.
Wow.
What a thread to pull.
We only have two more minutes.
I just got the signal from the stage manager.
So what didn't I ask you that you want to tell us and where should we leave the conversation?
How do we continue the conversation?
Well you and I are going to do a deep version of this.
What are the generator functions of the metacrisis and how do each of those generator functions
give a design constraint for a non-self terminating system, but that also can bootload through
rivalry?
Right.
And we'll take the time to unpack that.
So if people are interested, great.
That's on your podcast.
Yep.
The main pill podcast that we just launched on the Bankless Network, we'll do a long
form portion of this conversation with Daniel Schmockenberger and lay out how we can get
out of the metacrisis.
One thought I would share just in closing here is when you look at Marvin Harris' model
for thinking about civilizations, that any civilization you can think of as the infrastructure
that mediates all the physical needs in relationship with the physical planet, the social structure
that are the kind of collective agreements fields, basically governance and law, and then
the superstructure, which is culture and the ordinating values.
You guys are, the crypto space is building new fundamental infrastructure and fundamentally
new social structure simultaneously.
The critical fucking thing is the culture, the superstructure that is what is the basis
of the law that we use to bind the incentives, because incentive alone will create multipolar
traps and externalities.
You also have to have binding dynamics.
And ultimately, law for jurisprudence has to be bound in culture or cultural values.
So getting the cultural values right and having them informed by metacrisis.
So it says we can debate what a desirable civilization is, but we're all pretty much
in agreement that at minimum it shouldn't self-terminate.
And so if we take the criteria and not self-terminate as a beginning point and then make sure that
those values are encoded in the social structure layer and make sure that the nature of the
infrastructure insofar as that's influencing the social structure and the values is all
moving in the right direction, that's really, really critical piece.
Amazing.
Well, I look forward to being your bridge to the Ethereum space and to the Ethereum space
back to you.
Everyone give it up for Daniel Schmackenberger.
Thanks, Joe.
