Well, excellent. Excellent. All right. Have you guys met each other before?
No, we have not. Oh, you gave a talk once to Mike's group. That's the only contact we've had.
Fantastic. Yeah. So maybe take a couple minutes and introduce yourselves to each other. It's great.
But we will see each other, I think, at UCLA at that meeting.
Oh, great. Oh, good. You're going to be there in person.
Right. Right. Excellent.
You know, I started writing some notes about what do I want to talk to Chris Fields about,
and it went on for a few pages, and I thought, okay, well, let's just write the,
you know, like the top level vision, and there was still a page and a half.
I am trying to, I'd like to develop a theory that links together cognition, evolution, adaptation,
development, and computation, just those. And in particular, I would like to do it in a way that
explains agential behavior, and how mechanistic processes at a given level of organization can be
more or less autonomous at that scale, but how that interacts with the scales above and below.
And I've been quite excited recently about how that links with resonance as a form of error
correction. And as a mechanism, the links together, all of those things that I'm interested in.
And it's connection to error correcting codes is one of the topics that I think would be
a good place to start. That's, they are off the top of my head. That was that eight pages I tried to
summarize. Well, we should make t-shirts for everyone who's interested in that set of topics.
Not sure what we should call the group.
But maybe Chris, say a little bit about, you know, your interests and what you've been,
what we've been working on, that kind of stuff. Well, we've been interested in
this intersection area between physics and cognitive science and biology.
And in how to
develop theoretical frameworks that are based very firmly in physics and that connect in a very
complex way to computer science. And that provided us formulation of what's going on in biology.
But complementary to that, we're interested in how to import biological and cognitive thinking
into physics in a kind of whole scale way. So one way to put all of that is to
see physics as fundamentally a theory of communication between agents who have some
computational structure and who have to exist within an environment
that exerts selective pressures of one kind or other. And of course, the environment in this
case is an agent also that has its own agenda. And the free energy principle provides a nice
way of formulating all of this, especially when it's translated into more quantum information
language, which makes a lot of its structure a little bit clearer than it is in the classical language.
And I suppose other aspects that the physics helps to clarify is
what context dependence is and how one goes about identifying and describing the
contexts of actions. Whether the system of interest can identify those contexts or not,
typically the system of interest can't. So one has all of these interesting kinds of
context effects that are commonplace in biology and psychology.
But that's like so figure and ground aspects of physics.
Right. But the physics language provides a nice way to talk about formally.
Mike, do you want to stare at it?
Yeah, yeah. So lots of things I think would need to be discussed. One is this whole notion of
the environment being an agent itself. I think it's critical for all this, because typically
speaking, as far as I know in all of these biology models, we assume that the agency of the
environment is zero and that, okay, there might be some parasites and there might be some competitors
or whatever, but the actual environment, it's mechanical, it just is what it is. And so I'd
love to have us unpack that some more. And the whole error correction thing I think is critical
because all that I see in biology is constant error correction. And so by the way, the one thing
that Chris and I have been kind of developing lately is perspectives on all this kind of
stuff that we talk about, but really centralizing the role of the observer. So this idea that
everything is from the perspective of some observer. So anything, all the stuff that Chris
says on that topic, you know, what the reference frames and the observers and everything,
I think would be super, super important to hear again for me.
And we've spoken before Mike, how that might intersect with how I've been thinking about
orbits representing functions. So the dimensionality, the orbit
tells you how many times the space is folded and how many the depth of the function class.
And the chord that you cut across that orbit defines a function in that function space.
But instead of cutting a simple cut, you could intersect that orbit with another orbit that
was itself complex. So that it's like, what does one oscillator see of another oscillator?
And when you do it that way, it's much more interesting because in order to, in order for
one orbit to sample another orbit, it necessarily needs to be at a similar frequency. And that
makes it vulnerable to being modified itself so that you can't just be an observer that doesn't
influence the system, you're necessarily coupled with it.
Yeah, which, which to me that immediately links to the notion of, you know, as we talk about,
we talk about the cognition and all of that, but we also want to talk about first person
perspective, right, consciousness, so to speak. And, and to me, the interesting thing about that
is that unlike typical experiments that we may do where you can do them in third person,
and you're not really changed much by them, you may learn something as a result, but typically,
you know, it's you prepare some system and then you just sort of stand there and watch it. But
to me, I think any kind of experiments or any kind of science with respect to consciousness,
you are the participant, like you have to participate. Otherwise, what you're learning
about is physiology and behavior. If you're going to learn about consciousness, you're going to be
involved in finding out what it's like or how to whatever it is. And so that gets back to this,
this thing that you just said, Richard, that that you are for those kind of experiments,
you are fundamentally participating, altered by it, part of it, you know, that's the those things
will all come into play if you're going to find out about the, you know, kind of the,
the really core cognitive aspects of things.
Hmm. It's like saying you, you, that you can't be an observer of consciousness.
You can only, you can only just do consciousness. And the, and so the best that you can get to
being an observer is things like sort of almost, I was going to say looking in a mirror, but it's
interacting with another consciousness that's like you and how much of it can you see and how
much does it affect you? You can't, you can't interact with it without being vulnerable to
being changed by it. Yeah, that makes sense. Right. It's, it's like, if you think about what a,
what a success, what, what does a successful theory of consciousness output,
it's not going to be behavioral data, you know, it needs to be what, so, so what is it, right?
It's what, what, what, what, what format does it give you as an answer to, to, to our questions?
And I think it's got to be protocols for putting you into that same state so that you can really
find out what it's like. Right. So, so first person, so, you know, CS Lewis said something like,
I'm going to mangle it, but it was something like, you know, don't tell me what it's like to be
scared, tell me something scary and then I'll know, you know, right. So, so these things are
sort of like, anything else is a third person description, it's not consciousness, it's,
it's physiology, it's behavior, it's whatever. But if you man, if you, if, so what is that poetry,
you know, art, I don't know, but, but some kind of stimulus, right, that puts you into that same
state. Well, now we know, now we know what it's like. So does that mean that a theory of
consciousness is indistinguishable from, from an experience in the conscious state that it's like,
you know, LSD is a theory of consciousness? That's interesting.
I mean, kind of, you know, so, so a good theory of consciousness would be, so, so I, I produce some
kind of crazy hybrid with three brain hemispheres and some wheels and whatever. And I say, all right,
you know, with your theory of consciousness, tell me what it's like to, to be this agent. And the
answer is, well, you need this much LSD and then you need some, you know, you need this experience
and we need to give it. And then, then you have some prayer. I mean, I don't know that you could
ever get. And I could tell you that recipe, but that wouldn't, but that you're saying that that,
but that isn't, that isn't the theory of consciousness. That's just the
interesting. There is a recipe for consciousness, not a theory of consciousness. You have to do it
before you do it, before you read it, before the theory has to be,
the ingredients have to be put into action before it's a theory.
Yeah, I think it's interesting that if you look at what actually passes for theories of consciousness
and literature, they're not about what it's like at all. They're, they're about describe this entity
and my theory will tell you what this entity can be conscious of.
Yeah. Without saying a thing about what it's consciousness of that is like.
Beyond some, you know, vague generalities, like it's, it's consciousness of this,
it sort of feels stressful. Well, what does that mean? It means whatever it means to you.
Yeah. And you just project that onto the other system. So, you know,
we talk about E. Coli being stressed by heat or, or lack of food or something like that.
We say, well, stress feels like this to me. So maybe it feels something like that to E. Coli.
So I wonder if that's an entry point where we could talk about the relationship between stress
and harmonics in vibrating systems and its relationship to error correcting codes and see
if that resonates with you, Chris. So I've been thinking about the two way relationship between
oscillations and form and function. So the form and function of a tuning fork,
sorry, not form and function shape and form, the shape and form of a tuning fork, a particular
macro scale geometry determines the note that it rings at.
But in the other direction is also possible that a particular oscillation can create a
shape and form that will hold that oscillation. So in that direction, I've been playing with
Faraday waves and Faraday worms of oil on liquids floating on oil. And you
vibrate the oil at a particular frequency and the liquid droplets elongate and take a particular
shape that is an integer number of wavelengths. So there's a two way relationship there between
what frequency does this shape vibrate at and what shape does this vibration make.
And I notice that there's, the discontinuities are important or the quantization of the shape
and form is important. That there's, it wouldn't be interesting if you just, you know, you turn
up the frequency and the worm gets longer, right? What's interesting is that you turn up the frequency
and the worms length increases in quanta, in integer multiples of the wavelength.
So the correction, the connection to error correcting codes,
I'm thinking about it as, you know, there are certain modes which fit in a particular geometry.
And the frequencies in between don't fit. They're excluded. They're not allowed, disallowed.
And an error correcting code crudely is what you need for that is a combinatorial space,
a large combinatorial space of possible messages, which has large gaps in between
so that when a message gets a little bit distorted and it falls in a gap, you can see that it
doesn't belong, that it's not correct. And in the domain of oscillating systems and waves and
resonance and stuff, it feels like that provides exactly that that the quantized modes that fit
harmonics that fit in a string, for example, provide you a combinatorial space of possibilities,
but the frequencies in between don't fit. And if you, as you turn up the energy on a vibrating
substrate, it flips discreetly from one mode to another, from one harmonic to another.
And that feels like the right sort of territory for
getting combinatorials, pseudo-discreet space, combinatorial space of possibilities from
continuous substrates.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I mean, from a quantum information point of view, there are no continuous substrates.
And so it's all discreet in the end. And what your vibrating systems are doing is
is coarse-graining at particular frequencies, so they're making macroscopic discreet states,
which is fine. But in the end, the question is always,
is the frequency within some very small error bar of this interesting frequency,
or this preferred frequency or not? And if it is, then you have a 1, and if it's not, you have a 0.
So you've created this discreet space. And an error correction code just needs a discreet space
in redundancy. So space or time, either one, provides redundancy. So if you have a discreet
space in either space or time, you can construct an error correction code.
So the cool thing about the oscillations, vibrations, and harmonics, though, is how
you can pack one octave inside another, right? So it's not just that you have
a effectively discreet space of possibilities at one level of organization. But at the octave above,
there are two wavelengths that fit within inside that. And at the octave above that,
there are four. And those are discreet too, and they have their own error correction stuff going on,
which is semi-independent of the octaves above and below, but not independent,
because you also get the subharmonic phase locking between the levels, right?
So that feels like the right kind of machinery for having
multi-scale autonomy, where there's a dynamical process going on at a particular level of
organization that is semi-independent of the levels above or below. But you don't want it to be
completely independent of the levels above or below, because then, well, for a number of reasons,
one, because that doesn't explain what we want to explain in the biology, right? We want to explain
how this process at this level interacts with that process at that level, right? Yeah.
But in a sense, in a physical system that's a single physical system,
you can't have independence between scales, right? You're going to have this coupling for free.
Yeah, the coupling is for free, but what's unusual is the slight independence, right?
So the coupling of the... If I have two oscillators of a given frequency,
and they phase lock with each other, then I...
That's a phenomenon that has... It's like a causal process that operates at that scale of
organization. But I can also get a phase locking between an oscillator and another oscillator
at twice the frequency. And I don't... One of those objects doesn't really know
whether the other object is twice the frequency or half the frequency,
twice the frequency or the same frequency. So there's a sort of crosstalk between levels.
But ordinarily, the temptation is to say, well, all of the levels above are determined by the
levels below. So there isn't any autonomy going on at the high levels at all. And we don't need
to talk about crosstalk between levels because there aren't really any levels. But when you have
a resonance happening at a particular scale, that's a... That's a dynamical causal process at
that scale, which is semi-independent of the scale below. Do you not think?
Well, I think it depends on what you mean by semi-independent. I mean, one could...
One can think of this in terms of building detectors, right? If you have a base frequency,
you know, it's a kilohertz or something, then one can think about building
a detector, an antenna at some lower frequency. And that process may be completely independent of
whatever's going on at a kilohertz. But you will either do it in a way that
you can capture a resonance or you don't. And if you do, then good for you. You've designed
something that is a resonant detector, even for this higher frequency signal,
and that produces for you with your detector something that looks like a low frequency signal.
But you could have designed the detector a little bit differently
and gotten no resonance at all, and you wouldn't see a signal at your lower frequency.
Mm-hmm. So in that sense, there's complete independence.
So what you see is not independent of what's going on at the lower level,
but what you end up designing and building is independent of what's going on at the lower level.
Can I say that back to you, see if I got it? So suppose I was working in a low frequency space
and I had one low frequency oscillator synchronizing with another low frequency oscillator,
and everything appears to be low frequency and everything appears to be quite sensible.
But then I noticed that at particular low frequencies, something weird happens,
