because I'm starting to detect something from the higher frequency that it's resonating with.
Mm-hmm. So I had a causal process at this low frequency area, but at particular low frequency
areas, there is an interaction with the high frequency thing, right? Yeah. And when that happens,
assuming that the high frequency thing isn't just a transmitter, but that it's a
physical process that's reversible, I'm also influencing the high frequency thing as well,
right? Mm-hmm. It will synchronize with me and I synchronize with it as the resonance is mutual,
not one way. Yeah. Given that there's a little bit of slack in the high frequency process, yeah.
But you're going to be, if you're driving the low frequency process,
you're going to be feeding energy into the high frequency process.
Mm-hmm. So in a sense, the question about independence is, are there drivers at every scale,
which is one of the things that Mike talks about a lot in terms of
processes going on at different scales that inject energy or information into a system
at some particular scale. Interesting. So you could have a high frequency oscillation that
drives a low frequency one, and then the low frequency one could drive some other low frequency
one, and then the second low frequency one could drive the high frequency one or another high
frequency one, right? So you can have interactions at both scales, right? And you can't really tell
who's the driver or whether the drive was introduced at that scale or came from the
level below, can you? I would say in general, no. If you're only making measurements at one scale.
When you're releasing energy at that scale in order to drive something at that scale,
the process that was releasing energy was getting it from the scales below anyway.
I think it's from somewhere, certainly. Yeah. Even if you were just burning something,
it was coming from there. Yeah. So that's an important point, and we
often tend to think about the power supply as a completely external part of the picture, but
yeah, the power has to come from someplace, and it comes from at the end of the day,
it comes from the environment, which is the same place that the information that's being
processed comes from. Yeah. So you can ask, how are those two coupled within the environment
in hidden degrees of freedom that you can't see? Yeah. I mean, it's the simple thing that you
start off learning about sources and earths, sources and sinks, and then they later on you
learn about back EMF, and you think, oh, shit, how did that happen? I was supposed to think about
that as it was just a, it wasn't part of the system, it was just a source. And now suddenly,
there is a way in which it becomes part of the system, and it starts interacting backwards.
Yeah. So the sources and sinks are, they're the ways, they are the resonances which are
losing or gaining energy from other scales of organization.
Or they're just a way of cheating. I mean, they're just a heuristic for not talking about the things
you can't see. Which are exactly the things that we want to talk about.
Yeah. Okay, cool. Could we talk for a minute about
making observations and hopefully interventions at multiple scales or at larger scales, right? Because
one of the things, you know, one of the things that happens, so the kind of air correction that
we think about all the time is, let's say you're a salamander, you've lost your arm or some part
of it, and then the cells have to do the hard work of doing some stuff, but also the collective has
to and so on. But the thing they're correcting doesn't exist at the cellular level. So they went,
you know, they're going to have to correct the fact that there's half the number of fingers than
there needs to be. But there's no notion of finger at the level of the single cell. So
there are those stresses at the higher level have to be propagated down and sort of make the
lower levels dance to some extent. But then when we take measurements and we make interventions,
what happens is people will look at it and they say, oh, but you didn't actually intervene at this
higher level, because I see what you did. You actually, you know, you put in some ion channels
or you touched some kind of a chemical, like, you know, if you want to, you can always zoom
into that lower level if you want to, right? So one of the things we've been grappling with is how
to define when you've actually taken a measurement at a higher level or worse yet, when you've done
an intervention at a higher level, because for measurements, you can talk about the integrated
information and stuff like that. So that's at least a little bit that we got going. But,
but, you know, what does it mean to make an intervention at a higher level when you're
talking to the collective in some sense, right? You're communicating with behavior shaping the
collective and whatnot. How do we, how do we formalize that so that it's clear that, you know,
yes, I know I used a piece of DNA to do it, but I wasn't really manipulating the lower level. I
was actually, it was just the, you know, that was just the conduit. I was actually talking to the
tissue level agent. So I imagine the, the sub harmonic phase locking, if that's the right
way to think about it, right? So if I had a process that would have four peaks in that
interval, and I have another process that has two peaks, then there's two ways of me locking onto
that for the, of the higher level process of locking onto it, right? And they're equally good,
they're equally compatible, equally stress free in their relationship to the level of,
to the higher frequency oscillation. And I can, if I can push that higher frequency oscillation
from locking, locking like this to locking like that, that push is something that
I don't know how to say it, except that the lower level is, is like, it's completely invisible to
the lower level. It's perfectly happy with those, with those two possibilities. But if this whole
thing is really, you know, one system with two waves carried in the same substrate,
then, you know, you say, I pushed it at this level, and somebody else says, well, you pushed it at
that level, because it's the same system that you're pushing. But you have to, you have to make a
case, let's see, you'd have to make a case that I'm not pushing a thing, I'm pushing a frequency,
and pushing it, you know, pushing it at this frequency is, is relevant, is the same as saying,
I'm doing something causal at this scale, not at that, not at some other scale.
Yeah, I, I think this, this comes down to the answer that I think you gave in lab meeting
yesterday, Mike, which is it depends on what the theory is that tells you what the intervention
should be. And if the theory that tells you to intervene with this probe is a macro scale theory,
then, in a sense, you're interviewing at the macro scale, because that's the informational
context. Yeah. The reductionists don't believe in macro scale theories.
Well, okay, I mean, you can be that way, but try it with a computer scientist.
Yeah. Yeah, that's, that's what I was arguing yesterday in lab meeting that Chris is referring
to, that after something interesting has been, some interesting system has been prepared,
you can then be a reductionist and, and say, well, I know what's going to happen next, you
don't need any of these higher levels. But I think in addition to prediction, we need another,
and I don't know how to formalize it yet, but we need another notion of like pre invention or
something that measures something else, it measures how likely were you to come up with
this in the first place, given your given given the level at which you operate. So
it's the sort of thing that, you know, like, like in the, in the, in the, in the cellular
automaton game of life, right? Once somebody prepares something, you don't need to believe
in gliders, you can just micro, you know, fall track the states and you can predict it all the way
out. But if you don't believe in gliders, you're never going to make the thing that is, you know,
when somebody made this Turing machine and out of gliders, right, where like, you're not going to,
you're not going to be able to do that if you don't believe in those levels. And the same thing
happens, you know, sometimes I'll give a talk and people say, that's, that's really interesting
data. But why you keep talking about all this philosophical stuff, don't do that, just, just
do the experiments. And the answer is, well, we wouldn't have done this experiment without that,
without that way of thinking about it. So it's not, you know, after the fact, after I show you the
two headed worms that, you know, repeating or whatever, then anybody can say, well, of course,
it's chemistry underneath and it's genetics. I mean, I can track it down. Yes, you can after,
after the fact. To which they'll say, well, I don't care what's going on inside your head.
I don't care what your theory generating process was. That's not part of the system I'm studying.
I'm only interested in the worms and their molecules. And how you came up with that theory
is not part of the system I'm interested in. And how you came up with it doesn't affect what the
system is that I'm looking at from their point of view, right? To which a good response is,
so tell me again what a worm is. I mean, you're, you're talking about the difference between
trigonometry and arithmetic, right? It's very convenient to have this thing we call sign,
but we don't need it. I mean, all we actually need is addition and multiplication, right?
So, do, do you project your geometry with just addition and multiplication?
Yeah. But, but the, so I'll continue to be the reductionist statfica for a bit. It's like, yeah,
I'm not sure I really believe in worms, right? There's only biomolecules and there's only genes
and you know, they're just vehicles. The only agents here, if there's any kind of agent is a
gene and that's not really an agent either, it's just a molecule. And, you know, all, all of your
worries about whether that's one individual or two individuals or one worm or two worms or,
you know, that's just, that's just the downstream consequences of the real causal process happening
at the lower level. But is it not the case that, okay, so, so we have competing lenses on things
and then, and then one has to choose one, right? Or not forever, but, you know, at some, for some
particular stretch. And so, how do we choose between them? So, so the reductionist lays out
their lens, I will lay out my lens and then now, now we must choose. And so, how do we choose?
Because this is very foundational, right? And, and neither, you know, it's easy within one frame to
sort of make fun of the other and say, you know, you're talking about things that don't exist. But
but the decision between them has to be made sort of above that and we need some sort of criteria.
And so, no, I think you have to read Ian's book first, right? To recognize that the logic of the
left brain, it locks out the possible existence of any other kind of way of thinking. But the
reasoning of the right brain doesn't, right? The right brain can see the whole and it can see the
parts. And the left brain just says, fuck off, I can only see the parts. And I can, you know,
there isn't anything else except my own logic. How do you know I refer to my own logic, right?
And it's caught in this loop that it can't get out of. Who is Ian in this case?
Ian McGill, Chris McGill, Chris.
Yeah, we had a couple of a couple of meetings recently, he's written some really interesting
stuff. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. I, you know, I try to sort of boil it down to to pull it out of
philosophy where people have been debating this for, I don't know how you write how long. And
to say that, well, we need, we need some way of deciding between these frames at any given moment.
There are different ways of looking at things. And one way is the degree of facilitation of
future progress, right? I mean, I don't know what else, what else, what else you would choose?
Efficient, I mean, efficiency is one, but, but okay, you know, maybe that's,
it's not the only thing. But does it, does it help you?
Well, yeah, computational complexity is a measure that can be substituted for efficiency.
I mean, sure, do it all in string theory.
But it's much easier to make coffee at a macro scale.
And the reason is you, you aren't trying to do some exponential computation.
So what about the, not just aesthetics?
What about the,
well, essentially the, the, the multiple realizability of the lower levels.
So suppose I claim to have a process operating between units at a particular scale
operated on at a particular frequency. And for this particular instantiation of that
process, they were built on top of some other particular units at some, at the scale below.
But if the causal process had some independence from the things below, and you wanted to prove
that it did, you could say, look, I can do the same thing in a system that is either,
you know, locked differently. So that, you know, when it's over here, I do the same thing,
and I get the same result. When it's over here, I do the same thing, and I get the same result.
But the genes that change when I did it here are those genes, and the genes that change
when I did it there are those genes. So they are, they can't be the cause, because they were
different in those two cases. So the difference maker has to be what was happening at the high
level of organization, not what was at the low level of organization. And then as you, as
then, you know, there's the possibility that that's, that's not just a different,
a different, a different phase lock, but that it's a, it's an entirely different kind of system,
right? That it's a, that I replaced my, I replaced my gene signaling pathway with a
morphogen pathway that went outside the cell or did something else or was electrical or
something like that. It doesn't matter so long as it provided the appropriate oscillation for the
other thing to live on. And then you can't say that it was the lower level thing that did it.
I mean, you can still say this, this is a good reason to try to teach all biology students the
theory of virtual machines. Because that's the best example we've got.
Just, just transporting. Now, so zoom, zoom between my Linux machine and, and
Mike's Microsoft machine and whatever you're running.
Really, really badly limping along Windows machine. Yeah.
Yeah. So I mean, the fact that that works is, is undeniable evidence for the utility of high
level of descriptions. Because without that, you couldn't do it just from an engineering
point of view. Yeah. But is it high? Is it undeniable evidence for the existence of
a higher level causal process rather than a higher level description?
Well, the program is just a description of what a piece of hardware is doing.
So not in any fundamental sense, but in a pragmatic sense. Yes. You know, I actually
write programs in a programming language, not with wires and a soldering wire.
And I could never construct zoom. Well, I could never construct zoom anyway, but
I certainly couldn't construct it with wires and a soldering wire.
And no one else could either. That's that. Yeah.
To, to, you know, sort of in another way of asking this maybe simplified, could, could you,
could you play chess against a proper reductionist, right? Because what would their, you know,
what would their next move be? So they see, they don't believe in pieces. They don't believe in
boards. They don't believe in the relationship between the pieces. There are micro states,
all the micro states, like the library of Babel, all them, they all look the same to them, right?
In a certain sense. How do you, how would you make a decision? How would you make the next move
if you didn't believe in this thing? But that's because they don't believe in themselves either.
They would say, well, all of my micro states create this process that plays chess against
all of your micro states. But they don't believe in themselves as an agent that took a decision
about what move to do. You know, this, this suggests an old adage, which one wins arguments
only with technologies. I wonder if I might
change tack a little bit to talk about the kind of computation that we can do with physical
systems and with oscillations and stuff, if that's okay. So the talk that you saw, Chris,
would have been about the mechanism that I call natural induction.
Yes, I think that was correct. So you have a dynamical system described by a network of
viscoelastic connections. And when you, its natural behavior is to find local minima in its energy
function. But as it spends time at each of those configurations, the viscoelastic connections give
way slightly, which makes the attractor of that particular configuration a bit larger.
And then you perturb the state, and it goes to another attractor, and the relaxation of the
connections makes that one a bit larger, so that it forms memory of its own past behavior.
And as that memory is in the connections and not in the states, it's a memory which can generalize,
so that's not just making it more likely to go to configurations that it's been to before,
but also to other configurations, including novel ones that have the same associative
relationships between the state configure state components. So that process of back and
forth between what I would now recall physical optimization is just local energy
minimization, and physical learning of changes to the internal structure of the system,
coupled with one another, produces an optimization process that the change in the
