in the country. We've created a world in which it's simply too hard for regular people to advance
properly because the society is not growing. Now, rather than complain about it, I'd rather do
something about it. So partially what I hope to do is to show you what's been going on with GDP
and inflation by introducing a new theory that combines the two greatest theories we have. So
if you think about biology as being driven by the theory of natural and sexual selection,
and if you think about physics as being driven by geometric dynamics either coming from Riemann
or Erasmannian geometry, then in fact, what would be the meeting place of our two greatest theories?
The only place that I'm aware of is that it takes place in economics. And why is that?
Because you have apes carrying on the theory of selection, but by other means through markets.
And what are markets? Markets are an attempt to create an as-if physical system
by uniformizing apples and oranges so that we have a basis for their comparison by using
mediums of exchange, like money. So in so doing, economics is the logical meeting place for the
two greatest theories man has ever had. And this was explored in the early, rather the mid-1990s,
early to mid-1990s by P. Mellani, my wife and collaborator and myself, in work that never
got out of Harvard University. That's not quite true. There is a book called The Physics of Wall
Street by James Weatherall, which touches upon this. But this work died because of something
called the Harvard Job Market Committee. And my wife went into that job market committee meeting,
having her work presented there, thinking that she could apply anywhere in the country and being
told instead that she had almost nothing and that she'd be lucky to escape with a PhD.
Now, in these three cases, that is, a theory of death that comes out of my brother's work at
the University of Michigan, a theory of productivity and how our wealth is inflated away coming out
of my wife's work at Harvard, and another theory about what is this place and how do these different
geometries come together, which would be the subject of geometric unity. All three of these ideas
met a level of resistance that none of us had ever anticipated or encountered. And I think it's
been terrifying to me to think about the idea of going up against the institutions. However,
last year I made an interesting calculation. I decided to look at the presidencies of all of
our leading research institutions and to try to figure out how many of them belonged to people
who came after the baby boom. In a previous world, let's say the world of the early 1980s,
approximately half of the heads of research institutions would be Gen X and Gen Y, that is,
Xers and Millennials. However, almost no research university, certainly almost no leading
research university, with I think the exception of the University of California at Berkeley,
when I did this calculation last year, was under anything other than the presidency of
a baby boomer. Now, what had happened? Well, we got rid of a mandatory retirement requirement
that probably affected things fairly significantly. And we began to concentrate all sorts of power
in one generation's ideas. Now, generations aren't magical things. What they are are instead
cohorts that are exposed to some set of circumstances that is peculiar to the time in which they are
growing up. So, for example, if your primary experience is that you work hard as a kid with
a paper route and an internship, you go to college, you work your way up a ladder and everything
works out fine, and pretty soon before you know it, you've got three kids in two homes,
that's your idea of what a normal life is. Now, this is sort of the basis of the meme
okay boomer, because many of the rest of us who followed this generation have no idea how you
would accomplish that in these times. I actually put the blame slightly more on the silent generation
than most people do. I think if you look at it, you realize a lot of the problems that we're
having now began through intergenerational issues initiated by the silence rather than the boomers,
but it's a pretty stark division between the exers millennials and Gen Z and the silence
and the boomers as the major generations that are still extant. In this situation,
it's terrifying to say what I'm about to say next, but it is time to inflict ourselves on our own
institutions. It is time to have Gen X candidates for presidencies, not necessarily just of the
political parties, because we've spent what is it, 20 years on on men born in the summer of 1946
so far. I mean, we're just at the beginning of baby boom presidencies, and we've been doing it
since 1992. That doesn't make a lot of sense. On the other hand, I think that the presidencies of
companies or CEO roles, I think that the issue of university presidents, many of these things have
been tilted far too much towards these other generations. I think that Gen X has a very
interesting story to tell. We were not highly infantilized in terms of when we were growing up.
In fact, we had the moniker of the latchkey kids, and we're also not large enough to get
things just by chanting them. We have always had the pressure of having to make some degree of
sense, because we're just too small as a generation. In fact, what I'd like to do, I've said that I
believe that string theory is effectively an affirmative action program for mathematically
talented baby boomers who do not wish to sully themselves with the problem of working on the
physical and real world as we have it. What I'd like to do is to bring you these three theories
over the course of the next year or two. That is, a theory of death, a theory of markets,
and how the agents within those markets and the measurement of those markets should be changed
and understood, and a theory also about who we are and what is this place in which we find
ourselves called geometric unity. The purpose of the portal, if you will, is to create a channel
that has never existed. Now, I could try to submit everything to Fizz review of letters. I could try
to submit to econometrica. I could try to go through all of the normal channels, and I think
what I've started to realize is part of the problem of having screwed up all of this early stuff
in our lives, of having tried to do this the formal and right way, so to speak.
The privilege of having been screwed over so directly and so beautifully by this system
is the right to raise the middle finger to the institutions. How dare you expect that I'm going
to use your quiet procedures? If you think about what peer review is, it's the exact opposite of
what peer review should mean. Peer review should mean that you publish your article, and then the
peers in the community review it. But in fact, what it is is peer suppression. You take your
article and you mail it off to somebody who you don't know. That person gets an early look at it.
They might hold it up in review. They then inflict any changes that they want or they reject it for
reasons that make no sense, and then it's handed back to you. Now, why does it have such a positive
spin? It's not long-standing in the community. It doesn't seem to have a very long history,
but it came out of an effort to quality control new ideas. We wanted to know if new ideas were
coming from reputable people. Were they using reasonable methods? Were they reasonably familiar
with their fields? In fact, that is the good reason that we had this new technique of peer review.
Previously, editors had been tasked with being responsible for the field and figuring out
whether or not something was up to snuff. In this new situation, it was perfectly constructed for
abuse. In fact, what you find is that it's like what my brother refers to as the low-posted speed
limit in a southern town. The key question isn't peer review. It's how is it enforced for different
people? That is, if you are a famous professor who is well plugged into a journal where your
friend is the editor, you're going to have an entirely different experience with peer review
than if you submit the exact same article coming from some place that is not well known to that
journal and in which there is a bias against that group. For example, if I were to point out that
every purebred dog in a kennel show is a product of intelligent design, that is, that humans
have commanded canines with whom and how they can mate, that process has produced things like
doxons and poodles. However, if I use words like intelligent design, I guarantee you that even though
it's clearly true that dogs are intelligently designed, that that paper will be rejected
because there is a belief that we should have a line which says no paper on intelligent design
has ever been accepted by a leading peer review journal. Now, that political understanding
of intelligent design has to do with both a reasonable idea and an unreasonable idea.
The reasonable idea is that you should not be able to smuggle Jesus into evolutionary
theory. You should not be able to do young earth creationism inside of a scientific context.
That is the previous reasonable version of peer review. It makes sense as quality control.
But what happens when you start talking about perception mediated selection? For example,
pseudo-copulation in orchids, which we've discussed before, or in the predatory system
with the muscle lampicillus, where the perception of the bass matters because it thinks that it's
consuming a baitfish, but in fact, that's a fake baitfish filled with the young of the muscle.
In both of those cases, you have perception mediated selection, and you could make an argument
that that should be called intelligent design. But those magic words can't appear in that journal.
Why? For a political reason. So what we have is we've created a system based around quality control
that in fact is rife and open for abuse. In that system, we now have to realize that we need other
channels. We need an ability to route around. We need to be able to reinsert dissidents and people
who do not get along with institutions back inside of the institutions. If you look at
Noam Chomsky sitting at MIT, you will realize that it was once the case that such people were much
more common. You can look up a fellow, an old friend of mine named Serge Lang, and you could
scarcely believe that such a person could have existed at Yale, but that person very much did
exist. You can look at an old controversy about David Baltimore and a woman named Margo O'Toole
and the courage of Mark Ptashny and Walter Gilbert in fighting a Nobel laureate when Margo O'Toole
accused a colleague of the Nobel laureate of misconduct or at least irreproducibility of results.
We have a long and storied history that has gone wildly off the rails with the crisis in
current sense-making. The purpose of the portal was always to set up a channel by which we would
have enough people watching that we could attempt to keep people from being rolled in the alleys
when they contradicted the institutions. That is, in large measure, what we're here to do.
If you look at our episode with Timor Karan, we introduced you to a concept of preference
falsification. Right now, the danger of the Andrew Yang and the Jeffrey Epstein situations is that
they have conveniently communicated to many people, of course we're going to mess with your
sense-making. What is it you're prepared to do about it? This brings us to a final issue which
I think is incredibly important, which has to do with why there are no living heroes. In effect,
we almost don't believe in heroism. As soon as somebody starts to make us excited about the world
and what is possible for the individual, we come to start feeling terrible about that person unless
they're trapped inside of a Marvel movie or something like that. If you go back to the history
of ticker tape parades, you will see that there were many ticker tape parades given
for individual aviators, individual explorers, ships captains who put their ship at risk to
rescue the crew of another. In fact, this pattern largely stopped. My contention is that the difficult
case of Charles Lindbergh may have marked a turning point. In Lindbergh's case, he had flown
solo to Europe from the United States and come back a hero, I believe in the late 1920s. Lindbergh
was a very difficult human being to deal with because he was an authentic hero and he was also
somebody who believed in America first in an isolationism. Given the Nazi menace in Europe,
I think that's almost an unforgivable position. Nevertheless, the fact is that Lindbergh commanded
tremendous popularity and that popularity could have been used to keep the U.S. out of a war.
What I find is that since Lindbergh, it has been very rare to elevate any individual to the point
where they can oppose our institutions. The Pete Seegers and Albert Einstein's of the world who
fought against McCarthyism were a huge danger to the industry that was cropping up around
anti-communism. When it came to the Vietnam War, it was very dangerous to have popular
entertainers like John Lennon who were against it. We have been frightened about individuals
coming to rival our institutions in terms of power. That's what's so great about
the New Revolution and long-form podcasting and all of these other forms of social media.
Now, we have a great danger in that most of these platforms are mediated. We saw what happened to
Alex Jones. It's quite possible that if these powerful institutions come to believe that a
particular individual should be removed, they can always choose to enforce the rules in a different
way. We saw recently the advent of terms of service changes to include dead naming. Now,
if I say that Walter Carlos composed the album Switched on Bach or performed the album Switched
on Bach, that is a true statement. But because Walter Carlos became Wendy Carlos, I have no idea
whether or not I can be accused of dead naming. Imagine that you have 100 such rules, rules that
are never spelled out, never clear, that can be enforced any which way to deny someone access to
the major platforms. This is the great danger with this moment. We have unprecedented access,
but we also have a gating function which can be turned on at any time if we fall out of line with
the institutions. I want to read you one tweet that has been on my mind for quite some time.
This tweet came from a contributor to The Washington Post, who's a professor at the Fletcher
School. It said, good morning, Eric. I'm going to leave out the parentheses. I've read up on a
few of your notions, and I have some thoughts, but my basic conclusion is simple. What's true
isn't new, and what's new isn't true. I think it's fantastic. I was stung by it because at first,
I was under the impression that we were still living in a world in which The Washington Post,
New York Times, Harvard, Stanford, what have you, control the major conversation.
Coming off of a recent date at the Ice House in Pasadena, which was a live gig with Peter Thiel,
I've started to realize how powerful this new movement is. We can reach anyone anywhere. What
I now believe is that the gated institutional narrative has been spoiling for a fight. We are
quickly coming to the point where we have a David and Goliath moment. We now need to try to
re-inflict the individuals who are uncorrelated, who are not particularly good at taking orders,
who don't like committee meetings, who don't want to sign loyalty oaths, but who are passionately
committed to the public good and to some version of intellectual meta-honesty.
We need these people to once again take up positions inside of the institutions,
and I would like to, in fact, inflict myself on my favorite institution, Harvard University.
The children of Harvard University have always been divided into white sheep and black sheep,
and there's no question that I represent black sheep Harvard. But I also think that one of the
features of the university that makes it great is that it has tolerated both its white sheep
and its black sheep. It is time to do battle with the oppressive structures that have been used to
silence new ideas. If in my family I assert that there might be as many as three revolutionary
Nobel quality ideas in one clutch, how many ideas might there be suppressed if that is actually
true? How many people are sitting on top of intellectual gold that never got its chance
to see the light of day? What I'd like to do is to try to do battle with the disc, to show you
that it exists, to try to figure out how it works, and to try to show that the tools that we currently
have may be powerful enough to defeat it. This is the actual purpose of the portal, and I think
even if we lose some viewers and some listeners, even if people start to see articles appearing
that say how terrible the show is and how it's trying to foment some kind of unrest, to hell with
them. We are in an amazing position to try to do something new and to stand up for a lot of people
who may have given up on their own original ideas and to try to spark a revolution because if I'm
right the disc has been sitting up on top of some of our best and most hopeful ideas for a way out
of our economic condundrums, our military problems, ideas which have some chance of delivering us to
a much more interesting and brighter tomorrow. So I hope that this is going to be an unbelievable
decade. Thank you guys for sticking with it. I'm sorry if this was a little bit long, but it was a
lot to say and it was heartfelt and quite important to me to get it out, and we will return to trying
to get you high quality content either in the form of interviews which you've become used to on the
portal, or perhaps some new visual content that allows you to understand ideas that would be very
difficult to communicate, but for some novel means of presentation. We hope to approach the community
to try to coordinate people who are eager to contribute back into the program
and maybe get a little bit of a closer relationship to our content going forward,
maybe influence it a little bit, and we haven't figured out all of the bugs. So thanks for being
part of the initial experiment. Thanks for sticking with us and we're looking forward to being with you
in the coming year and decade ahead. So you've been through the portal for our first solo episode
of 2020, and be well everybody. Stay tuned.
