Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host Eric Weinstein and this is sort of an unusual
edition of the portal because it's coming at the beginning of a new decade and I wanted
to set some intentions and also to sort of recap where we've been for the last half a
year that the show has been on the on the air and on the internet. There are no notes.
There's nothing planned. What I'd like to do is to just try to speak directly about
some of the things that have been on my mind and give you all my thoughts on your feedback
on the show and where I think we're going to be going to next. So with with your permission,
let's begin. It's been a pretty interesting half of a year. The show has built up a fairly
sizable audience and what's more, there are a lot of influential and important voices
within our audience. So I know that when I'm speaking, I'm reaching a lot of the people
who would be on my dream list of people to interview, to talk to and in fact, to plot
next steps with. So I think we've had a pretty successful run of it. We can still grow the
show bigger, but the show is now large enough that I actually don't mind losing some of
our listeners and some of our viewers by going into more challenging topics. And so I don't
think that our primary goal is going to be building the audience quite as much as it
was during the first six months. Furthermore, I think what's been somewhat confusing is
that we've had, if I recall correctly, 16 different interview episodes and one solo episode
so far. And I don't think that that is exactly what the portal was intended to be. In fact,
you could argue that the portal has not even begun. What we've done is to build up an audience
and to habituate the audience to a different style of interaction. I think we had to figure
out what we were going to do if we wanted to bring you certain high level concepts that
often get lost because the admonition to make sure that you don't lose your audience along
the way means that you never get very far because you're always doing the sort of preliminary
groundwork and you're never actually getting to the meat of the issue. And I think one
of the things that we are very proud of is that we have a very motivated audience who's
willing to sometimes even listen to the show more than once or do it with a notepad so
that if there are unfamiliar concepts, they can be looked up. And in fact, we've noted
that there have been several communities springing up around the show so that people can trade
their questions. And we've been watching you guys answer each other's questions in a way
that's really been gratifying. So having a lot of experts in the audience has been a
huge boon to the show. And we hope to try to figure out how to make community in a meaningful
sense a larger part of the show on a going forward basis. One of those efforts that's
particularly special is that we're trying to enlist artists. That could be visual artists,
it could be digital artists, it could also be musicians. And the idea we have is that
that legion of artists will be able to help push out many of the higher level ideas that
we would find challenging to do just in speech by using sort of the brain's full abilities
to take in new information and also to use the sort of the transcendent modality to kind
of open hearts and minds to truly different and unfamiliar ways of thinking. So I think
we may try to get that going. We need obviously to build a website. We need to have some way
in which people who wish to avoid advertising can can subscribe to the podcast and other
people who want to contribute and be part of this as a movement. We just held our first
live show at the Ice House in Pasadena and thanks everybody who came out. The show sold
out extremely quickly even though we sort of didn't exactly advertise where and when
it was except for cryptically at first. And one of the things that allowed us to do is
to meet the listenership on Moss and you know, it was a truly interesting and in many different
ways diverse group of people. There were pretty even split between anti and pro Trump voices.
People got along great. So we don't seem to be as affected as I was concerned. We might be by
the election cycle. And what I sensed was is that people really want to use the show to coalesce
and come together. And there's a lot of fear at the moment about anything tribal or anything
cult like and therefore anything that might be tribal trades at a discount. So I think we might
actually take a contrarian position and decide that the show in fact deserves more community
based on the way in which we see our our listenership and our viewership going. And so
rather than fear that anything would emerge with leadership because all of course anything with
leadership looks like Hitler to many people. Anything that looks at all ritualistic looks
like a cult. I think we're not going to worry about those things quite so much. So I think if I
can, I'm going to try to realize that in fact the audience is leading and that I need to do a
better job of just accepting that there's a lot of interest in new ways of thinking. And this is
one way of kind of getting unstuck to try to find the portal out of the stasis. And so if the show
is to be true to its original mission, I think we're going to have to take some risks, which might
mean drinking songs, it might mean ritualistic behavior, and hopefully it'll mean a lot more
opportunities to interact through live dates. The show is going to remain unabashedly a commercial
enterprise because otherwise it would never happen. And I want to give a huge shout out to
Cast Media, who has been the original studio and effectively co-producer of the show along with
Jesse Michaels, and the advertisers and the sponsors who've been paying for the equipment for
the people who worked on the show so that nobody had to shell out anything in order to get this.
The show would never have happened if it wasn't taking place as a commercial enterprise. And so
even though some of you find the ads annoying, although others of you find them actually entertaining
or interesting, what we need to do is to come up with a better model and a model in which sponsors
get access to the kind of heart and passion for sticking with the show. So I think I'm going to
try to figure out how the risk-vertiser model works in earnest this year. But it's also important to
me that those of you who wish to avoid having your brain sullied with any kind of commercial
intrusion have an option to do that. We've been doing that through the YouTube videos. And in that
respect, I feel like in general, if you're willing to sit through maybe an initial ad that rolls
before the video goes, you usually have an uninterrupted viewing or listening experience
thereafter. We'll try to get the videos a little bit and better sync with the audio. But most
importantly, what I want to get to is what the show is really about. And the last thing I will
say on the initial housekeeping is we probably needed to recognize earlier that we need your
help. A lot of you guys are audio engineers or your graphic designers or your website builders.
I don't quite know how to source the talent we need from the pool, but I've been bombarded by
wonderful offers from many of you, some of you at the absolute top of your field who want to
help this podcast because you want to see this grow as a movement. And maybe I was slow to
recognize how genuine the interest was. And just to say, thank you. I mean, I think it's just it's
sort of hard to recognize that it's working for various internal psychological reasons. I've been
incredibly touched and I really want to incorporate some of the offers of help because Lord knows
we need it. Just haven't figured out how to do it yet. So stay tuned. I think we'll be organizing
that shortly. We've now got a Facebook group for the portal podcast. We've got an Instagram
account that's growing. Twitter's still our largest following, but the actual subscriptions to the
podcast on both YouTube through Apple and other places are now quite large. And I think it'll
be increasingly hard to shut down these channels to you so that even if we lose one or two of them
because of something we say, hopefully we'll remain engaged and we'll try to make sure that we're
not vulnerable to having the oxygen cutoff. Alright, so what is it that is happening in 2020? What
kind of a decade are we up for? What's going to be going on with the portal during the coming
year, coming 10 years? I think that the first thing that I want to signal is that we are
finally ready to take on something which I have always found terrifying. And that has to do with
idea suppression. Now, before we get to idea suppression and how it functions and what it is,
I want to take new listeners through a very brief description of how we would order the world
relative to the portal and its objectives. So if you will, let me take you back to the end of World
War II. There's a lot of prehistory, but we can't afford to do everything. So shortly after World
War II, there were two very important events in the early 1950s from our perspective, one of which
was the unlocking of the three-dimensional structure of DNA by Watson and Crick in 1953.
And the other was the explosions of hydrogen devices using work of Edward Teller and Stanislaw
Ulam and what that changed in the human picture because we went from a short period where we
were dealing with atomic bombs, where ducking cover was a plausible solution to dealing with
hydrogen devices in which the destructive power was really incalculable. It's the power of gods
used to power the sun here on earth. Now, to my way of thinking, since the early 1950s,
there has been no comparable explosion of wisdom to go along with this new found power that humans
have, this new god-like power. So I've called this the twin nuclei problem of Sel and Adam.
And I think what we've had is an incredible run of luck, and I think it's the most
magical and marvelous thing, but I don't believe that we can count on luck forever. And in fact,
given some of the events of early 2020 taking place in Iraq and Iran, I would say that history
at the scale that we were accustomed to it during the, let's say, first half of the 20th century
could start up at any moment, and we're entirely unprepared for this.
Now, in the story that has this major through line that we've been following,
the next thing that happens that's really important is a guy named Derek DeSola Price
starts to calculate that science is on an exponential trajectory. And rather than
thinking that that's a great thing, he starts to understand that anything on an exponential
trajectory can't really go on because it's going to burn itself out. And if science is the original
seed corn, if you will, of technology and technology of economics, then effectively,
what's going to happen in science is going to percolate through a chain, through technology,
and into the economy with a potential stagnation coming. Now, he started to arrive at these ideas,
I think, at Yale in the late 1950s. It was not well understood what he was talking about. And
still, I'm always shocked that the book Science Since Babylon, which he wrote and which discusses
this issue, is so much less well known than, say, Thomas Kuhn's structure of scientific
revolutions. For some reason, this is so disparate to so many people that we actually don't discuss
it much. Studying this work led to the idea of talking about egos, that is, embedded growth
obligations. Now, embedded growth obligations are the way in which institutions play in their future
predicated on legacies of growth. And since the period between the end of World War II in 1945
and the early 70s had such an unusually beautiful growth regime, many of our institutions became
predicated upon low variance, technology-led, stable, broadly distributed growth. Now, this is
a world we have not seen in an organic way since the early 1970s. And yet, because it was embedded
in our institutions, what we have is a world in which the expectation is still present in the form
of an embedded growth obligation. That is, the pension plans, the corporate ladders are all still
built very much around a world that has long since vanished. We have effectively become a
growth cargo cult. That is, once upon a time, planes used to land in the Pacific, let's say,
during World War II. And the indigenous people looked at the airstrips and the behavior of
the air traffic controllers. And they've been mimicking those behaviors in the years since
as ritual, but the planes no longer land. Well, in large measure, our institutions are built for
a world in which growth doesn't happen in the same way anymore. All right. What then happened
was that a different structure, which I have termed the gated institutional narrative,
came to become repurposed. Now, the gated institutional narrative is like an exchange,
a financial exchange, if you will, except it's an exchange of information and ideas. And in order
to actually participate in this particular special conversation, you need to have a seat
on the exchange. That is, you need to write for an important paper like the Wall Street Journal,
or you need to be a senator or a congressman so that you can gain access to the news media,
or you need to be sitting at a news desk. In any of these situations, whether you're a professor
or a reporter or a politician, if you can gain a seat inside of the gated institutional narrative,
you can attempt to converse with other people within that particular conversation. The rest of
us do not really have the same level or kind of access to this highly rarefied discussion. And I've
previously compared this to what we would term a promotion inside of the world of professional
wrestling. It's an agreed upon structure in which people often agree to simulate dispute,
rather than actually have disputes because somebody could get really seriously injured.
But they're in fact working together to produce an engaging and regular product
for mass consumption. The problem with this gated institutional narrative is that in general,
it doesn't contain the most important ideas. And that is where the gating function comes in.
The most important ideas are likely to be the ideas that are most disruptive. What if the
entire food pyramid, for example, was wildly off? What if fats were not the great danger we
thought they were? And those waving fields of wheat that are fabled in American song, in fact,
give rise to carbs, which are very dangerous to us all. So if everything were inverted, let's say,
where in a world where instead of banishing volatility during the so-called Great Moderation
before 2008, we were actually building the tinder for the world's largest financial forest fire.
What if, in fact, we had all sorts of things exactly backwards and completely wrong? What if
diversity wasn't always a sign of our strength, but sometimes a sign of our weakness? What if,
for example, immigration, far from being an issue of xenophobes versus xenophiles, was actually an
instrument of redistribution, having very little to do with xenophobia or xenophilia to begin with?
These sorts of ideas can't be entertained inside of the gated institutional narrative.
And that's where the gating function comes in. What was originally a function intended to ensure
quality control of the narrative became an instrument for something else. And this is where I want
to introduce the most important concept that I think we will be dealing with on a going forward
basis in 2020 on this program, the disk. What is the disk? The disk stands for the distributed
idea suppression complex. Now, taking it apart, the center of it is idea suppression. Not all
ideas are good, and so idea suppression is very frequently understood as an important concept
when we're talking about something like bigotry or we're talking about something like violent
ideology. Of course, we want to suppress certain ideas. But these are not the ideas that are
principally important inside of the disk. The disk is actually a complex. It is a large collection
of different structures, and it's not controlled in any one place. Many of these have emerged
separately. But what makes an aspect of the disk, what shows you a particular component,
is that it protects institutions from individuals who are making valid and reasonable points.
So if you imagine that the institutions have become incredibly fragile because they're in
fact built for growth, and that plan for their growth if it obligates them to tell untruths and
to hide certain characteristics because they are not in fact able to grow at the rates in
which they are supposed to, you need some complex for making sure that that information doesn't reach
the bottom entrance to a pyramid structure. Let's talk about some aspects of idea suppression.
The two stories that I'm following most closely, and we can date this particular episode by talking
about current events, I think that's fine. The two stories I'm following most closely
with interest from the perspective of understanding the disk are the story
of Andrew Yang and the media, and the story of Jeffrey Epstein and his recent demise.
Now in neither of these cases is my principal interest the ostensible subject matter. In the
case of Andrew Yang, Andrew is going through a weird ritual that I've noted repeatedly,
election cycle after election cycle. Perhaps the most three recent versions of this situation
have been with Ron Paul in his run for president, with Bernie Sanders in his run for the presidency,
and now with Andrew Yang. In all of these cases, we see a very bizarre behavior inside of the news
media. That is that when the candidate starts to gain traction with the public, they become left
off of lists, they become misreported. Very often a reporter will stand in front of the graphic
that has that particular candidate alongside others, and we don't really know why this is
occurring, and we don't know how these instructions are going out. But in the case of Andrew Yang,
because this is taking place in a highly connected internet era, we have people chronicling all of
the myriad ways in which Andrew Yang's candidacy is distorted. In particular, there appears to be
a different level of distortion taking place at one particular news media outlet.
We need to better understand exactly what is the political economy of the news.
In the case of Andrew Yang, the key question would be, why aren't the regular news media
