and the competing news media reporting on the outside effort being made to make sure that
Andrew does not appear normally with other candidates in this democratic primary field?
It doesn't make logical sense if you believe that the principal reason for reporting on the
election is to make sure that the voters have an early opportunity to hear all voices and to
begin to make their decisions, rather than immediately trying to pick a narrative about
front runners who are always taken to be inevitable. That's a conserved feature of this bizarre
election coverage cycle after cycle. The first thing I want to do is recommend that you google
MSNBC and Andrew Yang and Yang Media Blackout and look at the impressive data set that has been
collected, which shows a singular focus that can be inferred from the data on Andrew Yang.
To an extent, this has also happened with Tulsi Gabbard. To an extent, there's been some carry
over from Bernie Sanders, but Bernie Sanders' showing in 2016 was so strong that the same
games that were applied to Sanders then cannot easily be applied now. But the key question we
have is why is the news media spending so much on one candidate who doesn't appear to be that large
to keep that candidate from growing? I think this is an interesting topic and what it has to do with
is making maps of silence. Now, through the efforts of Dana Boyd and the data and society group,
we've learned about a doctrine called strategic silence, and that is that there are certain
things that the media may not want to happen. Therefore, rather than simply reporting the
facts of the matter, they make editorial decisions so as not to give fodder or fuel for some
undesirable outcome. Now, we can partially understand that in the case of copycat killings
after, let's say, gun massacres, but it's much harder to understand why somebody coming from
outside of the political system would be treated to something like strategic silence or strategic
distortion. What we need to do is to have a better understanding of the maps of silence and maps of
distortion that take place in our press. What Andrew has done that is special and unique is
that he's given us a very large N for our dataset. We now have enough different incidents of this
that we can begin to piece together what might be inferred from this very bizarre behavior.
The second example of this that I find fascinating is the death of Jeffrey Epstein. Now, you'll hear
a lot of other people say, well, Epstein didn't kill himself or it's obviously this or it's obviously
that. I have a decidedly smaller interest in those questions. The questions that fascinate me
have to do not with Epstein, not with who might have killed him, whether he died by his own hand,
but they have to deal with the sense-making apparatus that is the news media around this
untimely exit from our world. Now, Jeffrey Epstein was accused of trafficking and had a very bizarre
life that is difficult for many of us to understand where he got a slap on the wrist in Florida
and appeared to operate with impunity even after his conviction in Florida as a sex offender.
What's fascinating is that if anyone remembers the Watergate era, the news media used to go
to federal agencies and ask whether or not something was true or false. This gave us the
phrase, a non-denial denial. When the question arises, let's say in this case, does Jeffrey Epstein
have any ties to any known intelligence community? That question can be asked, let's say, to the
CIA, to the State Department, to the NSA. You might expect that you'd get an answer. Absolutely,
this person had no ties because the idea of the intelligence agencies being connected to a known
sex trafficker seems preposterous at one level, but you could also imagine that they'd get no
comment. Now, we don't even have that in this situation. I did this fairly recently with
The New York Times and tried to simply use their own search engine. Have you asked the question
whether Jeffrey Epstein had ties to the intelligence agencies? The other questions that arise in this
case are, when is the last known recording of Ghislaine Maxwell's passport crossing a border?
This is a simple factual question. A reporter would be dispatched, they would call up somebody
like Interpol, they would try to find out whether people would speak about it or not speak about
it. Under any circumstances, they would be able to print an interesting story. For example,
Interpol has no comment, or Interpol says that the last recorded border where Ghislaine Maxwell's
passport showed up was a border crossing in New York City. Under any circumstances, it is very
bizarre to see the map of silence around these questions. Another such question is, if Jeffrey
Epstein's fortune came from currency trading, where are the records from his office in Valard House
in Manhattan? He had a very large office in a trophy property on the island of Manhattan,
and to the best of my knowledge, I have seen no printed discussion of where the supposed
trading records of this person who seemed to amass a fortune. Another weird thing about this fortune
is that he seemed to live life as a high-eleven figure individual, owning islands and incredible
properties and multiple jets, and yet all of the assets I've seen accounted for puts him
instead in nine-figure territory. Now, that's two orders of magnitude difference,
and I don't think that there are many nine-figure rich who would live anything like Jeffrey Epstein's
lifestyle. It appears that most of the assets were put towards a kind of front, if you will.
So, we don't have any idea about where the records are of his trading. We don't have any idea where
the passport of his partner was seen last, and we also have no confirmation that any of our major
government agencies have denied that Jeffrey Epstein, the accused sex trafficker, was tied to any
intelligence community. In all of those situations, what you can map with honesty and without having
to go anywhere near Tinfoil Hat territory is that there's something broken with our sense-making
apparatus, because in the Watergate era, you could have assigned this to a cub reporter,
and they would have known exactly what to do. Where are our no comments on the record? No one knows.
All right, in those two circumstances, that gives you an idea about how the disc,
the distributed idea suppression complex, works inside of journalism. There is some sort of
editorial function that is keeping us from learning certain things because certain stories do not run
with a little bit of poetic liberty. This seems to be what Paul Simon was talking about in sounds
of silence. What we're listening for now are the silences. Where else are we confronted with
silence? What are the other things we would expect where we don't hear particular ideas?
Now, obviously, you have a situation where I've been talking for quite some time about the idea
that there are many reasons that one might ask to restrict immigration. The Sierra Club used to
support a restriction of immigration. Farm workers unions used to support restrictions on
immigration. But sometime in the fairly recent past, it became an edifices of the elite that
the only reason for supporting a restriction in immigration, the only possible reason, could be
that you were xenophobic and probably racist. Now, I don't exactly know where these ideas came from,
but I know that these ideas are prima facie and preposterous. They make no sense. And so I've been
talking for some time about where are the media willing to discuss all of the reasons that one
might want to restrict immigration, having nothing to do with xenophobia, the so-called
xenophilic restrictionist perspective. This is another place where there is no public discussion
and we have no idea why. So once you begin to look for these silences, these gaps,
you start to become rather terrified that somehow the world is not behaving properly,
and that's one of the reasons that people are flocking to this podcast.
This is, however, not my major focus. My major focus of the distributed idea suppression complex
or disc has to do with what happens inside of our universities. Now, I'm in a somewhat unusual
position in that both myself and my wife have PhDs as well as my brother and his wife. And we've
all appeared in interviews within the last five years. So maybe you've seen all of us on camera
or have some idea of how Brett Weinstein, Heather Hying, Pia Malani, and I sound.
What some of you don't know is that I believe that inside of that group of four,
one of us wrote a book immediately after getting a PhD, which is Heather Hying's book,
Antipode, about her solo travels to the jungles of Madagascar. So if you have a young woman in
your life who's looking for a pretty impressive female role model, I would say Heather's toughness,
intelligence, and grit makes for a pretty terrific reading. And I'd recommend buying
the book Antipode for that young lady. In the case of the remaining three,
none of us wrote a book immediately afterwards. However, I think that the quality of the discoveries
that were being explored was incredibly high. And in each case, what I thought happened to those
was most unexpected. Now, what are these ideas that I'm claiming were suppressed? So I would say
that in one case, we were talking about the reasons why we die. One of these theses contained what
I think is one of the best models for the reasons that we have these finite life spans. And of course,
we're all subject to what might be called environmental insult. If a piano falls on
your head while you're walking down the street, that's usually going to be your exit. But why
we age, why we get cancer and why we die, I think has not been very well understood at the molecular
level. And I think perhaps one of the first mature attempts to do this took place in my
brother's thesis at the University of Michigan. This is one of the major ideas that I wish to
be exploring in 2020. If biology is one of the greatest ideas man has ever had in the form of
natural and sexual selection in the work of Darwin and Wallace, I would say that the other complex
of great ideas, truly top ideas, would be what I would call geometric dynamics. Those are the
ideas that take place underneath theoretical physics, whether we're talking about the standard model
or general relativity. Now, we now believe that all fundamental physical phenomena can be divided
between these two great theories. In one case, that of Einstein's general relativity, it's been
known for about a hundred years that the substrate of the theory is Riemann's theory of differential
geometry, that is, Riemannian geometry. What is much more recent, perhaps slightly less than 50
years old, thanks to Jim Simons and C. N. Yang, is the knowledge that the classical theory
underneath quantum field theory is, in fact, a different form of geometry known as Eris-Mannian
geometry, Fiber-Bundle geometry, Gage theory, or you know, Steenrod geometry, whatever you want to
call it. So, the idea that geometry is the birthplace of fundamental physics, I think, is now
generally understood by all practicing theoretical physicists functioning at the top level.
Inside of that complex, we've been stuck for approximately, I don't know, 47 years where
theory used to lead experiment, and we used to make predictions, and the predictions would usually
be confirmed in relatively short order. We have not had a period of stagnation inside of theoretical
physics that mirrors this, with the closest comparable period, perhaps being the period from
the late 1920s, with the advent of quantum electrodynamics, to the late 1940s, with the
beginning of renormalization theory being ushered in at the Shelter Island, Pocono, and Old Stone
conferences. So, that 20-year period is now more than doubled, and we haven't been making progress.
And I've been very uncomfortable with the idea of coming forward with ideas. Why? Well, to be honest,
it's very rare for anyone outside of theoretical physics to have reasonable ideas in physics.
I could explain why, but the physicists are fantastic. They've got all sorts of no-go theorems,
and all sorts of considerations that have to be kept in mind. And effectively, what they've got
is a world that is so tightly constrained when it comes to understanding where we are,
that almost every new idea is instantly dead on arrival. Now, this has been incredibly
demotivating to people in the field, and it does feel, from many different perspectives,
like we're almost at the end, if not of all of physics, at least of this chapter of physics.
But what I'm starting to see is that the field has become exhausted. It has been telling the
same story since 1984 about how string theory is our leading theory of quantum gravity, that
quantum gravity is the replacement for Einstein's search for a unified field. And as the accelerator
turns up, the Higgs and little else as effectively no new physical theories arise with confirmations,
as the only major updates to our model of the physical world are things like massive
neutrinos or the accelerating expansion of the universe coming from experiment. The theoretical
physics community has been very slow to own up to just how much trouble it's in. It's an incredibly
demanding life. It has incredible standards for rigor and intellectual honesty, and quite honestly,
it's been lying for far too long to sustain the kind of integrity that's needed in that community.
Now, I don't know whether I'm nuts, but I do know that at previous points, I've suggested
things into both the mathematical and physics communities that have later been shown by other
people to be correct. And while I was waiting for some kind of confirmation, I was being told,
Eric, you're completely off base, you're not getting it. One of these situations involves
something called the Cyberg-Witton equations, which I put forward in the 1980s, probably 87.
And I was told that these couldn't possibly be right, that they weren't sufficiently non-linear.
I'll tell the whole story about how if spinners were involved, then obviously Nigel Hitchens
would have told us so, blah, blah, blah. None of this was true. And in 1994,
Natty Cyberg and Edward Witton made a huge splash with these equations. I remember being in the
room and seeing the equations written at MIT on the board, and I was thinking, well, wait a minute,
those are the equations that I put forward. If those equations are being put forward by Witton,
why is it that the community isn't telling him that they're wrong for the same reasons that
they told me that they were wrong? This is also how idea suppression works. When you are young
and when you are vulnerable and when you need the help of older members of your academic community
to bring you forward, you're extremely vulnerable to what might be termed the duot de senor of the
academic community. Now, for those of you who aren't familiar with it, or the prima notte,
there was an old legend that the lords of the manor would command the right to take the virginity
of every bride on her wedding night until there arose a miller's daughter known as the mugnaia.
Now, the mugnaia had a different plan for she wished instead to be with her husband and not
the evil lord of the manor. So what she did was she smuggled a knife underneath her robes
and appeared in the bed chamber of the lord of the manor and killed him. Now, this is celebrated
in the festival of the oranges, which is potentially the world's largest food fight in which armed
combatants throw oranges at each other. I think it's in Italy, if I'm not mistaken, celebrating
the victory of the mugnaia. But right now, we have a problem in our intellectual disciplines,
which is that when we come forward with our best ideas, very often, even if they're slightly wrong,
they're slammed. And when they're slammed, sometimes the older members of the community
then take the ideas for themselves at a later point. This has to stop. And I think I've been
trying to gather courage to put forward some ideas, which I think some of them, some aspects of them
may be wrong, but are certainly quite interesting. And given that our leading theories have completely
stalled out and failed to ship a product for depending upon how you count, you know, nearly 40
years or 50 years, depending upon whether it's the anomaly cancellation or something called the
Veneziano model. I think it's time to simply ignore these people and realize that the leading
lights of our most important community have failed. If we don't figure out the full source code,
going beyond Einstein, going beyond the standard model, we can't know whether we're actually
literally trapped in our local area, or whether we have some hope of going out and looking at the
night sky with an idea that that might be the roadmap to our future. So whether or not we're
consigned by Einstein to the Elon Musk program, let's say, of exploring the moon and Mars,
or whether, in fact, we might get on the Star Trek or Star Wars program of exploring the cosmos,
has to do with whether or not we can get the source code. So the next thing has to do with
who we are, what is this place, and what I've called geometric unity. It is the aim of making
the portal a place where I can have a channel that cannot be controlled by the academic complex.
And I'll come back to that in a second. The third area that I want to talk about has to do
with markets. Now, markets are really the sponsor of our freedom. By having a non-centrally
directed locally organized human activity, free agents are able to contract freely with each
other, exchange with each other, build prosperity, lift each other up. And if you are a progressive,
you almost certainly really have to appreciate the power of markets. But our markets are in great
danger at the moment, in my opinion, because they are being meddled with and they are returning
results that indicate that only a tiny fraction of us are worthy of reaping the true rewards of
the markets, while many of us feel that we are being left behind. If you look at the wealth
structure of the silent generation, boomer generation, generation X and the millennials or
Gen Y, you see that the millennials have at this age a massed far smaller percentages of the wealth
than the boomers did at the same age. And I don't think it's because they're lazy or they're not
talented. So we have a very dangerous situation shaping up where our younger generations are
not fully bought in. In fact, in the last year, I just bought my first house. I'm 54 years old,
born in 1965. I bought one car and then had to rebuy it when it hadn't got rear-ended.
There's something very bizarre about that pattern for somebody who is educated at an Ivy League
undergraduate institution and has an advanced degree from potentially our leading institution
