Welcome to Gazing Conspiracy. My name is Katrina Stanton.
I'm Yannish Brodsky and I'm Steven Zuber.
This episode we are going to be talking about signaling and because it's December in the US, it's Christmas month.
I think it's December everywhere, isn't it?
It's only Christmas in the US though.
That is also not true.
Because it's December in the US, that makes it Christmas month.
So we thought that we'd talk a little bit about lying to children about Santa Claus.
That's one way to put it.
Sure. It's a Christian holiday, but like my family does Christmas, we've never talked about the Bible or got any religious connotation to it.
It's just kind of like one of those excuses that you have to get together and get presents and stuff.
Yeah, and my secular Jewish family celebrated Christmas. In fact, my aunt Susan used the term Christmas tree Jews.
That's adorable.
Which I think might be a slur, I'm not sure.
Oh, maybe it's less adorable.
I didn't celebrate Christmas when I was a Christian and now that I'm an atheist, I do.
So Christmas is a wonderful holiday.
And like many parents, my parents lied to me about the existence of Santa Claus.
And you are very unhappy about that still. You weren't happy when you found out.
No, the funny thing is I wasn't unhappy when I found out. I was proud of myself for figuring it out.
Only much later was I offended about my parents, about the double standard of my parents lying to me.
Because of course it was so, so important as a kid that I never lie.
But I didn't get it when I was a kid. I didn't get it.
I just, my parents could do whatever they want. They were above morality.
So it was only later that that really kind of sunk in.
Your parents were like, God's of your world.
Exactly.
Morality does not apply to them.
I think there's a general bad lesson that may or may not be an actual thing that when children find out that they've been duped for however many years about existence of Santa Claus
and the careful quasi-reason that parents do to explain how Santa can actually exist and do all that he's purported to do,
I think there's an argument that could be made saying that, oh, it weakens their trust in their parents or something.
Because you use the words, your parents are like God's to your world, and they kind of are.
You are more or less programmed to uncritically believe everything your parents tell you through childhood.
That said, I'm going to take the pros-antist stance for this.
It does not reflect my actual position.
I actually have argued that that is one of the reasons that maybe teaching Santa to believe to kids is a good thing because it'll...
Okay, this is not an argument I stand by anymore.
But at one time, I thought it's kind of like giving kids a little crash course in rationality.
You're told all these lies that do not match the real world at all,
and slowly they start to come apart and start questioning your reality and applying these skills.
And I thought it was like a good primer for teaching kids how to be critical thinkers.
Yeah, it's like a true obstacle course.
Yeah.
It's a crash course in cynicism and distrusting your parents and authority.
Exactly.
Which are important lessons to learn in life.
Yes.
Looking back on the actual real-world effects, it doesn't seem like that actually is what happens with people.
They find out about Santa and they're like, well, I still love Jesus, though.
And it never applies to anything else in life.
So that was one of my arguments I was going to give in favor of teaching kids or in telling kids about Santa was that...
He's like, Jesus liked.
Exactly.
And so then at the end of it, you could, you know, maybe not at age six or whatever,
but down the road when the kids a little older, hey, remember all this stuff about Santa Claus?
Well, Jesus now, right?
That was one of my joke arguments in favor of telling kids about Santa Claus.
It does kind of feel like it should be some sort of inoculant, though, right?
Like cowpox would protect you against smallpox?
It's kind of like the cowpox of religion.
Why doesn't it work?
It's chelod.
Humans suck.
Why are they so compartmentalized?
That's actually a good question.
Maybe because the threat of Hellfire is more scary than getting in the coal for Christmas?
Well, not to a kid, really.
No.
I think it's probably much more about fitting in with the rest of society.
Well, that's, you're taking well on my stuff.
I was going to say that about...
No, no, you're fine.
Like I said, I was going to argue against what I actually believe in favor.
So we weren't all agreeing that teaching kids about Santa is a bad thing.
I was going to say that, A, it's religion light, basically.
And there might be some transferable skills to an introspective young teenager or something about,
like, hey, remember how you went through all that stuff accepting that Santa wasn't real?
Well, that kind of works exactly in this situation, too, right?
It's not a slide of children all the time.
And I think that kids are pretty used to it.
So it doesn't...
Maybe that's why it doesn't come so much of a shock.
I don't know.
It didn't come as much of a shock to me.
Okay.
You were already used to your parents lying to you?
I don't know about my parents, but adults certainly do all the time.
And I didn't even...
I'm not sure that I even realized it.
It's so hard to remember how you felt as a kid about a lot of things.
Yeah.
And I mean, I must have been in first grade when I figured out the Santa didn't exist.
My mom wanted me to circle some things that I wanted in a cheap gift, like, catalog.
And then I did and those things showed up from Santa.
Right.
And you began to wonder?
Well, and then I...
That was the day I was like, oh, mom's buying me these things and saying that they're from Santa Claus.
Well, that's normal.
You go into class and your teachers are dressed up like witches and they have special witch names
because it's Halloween and they tell you that they're Hilda
and, you know, whoever.
Ever happened in my school?
Ever happened in your school?
It was so much fun.
Huh.
I don't remember my childhood that well.
I probably haven't at some point.
So, but that kind of stuff, the pretend, like, let's play pretend.
This tree is going to tell you, ask this tree questions and it'll tell you about how photosynthesis works.
Or, you know, that's what it is to be a child is to play pretend.
The Santa Claus myth, I think, is it's certainly more entrenched than a lot of those.
So it sounds like you're saying it's not really that bad of a thing.
Kids play pretend all the time anyway.
I'm saying, yeah, kids play pretend all the time.
Adults play pretend with kids all the time.
So I don't think it's...
Well, again, I can't speak for anyone but myself, but it wasn't terribly surprising that it was another...
It was another pretend thing.
I think the difference, though, between, like, your teacher pretending to be a witch or your parents telling you this tree is going to tell you about photosynthesis is that...
You knew it was pretend?
Yeah.
A, you knew it was pretend.
B, there was no, like, resistance to you questioning.
Like, wait, you're still Miss Higgins, right?
Not Helga the Witch, right?
So, like, but, like, if you challenge Santa that way, you get kind of pushed back where you wouldn't if you were, you know, saying this tree is not really talking, is it, mom?
You might, like, your teacher might say, I really am, I'm her twin sister, that's why we look exactly the same.
But I'm a witch, and we're going to...
We're going to talk about all the planets in the solar system, and then we're going to pluck them out of the sky and put them in this soup.
I stole her body outright using dark magic.
You should hear her screaming within my mind.
But yeah, kids are used to that, and, you know, as an adult who's worked with children and worked at museums, I hear parents telling little lies to their kids all the time.
Little lies, big lies, casually lies as the point.
Something to make your life a little easier?
Yeah.
If they don't know the answer, they'll just come up with something, you know.
So, it's a reality that children live in, and some of those things slip through.
You know, sometimes I would talk with Tim, and he'd say, oh, for the longest time I believed this about AIDS, because I asked my mom, how do people get AIDS?
And she said, by being naughty.
And he thought, and he thought, for the longest time, that if he didn't clean his room, he could get a deadly disease.
That sounds a few levels worse than Santa.
Yeah.
Did I ever tell you about...
But it was so casual.
Yeah, that's fucked.
She just didn't want to get into it.
She didn't want to get into it, so she gave him a non-answer, and it impacted his life in ways that she couldn't have predicted.
Right.
She was probably using naughty as a euphemism for unsafe sex with people you don't know.
Yes.
And he thought it meant not cleaning his room.
We're using needle consort.
Right.
Yeah.
Did I ever tell you about my missing ribs?
Not my actual missing rib, but the story?
Yes.
Of course.
You probably believed for a long time that men had one less rib than women.
Yes.
Because, you know...
Because of the Adam story, where God takes the rib and makes Eve out of it.
I don't think you told me this story.
For the longest time, I think I must have been into my teens, I thought this.
And the stupid thing is, I have 24-7 access to a male rib cage.
I could have checked.
I mean, it's not the easiest thing in the world to count your ribs, but I could have at least tried, and it never even occurred to me.
I was just like, yeah, that's why men got one less rib.
Because, I mean...
I can think of two examples that are related, and probably super tangential.
One, Aristotle had lots of claims to being a very intelligent guy, and he did a lot in natural philosophy.
But, he was also super lazy about stuff.
So, like, he started, like, taxonomy, and, you know, organizing animals in different file-on stuff.
But his...
He had, like, a few claims that were kind of out there, like, men have more teeth than women.
And it's like, you could just ask Mrs. Aristotle to open her mouth.
Yeah.
And count her teeth, and then you could count yours, and disprove that.
But you just said that without even looking at anything.
Maybe Mrs. Aristotle had been missing tooth or something.
Yeah.
Bad cavity.
Maybe he looked at literally one, two people, one male, one female, and counted their teeth, and said,
Well, that's...
That's how people talk.
Nobody's developed the scientific method yet, so...
I thought they had the logic to say that one doesn't equal all, though, back then.
Maybe they...
They didn't really...
Back then, they didn't even have to come up with any evidence at all.
Yeah.
Oh.
They're like,
Platonic ideals is how the universe works.
Yeah.
Back to Santa.
Yes.
Is there...
Go?
