But yes, so I think...
I mean, there's a difference between weird and asshole, but weird says that you're not
in this nice box that we like.
There are some places that this box that are desirable, but the outside of the box space
is way bigger than just that one, you know, those small points where good weird is, right?
Yeah.
So maybe your weird thing is that you always think about work, you know, and we would love
that.
But there are more ways to be wrong or more ways to be bad weird than good weird, maybe
from the perspective of a hiring person.
What I was trying to say is that I get why we don't do that because it would be weird
and being weird is bad, but it seems to make...
It would almost make sense to me to have it be normal to say, look, you're going on a date
and be like, look, here's my bank statement.
You know that I'm loaded.
Now I don't have...
Now I don't have to show you my fancy car.
I don't have to buy you an expensive dinner.
You can just believe that you've got proof now.
I might know that you're loaded, but I don't know how I'm going to benefit from that.
Right.
Well, but like, so like the things that people care about, or like, here's my last physical
results from my doctor.
You can see I'm not sick.
You can see I'm perfectly healthy.
I mean, again, that's common in my line of dating.
Oh, yeah.
I guess in more common lines of dating, that's not common.
Like in normal circumstances, if I were to bring saying, look, hey, look, I haven't had
a cold in two years.
I don't even go to the doctor except for to get this physical to check out for this date
to show you that I was healthy.
That would be seen like as the same thing as bringing your IQ test results.
I think that you would be surprised how often that kind of stuff happens, like how often
somebody finds the opportunity to talk about.
So we're talking about signaling, right?
So an IQ test is signaling, but people can be more indirect and say other things that
make it clear that they're intelligent.
And I'm not sure how it works in the dating world.
If somebody, you know, they want to tell you that they're healthy, that makes a lot of
sense.
But if they, if you guys sit down, hey, I'm this person.
Hi, I'm me.
Here's my doctor.
Nope.
Here's my papers for my doctor.
Here's, you know, so like, is that how it goes?
Because that's the situation I was modeling.
So I can say, I have a master's degree.
Hi, I'm Katrina.
I have a master's degree.
Like, or like, do you start it that way?
No.
Come to the conversation.
Oh, you know, I went to grad school here.
I went to undergrad here.
How about you?
You, when you say I went to a school in Boston, that is how you signaled that you went to
Harvard, right?
Because no one actually went to Harvard says Harvard as that is gosh.
So is gosh the way you pronounce that word?
Gosh, gosh.
So you have to pronounce what's correctly.
That is another signal.
Yes.
No, I totally understand.
There are ways to signal these things other than just going out there and doing it.
I guess what I'm getting at is that, and yes, there are ways to bring them up organically
in conversation that don't make you seem weird.
But as long as you're trying to get to that same point anyway, I guess what I'm saying
is that I wouldn't mind a social convention that allowed you just to be forthcoming with
whatever information people wanted to know about and that you wanted to share, right?
I wouldn't mind if I mean, I weren't so skeptical about IQ tests.
Well, I mean, so IQ tests decide like bank statements or doctor's records or whatever,
you know, SATs, whatever, if there's any test used to you.
I guess I put intelligence on the list of three things that people care about when they're
dating because it's one of the three things that I think people care about.
What are they up to?
Wealth and health.
Okay.
Wealth, health and intelligence, I think.
Maybe funniness, but that kind of falls under intelligence.
And not everyone wants, like, not everyone wants to date a comedian, but if they did,
you could say, look, here's my YouTube video of me doing five minutes of stand up and
people are laughing.
Or you could just tell a joke.
Yeah.
I'm not necessarily advocating for this.
I'm saying that I could see how it would make sense to just cut the bullshit and cut a
two hour conversation down to three minutes and then say, do we even want to go to dinner
now?
No, I think that, you know, looking at your health records, I don't feel like we're a
good match.
Cool.
Glad we didn't waste our time.
Have a great night.
No, I would consider that fair.
I think so.
But it would take a lot, it would take a strong seeding community to get that going rather
than you just being the one insane person scaring away everyone you know.
I'm not even saying that I wouldn't necessarily like that.
I'm saying it would make sense.
As long as you're trying to signal the same information anyway, it seems weird to me that
we go with this weird, circumspect way of doing it rather than just going out and doing
it.
In a conversation with a former partner, I was saying, oh yeah, I, whatever, I don't,
I don't want to signal.
I'm just, I want to be very straightforward.
Which is the form of signaling of its own.
Which of course is what he said.
Oh, okay.
So you're signaling that you're, you are honest to a fault and that you're reliable or, you
know.
You're signaling that you're too hip to signal.
Counter signaling is also a thing.
Right.
So, you know.
Is that where that was going?
No.
No, but let's talk about counter signaling.
Counter signaling is the opposite.
It's signaling, but signaling in reverse.
So, counter signaling is when you walk up to your friend who's gay and you're like, hey,
fag, what's up?
Because I, right, right, right.
Because you can't do that to someone that you don't know very well.
But if you guys are best friends, you can call each other shithead or whatever and it's
like, it doesn't matter.
Your friendship is so strong that you can do that kind of thing and everyone knows that
it's not a big deal.
Interesting example.
Okay.
I shouldn't use that example?
I think that's, I think that's a good example.
I only use that example because I worked with a guy who was gay and had a friend that did
that.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, I think that's an okay example for that kind of counter signaling.
I think there's also the one to where like, I'm going to wear jeans to this funeral just
to show that I'm not, I'm not for dressing up for the status quo or I'm going to wear,
you know, a flannel shirt to my sister's wedding or something, right?
Which is less about like the acceptable counter signaling within a relationship that wants
it or is okay with it and more about just like saying, I'm so not for whatever you guys
are doing or I'm, I want to stand out by signaling my-
Or pre-ripped jeans.
Yeah.
God, the homeless look on jeans.
Those are expensive too.
I have really old jeans that look like crap, like with the tears because they're old and
there are people who buy those for a hundred dollars a pair and I'm like, I would sell
you mine for 10 if you would take them.
They would not take them for 10.
They might take them for a hundred.
Try to sell them for a hundred.
If you'd sell it for...
See, that's the problem.
If you sell it for 10, they're going to be like, oh, this is just an old pair of jeans.
But if you sell it for a hundred...
You don't want to rip this.
It's going to become a worse rip and then like you're ripping your crotch.
How do you prevent a rip from becoming a worse rip?
Because if you buy it, yeah, if you buy it like that, it's reinforced.
If you don't, then it's not and it's going to get way worse and quickly.
I didn't realize they were reinforced.
Yeah.
This is how up I am.
I got a chance.
I got a chance to examine somebody who was wearing them and she was showing me these
because I asked her about them.
She was like, yeah, check this out.
I don't know if you ever bought patches for jeans or something, but you iron in or sew
in a patch on the inside.
It's like that, but less visible and they're as solid as ours, but they have holes so your
leg is getting cold still.
I don't really see the point, but they're a thing.
Maybe you can show that you have skin.
I have skin.
I'm raising my hands right now.
You can see.
I know, but on your legs.
They also have skin.
You can tell how my pants aren't wet with blood.
You want to show how nice of skin you have, maybe is what you're saying.
Maybe.
Maybe.
Whatever.
I don't know.
See, why would you say that?
Because you have expensive pants.
You can just pull up your pet legs in front of people.
Casually.
You can tell I'm all about cutting the bullshit.
So I have a question.
What's your question?
One of the ways to signal that you are an interesting and intelligent person is to have
a podcast where you talk about weird things that most people don't talk about very often.
I think that having a podcast signals that you have descended into nerditude to a point
that you don't even mind.
So we are countersignaling by having a podcast.
