So I currently, and I'm unemployed, I got laid off recently as obviously the people in this room know,
but our listeners do not yet know.
And I've been working in accounting for, God, like 15 years now.
My last job, 10 years straight, and I don't actually have a degree in accounting.
And so that I have been hearing may present a problem when I go out looking for a job again,
because not necessarily because I'm not qualified, but for the purposes of signaling,
because the human resource person doesn't know me from Jack.
And sure, I've got a lot of experience in accounting.
I can show them that I can do the accounting.
They hire me, then something happens.
There's a personality conflict or whatever, and they got to kick me out of the company.
And the boss goes to the HR person and like, why'd you hire this asshole?
And they're like, if someone else, they could be like, look, he has an accounting degree.
He has the CPA.
He had the qualifications.
So it's kind of a covering their own ass thing.
If I don't have that stuff, their own job is a bit of a bigger risk to hire me
because then they might get shit from their boss.
Sure.
I guess you just have to make sure that you know people higher than the company.
Right.
And that's, well, yeah, I wish I knew more people, I guess.
But no, that's another reason why a lot of people like to hire people with a lot of credentials
to make themselves look good.
Like, look, we have this PhD and Nobel Prize winner working for us.
We are obviously very serious people.
Sure.
There was an organization in DC that I knew somebody who worked for.
They only hired people with bachelor's degrees.
And the job was calling different companies and asking if so and so was still in this position.
Cool.
You don't need a bachelor's degree for that.
No, you certainly don't.
Anybody can do that job.
It's absolutely brainless.
It's mindless.
It's just all you have to do is be comfortable asking dumb questions over the phone.
Because you're going to script up, send those emails automatically and just auto fill the fields.
I think that they might start with that and then they have to go through and do double checking.
Gotcha.
Yeah.
So just to put your mind at ease and for anyone else out there, if this is at all relevant,
I think a degree gets you through the door into a field that you haven't worked in before.
And often in listings you'll see, like, we want you to be able to do these things.
This many years of experience, you know, education, high school diploma are equivalent.
I think that the college degree says, look, yeah, I haven't worked in the field yet,
but I am serious about it.
I got $100,000 learning the basics, going to school for it.
And I think that 15 years on your resume will more than make up for the lack of a degree.
Because no one, and I haven't looked for accounting jobs.
I look for other kinds of jobs.
And no one cares about if you have a degree for the most part.
They care about that you have five to seven or seven to 10 years of experience or something.
Yeah.
I'm not worried about getting a job.
Yes.
I'm not worried about getting a job.
I'm just assuming that I'm going to be making a little bit less than I was before.
Because it takes a while to prove yourself if you don't have a degree yet.
Just tell them that you made a lot at your previous job and then haggled down from some
ridiculous number.
Yes.
That's the way to do it.
We're a little far afield from signaling, except for a degree signal, you know, competency
or they're supposed to.
God, was it?
It was an interview somewhere where I was listening to this lady talking about she grew up poor,
why poor people have really expensive clothes.
And because apparently there's a thing where people say like, well, you can't be poor.
You have a thousand dollar handbag.
Why do you have a thousand dollar handbag if you're poor?
And this lady said for for over a year, I went into offices looking for jobs with my poor
people clothes.
And this is like an old black lady.
I'm not sure if she was old at this point in the interview.
She was old.
It's like, I'm a black lady walking into a job that looks like crap.
And they're like, no.
And then I went out and bought me some nicer clothes and this handbag that costs $2,000
and right away, they took me seriously.
They're like, oh, this is an educated woman who obviously knows her business.
And it was it was just that handbag that made the difference and people were all of a sudden
like, this is not this is not your your standard person that we can discriminate against.
She must know something.
That's interesting.
And she could have.
And so so overspending on things like clothes that you would think poor people cannot afford.
Ends up becoming a survival strategy is something you have to do in order to signal that you
are serious and you can handle things.
She might have been able to convincingly fake the signal if she bought a fake good handbag.
Anyone who knows the handbags would know that it's a fake.
Does the interviewer know about handbags?
They just see like that this one's not like, you know, old or something, right?
I have no idea.
But it tends to what the position is.
I guess.
Yeah.
So I was raising that because there's the you can fake a signal.
And that's what she was doing, but she faked it by conveying a real signal.
Right.
I'm trying to think of another example.
Well, she really was qualified and educated.
Yeah.
But she's trying to like, I guess show that she was, I guess, what is what is nice stuff
show that you have your shit together or something.
I have no idea what nice stuff is supposed to show, but apparently it shows something.
I guess.
Do you want to talk more about animals?
I thought of a good example for how to tie this into another case of instead of being
hired because it's like being hired when you're on a date.
Right.
So you're basically interviewing for a relationship or for a hookup.
And so you can convey your, your admirable qualities.
People care about, you know, like your intelligence, how much money you make, how healthy you are.
It's the only reason to buy an overpriced car.
Yeah.
Because they're, they're not worth the money, but you can't just show someone your bank
account.
So like that.
People really like cars.
And that too, I guess.
Some people.
But why do they like cars?
Cause they look really cool driving them and they get, you know, they get, so.
I don't know.
I had this discussion again with my in-laws in Tennessee because I was talking about how
I couldn't understand why people liked guns and got so many different guns and what were
they signaling with all of those guns.
And some people just really like guns and nerd out about it.
And it's something that they can talk with to, they can belong to some sort of community
of other people who are nerdy about guns.
I know a gun or two in Colorado or old cars that they refurbish or sports cars or whatever
they're deciding that they want to have as their hobby.
It is interesting though that like if you're, if you're on a date or if you're applying for,
if you're at a job interview, like you don't just bring, you know, your results of an IQ
test, you know, with a stamp at the bottom saying this is official.
But, but it's weird that you, we don't, and it would be weird if you did, but it's weird
that we don't, right?
So like if, if, if I'm interviewing you to hire you for a job and I want to make sure
you're not an idiot.
Yeah.
Well, you know, I could try and ask you some questions or I could, you know, look at your
history.
I could call people that know you, or you can just show me.
Navigating social situations is also something that is difficult and takes intelligence.
And then that way they can also see whether you're someone they'd like to be around, which
is important if you're working together.
I'm just saying it's weird that that's not the signal, like that you can't just signal
a direct.
So it's illegal to do that in jobs, but a lot of places of work like that, that company
where they call people do IQ tests under some other other sort of guys as like a personality
test.
But yes, it's, it's illegal to give your potential employee an IQ test.
Why would that be illegal?
It just is.
I think a discrimination thing.
But when you do your GREs or SATs or ACTs to get into college or graduate school, those
are IQ tests.
Are they allowed to ask about your SATs?
No, not it, not at jobs.
But, you know, when you go to grad school, that is a job pretty much.
Although in academics, there are different requirements or there's, you know, different
things that they can ask for.
You take your GREs, which is like an IQ test and you put that front and center when you're
writing professors.
Da-da-da, this is what I'm interested in.
These are the scientific questions I'm interested in.
GRE score this.
Biology subject test this.
That would be nice.
If you could have a like relationship score where the past people you've dated or been
in a long-term relationship, what would give you thumbs up, thumbs down?
How do you think you would be scored?
It depends on you.
That's why that's not popular.
You don't want that at all.
I mean, well, you know, I could be like...
So yeah, you weren't allowed to ask somebody their intelligence in an interview or I guess
you can ask them if they feel like they're a smart person or something, but you can't
ask them, hey, take this IQ test and let me know your results.
But hypothetically, you could show that on a date or you could bring it yourself to an
interview.
They can't ask for it, but you could show them.
So like, and I get that we don't.
I have gone on dates where people told me.
Really?
Yes.
Wow.
And then signaling.
What does that tell you about them?
That they're an asshole.
Exactly.
I know.
I haven't been able to get this point out that I get that we don't do that because there's...
If you're weird, you're generally not going to be a great partner or an employee, right?
And since doing that would be weird.
Not necessarily.
There's a difference between weird and asshole.
I want to finish this point.
No, you're totally fine.
