very difficult to use after death, at least the cryo-optectins don't actively coagulate blood.
In fact, they sort of do the opposite. They will help to expand your blood vessels and to shrink
your red blood cells to get things flowing again. And so, you know, I definitely think that as far
as it goes, it's easier to establish flow with the current techniques than it would be with
aldehyde-stabilized cryo-preservation. So, two follow-up questions then. The first one being that
if you were to die in ideal conditions, like at a hospital where you can unplug and know the time
of death, would you prefer the cryo-protectant or the fixative method? You know, right now,
it seems like it might be a better option. On the other hand, I really think that anything that's
going to be used on a human's got to be validated to preserve the connectome. But the cryo-protectant
method isn't validated either, right? Well, I think they should also be validated. It's kind
of surprising to me that it hasn't been done because there are people who donate their bodies to
science all day long, okay? And you could certainly have someone who has no expectation of future
revival and you have no fiduciary duty to preserve their brain. But nevertheless, they want to donate
their body to advanced science and you would pay to acquire their body post-mortem under similar
conditions as a normal Alcor patient. And you do your preservation technique and then you slice
their brain into a million slices and check very carefully at many different points to see how well
you did at preserving the brain. And I don't see why Alcor doesn't do that. Does Alcor have the
budget to do that sort of thing? Because I don't think they're running on a large margin. Well,
that's a personal principle now, isn't it? And nevertheless, that's the type of thing that
would expect from a robust, well-validated brain preservation technology. And really,
I would say Hayworth would agree or definitely say that that would be almost a requirement
before you were to use this on people, right? Yeah. Would it be reasonable to extrapolate from,
say, I guess, doing standard cryopreservation on a small mammal, like a rat or a rabbit or something,
and then looking at the connectome that way? Well, yeah, you could do that. But even those
studies aren't that conclusive, right? I mean, there's never been using just cryo-protectants
images that demonstrate good connectome preservation. That seems like such a huge example of
civilizational inadequacy to me, or maybe not the entire civilization, but at least our subculture
part of the civilization. Like no one has gone and founded some sort of startup to try to find
funding for these things and address these concerns. Well, fortunately, we have a startup
that's addressing these concerns at this very moment. And I have, in the last couple of months,
managed to raise quite a bit of funding for this. I actually just closed, this is a connectome.
Okay. So, you know, I just closed a pretty large funding round for connectome.
Yeah. So, connectome recently got into Y Combinator. Congrats. And we're in the January,
we're in the winter 2018 batch. And we're going to be working on developing a validated
brain preservation protocol. And we're working to preserve the first human connectome.
Holy shit, this is, you are the answer to my prayers.
I'm going to give it a good shot to try. And I think there's a good chance to
reboot some of the discussions that are being had around preservation,
more around neuroscience rather than around cryobiology. And, you know, towards that end,
we're working on actually preserving human connectomes in a research context,
which I have definite plans to do. Hopefully, within the next three months,
we'll have the first human connectome preserved. But we'll see.
I just want to clarify that my prayers are a very low bar. All I want is for someone to be
putting some money into looking into this thing. So, that is what I mean when I say you are the
answer to my prayers, that not that I expect you to actually preserve my brain or anything right
now, but just that someone is finally looking into actually doing this.
You know, the aldehyde sterilized cryopreservation
actually appeared in a book 30 years ago, Engines of Creation by Drexler. And almost
in exactly the way that it's done today, you know, glutaraldehyde for an initial stabilization,
ethylene glycol for cryo-protection. Yeah, there's a couple of minor issues when you actually try
to do it that you run into, but nothing too huge. And, you know, that works amazingly well at
preserving the connectome. Of course, that's at the expense of totally abolishing all biological
activity, because the glutaraldehyde is basically gluing all the proteins together. But on the
other hand, you're preserving that structure, which is stopped by neuroscience to encode memories
and personality. So to me, it makes sense as a trade-off. And, you know, I think that the next
thing that makes sense is kind of twofold. You've got this approach towards making this actually
scale up to humans and be a very robust procedure that's actually available. And two is really
demonstrating memory preservation, right? I've demonstrated I can preserve the connectome,
but what we all really care about is can we preserve memory? And so I think there's some
profitable experiments that could be done today that help us answer these questions
for memory preservation. And I think we ought to be doing them both.
I think that's really awesome. I mean, it's going to be reassuring to be able to put, you know,
good estimates of cryo-preservation working into double digits. Yeah, I'm with Ian Yash. This is
the kind of thing that, you know, I was just, I was talking with my girlfriend earlier today
that, you know, that the realization that we all had at some point growing up that like nobody
really knows what they're doing and adults are all just fucking around. But there's no such thing
as like, you know, well-rounded, understanding all the picture, I guess, smart controllers,
you know, like your doctors leave the room after you talk to them so they can go google
your symptoms, that kind of thing. And I had even said I'm still kind of letting that percolate
into the rest of my beliefs about everything. And yet I realized at the beginning of this
conversation that I didn't really do that when signing up for cryo-preservation. Like I just
kind of assumed, okay, well, and I guess in their defense and my defense, they were probably doing
the best that they could, right? Absolutely. No, I totally agree. Like they weren't,
they weren't trying to do better than what they could do, but they were doing what they could.
So there's at least that. But yeah, I'm all in favor of this getting leveled up considerably.
I'm probably the most pessimistic cryonist that's still actually bothered to sign up. I mean,
I did sign up for cryonics, but when I did that, I thought it was about a 1% chance of working,
even if I'm under ideal conditions. And that was barely worth it, honestly, for me to actually sign
up. And, you know, since then, I've even adjusted that a bit more downwards, just given that people
die in very inconvenient ways, which, you know, degrades even further. So practically, I think
it's like more of a 0.1% chance, which yeah, it's better than your other options. But it's still
not a very good option. And, you know, why not put some serious resources into making that more
like 90%, right? At which point, I think a lot more people are going to see the benefit for
preservation. And it's less of a long shot and more of a thing that is risky, but you can bank on it,
you know, if it was more likely that this could work than, for example, an experimental cancer
drug, right? I think you're going to see a lot of people wanting to be preserved and value it.
Oh, Stephen, did you realize that we have assisted suicide laws here in Colorado?
No. Did that go through? Huh? Yeah, I was just hearing on the radio about a study they did about
the people in Colorado who chose to go through with the assisted suicide. So here we will be able
to choose the time and location of our death if we know we're close to it. And therefore,
it'll be under ideal conditions, hopefully. Yeah, I do think that if you want to do
serious brain preservation, it's got to be an end of life type of option. And it's got to be scheduled
just like any other major medical intervention is generally scheduled. You know, you don't have a
doctor that says, well, I'll do a quadruple bypass on you, but, you know, let's wait until after you
die. And then let's try to get you real fast and, you know, and deal with it at that point.
Normally, you know, you're going to come into the doctor's office and get your surgery done.
And maybe not necessarily after you die, but we're going to wait until you have a
heart attack on the street and then rush you into the hospital real quick and do the surgery then.
And, you know, there's a place for emergency brain preservation as a service. And I think
that's a worthwhile thing to be researching. But it's not clear to me why that needs to be the
first step towards getting brain preservation available to people. I think that's what you
have when it's a mature science, you know. Yeah, that should be a last ditch effort,
just in case you didn't die in a nice controlled fashion the way that we would prefer.
So what is a serious brain preservation project look like, right? I mean, you've got
an independent validation of the technique. Okay. And so the technique should be done on animals
first and demonstrate that it can preserve connectome. And you need some consensus amongst,
you know, the people who, who ought to know, which is, you know, kind of Thomas is a neuroscientist
in general, people who are involved in kind of doing simulations of neural tissue right now that
here are the things that you need to do to preserve memory, or at least here are the things
you need to do to be likely to preserve memory, right? And then the technique itself should then
be validated, you know, after having been validated on animals, it should be validated on
donated human bodies, right, so that you can work out what the limits are for being able to preserve
a human brain, you know, how many minutes after death can you succeed, you know, what are the
pitfalls to procedure, you know, get a really good risk profile, preferably you've done this on
20 or 50 donated humans, right? And then at that point, it may make sense to have a preservation
that's offered strictly at like a single location, and using end of life kind of criteria
for individuals. And then each individual would be individually validated for preservation,
probably through a brain biopsy or another appropriate surrogate, and then independently
confirmed, sort of like the brain preservation price, you know, it was independently confirmed for
these animal preservations that the connectome is actually preserved. And then there ought to be
consequences for not preserving the connectome, right? If you say to someone, you know, what we're
selling you is connectome preservation, right? And then you fail to meet that level of standard,
it's actually a good thing from a business perspective that there'll be financial consequences
for that, as opposed to that it's just at a best efforts level of service. Because then, you know,
the incentives to improve it are not necessarily there. Right. So do you already have the funding
for these first stages? But we do. I don't want to go into too much details on the funding right
now for the company, but suffice it to say, we've actually managed to raise some appreciable amount
of money, even since last time we talked. And the plan right now is that we will preserve a human
connectome before the end of Y Combinator. And so our plans are in motion to do this. Man, that's
awesome. I'm just kind of absorbing that fact. That's really, really cool to put it very mildly.
I was hoping to get the money raised, you know, before the start of January,
and we managed to do that at this point. So we're ready to rock and roll.
Fucking awesome. How long will this take you, do you think?
You know, super optimistically, we did January.
Wait, what, in one month?
Yeah. I'm hoping to do it next month. You know, more realistically, I could see it going into February.
And then July is March. So, yeah, I've got a pretty tight schedule here.
Yeah. And, you know, this is one or two human brains that have been preserved.
And then we'll independently evaluate their preservation through grades like, you know,
at Princeton, at the BPF, at MIT, that sort of thing.
And I'm assuming that the ultimate goal is to have a proven and reliable
cryonic service to provide to customers once this is all over with?
You know, it's something where we are, I think that there's a place for a service like that.
And it's something that we're looking at. But I think that what's really important right now
is to determine, you know, whether you can preserve a human connect.
There's a lot of questions about that still, even with the animal work.
I mean, you know, I mean, I got the small mammal prize.
I don't have the large mammal prize yet. And so, you know, it really needs to be validated
on humans before you start talking about, you know, whether you could use it on humans.
But I do hope to have the answers to those questions answered sooner rather than later,
because I do think it's a very important option. And, you know, looking into the further future,
like 10 years from now, I really think that this ought to be considered a basic human right,
that if you want to be able to be preserved, then you should be able to do that, right?
I think that I love the idea, but that sounds optimistic to me. It's not even a,
it's debatable whether it's human right to receive medical care in general in some parts of the world,
including the United States, right? But I certainly like the idea. I had a quick question.
Was there any major anticipated hurdles between a small animal and a human-sized brain,
other than the size scaling up? Or is that in itself a much bigger hurdle than I'm guessing?
You know, I don't think so, but those are the details for all of this stuff. To give you an idea,
it took me seven months to get it to work on rabbits, you know, to perfect the chemistry and
the, you know, building the machines and such. And then to then scale that about 10 fold to a
pig brain. A rabbit brain is about 12 grams and a pig brain is 60 to 80 grams. So, you know,
it's about 10 times bigger or so. To build that, to design and build that machine took me five
hours. It took me one evening and it worked the first time. So I do hope that we can do another
factor of 10 and make this work for human brains. And I do think that one very important area of
research that's, you know, been neglected for far too long is, you know, what is the actual time
course over which the human connectome degrades? Nobody knows, believe it or not. You know, whether
the connectome starts degrading 30 minutes after death, an hour after death, two hours after death,
etc. There are certainly complications that arise when you're trying to do post-mortem brain
preservation, which is how our initial trial is going to go, that we're doing, you know,
fairly soon. And so I can see that throwing a wrench into the works. But we will see.
We will definitely see. I think that overall, it shouldn't be too challenging. But, you know,
the world has a way of making things much more difficult for you.
Yeah. Is there, in the ultimate goal of project, are you looking just to do the scientific research
on this sort of thing? Or are you looking to maybe one day be one of the early founders of
this sort of service and maybe also push on, like, the political front to make this be considered a
basic human right? There needs to be a foundation that deals with lobbying for the rights of digital
persons and persons that, you know, have been restored. There definitely needs to be work done
on outreach to explain why preserving yourself makes sense at both an individual level and at a
cultural level. I mean, I see this as being something that's important for preserving the
memory of humanity. Because every generation, you know, we kind of lose the knowledge and the
wisdom that was gained from a lifetime of existing, all right? Yeah, we're just fucking
treading water repeating the same mistakes over and over again. Well, and I think we keep doing
that because we keep forgetting a lot of the lessons that we learn. Yeah, as we lose the
people who learned them. Well, and it sucks though, because we get more powerful every generation from
technology, which doesn't accumulate, but we don't get more wise every generation. And that is not
good for the future. We really need to deal with this. And, you know, where there are people that
are alive today, where, you know, there's only maybe 12 people that speak various languages,
okay? And when they die, we lose that connection to our past. And that's, that's a real shame. It
would be much better if we could preserve that connection to our past. So, you know, this is a
very important, this is very important from a cultural level, and from an individual level,
you know, how great would it be to be able to talk to your great great grandmother, right?
And, you know, you can't do that. But we may be in a position in the very near future to be able
to offer that to future generations. So, it's very important. Somebody needs to be able to tell
that story. And, you know, we are, are definitely looking at what people want in preservation
right now. And I think you got to be very careful, though, about getting the science right, and
getting the preservation quality right, and being able to clearly convey what you can and
can't do, right? Even a perfect implementation of Valdehyde Stabilized Corral Preservation
for human brains is not going to be able to guarantee that it can preserve memory,
all right? It's going to be able to guarantee it can preserve your connectome, all right? And
