Hello all, a note on this episode before we begin.
We recorded Robert McIntyre again, as promised, and as is tradition with this podcast, the
audio was once again really fucked up.
Stephen came through okay, but Rob's track is kinda crappy and my audio was almost incomprehensible.
We've done what we can to fix up Robert's audio, and I have re-recorded everything that
I said just now in a microphone and added it to the interview in post.
This means that my tone of voice might not quite match what was originally said, but
all the words are the same.
Also, I have a bit of a cold right now, so I don't sound that great either.
Like I said, this is a very special episode.
We've also put the listener feedback at the beginning of this because the audio for the
listener feedback was actually okay.
We apologize for how chopped this will all feel, and we hope that next time Robert's
on the podcast, there will be some different technical issues, rather than audio being
bad and or lost.
And also, of course, big thanks to our sound engineer, Kyle Moore.
Here we go.
First, we would like to thank our Patreon supporter, Philip Reynolds.
Is that Reynolds R?
No, that's Riemond.
I thought that was an RNN, but it's just an M. We'd like to thank our Patreon supporter,
Philip Riemond, for helping support us and bring this to you.
And you really, you people make it worthwhile because, you know, it's nice to know that
people care.
So thank you.
I second everything Enos just said.
That's fantastic.
We really appreciate it.
Speaking of supporters, that brings up one thing I wanted to dive into.
So this episode is going to be coming out on the 17th, which is, oh wait, no.
So this is going to be coming out on the 14th.
Is that right?
17th.
Yeah.
So this is going to be a few weeks after, but there was some concern last month in December,
which is now, when Patreon cut out some new fees that were going to fall into the donors
instead of the recipients.
And their idea was, hey, look, the recipients will get more of your money, and we'll be
getting a little more too.
And that really upset a lot of people.
And we had some people write in, specifically Roman and Nick wrote in to basically say,
hey look, sorry that, you know, which are our support, but we can't abide by Patreon
doing this.
Patreon said a letter last week saying that they, or I guess last week from now, a few
weeks ago from the release, that they are withdrawing that idea, because turns out everybody
hated it.
So they're not going to be rolling out that fee adjustment, which is great.
I appreciate everybody who, you know, under, or what am I trying to say?
I am completely understanding that people who, you know, don't want to be dropping extra
money and for every Patreon that they're doing.
So
Or even just the people who were against it, just on principle, you know?
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
And so there were some people asking if we were going to be setting up a PayPal or something
which I was going to do, but I think that since Patreon is turning out to have changed
their minds on this, that it's no longer worth it to set up a PayPal account for this
right now.
But I don't want to be coming down the bike too, because why not?
So can I just say that I was, I was literally surprised, like I had to update my model of
the world upon learning that Patreon was pulling back and decided not to do that anymore.
Because like, I've gotten so used to people just not giving a fuck, you know?
Oh, you guys hate that?
What tough shit.
Yeah.
So when, when everyone started complaining and writing and tweeting and I was like, well,
no one fucking cares anyway, they're just going to do what they want to do.
They have power and money and we don't matter.
And then like, they changed their policy and I was like, that is nuts.
It just pushes me slightly more in the libertarian direction when like, I see corporations actually
listening to people and changing things because I like, no fucking way the government would
pay attention to that kind of shit.
Right.
Well, I think part of it is that Patreon has competitors, right?
So it's, that is the, the one blessing of the free market, well, I guess not the one,
but it is a blessing of the free market in that, Hey, we've got competition.
We can't be unilaterally, we can't unilaterally be fucking our customers because they'll just
go somewhere else.
So yeah, that's pretty cool.
Speaking of being unilaterally fucked by big businesses, the FCC vote happened and didn't
work out or rather worked out the way everyone thought it was going to and net neutrality
is revoked.
I didn't do a lot more homework to do and I last talked about it, but I was, I was curious
if, you know, if you're learning that the fact that like the EFF and the ACLU and everybody
in organizations, organizations like that were worried about this, this vote, if that updated
your model at all of, from what you read.
Well, a little bit in that I, I was significantly less confident in my position afterwards, but
I went to the EFF AMA that you linked me and I didn't see them actually say all that much
of substance.
The fact that they're against it though does speak a lot to me because I trust that organization.
I think they do good work.
So I'm not as confident as I was before, but I still think that for the most part, this
is a large overreaction and I don't trust regulations necessarily to get things right.
And I would much rather see a large competitive market of ISPs and providers rather than the
government coming in and saying, Hey, here's your cool monopoly, but you have to follow
these rules because the rules, I think we'd all prefer that, but that's not really what's
happening.
Right?
Well, it's, it's, it's not not happening.
There's first of all, wireless keeps getting better.
And there's times where I go to my cell network instead of my internet when I want reliability,
which is the exact opposite of how things were five, 10 years ago.
So yeah, as the cell networks keep getting better, there's, there's, there's in most
of the, most of the populace has more than one option and they are starting to have to
change a little bit because of that.
So I think that there is some competition and that having less of the regulation would
make it easier for small people to get it.
Well, I'm curious about that too.
I wanted you to send me the stuff that you read because we talked about the last time
you said you read some stuff that persuaded you that way and I didn't get a chance to
look at it yet.
So I got to take a look.
Did I send you that?
I don't think so.
Okay.
I'll send it to you after we get off the, off the Skype here and yes, and I'll send it
to you because I was going to link it all in our episode when it goes just before it
goes up on Wednesday.
Anyway.
Cool.
That reminds me.
I am only about a half hour into it, but I will be checking the way tonight tomorrow.
But let's see, as far as other feedback, before we get to listen to feedback, can we do host
feedback?
Yeah.
Okay.
So I have, I have some feedback from our last episode with Jenkins from myself because
there was, there was a number of things that I was, I kind of wanted to say, but we didn't
have the time to say them and quite honestly, I hadn't really got my head around how I wanted
to say it at the moment.
When the episode first started, I didn't realize that it was going to be spirituality via drugs,
which I probably should have given that we know Jenkins and, but, but the one thing as
I was editing the episode that really stuck out to me as we were talking about this was
he said a few times things along the lines of, and here's, here's a direct quote because
I wrote it down, spirituality is not the goal of science.
And then someone brought up, I don't remember if it was you or him, but brought up Richard
Feynman as sort of the stereotype of the cold, unfeeling scientist.
And I wanted to say that I think my spirituality is different, which is why I don't quite
do the drugs connection with spirituality as much as other people seem to, because in
my opinion, I mean, spirituality is not the goal of science, maybe, but science is a big
part of my spirituality.
It is the wonder of exploring the world and seeing how it works and finding out all the
little things that make us go and how, how wondrous and amazing that is and how we as
humans can discover this stuff and not only use it to our advantage, but even like know
it and understand it.
Can a frog understand the sort of thing?
Can the process of a river cutting its way through a continent understand these things?
No, I mean, they're ruled by the physics, but the fact that we can comprehend them and
look on the universe and be part of the universe is really very beautiful to me.
And so my spirituality is very much science-based, which is I think part of the thing I was going
for with saying that when someone asked me how could you look at something and think it makes
itself instead of attributing it to God, and my reaction was like that is anti-spiritual,
that is just childish.
The comprehension of the physical forces that made this is to me a much more spiritual thing.
And I think Richard Feynman is actually a great example of that because if you ever see him talking,
oh my God, he's just got this joy for life and for his, his knowledge and his craft and
he loves explaining it and understanding things.
And there's just this energy that exudes from him when he's talking even about simple things
like the physics of how a train car goes down the rails and without, you know, rolling off them.
He's just so full of wonder and happiness and that is the sort of thing that I feel
when I look at the universe and so someday I want to do a sort of spirituality science
with spirituality episode, not anytime soon because we've just done two in recent succession,
but that is more where I get my, my wonder in the universe and my feeling of oneness with
all things rather than, I don't know, bullshit talking with other humans.
So I think, I think you and I totally agree.
And I'm not sure how well that came out in the episode, but it'll, I'll take trust
to your recollection of it open mind since you did the editing on it.
But yeah, he brought up Feynman as an example of a cold, unfeeling scientist.
Well, that, that seems to not dry with anything that I remember from Feynman either.
I don't necessarily as an example of it, but like as the stereotype that people
would think of a scientist being cold and unfeeling type.
Oh, well, they chose a bad stereotype then.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, I totally agree.
And I, I mean, I, to Jenkins's point, we haven't done the drugs that he's done.
So maybe if we did enough of, you know, DMT or something or a bag of mushrooms that we could,
we would totally change our minds and say, man, all that cool enlightenment and rush
we got from comprehending our place in the cosmos, that's nothing compared to this trip.
But I, I sort of, I sort of doubt that, at least from, you know, my pre doing that experience,
for sure, I think that Carl Sagan, that was like, you know, we are a way for the cosmos to know
itself. And, and, you know, there's the dull meaning of that, like, yeah, we're made a matter,
we can look at matter and comprehend it. But that the real rush and meaning to that is like,
you know, I guess just that sentence again, both different emphasis, right?
You know, we are, I mean, we could go on and on about it, but yes, I totally agree. And I think
that, you know, that Jenkins and I and you were talking about different things, maybe to Jenkins,
they're, they're inseparable. But yeah, to me, I think that, you know, it's cool to have a trip
on LSD and, and, you know, I feel like I had a valuable experience and I don't regret doing it.
And I even feel like I had some like interesting, you know, realizations
that my brain kind of awkwardly spent an afternoon trying to work on when I was tripping. But
certainly, I don't think that, at least for me, in my experience, that there's anything
that profound there, nothing like, you know, just, just reflecting on, you know, your shared history,
your shared ancestry, rather, with your houseplants, right? To think that it literally,
if you've lined up our parents going back in time, we'd have a same parent. That's insane. So
that's pretty cool. Or at least we'd have a shared species of parents.
Okay, so I'm glad I got that out. Thank you for doing that.
Okay, did you have any listener feedback it sounded like?
Real quick, right in here, or I'll cast a comment on episode 30 of specs and omelettes,
which was our discussion of the minuscule utalon, or negative utalon distribution across an unimaginably
large number of beings versus one being being tortured. Their take was that they prefer the
large, large number of beings suffering a small, bearable thing over one unbearable thing,
