there is still a debate as to whether that preserves memory, although I would say that,
that a lot of the core understanding of neuroscience is that it ought to preserve memory.
So, that's forever right now. So, in addition to, you know, getting this to work for humans,
I think there's got to be some serious research into proving or disproving this idea of memory
preservation, because it's not going to anybody any good if it doesn't actually preserve memories.
Great. You do? Yeah. Oh, okay, great, because it would just, it would be really sad if someone
went and did all this research and did the science, and then no one took it and ran with it and
provided it as an actual service. And I do understand that some people just want to do the
science, and that's what they have a passion for, and they don't want to go about trying to start a
new business. If you are willing to take up that mantle, that makes me much more hopeful for the
future. Well, I think doing this business to not help people, right? So, it would be, it would
make me very sad too if you just had the research done, it didn't end up actually doing anything
worthwhile. Well, you can always hope someone else takes it over. I believe that a lot of people in
the sciences do do that sort of thing, where they're like, hey, here's the research I did and the
things I found. Now, someone please take this and make it available and do cool stuff with it.
I don't think that really ever works. You got to actually make it work yourself if you want your
technology to win. Fucking heroic responsibility mindset right there.
Robert Edinger wrote The Prospect of Immortality in the 50s, and he was like, if we freeze people,
and maybe that'll preserve them, look at the massive advances that have been made in
cryobiology over the last couple of years, we're probably like 10 years out from reversible
cryopreservation, and probably the ability to undo whatever freezing damage we're doing now.
And he thought that was such a compelling idea that he just had to publish it, and there would be
massive worldwide government programs in five years to offer this to anybody who wanted it.
And the reality is nothing happened at all. And five years later, he finally decided, well,
let's try to start something to make it happen. And I think that's a much more realistic way
that technology happens. And really, if your thing is legit, why would you not go and make
a lot of money off of it? Right? Why do you want someone else to do that? That's a good point.
And if you're not going to do that, maybe that means your thing's not legit after all.
Yeah, I think it also takes a lot of business acumen to make something like that work because
I personally would not want to start a business because, God, the headache.
I'd be looking for the easy halfway point where I could just be like, hey, I'll call her, hey,
Clonix Institute. I found this other cool way to do it. You guys want to offer this as an option to
your new customers? Maybe they'd be pressured into that if they had a competitor that was offering
that. Right. Yeah. I think that'd be cool too, because they're already out working on sort of the
campaign stuff. A lot of people are very hesitant about using a preservation technique like this
because you are totally abolishing biological activity. The most realistic mechanism I can
personally see for extracting memories from a preserved brain would be destructive scanning
and emulation in a kind of emulation environment on a computer. And a lot of people don't like
the idea of that or they feel like that's not really a meaningful continuation of them.
And so for that reason, I think a lot of people are not necessarily going to want to go for something
like autohydestabilized prior preservation. Yeah, but if you're restored in a simulation,
you can always have that simulation hooked up to a cool cyborg body and interact with the real world
too. Well, you absolutely could. Or you could print a new brain. It's patterned off the blueprint
of the old brain and do that. And of course, you know, I say that kind of flippantly. I mean,
that's an amazingly advanced application of technology. On the other hand, you know, I could
see a pathway towards doing many of these things, but I don't see a pathway if you don't have that
blueprint. If you have that data that defines what your memories are, it's going to be very
difficult. The comparison here would be like, let's say you have a book and you want to preserve
that book, right? And so one of your options is you mix up a bunch of epoxy, and you're going to
pour it over that book. And the whole thing's going to turn into a solid block of plastic,
and you're going to glue the ink to the pages and the pages to themselves. And you have this
totally immobilized tube of just plastic, right? On the other hand, you can preserve the book by
just sort of, you know, putting it in a nice environment, right? Like a freezer.
Yeah, but then you're going to end up getting some holes in the pages, though, from, you know,
just decay. And the ink's going to fade a bit. But you'll be able to open that book, right,
and look at some of the pages, which are going to be very fragile. I would say that the bigger
those lacunas in that page become, right, these holes in the text, it rapidly goes from, you know,
oh, maybe we can figure out what this letter was, or maybe we can figure out what this word is to,
you'll never be able to figure out what that sentence is, right, or what that paragraph is.
You've really lost the information. And, you know, while it seems, at the face of it, that this
block of plastic is almost impossible to interrogate or do anything with, you could
certainly imagine going through it with an x-ray and then printing a new copy of that book.
And now you can completely read that story again. If I told you, hey, you know, we can give you,
there you have two options. I can give you the original Library of Alexandria on a thumb drive,
okay? Or we'll give you the ruins of Library of Alexandria, but, you know, only a quarter of
the books are intact at all, and even those are highly damaged. But they're the original books,
which one would you guys rather have? Sounds like a no-brainer.
Yeah, well, from a practical point of view, I might take the originals because I think those
would be worth a lot more on the market. And I think that possibly all the knowledge that was in
there originally has been recreated over the millennia and, you know, likely, please surpassed.
But I absolutely take your point.
Yeah, that's what I was going to say. That was my first impulse is you could sell the real books
for something. But I mean, for the spirit of the question.
Yeah, to address the spirit of your question, I would actually prefer to have all the information
on a thumb drive rather than only pieces of the information in their original form.
You know, it's interesting because the story is what matters. And the originals, you can
ascribe a lot of value to them. But what we really care about is hearing the voices of the past.
And the originals aren't good at giving us those voices of the past, but the thumb drive is.
Yeah, and we could recreate some of the original lost works of fiction and dramas and such that
are just completely lost if we had them on thumb drive.
I wish the Greeks and, you know, they have this concept of a libation to the gods where
if you have a drink, you're going to pour out part of that drink on the ground,
you know, for the gods. I wish they had the same thing for libraries, right, where they take their
books and they're going to, you know, pour wax on them and turn them into a block of wax and put
them in a lead box and toss the lead box into the sea. OK, because if they had done that,
we would have their stories again today. Yeah, it's just a shame that they didn't.
Yep. Wow. So that is that is a lot. Do you have like a timeline now for the broader picture,
broader strokes of things going forward into the future after this first step here?
I think that there's there's too many things we need to get this to work for humans,
because it would be good to solve all the logistical problems around human connector
and preservation. And beyond that, there is a big important question of does preserving the
connector and preserve memories? And if not, what additional structures in the brain do you need
to preserve to preserve memories for future digital emulation? And so attacking both problems,
I think, makes a lot of sense. One was more of a peer research question, one's more of a
of a peer engineering question. So I tend to do both. The human preservation is substantially
easier given our current resources. So we're going to we're going to work on that and demonstrate
you know, kind of a next phase of this brain preservation prize, demonstrating a preservation
of a human connectome. And then there's a couple of very interesting experiments
for memory preservation that I think are just around the horizon. And those are are approaching
memory preservation as kind of like a zero knowledge proof, where you do an experiment
that's designed to reveal whether the memories exist or not, because you wouldn't be able to
complete the experimental outcome without those memories existing. And it gets around some of
these problems of understanding exactly how memories are encoded, or even, you know, being
able to trace large amounts of brain tissue, which neither which we can do currently.
And so I think those are those are amazing experiments. And then also, you know, growing
a brain on a chip, as we're rapidly developing these technologies, I know there's one company
that's developing this technology. So you could have drones that can smell things.
And that's really cool. And it seems to you know, they're doing some major progress for it.
We're actually growing real cortical neurons on a on a chip. And there's actually probes,
electrical probes in the neurons cell bodies, you know, that are getting some millivolt signaling
from these neurons. And the neurons are kind of exposed to the air. So various things impinge
on them and cause them to fire in different ways. And it's actually, you know, learning from that
neural network that forms what the cells are. But you could, after many days of recording carefully
through this neural network, then preserve that network with your preservation technique, scan
it with an electron microscope. And if just from the data from the electron microscope, you can
emulate it and totally recreate the input output, you know, the transfer function of that neural
network. That's very compelling that your preservation technique is preserving the things
you need to replicate computation. The zero and all is pretty cool because you're able to answer
high level questions like was this mouse afraid of the thing or this other thing. And so those
test experiments are doable with today's technology. And they're important, they actually get you
answers to questions about memory preservation. And they allow you to compare one preservation
technique against another one. So those are the few things I think are going to be really cool
in the future. I should probably get going because both of my computers are about to die.
And I would love to be able to get to your audio. Did you have anything to wrap it up?
And I was going to dive into more of the memory stuff, but we'll have to save that for another
time. Yeah, I think you're right. It's worth preserving the memory of this conversation
on your computer rather than losing it forever. So I had some more too, but we can hit them up
next time. I was wondering if once this next phase of your project is done and you get some
results, would you be willing to come back to the show and talk about them some more?
Absolutely, but you got to show off some of the electron micrographs if I do that.
Yeah, no problem. We can put them up on the website. Deal.
Beautiful. All right, cool. Well, it's time to go and we'll let you go.
All right, thanks. Have a good day. Thanks a lot, Robert. That's great.
Alrighty, so thank you everybody for listening. And well, I hope you had a great Christmas and a
happy new year. And we'll see you all in two weeks. Excellent. Goodbye. All right, see you.
