following it too far. But yeah, I'm sure it's out there. I mean, it's the kind of people,
I have a, this reminded me the, because I was thinking of in the trailer for science fiction
available at sciencefriction.com or.org. Dot TV dot TV. That's what it was. Sciencefriction.tv has
a little, I don't know, a minute and a half trailer for the documentary. And there's a brief snippet
with Richard Dawkins. I remember that he appeared in, what's that, Ben? No. Oh, expelled. Yeah,
expelled. What was that guy's name? Ben Stein. Ben Stein. That's what it was. I want to say Ben
Stiller. And it's the kind of thing where you can, you can phrase the question and then, or I
guess, you know, like we talked about, you ask a leading question, they give an answer like, oh,
yeah, sure. I admit that it's certainly possible this didn't happen, but, and they cut off the
butt and then they give that, that sound bite somewhere else. But I was, I was just thinking
of, this isn't really relevant, but it came to mind that when I was in college, there was this,
my first in real life that I knew of, like full young earth creationists, and he's giving a
presentation because they were assigned to the class on different subjects. His was on evolution,
and he gave like the full Ben Stein version. And then we were like debating it on like the
class forums on the school website. And he was like, scientists don't know anything. It's,
you know, everything's always, you know, hypothesis that that's why it's always up in the
air. We used to think the earth was flat, et cetera, et cetera. And I was like, you realize
we're having this conversation from, you know, at the speed of light on our computers, right,
in different parts of the world. And we could be having this conversation from two different
airplanes. Like clearly science knows some stuff. How do you come down on this? If we didn't know
anything, why planes wouldn't fly? Come on. Yeah. So how long is science friction going to be?
Is this another 40 minutes? Science friction is actually going to be full feature length.
And it's going to, it's going to have a theatrical release. That's, that's the plan is being directed
by Emery Emery, who is a director and editor. He's, he's a good friends with Penn and Teller
and Paul Provenza, that whole crew. Oh yeah. He was part of the movie, the aristocrats,
and he's done a number of other films with them. And he is easily able to get a movie and do a
minimum of limited theatrical release. And then you see how it does in the festivals and hope
for a wider, a wider distribution. So this film is absolutely intended to be on that track.
That's fantastic. And who do you have lined up so far for, for interviews?
You know, I, I, you can see a lot of them in the trailer. We don't have anyone under
contract. So I kind of hesitate to say. Okay. But, you know, interestingly, if you, if you
look at the trailer, I mean, you mentioned Dawkins is in the trailer, James Randy is in the trailer,
Michael Schirmer, a number, Michael Mann, a number of big name scientists, but many of the cases
where this has happened the worst, the most blatant are scientists you've never heard of.
Because the shows have no reservations about taking these nobodies out of context and twisting
their words. Yeah, they don't have a platform to correct it from. Yeah, I can tell you right now,
the most dramatic stories you're going to hear in the film are from scientists who you may have
seen on a TV show, but you didn't, wouldn't have known their name. And some of the cases are just
absolutely shocking and infuriating. Is it, can you give us an example or is that too much of a
spoiler? Again, I'm, I, we've talked about this a bit and we've decided since nothing's under
contract yet and we're, we're, we're keeping, keeping the specific examples under wraps. Okay.
What about a personal example from your history? Or is that, is that also reserved for film?
I have a number of them and they're, they're, they're, they're super mild by comparison.
And one, for example, was I was on a couple of episodes of Weird or What with William Shatner
and we were debunking a seance and we had a, seance was being performed that we had set up
and the seance performers were using all of these old tricks and we were, the, the, the subject of
this episode was this one famous series of seances held a long time ago by a UK group called the
Society for Psychical Research and they basically hired some seance performers to perform some
seances for them, a series of them, where they used these exact same tricks and the Society
for Psychical Research people came out and said, there's no way we could have been tricked. Some
of us are physicists and scientists and experts and this or that and we could not have been fooled
and so we declare that these seances proved the afterlife is real and so we quite trivially
replicated all of these standard tricks because the things they did in their seances were all
the standard tricks. I mean, they were so inexperienced, these Society for Psychical Research people,
they were so inexperienced in seances that they weren't aware what's, what the usual
stage tricks are that seance performers do. So anyway, we, we, we replicated these tricks and then
I gave, you know, I gave my little spiel talking about some stuff and then Shatner comes on with
his narration, he wasn't there, but he comes on with these narrations says, Dunning believes
that this proves that the, the skull experiments were faked. Oh, it'd have been nice like if he'd
just, you know, if he could pass that back to you and be like, that's not what I said.
I didn't say it. Now that's a, that's a very minor example and it's not that bad because
of course the skull experiments were faked. I have no doubt of that. No reasonable person has any,
any serious doubt of that, but we don't have any proof. Right. You came out with a softer, like,
you know, more approachable, less dogmatic sounding position, which is we have very, we have no reason
to believe that they were real. Right. Which is like, you know, to people who aren't looking to
deliberately misinterpret you sound about the same as we think it's fake, or we're pretty sure
it's fake or even we know it's fake. But to somebody who is already inclined to believe this
stuff, they're gonna be like, Oh, how does, how could he possibly know it's faked? He's obviously
full of shit. Right. So. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, that's, that's, like I say, that's
the mildest example you're here. And we may even include that on the show just as a lead in for
you know, here's how I got interested in investigating this topic, something like that.
Cool. So when, when does this start production on this?
On science? So we've done a few interviews. We need a lot more. It's being crowdfunded right now
at sciencefriction.tv. We're almost at the 20% funded mark. So we've got a ways to go.
We are really looking for ways to promote this crowdfunding campaign more.
Um, and as we'd have on the FAQ of the page, if anyone's interested, if we don't make our,
our goal, we are still going to produce the film, even if we never get another penny. And
we're still going to produce the film with what we've got. Nice. It's just not going to be nearly
as good or nearly as effective. No one's money is going to go to waste, though. Cool. That's,
that's fantastic. At least you're getting. I'm super stoked about it. Yeah. Yeah. Do you know
when it might be available? Cause the film festival season is what, in the autumn?
They, they, the film festivals that I've found, I'm not an expert in them, but I find them
having their little deadlines for entry year, year round. I don't have no idea when the season is.
We should be able to get it completely wrapped within the, before the fourth quarter of 2018.
And hopefully then release sometime in 2019. That's, that's the general schedule. And I think
that's, until we have a better idea of how the crowdfunding is going to, is going to finish up,
I think that's about as specific as we can guess right now. Awesome. Sounds exciting.
It is. And you know, the great thing about this is everyone you tell this concept to,
they just have a fit. They say, Oh my God, that sounds like the best thing ever.
So I mean, that's, that's one of the reasons I'm so enthusiastic about it is because there's
just so much interest in it. Yeah. So you almost teased us with a third movie in 2019.
Yeah. That's going to be another smaller one, like principles of curiosity. That's going to
be more for the education market. That's going to be just through produced through Skeptoid media.
And you know, I, let me focus on one movie. Okay. Okay. Cool.
I don't want to, I don't want to devote any, steer any resources away from science friction,
because that's what the focus has to be on right now. Yeah. And are you still like,
well, working on your podcast at the same time as the movies are being done?
Oh yeah. The, the, the Skeptoid podcast, which comes out every week for 11 years now, that's,
that's still the non-profits bread and butter. So that, that can't, that can't go on hold.
That's going to continue. I had a lot of fun this, this past week
with a great old mystery that had, that had kind of freaked me out for a long time. That didn't
freak me out, but I couldn't find the solution to it for a long time. And that comes out on
Tuesday. So the Skeptoid podcast is always fun. Was the answer that it had been a conspiracy
worldwide? 30,000 people involved? No, it was, I won't, am I telling you? It was about the,
the provenance of a particular old photograph. Oh, okay. Neat. Well, the episode I was talking
about, which came out several weeks ago, was about the Civil War pterosaur. Pterosaur? Yes,
there's a, there's a famous picture that you can find all over the internet showing a group of
Civil War soldiers standing around this pterosaur of some, of some, you can't really tell what
living one, one that was, appears to have just been shot. Okay. It's like just lying there dead,
and they're all posing triumphantly around it. Like maybe they just shot it out of the sky.
We don't know. But there's, there's actually two versions of this photograph, different soldiers,
a different animal laying there on the ground. But the photos are aged in like exactly the same
way with the same kind of ragged rips in them and shredded edges around the photo. And the,
the second photo, everyone says, oh yeah, that was made for a TV show called Freaky Links.
And we think that they just couldn't get the rights to this famous one. So they made their own,
they just hoaxed up their own photograph. So of course, the famous one is being promoted by the
Young Earth Creationist crowd, because they're always trying to prove the dinosaurs still live,
because that would make it more likely that dinosaurs died and Noah's flood. And that's the
explanation for the dinosaur bones that we find. They're, they're trying to say dinosaurs still live
to this day. Like not as descended as chickens, but like real dinosaur, raw or tiny hands T-Rex
dinosaurs. Absolutely. If you dive into cryptozoology at all, there is a branch of cryptozoology
that believes, hey, there is said to be this, you know, this river serpent in Africa or something,
the, you know, the, the roping is one of these flying pterosaur type, type dinosaurs. And all
around the world, there are various animals that sound like a dinosaur still living in this jungle
somewhere. You will find almost universally that these are promoted by Young Earth Creationists,
because they fully believe that Noah's flood was what killed the dinosaurs. And therefore,
it's reasonable that some dinosaurs might still be living today. They're trying to prove that
the earth is young. And so that's where that whole branch of cryptozoology gets its, gets its
horsepower. And you learn something new every day. And for the uninitiated cryptozoology is the study
of fake animals, or maybe more charitably the study of hidden animals. Hidden animals. Yeah.
Hidden animals. Yeah, crypto. I like saying fake animals. Yeah. It's more accurate.
Cryptozoology is fun because it's, you know, it's a lot of it sounds and a lot of it is quite
reasonable. We do discover new species all the time, sometimes even megafauna, you know, a new
species of gazelle or something. It's not, it's not all little insects and microbes and things.
We do still find full size animals running around that are previously unknown to science.
That the interesting thing is we, they're always discovered by zoologists, not by crypto zoologists.
You know, Bigfoot, Loch Ness Monster, these are all cryptozoology topics. Yeah. And I think
that that's, you know, one of the more, I don't know, tame pseudoscience branches in that, you know,
nothing, for the most part, your personal health or, you know, that you're the well-being of your
family isn't going to hinge on whether or not you believe in Bigfoot, right? Right. It's not like
if you are going to try and cure your children's illness with homeopathic remedies or something,
right? Yeah. At least Bigfoot is more like a harmless hobby. Yeah. And it's also like, like you
just said, is one of the more like plausible kind of things. Like there's animals out there, like
we know that there are ape shaped animals. So it's not like you have to violate the laws of physics
for these things to exist. It's just an indicator of a bad way of thinking. Yeah. Yeah. And that's,
that's actually the key is because, well, what's the harm in believing that there's an animal in
the Amazon that's a leftover giant sloth, which is one of the one of the cryptids that they talk
about? What's the harm in believing that? Well, the narrative that supports the existence of that
animal is built on the string of all of these anecdotal thinking. And you have to train yourself
to recognize anecdotal thinking because the more you put your faith in anecdotes, the more likely
you are to go get a alternative treatment when you have cancer or something. So it's not like
these beliefs are totally harmless. By themselves, they are harmless, but a belief doesn't really
exist by itself. Beliefs affect your other beliefs and they're intertwined with them. So
it's important to weed these out wherever we find them. Right. Yeah. Beliefs like that can only
exist in a web of, or on an edifice that allows for other weird stuff or other bullshit. Very well
said. Yes. So if you, yeah, the same thought processes that lead you to disbelieve in the
giant sloth still existing, the same ones that you can use to attack fake medicine or conspiracy
theories or something. I think that the general misstep that a lot of these are making, whether
it's conspiratorily suppressed medical curers, you had that good episode a few months ago about
just the big pharma conspiracy in general, or the moon landing hoax or the giant sloth.
Everywhere, I think one of the common threads that allows for any of these is somewhere in your
chain of reasoning, the believer allows a small probability to be a large probability in their
thinking. So yes, you could say that there's a 0.0001% chance of the giant sloth actually
being out there. We just haven't found it yet. But somewhere in their day-to-day chain of thinking,
they've multiplied a small possibility into a large probability. Do you think any of it is
like optimism and hopefulness? Like the world would be objectively cooler if these sorts of
things were true, right? And maybe they just, they want the world to be that way. Totally.
You know, we all have our preferred beliefs. We all have our preferred way of looking at the world,
the way we wish things were. And if there's a 1% chance that this unlikely thing is true,
we grab onto that 1% and it holds much more weight than the other 99%.
That's the hardwired way that our brains work. That's confirmation bias. We're looking for the
things that we already agree with and we assign them more weight. I think this is where the role of
like legends and cultural narratives and stories comes in that we need to make it, or I would like
to see more stories that don't romanticize that sort of wishful thinking and optimism and more
things that really romanticize this burning passion for knowing what is actually true and having
a correct model of the world and having those be the heroes, you know? I would love to instill
the sort of desire for truth even at the cost of your own personal feelings of security and
happiness because you're just that principled of a truth seeker, you know?
Well, part of it means facing up to an undesirable reality too. Like I was talking to somebody just
like a month ago who was not really like a supporter, but they were kind of tacitly behind
the idea that it would be great. I think they were, you know, the level where I'd say that they
might have believed this. They were saying that, you know, I think they probably believed in the
Asian aliens kind of thing, but they were saying that, you know, they're still out there and they're
keeping an eye on stuff. And that was like the way they slept at night, wearing, you know,
if nukes were launched, these aliens would catch them or something, right? And I imagine that's
kind of like a religious fervor that, you know, oh yeah, God wouldn't let anything bad,
any bad thing happen. So they've, they've shed that, but they're, they grabbed something else.
You know, a simulation, someone who steadfastly believes that they live in a simulation might say,
oh yeah, nothing's, you know, this will be fine because the simulation, they don't want the simulation
to crash or something or, you know, so there's, I think there's a level of just hoping for some
safety net for at least some of these things, right? It should be great if my green tea that I
just finished could cure my cancer. But that doesn't make it so, right? Yeah. I mean, there's,
because there's, there's so many stories, especially in anime where the hero wins at the
end after like being completely beaten down and everything, just by getting right back up and
sheer force of will and passion, like I have to win because it is so important for my family.
And I mean, that's, that's great and all, but I would like to see that sort of thing like,
I have to know the truth because it is important for humanity. That'd be fun.
Yeah. But it's less, I think, you know,
cinematically interesting than watching somebody get up after getting their ass kicked, right?
You could do it if you're good.
