when you're dealing with someone who tends to come down more often on the paranormal side,
for example, they just have a whole skewed set of criteria that they use for, you know, what's,
what is evidence, what, what is reliable evidence? They tend to look more toward
anecdotes and, and, and they consider, they'll, they'll consider like things like, well,
Uncle Bob was a very reliable old guy. He would never tell a lie. There's no reason
he would make up a story like this. So that's good enough for them. That's why it's not an
anecdote because it's evidenced by Uncle Bob's personality. Right. And, and, and a line of
reasoning like that can easily sound persuasive to most people who have not been exposed to better
tools. Yeah. And to the, to sit down, we'd come up with the, we get the better, better evidence
and you compare them, you say, Oh, well, this makes a lot more sense than the Uncle Bob story.
Yeah. And the fact might be that Uncle Bob may just be mistaken, you know, he's not a liar. He
just happened to be wrong about something for whatever reason. Yeah. I always point to there,
there was a, there was a pro paranormal TV show called Fact or Faked. And I always point to that
title as that is the perfect example. That's a false dichotomy. Because if we're looking at a
ghost story, Fact or Faked are the two least likely explanations. Yeah. Yeah. It's almost
certainly the case that someone was honestly mistaken. Yeah. And whenever someone does something
like that, I always consider it, I assume that it's a, a rhetorical trick to try to get you to,
to believe them. Like the Lord, liar or lunatic dichotomy, trichotomy, I guess. It's like, well,
if he's not a liar or lunatic, obviously he must be Lord. I'm like, it's not just those three things.
There's a lot of other options in there. Yeah. I, I, I grew up my entire life when I was a
little kid until the age of probably 20, fully brainwashed by the argument that the Bigfoot
proponents made, which is either there is the biggest hoax in history has been successfully
carried out by tens of thousands of people over thousands of years or hundreds of years,
without anyone ever getting it wrong, this incredibly well orchestrated hoax, or there's
an unknown species of great ape out there in the woods. And that was totally persuasive to me.
Wait, what was totally persuasive? What was the hoax supposed to be that there's not a great ape?
Well, no, no, the hoax would have been all the sightings and all the footprints and everything
that all of these witnesses were deliberately conspiring to put this hoax together. I see. Okay.
That it couldn't just be individual actions and things being aggregated. That it had to be a
conspiracy. And that suggestion also completely ignores the probability that almost all Bigfoot
witnesses are probably honestly mistaken. Yeah. I feel like honestly mistaken should
just be like an automatically inserted third alternative to any proposed dichotomy or trichotomy.
Yeah, I should. I think that's overwhelmingly the correct answer. Even if you're...
I'm trying to think of another, like a ghost example. You hear something in the middle of the
night and or painting falls off the wall or something. Well, nothing's ever fallen off of
here before. But my aunt, she doesn't lie. Yeah, exactly. Maybe she's mistaken. Maybe things do
fall off. Maybe the cat knocked it down. So I don't have much to add. I guess I'm just thinking
that there's just... That should be just the core lesson of, I guess, communicating the idea that
it's okay to admit that you're wrong, right? Was that our perceptions are fallible. Yeah.
And frequently so. And you can say something that someone said isn't true without attacking them
as a liar, right? Yeah. In fact, this whole thing is going to be the third film. I hope if scheduling
works out, it'll be the 2019 film. But that's too far out in the future to talk about. I've got
that one all planned out as well. I'm having fun with these little movie things. Yeah.
You know, I find a similar kind of thing happens with proposing actions, as opposed to this
just honestly mistaken thing. Sometimes you'll propose an action and people will shoot it down
or do whatever. And they act like just going with the status quo is kind of the default. And you
have to point out to them choosing to do nothing is also a choice, is doing nothing better than
this alternative that I am proposing. And sometimes it is, but other times choosing to do nothing is
even a worse idea. Yeah. I think there's a whole lot to just dive into with like false dichotomies
and that sort of presentation. But speaking of diving into things, do you want to go into more
principles of curiosity or do you want to move on to the science fiction? I will point out that
sort of the main benefit of principles of curiosity is the accompanying educational materials.
So on the website at principlesofcuriosity.com, anyone can come and download the educational
materials. And what are those? Is it like worksheets? It's basically this big book. It's a PDF.
It's free. So we don't actually send books to people. It's a PDF. And it's a 40-something
pages, I think. And it has just a whole bunch of classroom exercises, lessons, worksheets,
things for, again, broken out into various different programs for teachers to use. So
it can be a complete unit right here. A teacher can show the video in class and then keep the
students busy for a week. And actually, there's stuff for them to do before watching the movie
as well. So we have kind of some before and after, before we learn this thought process and after.
How do we treat mysteries and things that we hear in pop culture? It's a very valuable set
of materials and it's free and it's awesome. So if you're a teacher, come and grab it.
You know, we know a few people that are thinking about having children. We should maybe point them
at this and ask them if they find it useful for the upbringing of the little ones.
I imagine it's not geared towards that zero to eight demographic, but...
Well, never too young to start.
My aunt's a high school teacher, high school science, psychology and chemistry. I'll make
sure that she gets this. I'm sure she could use a day off to show the kids a video.
And it was a video that's not Shrek or the Breakfast Club. I'm sure that, you know,
then everybody wins. Hey man, the Breakfast Club is awesome.
It was the first like two times I saw it in school. Through primary school, I must have seen
Shrek six times. Okay. So educational documentaries, probably better used to everyone's time.
And it's also in all the indexes for teacher resources like the National Science Teachers
Association. They've got it listed and all of these fun things.
How did you get that listed in there?
Well, that's what part of the film's budget went for, was for marketing it to educational resources.
Is that like just writing or did you have to fly out and meet with someone for this?
No, but we had to have a number of Skype conversations and phone conversations and
everything and fill out forms and approvals and all this kind of stuff. It was exceedingly
bureaucratic, but I think well worth it in the end.
Yeah, that's really cool. Congratulations.
Yeah, thanks.
All right, let's move on to the science fiction or did you have something else you wanted to add
on this one?
No, that's it.
Okay, cool. So the science fiction thing I'm really excited about because I hate the news media and
the way they represent science, but I should let you talk.
Science fiction is quite simply, it's a documentary about scientists who've been
misrepresented in the media.
So all of them.
Anytime a scientist comes on as one of these talking head experts in some documentary,
you practically always get edited out of context or otherwise misrepresented to make it seem like
you said the opposite of what you were saying. This happens to everyone who's been on these
shows. It's happened to me a number of times. It's happened to a lot of other people in much
more severe cases. And this is just the tip of the iceberg because if you go out from,
okay, scientists who've been misrepresented, now how far do we want to expand that?
Scientists who have been so attacked and falsely accused of things and had their careers brought
to an end. We can't even cover all of that stuff. So we're going to focus on at least
getting people to consider that when they watch ancient aliens and hear some physicist coming
on and saying, yeah, so I think ancient aliens probably did build the pyramid.
This is how you can analyze and see, okay, this guy was probably edited out of context
when he said that. They're very good at asking the right questions and getting you to say the
right things so that they can then edit them back to front and string together this quote from
people. And it happens more often than any of us would suspect and it happens quite blatantly.
So in science fiction, we're going to go and talk to a bunch of the scientists that this has
happened to. We're going to see the clip of how they got misrepresented. We're going to have them
explain what happened in their own words. We're going to let them clear up the record. And we're
going to maybe take a look at their actual research they're doing, show us what the facts really are.
And one thing that I would like to do as the end credits are rolling, I want to get a clip of each
of these people saying, I've reviewed how I was appeared in this film and I certify that I was
not misrepresented in this. Oh my god, they should do that with every movie. I know. Well, here's
the best one. Now, we've talked to a lot of people. We've already done dozen or so interviews.
We have a lot more planned. And the best one was Richard Wiseman is an experimental psychologist
in the UK. Fun, funny guy. He's awesome. Everyone loves him. And I the only conversation I had with
him was just I met him at a conference and I said, Hey, do you want to be in this film? Is
anything like this ever happened to you? And he kind of like turned angry and grabbed me and shoved
me into a corner and got right in my face and said, I will never appear at movies again. Because
all of this because of exactly the things that we're talking about because they always try to
misrepresent what he says. And he says now at his university, when someone sends an immediate
request for someone to be interviewed or anything, they send back this ginormous set of contracts
that the film company has to agree to. Nice. And it basically gives the it gives the university
final cut approval, gives them all kinds of insight into the script, they have to approve the script,
they have to approve the questions, they have to approve the editing, they have to physically be
present when those scenes are edited. And all of this stuff that film companies are going to go,
Oh, forget it. There's no way we're going to do all of that. Yeah. And Richard said to me, and I'm
going to I will have the same deal with you too. When we make your film, I said, Well, that's fine.
We'd we'd of course welcome that. But what I said to him was, you know, I don't need any examples
from you of when you've been misrepresented. I just want you to repeat what you just told me.
And I want to get that on film. Yeah. Because it's so it's so elegantly showed the scope of this
problem, and the links that you have to go to, to avoid being victimized by this as a science
expert. It was dramatic. It was it was, it was great video, even though I didn't have a camera with
me. Yeah. And it's, it's, it's disgusting how well it works. I was raised a Jehovah's Witness,
and they had a book about evolution supposedly disproving it. And after I left, I found that
there were parts where scientists were literally quoted to be saying the exact opposite of what
they, they were saying, you know, you just read one line further on in the quote, and you can see
that he's like, is the exact opposite of what I would say, because that's a load of crap, you know?
Oh, yeah, the famous example from the origin of species where he says that something along the
lines of, I admit that the idea that the eye could be produced through incremental improvement
sounds on its face absurd, or something. And then the next sentence goes on to begin the
chapter about how the eye actually evolved. Yeah. And that's, so it's easy enough to quote mine,
like, printed quotes, even if you're not, and that's not even, you know, open the door, it's
like just straight up lying and saying that somebody said something. And it's really awesome how you
can, I've seen at least one documentary on this, about how to watch for cut edits to, like, if you
don't literally see someone saying the words into the camera, they, who knows what was actually
happening at that time. Right. If they cut away to some b-roll of something, guarantee you they
edited the dialogue. Yeah, exactly. Or if they cut to the other person doing like a reaction shot,
that's another, you know, red flag. That's something happened. They had to cut out a line to fit their
narrative. So science fiction's goals are to give the, some of the people that you're talking to a
chance to say, this is what I was actually saying, and to, I guess, educate the average viewer how
to be aware of that, or rather, not only to be aware that this is happening, but maybe also show
us some tips and tricks on how to, I guess, watch for specific instances or. Yeah, if we, I mean,
it depends on what we come up with. You know, we're going to be asking, asking all of these people,
many of whom have quite a lot of media experience, we're going to ask them for their thoughts and,
you know, can you suggest any tips and tricks and that kind of thing. So who knows what, what,
what kind of stuff we're going to come up with. I've, I've heard from, like, when you were talking
to, who do you say that guy was that shoved you up against the wall?
Richard Wiseman.
Okay. When you were talking to Wiseman, I've, I've heard other people say as well that they
simply don't talk to the media anymore because there's no way not to get distorted. They,
yep. Yeah. I remember when the, the quantum teleportation article came out and they managed to
sort of, you know, teleport an electron into lower ortho orbit, kind of, but all the headlines were
scientists beam object into space, teleportation now true. Like that is, that is no, that is not
even close to what happened, but they, they want the headlines and then they never.
That is such a, in fact, we talk about that in principles of curiosity, this,
this fact that when you see these crazy headlines, these unbelievable headlines,
we talk a little bit about how that comes to be. And the unfortunate fact or fortunate or
unfortunate is that universities have PR departments and those PR departments are always
looking for something to promote their university as being on the cutting edge.
And so they have non experts go and talk to their professors and the professor probably
tells them the truth and this person probably misunderstands it or comes up with some wild
and crazy version of it. And the university itself actually makes this problem worse by
promoting these horrible headlines. Oh God. See, I thought it was just the media for getting rid of
all the, the educated scientists on their science reporting beat. Like, it would be like sending
someone out on the sports beat who's never seen a football game or know what it entails, you know?
Like, so when you kick the field goal units, how did you feel? And, but, oh my God, the, the
university is into it too. You know, not, not intentionally. It's, it's through a lack of expertise.
And, you know, everyone has, everyone has their motivation. And the university PR department
is not there to educate people about science. It's there to attract funding to their institution.
There's another kind of variety of that of like popular, I guess, you could say, I guess outlets
for, you know, new developments or whatever. I'm thinking specifically of things like, like,
I fucking love science, which I was a fan of for like the first couple of years. And I haven't
looked at since, except for one, occasionally see it reposted in pictures elsewhere. And that's
just become, you know, this BuzzFeedy clickbait. It's, it's probably the kind of place that,
you know, linked to science can now teleport you to space, Star Trek's confirmed or whatever, right?
So that's, that sucks because their heart seemed to at least started, have started in the right
place. It might still be in the right place, but it looks like they're kind of just, you know,
like you said, or with a, you know, media or the university PR departments, more interested in
getting clicks than presenting actual stuff. Yeah, I hate them in part because they disenchant
people from science. It's, they published these, you know, the initial trials that haven't been,
you know, rigorously controlled or randomized. It's just like, Hey, look, this is something
neat. We should look into this some more. And they take it and report it as a confirmed fact.
And then a few months later, when the repetition is done, and it turns out, no, that was an
artifact of the data. Everyone is like, what do these scientists know? They're constantly going
back and forth on things. And they're like, no, this was, this was just something we were looking
into. It wasn't like confirmed theory or something. That's assuming anyone even follows it up. If
they're just following the headlines, they're going to just see every six months that Alzheimer's
has been cured and that you can regrow limbs and stuff, which works great if you're a small
sample of rats. But if you're, if you're not, and then it feeds into the conspiracy theories
again, it's like, look, scientists are able to teleport people to Mars and back. They're hiding
all sorts of things from us. I hope that that's not a huge demographic of people that are
