Yeah, for me, that, that came about just when I, when I first started doing this kind of thing
and finding the solutions to mysteries that had always intrigued me as a kid for literally
decades, wondering what the truth was behind this old story. And then when you actually find out,
to me, that's, that's as exciting as it would be to some people to have their green tea cure
their cancer. So, you know, I, for me, I found a passion of an enjoyment in discovery that happens
to be discovering what's true. Do you remember what one of those early stories were that you
were driven to, to find the truth about? The one that I always bring up as an example
was one that I finally solved in the first year of doing the Skeptoid podcast. So this was
2000, this was probably early 2007 when I came up with this particular episode.
And the mystery was a house that had been billed as the most haunted house in the world. It was
Borley Rectory in England. And, you know, once you do the stuff for a living, you learn that
every house has been promoted by somebody as being the most haunted house in, you know, the
state, the country, what, what, so have you. And this one was promoted by a showman who moved
into the house. He lived with the family for a while. He wrote three books about it, presented
himself as a, you know, a scientist, a researcher. But in effect, this guy was just a PT Barnum.
He was involved with the Piltdown Man, Skull Hoax, and some other, some other famous archaeological
hoaxes. This guy was just, he was a PT Barnum of the day. But, you know, I didn't know that. I
read his books growing up thinking, wow, this must have been the most haunted house in the world.
But other people were involved in this haunted house as well. And there seemed to be a pretty
steady, pretty solid body of evidence for some of these things that had happened. And the one
that always freaked me out was what was described as automatic writing, writing that appeared on
the walls while people watched. And there was photographs of these words. The words said,
Marianne, get help. And a few phrases like that in kind of this weak, spidery handwriting.
And the fact that these were photographed after people watched these words appearing by
themselves on the wall, that just blew my mind. You know, I could be skeptical. I could say, oh,
you know, you see a shadow, it might have been something else. It doesn't have to be a ghost.
But what else could possibly cause this to happen? And it was just through a case of, and I think
this was original research. I don't think anyone ever had ever come up with this. I found some of
the diaries of one group of mediums that came into the house that were invited to come into the house
and do a seance and try and contact these ghosts that people believed lived there. And they were
doing it basically by a Ouija board. So they had a planchette that they would place their hands on.
But rather than the board sliding over, the planchette sliding over a board with letters on it,
they had a pen or a pencil inserted into the planchette. And when they put their hands on it,
it moved around and it wrote things. And here's the kicker. They were doing this on a large table
and they needed large rolls of paper to do this on. Well, the largest rolls of paper that were
available were some rolls of wallpaper. And if you looked at their original writings in their
diary, it said the writing appeared on the wallpaper while everyone was watching. And that
got misinterpreted, honestly misinterpreted and misreported by people saying, oh, writing
appears on the wallpaper. You assume that means the wall. That's where wallpaper usually lives.
That's what the story now says. It says this writing appeared on the walls of the house.
Interesting. That's really cool. It was really cool. And that was that was something that really
made a connection, a personal connection to this whole process of solving mysteries for me that
really kind of cemented my my passion for how much fun it is. Then there's this, I think,
trend with solving things like this, too, that if you if you buy the ghost explanation or, you know,
if you, you know, other explanations for other hokey sounding things, then you kind of just
you're left and like, oh, that is cool. But you're kind of just left kind of like, you know,
enjoying the mystery. And you have like this enshrined mystery in your head. When in reality,
the real explanation is actually really fun and interesting in its own way. And it has the bonus
benefit of being true. But it's not like it's just this wet blanket that you're throwing on every
cool mystery. You're you're instead of bringing up this hollow box, you know, in your head for this
mysterious thing that you're enjoying, you get this actually cool explanation. Like that's a fun
story, right? Yeah, it's the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. You can sit back and look at
the rainbow and say, oh, that's that's a magical thing. I'm just going to enjoy it from here and
assume that it's made by a ghost or, you know, you can go and I guess that's not a good example.
I was going to say, you can go and actually get the pot of gold. Of course, there isn't one. But
I think you see what I was going. Yeah, you can go get actual gold somewhere and gold's real.
So and it's oftentimes the real explanation is just so much more fantastical. Like,
who could have imagined that there's these tiny, reproducing, evolving things that grow inside
us and make us sick? Like that is that is kind of mind blowing in itself. And it's better than,
you know, demons don't like you and want you to be miserable for a week or two. Yeah. That's a great
example. Yeah. It's an amazing, amazing thing to think to think about that, to think about what's
happening. Yeah, and that our immune systems have evolved over all these eons to, you know, fight in
the sort of a red queen race against against the two systems. The desire to stop at a halfway
explanation is never one that I've been able to understand. We talked earlier in this conversation,
we mentioned the irreducible complexity of the eyeball. Yeah. Let me say, oh, you chop an eyeball
in half, it's not going to work anymore. And and if you put no more thought into it than that,
you haven't really learned anything interesting or cool. But if you then go and learn about the
evolution of the eyeball and and what totally unexpected and surprising functions, these pieces
of an eyeball did in fact perform, it's that's where the that's where the fascinating stuff is.
I think I found that's where the excitement it is. And you know, that's that's a I think a theme
we've touched on before, not just on this episode, but on other ones. I think I first found your show,
I think in high school, I was looking on, you know, I just found iTunes and podcasts and was
looking for some stuff on evolution. And you had an episode might have an episode in the first 10,
I found your show, I think in the first year that it was being made, but it was like an evolution
primer for creationists or something. Yeah. And you had this line in there that's always
stuck with me that evolution in reverse is not accurately simulated by taking an existing
organ and chopping it in half. That's right. I was curious, you said, I remember that it was
a good one. You said he dropped the Bigfoot thing later on, like in your 20s, or in your early 20s,
what was how did that actually turn out? What finally turned that over for you?
Deciding that Bigfoot wasn't in fact real. I would just think that
general appreciation and understanding of science got me to be enthusiastic to learn
what were the science explanations for why people are saying Bigfoot isn't real.
And, you know, I was very much conditioned to want to learn those and want to find out what
that was all about. And when you learn it, it's like, oh, well, that makes sense. I never heard
that from the from the pro Bigfoot guys before. Gotcha. I think you mentioned once on another
show that either you made fake Bigfoot prints or fake crop circles or something.
The crop circles, I was blown away by the crop circles when I saw how they actually made them,
because like on documentaries, they like had a helicopter come down like, look,
it's impossible to make these with any sort of modern technology. And then it's just two dudes
with a piece of board and a string. It's like, really? Oh my God, I've been sold this bill of
goods that you can do with a board and a string. The thing that gets me about that is when you
look at the depths that the that the believers go to where they're picking the the bent stocks
and they're analyzing them with the microscope and they're looking at the cell damage and they're
deciding this cell damage couldn't have been done by any earthly cause. Like a human foot.
This is obviously the product of antimatter rays.
It's kind of it's kind of sad but kind of funny. Well, we are coming up on an hour. Is there anything
that either of you wanted to say or finish with? I just hope people go and look at the
sciencefriction.tv website. If you don't want to donate to it, at least watch the trailer
because it's enjoyable. You will have fun with that. And there's some social media sharing tools
on there. Some of your friends on Facebook and Twitter will really enjoy watching that trailer
as well. So that's something that everyone can do that doesn't cost you penny is at least go watch
it enjoy it and share it. And it would help us out a lot and it would help out everyone getting
this movie made sooner and better is going to be a good thing I think for everyone in the world.
And we'll put up links both in the show description and on our website.
Well, thank you very much. Yeah, of course. There's also principles of curiosity.com
and sceptoid.com or sceptoid.org. Do you have both?
So sceptoid.org is the sort of the corporate website for the non-profit sceptoid.com is the
podcast. So yeah, everyone should check those out too. I talk about the show once in a while.
So yeah, everyone's almost there once a religiously for like a decade now. I mean,
every week. Yeah, about as often as people go to church. That's really religious about it.
All right, well, thank you for coming on. This was wonderful. Yeah, thank you guys so much. It's
always so it's always fun to be here. Thanks, Brian. I really appreciate it. And we wish you the best
of luck. Thank you.
And now on to listener feedback. We recorded this episode just a few days after our marriage episode.
So we do not have any new feedback to go into yet. However, we will still thank our awesome supporters.
This week, it's Mirzan Irkugolov is my my best guess. I'm gonna give them to you. Yeah,
doing my bad Russian impersonation. And it's probably not Russian, but it looks Eastern European.
All Eastern European languages look Russian to Americans. So that's sorry about that. And
in my defense, I'm Eastern European. I was born in Poland and my parents taught me how to read
Polish and they still look Russian. So you know, you see the OVs or and the yeah. Anyways,
going way off on a tangent. Thank you for your support. It's it's awesome. And it really makes
us feel happy to know that people like us enough to throw us a buck. You know, thanks Mirzan.
It means something. And the since we don't have listener feedback, I do have a thing that
harking back a few episodes where we were talking about science and spirituality.
And someone I don't even remember who anymore mentioned that like Richard Feynman was the
stereotypical example of a like cold spoky scientist. I think Jesse brought him up as that.
And I thought that was the worst example to bring up. Yes. Because Feynman was kind of the
opposite of that. Yeah. He wasn't like the, I'm trying to think as many does fit that description.
I don't think there's anyone that actually fits that description. Is there any, I mean,
there's got to be a lot of fiction, you know. There's got to be one that fit it better than
Feynman. But yeah, in any case, by all means continue. I just, yeah, big fan of Feynman.
Yeah, I so I found this quote from Feynman that I mean, I already talked about this once in a
previous host feedback episode session. But I just have this quote from him that I wanted to read.
Feynman said, I have a friend who's an artist, and he's sometimes taken a view which I don't
agree with very well. He'll hold up a flower and say, look how beautiful it is. And I'll agree,
I think. And he says, you see, I as an artist can see how beautiful this is. But you as a
scientist, oh, take this all apart and it becomes a dull thing. And I think that he's kind of nutty.
First of all, the beauty that he sees is available to other people and to me too. I believe,
although I might not be quite as refined aesthetically as he is, but I can appreciate
the beauty of the flower. At the same time, I see much more about the flower than he sees.
I can imagine the cells in there, the complicated actions inside which also have a beauty. I mean,
it's not just beauty at this dimension of one centimeter. There's also beauty at a smaller
dimension, the inner structure. Also the processes, the fact that the colors in the flower evolved in
order to attract insects to pollinate it is interesting. It means that insects can see the
color. It adds a question, does this aesthetic sense also exist in the lower forms? Why is it
aesthetic? All kinds of interesting questions which shows that scientific knowledge only adds
the excitement and mystery and the awe of a flower. It only adds. I don't understand how it
subtracts and I totally agree. And I think he was even a bit too nice to his artist friend there
because his artist friend was being a douchebag and knowing more about things really does make them
deeper and more beautiful and more interesting. It's like people. The more you know about them,
the cooler they are. I'll plug again. Richard Dawkins' kind of book-length version of this
paragraph was Unweaving the Rainbow and that's a response to that Keats poem that Newton
destroyed the beauty of the rainbow by reducing it to prismatic colors and basically by understanding
it. And Dawkins is popular now for kind of being, you know, curmudgeoning about religion and stuff,
but that's, you know, Dawkins complaining about stuff he doesn't like. When you've got him excited
about something that he loves, it's really a beautiful read and it was one of the most
just impassioned and... I can't think of another word for it, but it really ignited for me a love
of science in a way. Like that love was there, but it really poured gasoline on that fire. It was
awesome. It's a strong recommend. Cool. I remembered at our last listener feedback. We had Naveen here
and we read a listener feedback about someone who said, I don't really care about the economics of
the situation. I just want my internet to work for me, which right away Naveen was like, oh, come
on, what the fuck? This is important. And I also expressed disbelief and we went on that for a while,
but afterwards I felt bad about how we said that and how we were uncharitable to him about this.
So I want to address that in a slightly more serious note. Yes, the economics of things are
always very important. It's how we got to where we are now. It's why our society works,
but on the other hand, I can also really, really empathize with sometimes not caring about the
economics. Like if my dad has cancer and he's going to die in a few months and the cancer
drug would save his life and it only cost the company a few dollars to make the cancer drug,
but they're charging 10, 20 thousand dollars for a course and I can't afford it. I don't give a shit
about the economics of the situation or that this is how we fund research into medicine and this
is the reason we have good drugs and this is the reason people's lifespans are as long as they are
because that after a drug is found for the next 10 years, you can't get the drug unless you're
super rich, right? In that situation, I just want my dad to be alive and fuck the system.
Yeah, all you see in the system is somebody standing between you and a curator.
Exactly. For pure base profit for something that only cost him a few dollars,
my dad's going to die and that really hurts and so I can absolutely empathize with the
not caring about the economics of a situation and that's also the reason we have that system
because sometimes for the good of the system in general, some people get hurt and that sucks,
but if that wasn't the case, we wouldn't have had those drugs at all and 10 years from now,
there wouldn't be people getting this drug cheaply because the drug would have never been developed
in the first place. So yeah, I don't know what to say about that. Sometimes stuff is just shitty
because we don't have a postcare city economy yet. Was that your feedback you said you wanted
to touch on your update on that neutrality? Was that it? That was basically it. Yeah,
that I understand that sometimes you don't care and there's a very good reason for not caring.
All right, well then that's all we got this week. It'll be a slightly shorter episode than usual,
but that's okay. Give Kyle a little break. Oh my god, we almost forgot to thank Kyle
and massive thanks to Kyle who puts in untold hours working on this shit every week and we
thank him for it. I think we forgot to thank him explicitly last week, so double thanks, Kyle.
You know that the show wouldn't have it without you and nobody would listen to it without you
either. So yeah, everyone say a silent thank you to Kyle Moore for making this presentable.
Cool. Leave an empty space for him at your what is that dinner where they leave an empty space?
I have no idea. Oh, there's a Jewish tradition. Shabbat. Oh, hold on. Shiva? No, that's where
you sit with the body. Maybe we shouldn't speculate on religions that we don't know much about.
Yeah, so just, you know. Just hold Kyle in your thoughts.
He is the Holy Ghost of the Trinity. He doesn't really get much airtime,
but you need him in there. That's right. Before we get even more insane, let's go ahead and find
All right, please, guys. Thank you.
