Hello Bayesian conspiracy listeners, this is Kyle, the sound editor and sound designer
of this podcast. We at the Bayesian conspiracy are looking for a new musical track to begin
and end our podcast, as the heavy metal track that you've been hearing thus far was just
meant to be a placeholder that we never got around to updating, that is, until now.
So we'd like to ask you, our listeners, some of whom surely have vastly superior musical
composition skills than we do, if you'd like to compose something for us. Your name will
be credited at the end of every show. Send us your submissions in MP3 format to Bayesian
conspiracypodcast at gmail.com and please keep the track no longer than a minute or
so in length. Thank you so much for being fans of the show, and we are very much looking
forward to hearing what you all come up with. And now, back to the show.
We're excited about today's guest, Brian Dunning. He runs the Skeptoid podcast that's
been doing a weekly episode for the past 10 or 11 or 12 years.
Stephen's been a fan for a long time now, like at least five years, right? That you've
been listening to this podcast?
Closer to 10.
Okay.
Yeah, so it's been fairly close to the beginning. Since I first heard about podcasts, I was
googling for something about evolution or something, and episode 10 was an evolution
primer for creationists, and that came up. So it wasn't new, but in the 40s, maybe when
I started.
And he was one of the early Skeptic podcasts, him Skeptic Sky to the Universe. There's a
few others, but he was in the initial movement.
Yeah, I think so. Anyway, he's awesome. And a couple of years ago, he did a film, or I guess
several years ago, he did a film that's available online on YouTube and on Skeptoid.com called
Here Be Dragons, which is like a 43 minute introduction to critical thinking that he
put together. And I think it's pretty well done, but it was basically just him on like
no budget. And what there was like, CGI or whatever you call it, green screens and this
and that, he put together a refined continuation of that called Principles of Curiosity last
year. And that's primarily what we'll be talking about this episode, as well as this
upcoming film coming out in 2018 called Science Friction, which is about the misrepresentation
of scientists when they're brought on as talking heads on TV. They're often misquoted and,
you know, they ask one question, and then they'll play a clip from another part. And
there's no like waiver, or excuse me, you sign a waiver saying, I get no green light
on what you guys put out there. You guys can use whatever you want. So
And for those of you who have not been with us for that long, I think he was one of our in our
first, within our first 20 episodes, right? Yeah, maybe first 10. Maybe first 10. Okay. Yeah. So
that one was good. Yeah, we'll link to that as well. But yeah, we are fans of Brian Dunning
here. For sure. And I never recommend that anyone start from the beginning from our show
because the first we were finding our sea legs in the first couple of episodes. Yeah, yeah. But
I, you know, grab grab the ones that look fun. Definitely don't listen to the first minute of
the first episode. Right. That was our first iTunes review, which reminds me. If you do guys
have time, I don't like the new podcast app on iOS, but it does make it super easy to rate and
comment on podcasts, you don't have to like go to the store and search for it. If you have 10
seconds, you know, out of stoplight, or, you know, at some other safer spot to run in and leave a
rating and a comment, we read them and I really appreciate them, even the negative feedback.
But yeah, by all means, it helps us be visible and helps people find it. So if you like it, it's
the easiest thing that you can do to contribute and share it. So yeah. All right, let's get into
the interview. Let's do it.
Hello, welcome to the Bayesian conspiracy. I'm Eni Ashbrotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber. And today we
have a guest back from Skeptoid, Brian Dunning, Brian's. Hello. Hello. Hey, how's it going?
Hey, it's going great. Thank you for, thank you guys for having me.
No, thanks for coming back on. I think today we were going to talk about a couple of things
primarily was going to be your film last year that Skeptoid media put out called The Principles of
Curiosity, and the one that's currently in funding science friction. And we can kind of take it in
whatever order you guys are inclined to.
Yeah, it's been, it's been an exciting year in making little movies. It's been a lot of fun.
With principles of curiosity, you know, we got to do some travel, we got to go to some really
neat locations, put together a product that we're super proud of. And science friction, the next
movie for 2018, this is going to be a little bit different. It's more of an interview show, but
we're going to be going to a lot of places again. So a lot of fun. And hopefully it's going to end
up with with a couple of really useful films that teachers are going to enjoy in the classroom
environment, but also the general public is going to enjoy. Science friction is actually aiming for
a limited theatrical release. So people in the world will be able to see it as well. So yeah,
there's a lot to talk about with these projects.
Excellent. So I have not seen The Principles of Curiosity, although I did hear your podcast about
it. Can you give us a quick summary for our listening audience?
Yes, Principles of Curiosity was the video that we made in 2017. And it was released about mid
year, I think about June. It's 40 minutes long. So it's not as long as a feature. The idea for
that is that teachers can use it in their classrooms. Now, I've been doing the Skeptoid
podcast and all kinds of related web series and other movies here and there for a long time. And
the piece of feedback that has stuck the most was that teachers were using these materials in
classes, either high school or college, they're using them in critical thinking classes, or just
almost any kind of class in a lot of cases, where they just wanted to introduce students to more of
these critical thinking type topics. How do we analyze the things that we hear in pop culture,
things that our friends tell us, miracle fad diets, miracle cures, this and that, whatever
it is, all kind of the usual skeptical topics. So Principles of Curiosity was intended to be,
and is, a dedicated unit on critical thinking, analyzing the things in pop culture.
And it presents a simple method that anyone can follow to do that. And to sort of wrap this up
into the length of a short film, we kind of took the whole scientific method and compressed it into
what I call the three C's, which is challenge, consider and conclude. You hear a funky idea,
the first step you do is challenge it to see if it's even true at face value.
If it passes that test, you go then go to the second C, which is consider,
you consider all of the alternate explanations. And we talk about lots of examples and how about
go about doing that. And then if you get past that, then the final step is conclude, you conclude
which of these explanations best fits the observation. So as an overall example that
we follow throughout the film, beginning to end, we took my favorite mystery of all time,
which is the rocks in Death Valley that mysteriously move across the desert floor all by themselves.
And so we got to go out there and film for about three days in Death Valley, which is not easy to
do. Getting a filming permit from the National Park Service was one of the most difficult,
definitely the most difficult filming permit I've ever gotten. But it was well worth it.
We had a great time there. So the whole crew got to hang out. We stayed at the Stove Pipe Wells,
my favorite hotel in the world, eating and drinking our meals at the Stove Pipe Saloon.
They don't just let you film at will on National Parks?
Well, no. I mean, anyone can go there with your own personal camera and take your own personal
stuff. But if it's going to be for any sort of a commercial purpose, or if you have anything like
professional film equipment, or if you have a film crew, anything like this, it's likely to cause
any sort of an impact to the environment. Then you have to have a permit. And whenever you have
a permit, you actually have a ranger physically with you the entire time. Ranger Alley, she was
very nice, but very firm. Do you have to pay for the ranger to be on site?
Oh, yes. Oh, yeah. It's not inexpensive. But, you know, we budgeted for this, and that film
was crowdfunded as well. We had the final amount that we could spend on the movie, and we budgeted
everything out accordingly. We cut one or two of the exotic locations that we were hoping to go to,
and we really just ended up having two away locations, which was the Death Valley one,
and then, of course, the US Space and Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama, where they have
Space Camp. We did a lot of stuff there. Everything else we just did locally in the LA area. We went
to some sound stages and filmed a lot of stuff on sound stages. And we also, one of the things we
wanted to do in Death Valley was a lot of aerial footage. We had a lot of calls for aerial footage,
but that's something that the Park Service won't grant under any circumstances, pretty much to
anyone. And the idea behind that is they figure that your drone is noisy and is going to disturb
other park visitors. You know, it's kind of silly on the one hand. We were tens of miles from another
human being from most of the places we were hoping to do the aerial footage. But on the other hand,
it's the California deserts. There's a lot of places you can go that are outside the National
Park. And so we were to get all the footage we needed just by doubling other locations for
the places in Death Valley. We were going to use it.
Yeah. And it's also kind of a tragedy of the commons problem, where if you have a drone out
there, that's no big deal. But if they just allow anyone to have their drones out there,
then suddenly you've got a sky full of drones.
I, you know, drones are not new. I mean, that we call them drones, but there's always been radio
controlled planes and radio controlled gliders. And I don't ever remember them being, you know,
a plague of a problem of swarms of these things flying around.
I think they used to be more expensive, though, like nowadays you can get a decent drone for
a hundred, 200 bucks.
Well, yeah, if you have one that is not going to go very far or do very much. But if you've got a
professional one that's lifting a 4k camera up there that's got, you know, good stabilization
and everything and is able to go pretty far and to fight the winds and just be a rock solid
camera platform, you know, you got to spend at least a grand and usually more and they do make
noise. I grant they are pretty noisy.
I did not realize. I guess there's a lot more to this movie making business.
That's why we do podcasts. We do it in the living room.
Right.
You have a microphone and a couch in your set.
Yeah. Well, you know, the next film, Science Friction, is going to be
more microfilm and a couch, a microphone and a couch in your set.
It's going to be just mostly interviews of scientists. In fact, I guess we might as well
segue and talk about the next film.
Well, we do that.
Yeah, I had questions about the first one first.
Yeah, let's stay on, let's stay on principles of curiosity, because there's a couple of
things I want to talk about, but fire away with your questions.
Oh, okay. So what were the three C's again? The
challenge,
challenge, consider and conclude.
Okay. I, when I was listening to your podcast, that kind of jumped out at me because I like
those and those are certainly much better than just the standard except what people say,
whatever you've read on the internet sort of thing. But on the other hand, I've also met
some conspiracy theorists who do exactly that. And the problem is that they, you know,
you can challenge and consider and find sources that are sound very convincing for the
conspiracy theory side. It's not like someone came up with the idea that the earth was flat.
Everyone knows it's round and it's taught that in school and it's only when you, you know,
get to be teens or early twenties or whatever, and you start challenging the idea of around
earth and considering these, these other things that are out there. And how do you,
I mean, like, is there tools given within this video for how to discern good sources versus
bad sources and how do you come to reasonable conclusions? Yeah, that's why I need to watch
the whole movie. Absolutely. Yes. I mean, the three steps by themselves are of no more value than
any one sentence description of any process. So that's what the whole 40 minutes is packed with.
How do we challenge? Why do we challenge? What tools do we use to challenge? And then when we get
to consider what's a good source? What's a bad source? How do we choose? And so yes, very much,
we go into great depth on each of those. And we have a couple of examples for within each one
of those three steps, as well as applying each of them to the overall example that we're talking
about. So I think it's not only very well explained, it's presented in a fun and entertaining and
really easy to follow and kind of self evident and self obvious method. The idea is every little
scene, the person watching the film is going to go, oh, okay, yeah, that totally makes sense.
And they should be able to predict what we're going to say next, because we are trying to present
a method that anyone can pick up and follow. So I think we do a pretty good job with it. But
you watch the movie and then you tell me. Okay, I maybe I should. I'm also curious,
since this is the Bayesian conspiracy podcast, if the conclusions that I, since this is a more
kids, I would assume it's more of a come down firm on one conclusion or another. But do you at all
introduce the idea of maybe having mixed probabilities in your head? Like, okay, based on all the
evidence, I will assign 98% likelihood that this was done by humans, and maybe 2% likelihood that
aliens were involved in some way. Or are you more like just discard the aliens idea, because that
sounds really just completely ridiculous. Well, yeah, I mean, we can't be all things to everyone.
So in this film, we, we basically try and encourage them to come up with the solution that fits best.
And we pretty much leave it at that level of complexity, we don't define what best means,
you know, and we do talk about Occam's razor, for example, that's one of the main tools that we use
when we're, when we're concluding, which, which explanation fits the best. Yeah, that's a good
one. And we've got a fun little animated sequence for Occam's razor and how that works.
Ooh, is it like a ninja slicing things apart?
That giant razor? Well, it features, it features our Sir William of Occam. Oh, okay. In a,
in a little animation where he kind of comes to life out of the stained glass window, but
it's cool. Yeah, it is cool. So did you want to run through, we could do the Death Valley example
or another one and just see how to approach it with the principles of curiosity? Or do you want
to save that for bringing listeners to the Skeptoid podcast or to the, to the movie itself?
I think, I think anyone could watch the film in less time that it would take me to
to try and, to try and regurgitate it for memory. But it's easy to watch because it's free and it's
online. That's one of, you know, one of the things that we do as a nonprofit is we're providing free
tools. So everything from Skeptoid media is available for free. It's at principlesofcuriosity.com
and that's basically just a screen that has the YouTube page on it. You can find it on YouTube
as well. So principlesofcuriosity.com, it's only 40 minutes. It's something you can watch
while you're eating your dinner tonight. All right, sounds good. Yeah. And hopefully,
hopefully it'll get people to, I don't know, to, to care more about knowing the truth as opposed to
simply being right. It's a thing that I always have trouble with where a lot of people seem to
just want to be right about things and get so married to their opinion that they aren't willing to
examine it and, and care more about correcting themselves to the truth rather than to,
to correct other people to see things their way. And that's a difficult problem to overcome because
everyone believes that what they know is right. Yeah. I mean, that's what, that's what the word
belief means. I wouldn't be believing it if I didn't believe it to be true. So as far as I know,
everything I believe is true. And it's really hard to convince people of that. And when you,
when you move into the scientific method, the first thing you've got to be able to do is discard
all of your preconceived notions, discard all of your beliefs, and then just go with what seems
to be supported best by the evidence. Yeah. And then as we all have so much experience,
