All right. Hello and welcome, everyone. This is Active Bookstream, number 2.0. We are going
to be discussing the textbook, Active Inference, the Free Energy Principle in Mind, Brain and
Behavior, 2022 textbook by Thomas Parr, Giovanni Pazzullo, and Carl Friston. In this live stream
with Ali and I, we're going to be giving some overviews and some kind of points that you'll
want to have in mind, a little bit of background and context, specifically on chapters 1, 2,
3, and 6. We're going to do more live streams in the future that will cover the other chapters.
There's 10 chapters overall. And the goal of this live stream is to use the live stream
format to produce materials that we can then clip out so that the textbook groups, which
we have multiple ongoing cohorts at the Institute, so that those textbook groups can be really
engaging and discussion-oriented. Because after several cohorts of going through this,
Ali and I and others have started to kind of hone our understanding of the textbook.
And so we are starting to feel ready to put down some background and context.zero videos.
And then ideally, people who are participating in the textbook group cohorts will be able
to view and think about those videos leading up to a discussion so that when we do have
the discussions in the textbook group, that those can be maximally interactive and engaging.
Before we jump into chapter 1, Ali, do you want to just add anything about the textbook or anything else?
Hello, I'm Ali. I'm very happy and excited to be here to discuss the book that we've fallen
in love for the last year. And despite the fact that we've been studying and discussing this book
for more than a year, there's still a lot to learn and unpack. So yeah, great.
All right, so then we will begin in just a few seconds the chapter 1 and overview.
All right, this section is going to be the chapter 1 and overview of the Active Inference
textbook. So shown here are the table of contents. There are 10 chapters and three appendices in
this book. And they're separated into part 1 with chapters 1 through 5 and part 2 chapters 6 through
10. Ali, do you want to give any overview thoughts on the organization or structure of the book?
Okay, so can you hear me now? Sorry. Yes. Okay, so part 1 is basically more aligned
in terms of the theoretical construction of the active inference and it provides some
conceptual and theoretical tools to be utilized in the second part. Because for the second part,
we mostly deal with the practical side of active inference, how to actually implement
active inference to model some of the systems of interest. So that's basically the main
justification behind dividing up these chapters into two. Great. All right, we're going to pass
over the short preface written by Carl Friston, but it's worth a read. It's only several pages long.
So let's go to chapter 1 overview. So do you have any opening thoughts on chapter 1 or where does one
even begin with such a book? Sure. Yeah. For chapter 1, I think probably the most central theme of
chapter 1 is about the two different approaches to active inference, namely the high road and the
low road. And I think it provides a really nice perspective to view kind of the whole picture
and how the different components of active inference fit together. But also, I highly recommend
chapter 13 from this book, Andy Clark and his critics, written by chapter 13, I think is entitled
Beyond the Desert Landscape, written by Carl Friston, in which he provides more elaborate
and a bit philosophical reasoning behind what exactly are low road and high road and
what are the aims of each approach and the distinction between those two. So
for chapter 1, we begin obviously with an introductory paragraph, which sets the stage for
the, I mean, all the components that would be discussed in this chapter or so. But a very
important section, I believe, is section 2 here, which is how do living organisms persist and act
adaptively, which is basically the main question active inference is trying to address. So if we
want to describe active inference in, I mean, minimalistically with only one sentence or two,
probably we can say something to the effect that it's a theory that addressed this very question
here. So why they've opened up this chapter with the important question. And then action 3,
which is again a continuation of section 1, but a bit more specifically about active inference and
how active inference is addressing the question provided in the section 2. So
basically, again, active inference is a modeling framework for modeling the behaviors
from first principles. And what is meant by first principles will be elaborated upon
in the following chapters, following sections, and also obviously in the following chapters.
But very briefly, it's a kind of modeling framework that tries to somehow use
variational principles such as free energy principle to construct
modeling and mathematical tools that will enable us to describe the dynamical systems
of living and even non-living agents in terms of those variational principles and how
those agents or those systems are coupled with their environment. So that's basically
the unificatory principle that is at the heart of this active inference approach because,
yes, exactly here, it's a kind of description of this action perception loop that is at the
heart of active inference or FEP framework. And then we go to chapter, sorry, section 1.4,
which is again a description of the structure of the book and why those two parts are divided as
such. So as I said earlier, first part is more concerned with the theoretical underpinnings of
active inference. And the second part is more about the practical side of it, as we see in the
subsection headings here. So that's, yeah, and then a very important diagram, which will provide
very helpful as we pull book is provided in figure 1.2, which kind of ties all the different strands
of various related theories, such as predictive coding, predictive processing, Bayesian brain
hypothesis and so on, into a kind of unified and integrated framework by using those two trajectories
of constructing active inference, mainly the high road and the low road. So it literally
here is represented as the high road and the low road in this diagram. So very briefly,
high road is a kind of top town approach active inference. It begins with the question
how things should act if they exist in other words, if they persist through time, sorry,
in other words, it kind of sets the stage for developing the concept of Markov blankets.
And then obviously with by setting that also surprise minimization, it attempts to elaborate
that road by adding other aspects of modeling other aspects of theories such as
predictive processing, self evidencing, autopoiesis and so on, and then reach an integrated
version of active inference, which is basically an integration between perception and action. So
I believe the main thing that sets active inference apart from all the other related
theories such as predictive processing and predictive coding is the very deep integration
of action and perception. So action is not just some afterthought or some additional component
that needs to be accounted for, it is deeply woven into the fabric of the theory. So as we'll see,
especially in chapters two and three, even the mathematical formalism for perception
and action are interestingly similar to each other and even symmetric. And it shows that
perception and action are actually not separate and distinct, totally distinct entities and concepts
and active inference definitely provides a very promising framework to integrate them into
a holistic framework. And another approach to construct that same theory is to begin with
the probabilistic description of Bayes' theorem and try to build up the formalism of active inference
using Bayes' inference theorem and Bayesian statistical inference. So again, we here see some
very, I mean, apparently different and distinct strands such as predictive coding,
Bayesian brain hypothesis and so on. But as we see, all of those different strands can be united
and tied together with within this low road approach to active inference. So I guess that's
I'll just give one short thought. Thanks. These are great.
Yeah, just one short thought. Thank you, Ali, for these great summaries.
The low road and the high road are going to be explored in a lot more detail in the coming
chapters two and three. We can think of the high road as being a why because it describes how
persistent or remeasurable systems exist. Now they might be using Bayes' theorem or they might be
using any other kind of mechanism internally, but the high road is describing the why of existence.
From the low road, the bottom up approach is kind of like a how. You could use Bayes' theorem to
describe persistent auto poetic entities, or you could use Bayes' theorem for other purposes too.
So where these two roads intersect is active inference. And we have a lot more discussion
coming and of course unpacked in the textbook groups about how these really map on to bottom
up and top down causation and the plurality of whys that we approach in different settings.
Good to continue.
Yes, sure. Some of the coming sections of this chapter continuing from page eight
are going to describe what are happening in the next chapters. So chapter two is going to set out
the low road perspective. Chapter three is going to describe the high road. Chapter four,
we will unpack active inference more formally. That's one of the math heavy chapters.
Chapter five will move from formal treatments to biological implications of active inference
with a special focus on mammalian neurophysiology. Chapter five sets out the process theory
associated with active inference and gives a lot of hands on and empirical examples.
And that's a lot of the first part of the book. They're then going to summarize some of the key
points and distillations from that theory heavy first section. One of them is that as I mentioned,
perception and action are complementary processes and ways that fulfill the same imperative free
energy minimization. We sometimes summarize that by saying that in the pursuit of the minimization
of free energy, agents can either change their mind or change the world. Change your mind is
associated with perception and learning. And those are distinguished later and changing the world is
associated with action. There's some discussion about action selection and optimal policy selection.
And all cognitive operations in active inference are conceptualized as inference
over generative models. So the true kernel, the cognitive kernel of active inference is going
to be the generative model. Want to pick up from here or give any thoughts on generative models
and then carry on. Thanks, Ali. Just one point is there is a common misconception about generative
models, which is that generative models only refers to the interstates of the system and also
its markup blanket. But actually generative model kind of encompass all the states of interest
of the situation we're trying to model. So it also encodes the probabilistic information about
the external states as well. So generative model can be thought of as kind of the whole state of
the system. And by system here, I mean the coupled dynamics between the internal and external states.
So that might be helpful to keep in mind. Great. One other distinction that comes up
and is used a lot nowadays, although it's not always used in prior literature is the distinction
between the generative model and the generative process. We're going to come back to it. But
usually the generative model is being used to describe our statistical model of the agent of
interest. And the generative process is the process that generates observations that are then
passed to the generative model as observations. However, because generative models can be
generative processes for each other, these two are not necessarily distinct in principle.
So in different simulations, and in different specific cases, generative models can also be
generative processes for each other. That leads us towards talking about ecosystems of shared
intelligence and interactions amongst generative models. But when we're talking about generative
model, it's like the organism or the system of interest that we're focused on.
There are some more themes that arise from the first half of the book. Now we're on page 11.
Action is quintessentially goal directed and purpose of, we talk a lot about how preference
plays a role in shaping action selection in active inference, and the goal directed nature
of active inference will be unpacked in chapters two and three. They discuss how various constructs
of active inference have plausible biological analogs in the brain. Once one has defined a
specific generative model for a problem at hand, one can move from active inference as a normative
theory to active inference as a process theory, which makes specific empirical predictions.
And there's many, many interesting philosophy of science type discussions that we have about
explain, predict, design, control. And then we get to section 1.4.2, giving overview on part two
active inference in practice. So I'll just continue on. Chapter six is going to introduce
a recipe for building active inference models. So this is where the step by step comes into play.
It's going to give a sequence of steps and approaches that you can take to go from
understanding the structural aspects of a system or phenomena of interest,
and build your way towards having an active inference model that can then be implemented
in code. And we have various examples, and we're there in the textbook group to work with everyone
who wants to take this journey. But chapter six is going to describe that process of building
the active inference generative model. So that's a recipe chapter. And there's a lot more that goes
into the restaurant also as we kind of have fun exploring. Chapter seven and eight are like a pair
and they describe two different broad families of generative models. Now these two families of
generative models, they work well, they play well with each other, but they are very educationally
relevant to also consider separately. Chapter seven is going to focus on the discrete time
generative model. And chapter eight is going to focus on the continuous time generative models.
And again, these discrete and continuous time models can be nested and interoperable.
However, they do describe some very important different situations. And so chapter seven and
eight have a lot of technical information on the discrete and continuous time formulations
of active inference and also about how they integrate together. Chapter nine is illustrations
of how active inference models can be used to analyze data from behavioral experiments.
And so this kind of goes beyond chapter six's recipe. And it talks about some of the process
of making a behavioral experiment, and then using the outcomes of that behavioral experiment,
the data from that experiment, and using that to parameterize and do statistics with the active
inference generative model. And chapter 10 brings it all together. Chapter 10 is a lot like chapter
one. And we've even joked of reading the book backwards. That's how great chapter 10 is. So
for those who are reading chapter one, consider reading chapter 10 next, and then picking back
up with chapter two, because chapter 10 is going to give some judgments and also sketch some
exciting future directions for where active inference is in relationship to other fields
and where it's going. So I also second that. Yeah. The second part of the book illustrates a broad
variety of models of biological and cognitive phenomena. So it's an application oriented
second half of the book. And we have a lot of accessory code and approaches and notebooks.
So one may not find that this is the one stop shop that they were looking for. However,
for those who dive in, there's absolutely more than enough to scaffold their learning journey.
And then section 1.5 is the summary. The chapter introduces the active inference approach to
explain biological problems from a normative perspective and preview some implications of
this perspective that will be unpacked in later chapters. It describes the structural outline
of the book, chapters one through five being theory, chapter six or 10 being practice. And then
it signals that the next two chapters are going to develop the low and the high road perspectives.
And all together, that is chapter one. Any other thoughts on chapter one?
Not specifically, but I think it provides a really good context to the rest of the book
in terms of how all the different elements of active inference comes into play in addressing
different problems, different problems. Awesome.
On to chapter two, the low road to active inference. So all chapters begin with a short
quotation. And the quotation here reads, my thinking is first and last and always for the
sake of my doing William James. So even before reading the chapter, these quotations are often
great places to jump off and have a discussion. So Ali, please begin and go as long as you want
on the low road to active inference. Okay, so I guess after two, as the title suggests,
it's the construction of active inference theory from the viewpoint of the low road
active inference. So it begins by providing this notion of perception as inference, because
more often than not, we usually think of perception as something just in a computational sense of
sense is the processing of the inputs or rather it's the raw processing of the inputs.
But here it shows that it can also be described as or even more accurately described as a kind of
inference. So it's not just a simple and raw processing of the inputs as my
computational model or a computer analogy might suggest. It's more like something that we predict
and then we compare our inputs or the inputs we get from the stimuli with our prediction and then
try to somehow minimize that prediction error. So I believe that this notion of perception as
inference is the most central notion of all the related theories of predictive coding,
