Gotcha. Yeah. And so, and I find that really frustrating because actually the origin of life
researchers are all working in good faith, right? Yes. And so what I'm trying to do is give origin
of life research a little bit more of a, of a, of an open, an open context. And one of the things I
think is important, I really want to make a new life form in my lifetime. I really want to prove
that life is a general phenomena, a bit like gravity in the universe. Because I think that's
going to be really important for humanities, global psychological state, meaning going forward.
That's beautifully, that's beautifully put. So one, it will help us understand ourselves. So
that's useful for science. But two, it gives us a kind of hope, if not an awe at all the huge
amounts of alien civilizations that are out there, if you can build life and understand just how
easy it is to build life, then that's just as good, if not much better than discovering life
on another planet. Yeah. It's, I mean, it's cheaper. It's much cheaper and much easier. And
probably much more conclusive because once you're able to create life, like you said,
it's a search problem that there's probably a lot of different ways to do it. Once you create the,
once you find the first solution, you probably have all the right methodology for finding all
kinds of other solutions. Yeah. And wouldn't it be great if we could find a solution? I mean,
it's probably a bit late for, I mean, I worry about climate change, but I'm not that worried
about climate change. And I think one day you could think about, could we engineer a new type
of life form that could basically, and I don't want to do this. And I don't think we should do
this necessarily, but it's a good thought experiment that would perhaps take CO2 out of the
atmosphere or an intermediate life forms. It's not quite alive. It's almost like an add-on
that we can, with a time dependent add-on, you could give to say cyanobacteria in the ocean,
or to maybe to wheat and say, right, we're just going to, we're going to fix a bit more CO2.
And we're going to work out how much we need to fix to basically save the climate. And we're going
to use evolutionary principles to basically get there. What worries me is that biology has had
a few billion years to find a solution for CO2 fixation. It hasn't really done. It's not,
the solution isn't brilliant for our needs, but biology wasn't thinking about our needs. Biology
was thinking about biology's needs. But I think if we can do, as you say, make life in the lab,
then suddenly we don't need to go to everywhere and conclusively prove it. I think we make life
in the lab. We look at the extent of life in the solar system. How far did Earth life get?
Probably we're all Martians. Probably life got going on Mars, the chemistry on Mars,
seeded Earth. That might have been a legitimate way to kind of truncate the surface.
But in the outer solar system, we might have completely different life forms
on Enceladus, on Europa, and Titan. And that would be a cool thing because-
Okay, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Did you just say that you think,
in terms of likelihood, life started on Mars, statistically speaking,
life started on Mars and seeded Earth? It could be possible because life was,
Mars was habitable for the type of life that we have right now, type of chemistry before Earth.
It seems to me that Mars got searching doing chemistry. It started way before.
Yeah. And so they had a few more replicators and some other stuff. And if those replicators got
ejected from Mars and landed on Earth, and Earth was like, I don't need to start again.
Thanks for that. And then it just carries on. So I'm not going, I think we will find evidence
of life on Mars, either life we put there by mistake, contamination, or actually life,
the earliest remnants of life. And that would be really exciting. There's a really good reason
to go there. But I think it's more unlikely because of the gravitational situation in the solar system
if we find life in the outer solar system. Tighten and all that. That would be its own
thing. Exactly. Wow, that would be so cool. If we go to Mars and we find life that looks
a hell of a lot similar to Earth life. And then we go to tighten and all those weird moons with
the ices and the volcanoes and all that kind of stuff. And then we find there something that looks,
I don't know, way weirder. Yeah. Some other, some non RNA type of situation.
Almost life like in the prebiotic chemical space. And I think there are four types of exoplanets
we're going to look for, right? Because when JWST goes up and touch wood, it goes up and
everything's fine. When we look at a star, we know statistically most stars have planets around them.
What type of planet are they? Are they going to be dead? Are they going to be
just a prebiotic origin of life coming? So are they going to be technological?
And, you know, so we have intelligence on them. And will they will they have died? So, you know,
from, you know, had life on them, but not. Those are the four states of the world.
And so, and suddenly, it's a bit like I want to classify planets, the way we classify stars.
Yeah. And I think that in terms of their rather than having this, oh, we've found we found methane,
there's evidence of life, we found oxygen, that's the evidence of life, we found whatever
molecule marker and start to then frame things a little bit more.
As those four states, which by the way, you're just saying four, but there could be a
before the dead, there could be other states that we humans can even conceive of.
Just prebiotic, almost alive, you know, got the possibility to come alive. I think.
There could be a post technological, like whatever we think of as technology,
that could be like pre-conscious, like when we all meld into one super intelligent
consciousness or some weird thing that naturally happens over time.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think that the all bets.
The metaverse.
Yeah. We join into a virtual metaverse and start creating, which is kind of an interesting idea,
almost arbitrary number of copies of each other, much more quickly to can mess with different
ideas in mind, like I can create a thousand copies of Lex, like every possible version of Lex,
and then just see like, and then I just have them like argue with each other and like until,
like in the space of ideas and see who wins out, how could that possibly go wrong?
But anyway, but there's a, especially in this digital space where you could start exploring
with AI's mixed in, you could start engineering arbitrary intelligences,
you can start playing in the space of ideas, which might move us into a world that looks
very different than a biological world. Like our current world, the technology,
is still very much tied to our biology. It's, we might move past that.
Oh, definitely. We definitely will.
We definitely, because that could be another phase then.
Sure.
Because then you.
But I did say technological, so I think I agree with you. I think so you can have,
let's get this right. So dead world, no prospect of alive.
Prebiotic world, life emerging, living, and technological. And you probably,
and the dead one, you probably won't be able to tell between the dead never been alive.
And the dead one, maybe what some artifacts, and maybe there's five, there's probably not more
than five. And I think the technological one could allow, could have life on it still,
but it might just have exceeded. Because, you know, one way that life might survive on earth
is if we can work out how to deal with the coming, the real climate change that comes
when the sun expands. It might be a way to survive that, you know.
But yeah, I think that we need to start thinking statistically when it comes to
looking for life in the universe.
Let me ask you then, sort of statistically, how many alien civilizations are out there
in those four phases that you're talking about? When you look up to the stars,
and you're sipping on some wine, and talking to other people with British accents about
something intelligent and intellectual, I'm sure. Do you think there's a lot of alien
civilizations looking back at us? I'm wondering the same.
My romantic view of the universe is really taking loans from my logical self. So what
I'm saying is I have no idea. But having said that, there is no reason to
suppose that life is as hard as we first thought it was. And so if we just take earth as a marker,
and if I think that life is a much more general phenomena than just our biology,
then I think the universe is full of life. And the reason for the Fermi paradox is not that
they're not out there, it's just that we can't interact with the other life forms because they're
so different. And I'm not saying that they're necessarily like has been depicted in a rival
or other, you know, I'm just saying that perhaps there are very few universal facts in the universe.
And that, and maybe that is not, it's quite hard, our technologies are quite divergent.
And so I think that it's very hard to know how we're going to interact with alien life.
You think there's a lot of kinds of life that's possible. I guess that was the intuition.
You provided that the way biology itself, but even this particular kinds of biology that we
have on earth is something that is just one sample of nearly infinite number of other possible
complex autonomous self-replicating type of things that could be possible. And so
we're almost unable to see the alternative versions of us. I mean, we'll still be able to
detect them. We'll still be able to interact with them. We'll still be able to, like, which
what's exactly is lost in translation? Why can't we see them? Why can't we talk to them?
Because I too have a sense, you put it way more poetically, but it seems both statistically
and sort of romantically, it feels like the universe should be teaming with life,
like super intelligent life. And I just, I sit there and the Fermi Paradox is very,
it's felt very distinctly by me when I look up at the stars because it's like,
it's the same way I feel when I'm driving through New Jersey and listening to Bruce
Springsteen and feel quite sad. It's like Lucy K talks about pulling off to the side of the road
and just weeping a little bit. I'm almost like wondering like, hey, why, why aren't you talking
to us? You know, it feels lonely. It feels lonely because it feels like they're out there.
I think that there are a number of answers to that. I think the Fermi Paradox is perhaps
based on the assumption that if life did emerge in the universe, it would be similar to our life
and there's only one solution. And I think that what we've got to start to do is go out and look
for selection detection rather than an evolution detection rather than life detection. And I think
that once we start to do that, we might start to see really interesting things. And we haven't
been doing this for very long. And we are living in an expanding universe and that makes the problem
a little bit harder. Everybody's always leaving. But I'm, I'm very optimistic that we will,
well, I don't know, there are two movies that came out in the same within six months of one
another, Ad Astra and Cosmos. Ad Astra, the very expensive blockbuster, you know, with Brad Pitt in
it and saying there is no life and it's all, you know, we've got a life on Earth has more pressures
and Cosmos, which is a UK production, which basically aliens came and visited Earth one day
and they were discovered in the UK, right? It was quite, it's a fun film. But I really loved
those two films. And I'm, and at the same time, those films, at the time those films are coming
out, I was working on a paper, a life detection paper. And I fact, it was so hard to publish this
paper. And it was almost as depressed that I got so depressed trying to get this science out there,
that I felt the depression of the film and Ad Astra like life is there's no life elsewhere in
the universe. And but I, but I'm incredibly optimistic that I think we will find life in
the universe firm evidence of life. And it will have to start on Earth making life on Earth and
surprising as we have to surprise ourselves and make non biological life on Earth. And then people
say, well, you, you make this life on Earth, therefore, it's the, you're part of the causal
chain of that. And that might be true. But if I can show how I, I'm able to do it with very little
cheating or very little information inputs, just creating like a model planet, some description,
and watching it, watching life emerge, then I think that we will be even to, to persuade even
the hardest critic that that is, it's possible. Now with regards to the Fermi paradox, I think
that we might crush that with the JWST. It's basically, if I recall correctly, the mirror is
about 10 times the size of the Hubble, that we're going to be able to do spectroscopy,
look at colors of exoplanets, I think, not brilliantly, but we'll be able to start to classify
them. And we'll start to get a real feet feel for what's going on in the universe on these
exoplanets. Because it's only in the last few decades, I think, maybe even last decade that we
even came to recognize that exoplanets even are common. And I think that that gives us a lot of
optimism that life is going to be out there. But I think we have to start framing, we have to start
preparing the fact that biology is only one solution. I can tell you with confidence that
biology on Earth does not exist anywhere else in the universe. We are absolutely unique.
Well, okay, I love the confidence, but where does that confidence come from?
Chemistry, like how many options does chemistry really have?
Many. That's the point. And the thing is, this is where the origin of life scam comes in,
is that people don't count the numbers. So if biology, as you find on Earth, is common everywhere,
then there's something really weird going on that basically written in the quantum mechanics,
there's some kind of these bonds must form over these bonds, and this catalyst must form over
this catalyst when they're all quite equal. Life is contingent. The origin of life on Earth was
contingent upon the chemistry available at the origin of life on Earth. So that means if we want
to find other life-like, other Earth-like worlds, we look for the same kind of rocky world, we might
look in the same zone as Earth, and we might expect reasonably to find biological-like stuff going on.
That would be a reasonable hypothesis, but it won't be the same. It can't be. It's like saying,
I don't believe in magic. That's why I'm sure. I just don't believe in magic. I believe in
statistics and I can do experiments. And so I won't get the same, exactly the same sequence of
events. I'll get something different. And so there is TikTok elsewhere in the universe, but it's not
the same as our TikTok, right? That's what I mean. Which aspect of it is not the same?
Well, I just think, so what is TikTok? TikTok is a social media where people upload videos,
right? Silly videos. So I guess there might be... Well, there's humor, there's attention,
there's ability to process, there's ability for intelligent organisms to collaborate on ideas
and find humor and ideas and play with those ideas, make them viral, memes.
Humor seems to be kind of fundamental to human experience.
And I think that that's a really interesting question we can ask. Is humor a fundamental
thing in the universe? I think maybe it will be, right? In terms of you think about in a game
theoretic sense, humor, the emergence of humor serves a role in our game engine. And so if
selection is fundamental in the universe, so is humor. Well, I actually don't know exactly
what role humor serves. Maybe from a chemical perspective, it's like a catalyst for...
I guess it serves several purposes. One is the catalyst for spreading ideas on the internet.
That's modern humor. But humor is also a good way to deal with the difficulty of life. It's a kind
of valve, release valve for suffering. Throughout human history, life has been really hard.
And for the people that I have known in my life who've lived through some
really difficult things, humor is part of how they deal with that. It's usually dark humor.
But yeah, it's interesting. I don't know exactly what's the more mathematically
general way to formulate what the hell is humor. What humor does it serve? But I still...
We're kind of joking here, but it's a counterintuitive idea to me to think that
life elsewhere in the universe is very different than life on earth. And also,
like all of each instantiation of life is likely very different from each other.
Like maybe there's a few clusters of similar like life, but it's much more likely is what you're
saying. To me, it's a kind of novel thought. I'm not sure what to do with it. But you're saying that
it's more common to be a weird outcast in the full spectrum of life than it is to be in some
usual cluster. So every instantiation of a kind of chemistry that results in complexity,
that's autonomous and self-replicating, however the hell you define life,
that is going to be very different every time. I don't know. It feels like a selection is a
fundamental kind of directed force in the universe. Won't selection result in a few pockets of
interesting complexities? If we ran earth over again, over and over and over,
you're saying it's going to come up, but there's not going to be elephants every time?
