conversation about? Maybe put another way, maybe zooming out a little bit. Are there
interesting agreements or disagreements between Ewan and Joshua Bach that can elucidate some
of the other topics we've been talking about? Yeah. So Yash has an incredible mind and he has,
he's so well read and uses language really elegantly. It bamboozles me at times. So I'm
so often I'm using, I'm describing concepts in a way that I built from the ground up.
And so we misunderstand each other a lot. And he's floating in the clouds, is that what you're
saying? Something like, not quite, but I think so this concept of a Turing machine. So a Turing
machine, Turing machines, I would argue, and I think this is not the Turing machine, the universe
is not a Turing machine. Biology is not even a Turing machine, right? And because Turing
machines don't evolve, right? There's a, there is this problem that people see Turing machines
everywhere. But is an interest in the universe gave rise to biology that gave rise to intelligence
that gave rise to Alan Turing, who invented the abstraction of the Turing machine, and allowed
us to digitize. And, and so I've been looking for the mystery at the origin of life, the origin
of intelligence and the origin of this. And I, when I discussed with Yash, I think Yash, he was
saying, well, the universe of course, the universe is a Turing machine, of course, there's a,
there's a hyper computer there. And I think we got kind of trapped in our words and terms.
Because of course, it's possible for a Turing machine or computers to exist in the universe,
we have them. But what I'm trying to understand is, where did the transition of continuous to
discrete occur? And I've been, and this is because of my, my general foolishness of understanding
the continuous. But I guess what I'm trying to say is, there were constructors before there
were abstractors. Because how did the universe abstract itself into existence? And it goes
back to earlier saying, could the universe of intelligence have come first?
What's the constructor, what's an abstractor?
So the abstractor is the ability of, say, of Alan Turing and Goodall and Church
to think about the mathematical universe and to label things. And then from those labels to come
up with a set of axioms with those labels, and to basically understand the universe mathematically
and say, okay, I can label things. But where did the labeler come from? Where is the prime labeler?
Even if the universe is not a Turing computer, does that negate the possibility that a Turing
computer can simulate the universe? Like, just because the abstraction was formed at a later time,
does that mean that abstraction? This is to our cellular automata conversation.
Yeah.
You were taking away some of the magic from the cellular automata because very intelligent
biological systems came up with that cellular automata.
Well, this is where the existence is the default, right? The fact that we exist and we
can come up with a Turing machine, does that mean the universe has to be a Turing machine as well?
But can it be a Turing machine though? So there has to be in a canopy?
Can it be? Sure. I don't understand if it has to be or not. Can it be? But can the universe have
Turing machines in it? Sure. They do exist now. I'm wondering though,
maybe, and this is Ren, if things get really hairy, is I think the universe maybe in the past
did not have the computational power that it has now.
This is almost like a law of physics. So the computational power is not
you can get some free lunch? Yeah. I mean, the fact that we now, we sit here in this period
in time and we can imagine all these robots and all these machines and we built them.
And so we can easily imagine going back in time that the universe was capable of having them,
but I don't think it can. So the universe may have been a lot dumber computationally.
And I think that's why I don't want to go back to the time discussion, but I think it has some
relationship with it. The universe is basically smarter now than it used to be and is going to
continue getting smarter over time because of novelty generation and the ability to create
objects within objects within objects. You know, there's a perhaps as grounded in physics,
there's intuition of conservation that stuff is conserved. Like, you're not, you've always had
all everything, you're just rearranging books on the bookshelf through time.
So you're saying like new books are being written.
Which laws do you want to break? The origin of the origin of the Big Bang,
you had to break the second law because we got order for free. Yeah.
Well, what I'm telling you now is that the energy isn't conserved in the universe.
Oh, it's the second law. Okay, I got you.
So because, but not in a mad way.
Okay, so computation potentially is not conserved, which is a fascinating idea.
Intelligence is not conserved. Complexity is not conserved.
I suppose that's deeply connected to time being fundamental.
The natural consequence of that is if time is fundamental, and the universe is inflating in
time, if you like, then there are one or two conservation laws that we need to have a look at.
And I wonder if that means the total energy of the universe is actually increasing over time.
And I might, this may be completely ludicrous, but we do have all this dark energy that we have,
we have some anomalies, let's say, dark matter and dark energy. If we don't add them in,
galaxies, so dark matter, I think doesn't, doesn't hold, you know, you need to hold the galaxies
together. And there's some other observational issues. Could dark energy just be time?
So figuring out what dark energy is might give us some deep clues about this,
not just time, but the consequences of time.
So it could be that, I mean, I'm not saying there's perpetual motions allowed in this
free lunch, but I'm saying if the universe is intrinsically asymmetric, and it appears to be,
and it's generating novelty, and it appears to, couldn't that just be a mechanistically how
reality works? And therefore, I don't really like this idea that the, so I want to live in
a deterministic universe that is undetermined. Right? The only way I can do that is if time
is fundamental. Because otherwise, it's all, all the rest of us just, it's just slight of hand,
because the physicists will say, yes, everything's deterministic, Newton is Newtonian mechanics
is deterministic, quantum mechanics is deterministic, let's take the Everettian view. And then basically,
we can just draw out this massive universe branching, but it closes again, we get it all back.
And don't worry, your feeling of free will is effective. But what the physicists are actually
saying is the entire future is mapped out. And that is clearly, problematical. And clearly,
because that's not so clear. Yeah, it's just, it's just problematic.
Yeah, yeah, so it's, because that maybe is just the way it is. It's problematic to you,
but the creature along the timeline. I want to reduce the number of beliefs I need to
understand the universe. So if time is fundamental, I don't need to have magic order at the beginning,
and I don't need a second law. But you do need the magical belief that time is fundamental.
Well, I need the, I need the observation that I'm seeing to be just the how it is all the way down.
But the earth also looks flat. If you, if you agree with your observation, so we can't necessarily
trust our observation. I know the earth isn't flat because I can send the satellite into space.
No, but now you see, now you're using the tools, the science and the technology.
But I'm using, what I'm saying, I'm going to do experiments that start to show.
I mean, I think that it's worth, so if you can't, so if I cannot do an experiment or
a thought experiment that will test this assumption, then the assumption is without
merit really in the end. You know, that's, it's fine. So that's a beautiful idea you hold yourself
to. That's, that's a, that's given that you think deeply in a philosophical way, you think about
some of these really important issues and you have theoretical frameworks like assembly theory.
It's really nice that you're always grounded with experiment. That's, that's so refreshing.
That's so beautifully refreshing. Now that we're holding you to the grounded and experiment
to the harsh truth of reality. Let me ask the big, the big ridiculous question.
What is the meaning of this whole thing? What's the meaning of life?
Why this time is fundamental. It's marching forward and along this
long timeline come along a bunch of descendants of apes that have come up with cellular automata
and computers and now computers. Why? I have so many different answers to this question.
It depends on, on what day I would say that given the way of the conversation we had today,
I'd say the meaning. Well, we make our own meaning. I think that's fine. But I think the universe wants
to explore every possible configuration that it's allowed us to explore. And this goes back to the
kind of question that you're asking about Yasha and the existence and non-existence of things,
right? So if the universe is a Turing machine is churning through a lot of states
and you think about combinatorial theory before assembly theory, so everything is possible.
What Yasha and I were saying is, well, not everything is, we don't see the combinatorial
explosion. We see something else. And what we see is evidence of memory. So there's,
there clearly seems to be some interference between the combinatorial explosion of things
and what the universe allows. And it's like this kind of constructive, destructive interference.
So maybe the universe is not just about, it is assembling objects in space and time.
And those objects are able to search more space and time and the universe is just infinitely
creative. And I guess I'm searching for why the universe is infinitely creative is infinitely
creative. And maybe the meaning is just simply to make as many objects create as many things as
possible. And I see a future of the universe that doesn't result in the heat there for the universe.
The universe is going to extract every ounce of creativity it can out of it because that's
what we see on earth, right? And if you think that almost like intelligence is not conserved that
maybe creativity isn't either, maybe like it's an infinite well. So like creativity is ultimately
tied to novelty. You're coming up with cool new configurations of things and maybe that just
can continue indefinitely. And this human species that was created along the way is probably just
one method like that's able to ask the universe about itself. It's just one way to explore
creativity. Maybe there's other meta levels on top of that. Like obviously as a collective
intelligence will create organisms, maybe there'll be organisms that ask themselves questions about
themselves in a deeper, bigger picture way that we humans do. First to ask questions about the
humans and then construct some kind of hybrid systems that ask themselves about the collective
aspect. Just like some weird stacking that we can't even imagine yet.
And that stacking, I mean, I've discussed this stacking a lot with Sarah Walker who's a professor
of physics and astrobiology at ASU. And we argue about how creative the universe is going to be
and is it just deterministic and all that because I think she's more of a free will thinker and I'm
of a less free will thinker, but I think we're beginning to converge and understanding that
because there's simply a missing understanding right now that we don't understand how the
universe, we don't know what rules the universe has to allow the universe to contemplate itself.
So asking the meaning of it before we even know what those rules are is premature, but my guess
is that it's not meaningless and it isn't just about that. And there are three levels of meanings.
Obviously the universe wants us to do stuff. We're interacting with each other. So we create
meaning in our own society and our own interactions with humanity. But I do think there is something
else going on. But because reality is so weird, we're just scratching at that. And I think that
we have to make the experiments better. And we have to perhaps join across not just for the
computation lists and what I tried to do with Yasha is meet him halfway. So what happens if I
become a computation list? What do I gain? A lot, it turns out, because I can make Turing machines
in the universe. Because on the one hand, I'm making computers, which are state machines inspired
by Turing. On the other hand, I'm saying they can't exist. Well, clearly, that's that I can't
have my cake and eat it. So there's something weird going on there. So then did the universe have to
make a continuous to discrete transition or is the universe just discrete? It's probably just
discrete. So if it's just discrete, then there are, I will then give Yasha his Turing like property
in the universe. But maybe there's something else below it, which is the constructor that constructs
the Turing machine, that then constructs, you know, is a bit like the, you generate a computing
system that then is able to build an abstraction that then recognizes, it can make a generalizable
abstraction because human beings with mathematics have been able to go on and build
physical computers, if that makes any sense. And I think that's the meaning. I think that's,
you know, as far as we can, the meaning will be further elucidated with further experiments.
Well, you mentioned Sarah, I think you and Sarah Walker are just these fascinating human beings.
I'm really fortunate to have the opportunity to be in your presence to study your work,
to follow along with your work. I'm a big fan. Like I told you offline, I hope we get a chance
to talk again with perhaps just the two of us, but also with Sarah, that's a fascinating dynamic
for people who haven't heard. I suppose on Clubhouse is where I heard you guys talk,
but you have an incredible dynamic. And I also can't wait to hear you and Yasha talk.
So I think if there's some point in this predetermined or yet to be determined future
where the three of us, you and Sarah or the four of us with Yasha, could meet and talk would be
a beautiful future. And I look forward to most futures, but I look forward to that one in particular.
Lee, thank you so much for spending your valuable time with me today.
Thanks, Lex. It's been a pleasure.
Thanks for listening to this conversation with Lee Cronin. To support this podcast, please check
out our sponsors in the description. And now let me leave you with some words from the mad
scientist Rick Sanchez of Rick and Morty fame. To live is to risk it all. Otherwise,
you're just an inner chunk of randomly assembled molecules drifting wherever the universe blows
you. Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.
