I can come up with an experiment. An experiment that proves that time cannot possibly be emergent.
Experiment that shows how assembly theory kind of is the way that the universe
produces selection and that selection gives rise to life. And also to say, well, hang on,
we could allow ourselves to have a theory that requires us to have these statements to be possible.
Like we need to have order in the past, or we can have used the past hypothesis,
which is order in the past as well. And we have to have an arrow of time. We have to
require that entropy increases. And then we can say, look, the universe is completely closed
and there's no novelty, or that novelty is predetermined. What I'm saying is very, very
important that time is fundamental, which means if you think about it, the universe becomes
more and more novel each step, it generates, there's more states in the next step than it was
before. So that means bigger search. So what I'm saying is that the universe wasn't capable of
consciousness at day one. Actually, because you didn't have enough states, but today the universe
is complex. So it's like, how? All right, all right, hold on a second. Now we've pissed off the
pants like it's two. Okay. No, that's brilliant. Sorry. A part of me is just joking, having fun
with this thing, but because you're saying a lot of brilliant stuff, and I'm trying to
slow it down before my brain explodes. So because I want to break apart some of the
fascinating things you're saying. So novelty, novelty is increasing in the universe,
because the number of states is increasing. What do you mean by states?
So I think the physicists almost got everything right. I can't fault them at all.
I just think there's a little bit of dog. I'm just trying to play devil's advocate. I'm very
happy to be entirely wrong on this, right? I'm not right on many things at all. But
but if I can make less assumptions about the universe with this, then potentially that's a
more powerful way of looking at things. If you think of time as fundamental, you can make less
assumptions overall. Exactly. The time is fundamental. I don't need to add on a magical
second law, because the second law comes out of the fact the universe is actually there's
more states available. I mean, we might even be able to do weird things like dark energy in the
universe might actually just be time, right? Yeah, but then you have to still have to explain
why time is fundamental, because I can give you one explanation that's simpler than time and say
God. Just because it's simple doesn't mean it's okay. You still have to explain
God and you still have to explain time. Why is it fundamental? So let's just say existence is
default, which means time is the default. So how did you go from the existence to the
Well, look, we exist, right? So let's just take, be very
We're yet to talk about what exists mean. All right, let's go all the way back. Yeah, okay.
I think it's very poetic and beautiful what you're weaving into this. I don't think this
conversation is even about the assembly, which is fascinating. And we'll keep mentioning it
as an index and this idea that I don't think is necessarily connected to time. Oh, I think it
is deeply connected. I can't explain it yet. So you don't think everything you've said about
assembly theory and assembly index can still be correct even if time is emergent?
So yeah, right now, assembly theory appears to work, I appear to be able to measure
objects of high assembly in a mass spectrum and look at their abundance and you know,
all that's fine, right? It's a nice, if nothing else, it's a nice way of looking at how molecules
can compress things. Now, am I saying that a time has to be fundamental or not emergent for
assembly theory to work? No, I think I'm saying that the universe, it appears that the universe
has many different ways of using time, you could have three different types of time,
you could just have time that's the way I would think of it. If you want, if you want to hold
on to emergent time, I think that's fine. Let's do that for a second. Hold on to emergent time.
And the universe is just doing its thing. Then assembly time only exists when the
universe starts to write memories through bonds. So let's just say there's rocks running around,
you know, there's, when the bond happens and selection starts, suddenly there are,
the universe is remembering cause in the past. And those structures will have effects in the
future. So suddenly a new type of time emerges at that point, which has a direction. And I think
Sean Carroll at this point might even turn the podcast back on and go, okay, I can deal with
that. That's fine. But I'm just basically trying to condense the conversation and say, hey,
let's just have time fundamental and see how that screws with people's minds. Why-
You're triggering people by saying fundamental. Why not?
Well, why not? Let's say-
Why am I, look, I'm walking through the wall. Why, why, why should I grow up in a world where time,
I don't go back in time. I don't meet myself in the past. There are no one,
there are no aliens coming from the future. Right?
But, you know, it's just like-
No, no, no. But that's not, no, no, no, hold on a second. That's like saying,
we're talking about biology or like evolutionary psychology and you're saying, okay, let's just
assume that that clothing is fundamental. People wearing clothes is fundamental. It's like, no,
no, no, wait a minute. You can't, like, I think you're getting in a lot of trouble if you assume
time is fundamental.
Why? Give me one reason why I'm getting into trouble time being fundamental.
Because you might not understand the origins of this memory that might be deeper. Like that,
this memory, that could be a thing that's explaining the construction of these
higher complexities better than just saying it's a search. It's chemicals doing a search for
reusable, reusable structures that they can, like, then use as bricks to build the house.
Okay. So, I accept that. So, let's go back a second because it's a kind of,
it is, I wanted to drop the time bomb at this part because I think we can carry on discussing it
for many, many, many, many, many, many days, many months. But I'm happy to accept that it might be
wrong. But what I would like to do is imagine a universe where time is fundamental and time is
emergent and ask, let's just then talk about causation. Because physicists require that causation.
So, this is where I'm going to go. Causation emerges and it doesn't exist at the micro scale.
Well, that clearly is wrong. Because if causation has to emerge at the macro scale, life cannot
emerge. So, how does life emerge? Life requires molecules to bump into each other, produce
replicators. Those replicators need to produce polymers. There needs to be cause and effect at
the molecular level. There needs to be a non-agirdic to an agirdic transition at some point. And
those replicators have material consequence in the universe. Physicists just say, oh,
you know what? I'm going to have a bunch of particles in the box. I'm going to think about it
in a Newtonian way, in a quantum way. And I'll add on a narrow time so I can label things.
And causation will happen magically later. Well, how? Explain causation.
And they can't. The only way I can reconcile causation is having a fundamental time,
because this allows me to have a deterministic universe that creates novelty.
And there's so many things from unpack here. But let's go back to the point. You said,
can assembly theory work with immersion time? Sure, it can. But it doesn't give me a deep
satisfaction about how causation and assembly gives rise to these objects that move through
time and space. And again, what am I saying? To bring it back, I can say without fear,
take this water bottle and look at this water bottle and look at the features on it, this writing,
you've got a load of them. I know that causal structures gave rise to this. In fact,
I'm not looking at just one water bottle here, I'm looking at every water bottle that's ever
been conceived of by humanity. This here is a special object. In fact, Leibniz knew this.
You know, Leibniz, who was at the same time of Newton, he kind of got stuck. I think Leibniz
actually invented assembly theory. You gave soul. The soul that you see in objects wasn't
the mystical soul, it is assembly. It is the fact there's been a history of objects related. And
without the object in the past, this object wouldn't exist. There is a lineage and there is
conserved structures, causal structures have given rise to those.
Fair enough. And you're saying it's just a simpler view with time is fundamental.
And it shakes the physicist's cage a bit, right? I'm going to say, but I think that...
I just enjoy the fact that physicists are in cages.
I think that, I mean, I would say that, you know, Lee Smolin, I don't want to speak for Lee. I'm
talking to Lee about this. I think Lee also is an agreement that time has to be fundamental.
But I think he goes further. You know, even in space, I don't think you can go back to the same
place in space. I've been to Austin a few times now. This is my, I think third time I've been to
Austin. Is Austin in the same place? No. The solar system is moving through space.
I'm not going back in the same space. Locally, I am. Every event in the universe is unique.
In space. And time. And time. Doesn't mean we can't go back though. I mean,
you know, I mean, let's just, you know, rest this conversation, which was beautiful,
with a quote from the Rolling Stones that you can't always get what you want,
which is you want time to be fundamental. But if you try, you'll get what you need,
which is assembly theory. Okay, let me ask you about, continue talking about complexity and
to clarify with this beautiful theory of yours that you're developing and I'm sure will continue
developing both in the lab and in theory. Yeah, it's, can't be said enough, just the ideas you're
playing with it in your head are just, and we've been talking about it just beautiful.
So if we talk about complexity a little bit more generally,
maybe in an admiring romantic way, how does complexity emerge from simple rules? The why,
the how? Okay, the nice algorithm of assembly is there. I would say that the problem I have
right now is, I mean, you're right, we can, about time as well. The problem is I have this hammer
called assembly and everything I see is a nail. So now let's just apply it to all sorts of things.
We take the Bernard instability, the Bernard instability is you have oil,
if you heat up oil, let's say on a frying pan, when you get convection, you get honeycomb patterns.
Take the formation of snowflakes, right? Take the emergence of a tropical storm
or the storm on Jupiter. When people say, let's talk about complexity in general,
what they're saying is, let's take this collection of objects that are correlated in some way and
try and work out how many moving parts or how this got, how this exists. So what people have been
doing for a very long time is taking complexity and counting what they've lost, calculating the
entropy. And the reason why I'm pushing very hard on assembly is entropy tells you how much you've
lost. It doesn't tell you the microstates are gone. But if you embrace it, go the bottom up with
assembly, those states, and you then understand the causal chain that gives rise to the emergence.
So what I think assembly will help us do is understand weak emergence at the very least
and maybe allow us to crack open complexity in a new way. And I've been fascinated with
complexity theory for many years. I mean, as soon as I could, I learned of the Mandelbrot set
and I could just type it up in my computer and run it and just show it and see it unfold.
It was just this mathematical reality that existed in front of me. I just found
incredible. But then I realized that actually we were cheating. We're putting in the boundary
conditions all the time. We're putting in information. And so when people talk to me about
the complexity of things, I say, but relative what? How do you measure them? So my attempt,
my small attempt, naive attempt, because there's many greater minds than mine on the planet right
now thinking about this properly. And you've had some of them on the podcast, right? They're just
absolutely fantastic. But I'm wondering if we might be able to reformat the way we would explore
algorithmic complexity using assembly. What's the minimum number of constraints we need
in our system for this to unfold? So whether it's like, you know, if you take some particles and put
them in a box, at a certain box size, you get quasi-crystallinity coming out, right?
But that emergence, it's not magic. It must come from the boundary conditions you put in.
So all I'm saying is a lot of the complexity that we see is a direct read of the constraints we put
in, but we just don't understand. So as I said earlier, to the poor origin of life chemists,
you know, origin of life is a scam, I would say lots of complexity calculation theories,
a bit of a scam, because we put the constraints in, but we don't count them correctly. And I'm
wondering if- Oh, you're thinking and starting to drop as assembly theory, the assembly index is
a way to count to the constraints. Yes, that's it. That's all it is. So assembly theory doesn't lower
any of the importance of complexity theory, but it allows us to go across domains and start to
compare things, compare the complexity of a molecule of a microprocessor of the text you've
writing, of the music you may compose. You've tweeted, quote, assembly theory explains why
Nietzsche understood we had limited freedom rather than radical freedom. So we've applied
assembly theory to cellular automata in life and chemistry. What does Nietzsche have to do
with assembly? Oh, that gets me into free will and everything. So let me say that again, assembly
theory explains why Nietzsche understood we had limited freedom rather than radical freedom,
limited freedom, freedom I suppose is referring to the fact that there's constraints.
Or what is radical freedom? What is freedom? So Sartre was like believed in absolute freedom,
and that he could do whatever he wanted in his imagination. And Nietzsche understood that his
freedom was somewhat more limited. And it kind of takes me back to this computer game that I played
when I was 10. So I think it's called Dragon's Lair. Do you know Dragon's Lair? I think I know
Dragon's Lair, yeah. Dragon's Lair, I knew I was being conned, right? Dragon's Lair, when you play
the game, you're lucky that you grew up in a basically procedurally generated world.
That was RPG a little bit. No, it's like, is it turn-based play? Was it? No. It was a role-playing
game, but really good graphics, and one of the first laser discs. And when you actually flicked
the stick, it's like it was like a graphical adventure game with animation. And when I played
this game, you could get through the game in 12 minutes if you knew what you were doing
without making mistakes. You just play the disc, play the disc, play the disc. So it was just
about timing. And actually, it was a complete fraud because all the animation has been pre-recorded
on the disc. It's like the Black Mirror, the first interactive where they had all the several million
kind of permutations of the movie that you could select on Netflix. I've forgotten the name of it.
So this was exactly that in the laser disc. You basically go left, go right, fight the yoga,
slay the dragon. And when you flick the joystick at the right time, it just goes to the next
animation to play. It's not really generating it. And I played that game and I knew I was being had.
Oh, okay. So to you, dragging there is the first time you realized that free will is an illusion?
Yeah. And why does assembly theory give you hints about free will, whether it's an illusion
or not? Yeah, so no, so not entirely. I do think I have some will. And I think I am an agent. And
I think I can interact and I can play around with the models I have of the world and the
cost functions, right? And I can hack my own cost functions, which means I have a little bit of
free will. But as much as I want to do stuff in the universe, I don't think I could suddenly say,
I mean, actually, this is ridiculous, because now I say I could try and do it, right? It's like,
I'm suddenly give up everything and become a rapper tomorrow, right? Maybe I could try that,
but I don't have sufficient agency to make that necessarily happen. I'm on a trajectory. So when
in Dragon's Lair, I know that I have some trajectories that I can play with, where Sartre
realized he thought that he had no assembly, no memory, he could just leap across and do everything.
And Nietzsche said, okay, I realize I don't have full freedom, but I have some freedom.
And assembly theory basically says that says, if you have these constraints in your past,
they limit what you were able to do in the future, but you can use them to do amazing things. Let's
say I'm a poppy plant and I'm creating some opiates. The opiates are really interesting
molecules. I mean, they're obviously great for medicine, great cause, great problems in society.
But let's just imagine we fast forward a billion years, what will opiate the opioids look like
in a billion years? Well, we can guess because we can see how those proteins will evolve, and we can
see how the secondary metabolites will change. And but they can't go radical, they can't, they
can't suddenly become, I don't know, like a molecule that you find in an OLED in a display.
They will have some, they will be limited by their causal chain that produced them.
And that's what I'm getting at, saying you're, we're predicted, we are
unpredictably predictable, or predictably unpredictable, predictably unpredictable
