Yeah, I don't think so. I think that there will be similarities. And I think we don't
know enough about how selection globally works. But it might be that the elephant,
the emergence of elephants was wired into the history of earth in some way, like the
gravitational force, how evolution was going, the Cambrian explosions, blah, blah, blah,
the emergence of mammals. But I just don't know enough about the contingency, the variability.
All I do know is you count the number of bits of information required to make an elephant
and think about the causal chain that provide the lineage of elephants going all the way back
to Luca. There's a huge scope for divergence. Yeah, but just like you said, with chemistry
and selection, the things that result in self-replicating chemistry and self-replicating
organisms, those are extremely unlikely, as you're saying. But once they're successful,
they multiply. So it might be a tiny subset of all things that are possible in the universe,
chemically speaking, it might be a very tiny subset that's actually successful at creating
elephant-like creatures. Well, there's two different questions. The first one, if we were
to reset earth and to start again. At the different phases, sorry to keep interrupting.
Yeah, no. If we restart earth and start again, say we could go back to the beginning and do
the experiment or have a number of earths, how similar would biology be? I would say that there
would be broad similarities. But the emergence of mammals is not a given unless we're going to
throw an asteroid at each planet each time and try and faithfully reproduce what happens.
Then there's the other thing about when you go to another earth-like planet elsewhere,
maybe there's a different ratio, particular elements, maybe the bombardment at the beginning
of the planet was quicker or longer than earth. I just don't have enough information there. What
I do know is that the complexity of the story of life on earth gives us lots of scope for variation.
And I just don't think it's a reasonable mathematical assumption to think that life on
earth that happened again would be same as what we have now. Okay. But you've also extended that
to say that as an explanation for the Fermi paradox that that means we're not able to
interact with them. Or that's an explanation for why we haven't at scale heard from aliens is
they're different than us. We've only been looking for say 70, 80 years. So I think that the reason
we have not found aliens yet is that we haven't worked out what life is.
No, but the aliens have worked that out surely. I mean, statistically speaking,
there must be a large number of aliens that are way ahead of us on this whole life question.
Unless there's something about this stage of intellectual evolution that often quickly results
in nuclear war and destroys itself, like there's something in this process that eventually, I
don't know, crystallizes the complexity and it stops either dies or stops developing.
But most likely they already figured it out. And why aren't they contacting us? Is it some
grad student somewhere wants to study a new green planet? Maybe they have. I mean,
I don't have a coherent answer to your question, other than to say that if there are other aliens
out there and they're far more advanced, they might be in contact with each other.
And they might also, we might be at a point where what I'm saying quite critically is it takes two
to talk, right? So the aliens might be there. But if we don't have the ability to recognize them
and talk to them, then the aliens aren't going to want to talk to us. And I think that's a critical
point. Then probably, if that's a filter, there needs to be an ability for one
to communicate with the other. And we need to know what life is before we do that. So we haven't
qualified to even join the club to have a talk. Well, I think they still want to teach us how to
talk, right? But my worry is that, or I think they would want to teach us how to talk like you do
when you meet it. I was going to say child, but that's a human species. And you want to try to
communicate with them through whatever devices you can, given what an ant is like. I worry mostly
about that humans are just too close-minded or don't have the right tools. I'm going to push
back on this quite significantly. I would say because we don't understand what life is,
and because we don't understand how life emerged in the universe, we don't understand the physics
that gave rise to life yet. That means our fundamental description. I'm way out of my
pay grade, even further out. But I'll say it anyway, because I think it's fun.
You don't get paid much anyway, as you said earlier.
So I would say that because we don't understand the universe yet, we do not understand how the
universe spat out life. And we don't know what life is. And I think that until we understand that,
it is going to limit our ability to even... We don't qualify to talk to the aliens.
So I'm going to say that they might be there, but I'm not going to say that I believe in
interdimensional aliens being present in this world.
Yeah, but I think you're just being self-critical, like we don't qualify. I think the fact that we
don't qualify qualifies us. We're interesting in our innocence.
No, I'm saying that because we don't understand causal chains and the way that information is
propagated in the universe. And we don't understand what replication is yet. And we don't understand
how life emerged. I think that we would not recognize aliens. And if someone doesn't recognize you,
you wouldn't go and talk to it. You don't go and talk to ants. You don't go and talk to birds.
Or maybe some birds you do, right? Because you can. There's just enough cognition.
So I'm saying because we don't have enough cognitive... Our cognitive abilities are not
yet where they need to be. We probably aren't communicating with them.
So you don't agree with the dating strategy of playing hard to get? Because us humans,
that seems to attract us.
We're in a species that's fine, but I think we don't actually have abstraction.
No, actually, I think in this talk, in this conversation, you've helped me crystallize
something that I think has been troubling me for a long time with the thermo paradox.
I'm pretty sure that a reasonable avenue is to say that you would not go and talk to
your cat about calculus, right?
But I was so petty.
Sure, but I'm not talking about petting a cat. The analogy is that the aliens are not going
to talk to us because we... And I'm using calculus as an analogy for abstraction.
Because we lack the layer, the fundamental layer of understanding what life is and what the universe
is in our reality, that it would be so counterproductive interacting with intelligent alien species
that it would cause more angst for human race.
They don't care. Okay, they got to be self-interested. So they'll probably...
They more care about... Is it interesting for them? Maybe they...
I mean, surely there's a way to pet the cat in this analogy.
Because even if we lack complete understanding, it must be a very frustrating experience for
other kinds of intelligences to communicate with us. Still, there must be a way to interact with us.
Preturb the system in interesting ways to see what these creatures do.
We might actually find the answer. I mean, again, out of my pay grade in a simulation
of Earth, or let's say a simulation where we allow an intelligent AI to emerge, right?
And that AI, we then give it... The objective is to be curious, interact with other
intelligence in its universe. And then we might find the parameters required for that AI to work...
And I think you'll find if the AI will not talk to other AIs that don't share
the ability to abstract to the level of the AI, because it's just a cat.
And are you going to travel 20 light years to go and pet a cat?
So not because of the inability to do so, but because of boredom. It's more interesting.
It will start talking to... It will spend most... It will spend a majority of its time talking to
other AI systems that can at least somewhat understand it. It's much more fun.
It's a bit like, do we know that plants are conscious? Well, plants unconscious in the way
we typically think, but we don't talk to them. They could be, right?
But there's a lot of people on Earth who like gardening. There's always going to be a weird...
They're not talking. They're just gardening.
Okay. Well, you're not romantic enough to see gardening as a way of communication between
humans and animals. Okay. You've got me there.
But there's ways... There's always going to be the people who are curious. Jane Goodall,
who lives with the chimps, right? There's always going to be curious intelligence
species that visit the weird Earth planet and try to interact. I mean, I think it's a super
cool idea that you're expressing. I just kind of have a sense... Maybe it's a hope that there's
always going to be a desire to interact even with those that can't possibly understand the depth of
what you understand. So I'm with you. So I want to be as positive as you that the aliens do exist
and we will interact with them. What I'm trying to do is to give you a reasonable hypothesis
why we haven't yet and also something to strive for to be able to do that. I mean,
there is the other view that the universe is just too big and life is just too rare.
But I want to come up with an alternative explanation which I think is reasonable and not
being philosophically and scientifically thought out, which is this, if you can't actually communicate
with the object, the person, the thing competently, you don't even know it's there, then there's no
point yet. See, I disagree with that, but I'm totally aligned with your hopeful vision, which is
like we need to understand the origin of life. It will help us engineer life. It will help us
engineer intelligent life through perhaps on the computer side through simulation and explore all
the ways that life emerges. And that will allow us to, I think the fundamental reason we don't see
overwhelming amounts of life is I actually believe aliens, of course, these are all just kind of
open-minded beliefs. It's difficult to know for sure about any of this, but I think there's a lot
of alien civilizations which are actively communicating with us and we're too dumb.
We don't have the right tools to see it. That's what I'm saying.
No, but maybe I misinterpreted you, but I interpret you just say they kind of tried a few
times and they're like, oh God. No, no, no. What I'm saying is we, so this goes two ways. Yeah,
I agree with you. There could be information out there, but just put in such a way that we just
don't understand it yet. Right. So sorry if I didn't make that clear. I mean, it's not just,
I don't think we qualify. I think we qualify as soon as we can decode their signal.
Right. So when you say qualified, got it, got it. So you mean we're just not smart enough,
the word qualified will stop me off. So we're not smart enough to do,
it's like, but we just need to get smarter. And there's a lot of people who believe,
let me get your opinion on this, about UFO sightings. So sightings of weird phenomena,
that, you know, what does UFO mean? It means it's a flying object and it's not identified
clearly at the time of sighting. That's what UFO means. So it could be a physics phenomena,
could be ball lightning, it could be all kinds of fascinating. I was always fascinated with
ball lightning as a, like the fact that there could be physical phenomena in this world
that are observable by the human eye. Of course, all physical phenomenon generally
are fascinating that are, that, that really smart people can't explain. I love that.
Cause it's like, wait a minute, especially if you can replicate it. It's like, wait a minute,
how does this happen? That's like the precursor to giant discoveries in chemistry and biology
and physics and so on. But it sucks when those events are super rare, right? Physically like
leg ball lightning. So, so that's out there. And then of course that phenomena could have
other interpretations that don't have to do with the physics, the chemistry, the biology of earth.
It could have to do with more extraterrestrial explanations that in large part,
thanks to Hollywood and movies and all those kinds of things, captivates the imaginations
of millions of people. But just because it's science fiction that captivates the imagination
of people doesn't mean that some of those sightings, all it takes is one. One of those sightings
is actually a sign that it's extraterrestrial intelligence, that it's object that's not of
this particular world. Do you think there's a chance that that's the case? What do you make,
especially the pilot sightings, what do you make of those?
So I agree there's a chance, there's always a chance, any good scientist would have to
or observationist would have to, I want to see if aliens exist, come to earth.
What I know about the universe is I think it's unlikely right now that there are aliens visiting
us, but not impossible. I think the releases, the dramatization that's been happening politically
saying we're going to release all this information, this classified information.
I was kind of disappointed because it was just very poor material. And right now,
the ability to capture high resolution video, everybody is carrying around with them an
incredible video device now. And we haven't got more compelling data. And so that we've just
seeing grainy pictures, a lot of hearsay, instrument kind of malfunctions and whatnot.
And so I think on balance, I think it's extremely unlikely, but I think something
really interesting is happening. And also during the pandemic, right, we've all been locked down,
we all want to have, we want to our imaginations are, you know, running riot. And I think that
I don't think that the information out there is convinced me there are anything interesting
on the UFO side. But what it has made me very interested in about is how humanity is opening
up its mind to ponder aliens and the mystery of our universe. And so I don't want to dissuade
people from having those thoughts and say, you're stupid and look at that, it's clearly incorrect.
That's not right. That's not fair. What I would say is that I lack sufficient data, replicated
observations to make me go, oh, I'm going to take this seriously. But I'm really interested
by the fact that there is this, this great deal of interest. And I think that it drives me
to maybe want to make or make an artificial life form even more and to help NASA and the
Air Force and whoever go and look for things even more, because I think humanity wants to know
what's out there. There's this yearning, isn't there? Yeah, but I see I almost
depending on the day, I sometimes agree with you, but with the thing you just said, but
one of the disappointing things to me about the sightings, I still hold the belief that
a non zero number of them is an indication of something very interesting. So I don't
side with the people who say everything can be explained with sensor artifacts kind of thing.
Yeah, I agree with you. I didn't say that either. I would say I just don't have enough data.
But the thing I want to push back on is the statement that everybody has a high definition
camera. One of the disappointing things to me about the report that the government released,
but in general, just having worked with government, having worked with people all over,
is how incompetent we are. Like if you look at the response to the pandemic, how incompetent we are
in the face of great challenges without great leadership, how incompetent we are in the face
of the great mysteries before us without great leadership. And I just think it's actually,
the fact that there's a lot of high definition cameras is not enough to capture the full richness
of weird of the mysterious phenomenon out there of which extraterrestrial intelligence
visiting Earth could be one. I don't think we have, I don't think everybody having a smartphone in
their pocket is enough. I think that allows for TikTok videos. I don't think it allows for the
capture of even interesting relatively rare human events. That's not that common. It's rare to have
be in the right moment in the right time to be able to capture the thing.
I agree. I agree. Let me rephrase what I think on this. I haven't seen enough information. I
haven't really actively sought it out. I must admit, but I'm with you in that I love the
idea of anomaly detection in chemistry in particular. I want to make anomalies, sorry,
or not necessarily make anomalies. I want to understand an anomaly. Let me give you two from
chemistry, which are really quite interesting. Phlogiston, going way back where people said
there's this thing called phlogiston. For ages, the alchemists got really this kind of that this
fire is the thing. That's one. Then we determined that phlogiston wasn't what we thought it is.
Let's go to physics, the aether. The aifers are a hard one because I think actually the aether
might exist. I'll tell you what I think the aether is later. Can you explain the aether?
As the vacuums, the light traveling through the aether in the vacuum, there is some
thing that we call the aether that basically mediates the movement of light.
Then the other one is cold fusion, which is more of a... A few years ago,
that people observed that when they did some electrochemistry, when they were splitting water
