And what are the things we should be terrified about? And how do we minimize the chance of the
terrifying consequences?
So, in this robot, the robot does all the heavy lifting. So, the robot basically
is an embodied AI. I really, I really like AI in a domain specific way.
One of the, as you should say at this point, there was an attempt in the 60s, Joshua Leidenberg
and some really important people did this that made an AI to try and guess if organic molecules
in the mass spectrometer were alien or not. Yes. And they failed because they didn't have assembly
theory. Wait, what does assembly theory give you about alien versus human life?
Well, no, it just, it tells you about unknown, the degree of unknowns. You can fingerprint stuff.
They weren't looking at, they were trying to basically just look at the corpus of
complex organic molecules. So, when I was a bit down about assembly theory, because I couldn't
convince referees and couldn't convince computational people interested in computational
complexity, I was really quite depressed about it. And I mean, I've been working with Sarah Walker's
team and I think she, you know, I think she also invented assembly theory in some way. We can talk
about it later. When I found the AI not working for the Dendral project, I suddenly realized I
wasn't totally insane. Coming back to this nano robot, so what it does is basically like a computer,
but now what it does is it squirts a liquid with gold in it in a test tube, and it adds
some reducing agents, there's some electrons to make the gold turn into a nanoparticle.
Now, when gold becomes a nanoparticle, it gets a characteristic color, a plasmon. So it's a bit
like if you look at the sheen on the gold wedding ring or gold bar or something. Those are the ways
of conducting electrons basically reflect light. What we did is we randomly squirt the gold,
the gold particle and the reducing agent in and we measure the UV, we measure the color.
And so what we do is we've got the robot has a mind. So it has a mind where
in a simulation, it randomly generates nanoparticles and the plasmon, the color that comes out,
randomly generates imagines in its head. It then, well, the others, that's the imaginary side of
the robot and the physical side of the robot, it squirts in the chemicals and looks at the color
and it uses a genetic algorithm and a map elite actually on it. And it goes around in cycles
and refines the color to the objective. Now we use two different points. We have an exploration
and optimization. They're two different. So the exploration just says, just do random stuff
and see how many different things you can get. And when you get different things,
try and optimize and make the peak sharper, sharper, sharper. And what it does after a number
of cycles is it physically takes a sample of the optimized nano material, resets all the
round bottom flasks, cleans them, and puts the seed physical seed back in. And what this robot
is able to do is is search a space of 10 to the 23 possible reactions in just 1000 experiments in
three days. And it makes five generations of nanoparticles which get nicer and nicer in terms
of shape and color and definition. And then at the end, the output. So Kydial code.
Wow, it's doing the search for programs in the physical space. So it's doing a kind of reinforcement
learning with the exploration and optimization. And that Kydial will work on any computer or
any qualified heart. So now that's it. That's now that's a general piece of code that can
replicate somewhat, maybe perfectly what it created. That's amazing. That's incredible.
But the nanoparticles themselves are done. The robot has all the thinking. So we don't try and
imply any self replication or try and get the particles to make themselves, although it would
be cool to try. So well, there you go. That's that those are famous last words for the end of human
civilization would be cool to try. So is it possible to create molecules that start approaching
this question that we started this conversation, which which is the origin of life to start to
create molecules that have lifelike qualities. So have the replication have like complex start
to create complex organisms. So we have done this with the oxides. I talked about earlier
with them limping oxides and the rings and the bulls. And the problem is that that what they
do, they autocatalytically enhance one another. So they would, I guess you would call itself
replication. But because there's limited function and mutation, they're pretty dumb. So don't do
very much. So I think the prospect of us being able to engineer a nano material and nano material
life form in the short term, like I said earlier, my aim is to do this, of course, I mean, I'm,
you know, on one hand, I'm saying it's impossible. On the other hand, saying I'm doing it. So
which is Italy, you know, it's like, well, like, we're, I think we can do it, but only in the
robot. So the causal chain that's going to allow it is in the robot. These particles, if they do
start to self replicate, the system's going to be so fragile, that I don't think anything
dangerous will come out. It doesn't mean we shouldn't treat them as potentially, you know,
I mean, I don't want to scare people like gain of function, we're going to produce stuff that
comes out. Our number one kill switch is that we always try to search a space of objects that
don't exist in our reality, don't exist in the environment. So even if something got out, it
just would die immediately. It's like making a silicon life form or something, or, you know,
which is the opposite of oftentimes gain of function research just focused on like, how do
you get a dangerous thing to be closer to something that works with humans? Yeah. So
having jumped a human. So that's the one good mode to operate on is always try to operate on
chemical entities that are very different than the kind of chemical environment that humans
operate in. Yeah. And also, I mean, I'll say something dramatic, which may not be,
may not be true. So I should be careful. If let's say we did discover a new living system,
that it was made out of a shadow biosphere, and we just released it in the environment,
who cares? It's going to use different stuff. It'll just live. Just live? Yeah. I thought one
of my biggest fantasies is actually is like a planet that's basically half in the sun. It
doesn't rotate, right? And you have two different origins of life on that planet.
And they don't share the same chemistry. Yeah. And then the only way time they recognize each
other is when they become intelligent, they go, well, what's that moving? Yeah.
They co-evolve, and that's fascinating. I mean, so one fascinating thing to do is exactly what
you were saying, which is a life bomb, which is like try to focus on atmospheres or chemical
conditions of other planets and try within this kind of exploration optimization system,
try to discover life forms that can work in those conditions, and then you
send those life forms over there and see what kind of stuff they build up. Like you can do like a
large scale. It's kind of a safe physical environment to do large scale experiments. It's
another planet. Yeah. So look, I'm going to say something quite contentious. I mean,
Elon wants to go to Mars. I think it's brilliant wants to go to Mars, but I would counter that and
say, is Elon just obsessed with getting humanity off Earth? Or what about just technology? So if
we do technology, so Elon, I don't need to take a computer to Mars because he needs to manufacture
drugs on demand, right? Because you zero cost payload and all that stuff is just code. Or what
we do is we actually say, hang on, it's quite hard for humans to survive on Mars. Why don't we write
a series of origin of life algorithms where we embed our culture in it, right? It's a very Ridley
spot from Vethius, right? Yeah. Which is a terrible film, by the way, but anyway. And dump it on Mars
and just terraform Mars. And what we do is we evolve life on Mars that is suited to life on Mars.
Yeah. Rather than brute forcing human life on Mars. So one of the questions is,
you know, what is human culture? What are the things you encode? Some of it is knowledge. Some
of it is information. But the thing that Elon talks about, the thing I think about,
I think you think about as well is some of the more unique aspects of what makes us human,
which is our particular kind of consciousness. So he talks about the flame of human consciousness.
Yeah. That's one of the questions is, can we
instill consciousness into other beings? Because that's a sad thought that whatever
this thing inside our minds that hopes and dreams and fears and loves can all die.
Yeah. But I think you already know the answer to that question. I have a robot lawn mower at home.
My kids call it CC, call cutter. It's a robot mow. And the way it works, it has an electric field
around the perimeter. And it just tell it the area. And it goes out and goes from its base
station just mows a bit, gets to the perimeter, detects, and then chooses a random angle,
rotates around and goes on. Yeah. But my kids call it call cutter. It's a she. I don't know why
it's a she. They just, they were, they were like, quite young. They called it, I don't want to be
sexist there. It could be a he, but they liked. They gendered the lawn mower. They gendered the
lawn mower. Okay. Yeah. Why not? But I was thinking this lawn mower, if you apply integrated information
theory to lawn mower lawn mowers conscious. Now information, integrated information theory
is that people say as a flawed way of measuring consciousness, but I don't think it is. I think
assembly theory actually measures consciousness in the same way. Consciousness is something that
has generated over a population of objects of humans. Consciousness didn't suddenly spring in.
Our consciousness is evolved together, right? The fact we're here and the robots we leave behind,
they all have some of that. So we won't lose it all. Sure, consciousness requires that we have
many models being generated. It's not just one domain specific AI, right? I think the way it
creates consciousness, I'm going to say unashainably, the best way to make a consciousness is in a
chemical system, because you just have access to many more states. And the problem right now,
we're making silicon consciousness. You just don't have enough states. So there are more
states, or sorry, there are more possible configurations possible in your brain than
there are atoms in the universe. And you can switch between them. You can't do that on a
Core i10. It's got 10 billion, 12 billion, 14 billion transistors, but you can't reconfigure
them as dynamically. Well, you've shared this intuition a few times already that the larger
number of states somehow correlates to greater possibility of life. But it's also possible
the constraints are essential here. Yeah, yeah. I mean, but coming back to the you worry that
something's lost, I agree. But I think that we will get to an AGI. But I wonder if it's not,
it can't be separate from human, it can't be separate from human consciousness, because
the causal chain that produced it came from humans. So what I kind of try and suggest heavily to
people worry about the existential threat of AI saying, I mean, you put it much more elegantly
earlier, like we should worry about dark algorithms written by human beings on Twitter,
driving us insane, right? And doing acting in odd ways. Yeah, I think intelligence,
this is what I have been in eloquent in trying to describe it, partially because I try not to think
too deeply through this stuff, because then you become a philosopher, I still aspire to
actually building a bunch of stuff. But my sense is super intelligence leads to deep integration
into human society. So like intelligence is strongly correlated, like intelligence,
the way we conceive of intelligence materializes as a thing that becomes a fun
entity to have at a party with humans. So it's a mix of wit, intelligence, humor,
like intelligence like knowledge, ability to do reasoning and so on, but also humor, emotional
intelligence, ability to love, to dream, to share those dreams, to play the game of human
civilization, the push and pull, the whole dance of it, the whole dance of life. And I think that
kind of super intelligent being is not the thing that worries me. I think that ultimately will
enrich life. It's again, the DOM algorithms, the DOM algorithms that scale in the hands of people
that are too don't study history, that don't study human psychology and human nature, just applying
too broadly for selfish near term interests. That's the biggest danger.
Yeah, I think it's not a new danger, right? I now know how I should use Twitter and how I
shouldn't use Twitter. I like to provoke people into thinking. I don't want to provoke people
into outrage. It's not fun. It's not a good thing for humans to do. And I think that when you get
people into outrage, they take sides. And taking sides is really bad. But I think that we're all
beginning to see this. And I think that actually, I'm very optimistic about how things will evolve.
Because, you know, I wonder how much productivity has Twitter and social media taken out of
humanity? Because how many now? I mean, so the good thing about Twitter is it gives power,
so it gives voice to minorities, right? And that's good, in some degree. But I wonder how much
voice does it give to all sorts of other
problems that don't need this emerge? By the way, when you say minorities, I think,
or at least if I were to agree with you, what I would say is minorities broadly defined in these
small groups of people that it magnifies the concerns of the small versus the big.
That is good to some degree. But I think, I mean, I have to be careful because I think I have a very,
I mean, I think that the world isn't that broken, right? I think the world is pretty cool place.
I think academia is really great. I think climate change presents a really interesting problem for
humanity that we will solve. I like how you said it's a pretty cool problem for civilization. It's
a big one. There's a bunch of really, really big problems that if solved can significantly improve
the quality of life for a large, that ultimately is what we're trying to do. Improve how awesome life
is for the maximum number of people. Yeah. And I think that the coming back to consciousness,
I don't think the universe is doomed to heat death, right? It's one of the optimists. That's why I want
to kind of nudge you into thinking that time is fundamental. Because if time is fundamental,
then suddenly you don't have to give it back. The universe just constructs stuff. And what
we see around us in our construction, I know everyone's worried about how fragile civilization
is. And I mean, look at the fundamentals. We're good until the sun expands, right?
We've got quite a lot of resource on earth. We're trying to be quite cooperative. Humans are nice
to each other when they're not under enormous stress. But coming back to the consciousness
thing, are we going to send human beings to Mars or conscious robots to Mars? Or are we going to
send some hybrid? And I don't know the answer to that question right now. I guess Elon's going
to have a pretty good go at getting there. I'm not sure whether I have my doubts, but I'm not
qualified. I'm sure people have their doubts that computation works. But I've got it working.
And most of the cool technologies we have today, and take for granted, like the airplane,
aforementioned airplane, were things that people doubted. Like majority of people doubted before
they came to life. And they come to life. And speaking of hybrid AI and humans, it's fascinating
to think about all the different ways that hybridization, that merger can happen. I mean,
currently I have a smartphone, so there's already a hybrid. But there's all kinds of
ways that hybrid happens, how we and other technology play together, like a computer.
How that changes the fabric of human civilization is wide open. Who knows? Who knows? If you remove
cancer, if you remove major diseases from humanity,
there's going to be a bunch of consequences we're not anticipating. Many of them positive,
but many of them negative. Many of them, most of them, at least I hope, are weird and wonderful
and fun in ways that are totally unexpected. And we sitting on a porch with a bottle of
Jack Daniels and a rock, we'll say, kids these days don't appreciate how hard we had it back in
the day. I got to ask you, speaking of nudging, you and Yosha Bach
nudge each other on Twitter quite a bit in wonderful intellectual debates. And of course,
for people who don't know, Yosha Bach is this brilliant guy. He's been on the podcast a couple
times. You tweeted, or he tweeted, Yosha Bach, everyone should follow him as well.
You should definitely follow Mr. Lee Cronin, Dr. Lee Cronin. He tweeted, dinner with Lee Cronin.
We discussed that while we can translate every working model of existence into a Turing machine,
the structure of the universe might be given by wakes of nonexistence in a pattern generated by
all possible automata, which exists by default. And then he followed on saying, face to face is
the best. So the dinner was face to face. What is Yosha talking about in wakes, quote, wakes of
nonexistence in a pattern generated by all possible automata, which exists by default.
So automata exists by default, apparently. And then there's wakes of nonexistence with the hells
nonexistence in the universe. And also in another conversation,
you tweeted its state machines all the way down, which presumably is the origin story of this
dinner discussion. And then Yosha said, again, nudging, nudging, nudging slash trolling.
Yosha said, you've seen the light, welcome friend. Many foundational physicists effectively believe
in some form of hypercomputation. Lee is coming around to this idea. And then you said,
I think there are notable differences. First, I think the universe does not have to be a computer.
Second, I want to understand how the universe emerges constructors that build computers. And
third is that there is something below church Turing. Okay. What the heck is this dinner
