The following is a conversation with Lee Cronin, a chemist from the University of Glasgow,
who is one of the most fascinating, brilliant, out-of-the-box thinking scientists I have ever
spoken to. This episode was recorded more than two weeks ago, so the war in Ukraine is not mentioned.
I have been spending a lot of time each day talking to people in Ukraine and Russia.
I have family, friends, colleagues, and loved ones in both countries.
I will try to release a solo episode on this war, but I have been failing to find the words that
make sense of it, for myself and others, so I may not. I ask for your understanding no matter
which path I take. Most of my time is spent trying to help as much as I can privately.
I am talking to people who are suffering, who are angry, afraid.
When I returned to this conversation with Lee, I couldn't help but smile. He is a beautiful,
brilliant, and hilarious human being. He is basically a human manifestation of the mad scientist
Rick Sanchez from Rick and Morty. I thought about quitting this podcast for a time,
but for now at least, I will keep going. I love people too much. You, the listener.
I meet folks on the street or when I run. You say a few kind words about the podcast,
and we talk about life, the small things, and the big things. All of it gives me hope.
People are just amazing. You are amazing. I ask for your support, wisdom, and patience
as I keep going with this silly little podcast, including through some difficult conversations.
And hopefully, many fascinating and fun ones too.
This is Alex Friedman podcast. To support it, please check out our sponsors in the description.
And now, dear friends, here's Lee Cronin.
How do you think life originated on Earth, and what insights does that give us about life?
If we go back to the origin of Earth, and you think about maybe 4.7, 4.6, 4.5 billion years ago,
planet was quite hot. There was a limited number of minerals. There was some carbon,
some water. And I think that maybe it's a really simple set of chemistry that we really don't
understand. So that means you've got a finite number of elements that are going to react
very simply with one another. And out of that mess comes a cell. So literally sand turns into cells.
And it seems to happen quick. So what I think I can say with some degree of,
I think, not certainty, but curiosity, genuine curiosity is that life happened fast.
Yeah. So when we say fast, this is a pretty surprising fact, and maybe you can actually
correct me and elaborate, but it seems like most, like 70 or 80% of the time that Earth has been
around has been life on it, like some very significant percentage. So when you say fast,
like the slow part is from single cell or from bacteria to something more complicated
organism. It seems like most of the time that Earth has been around, it's been single cell
or like very basic organisms, like a couple of billion years. But yeah, you're right. That's
really, I recently kind of revisited our history and saw this. And I was just looking at the timeline,
wait a minute, like how did life just spring up so quickly? Like really quickly? That makes me
think that it really wanted to, like put another way, it's very easy for life to spring.
Yeah, I agree. I think it's much more inevitable. And I think I try to kind of not provoke, but try
and push chemists to think about this, because chemists are essential to this problem, right?
Understanding the origin of life on Earth, at least, because we're made of chemistry.
But I wonder if the origin of life on a planet also, the emergence of life on the planet is as
common as the formation of a star. And if you start framing it in that way, it allows you to then
look at the universe slightly differently, because, and we can get into this, I think,
in quite some detail. But I think to come back to your question, I have little idea of how life
got started. But I know it was simple. And I know that the process of selection had to occur before
the biology was established, so that selection built the framework from which life kind of grew
in complexity and capability and functionality and autonomy. And I think these are all really
important words that we can unpack over the next while. Can you say all the words again? So you
say selection, so natural selection, the original A-B testing.
And then complexity, and then the degree of autonomy and sophistication. Because I think
that people misunderstand what life is. Some people say that life is a cell, and some people
that say that life is a virus, or life is an on-off switch. I don't think it's that.
Life is the universe developing a memory. And the laws of physics, and the way, well,
there are no laws of physics. Physics is just memory-free stuff, right? So there's only a
finite number of ways you can arrange the fundamental particles to do the things.
Life is the universe developing a memory. So it's like sewing a piece of art slowly,
and then you can look back at it. So there's a stickiness to life. It's like
universe doing stuff. And when you say memory, there's a stickiness to a bunch of the stuff
it's building together. So you can, in a stable way, trace back the complexity that tells a
coherent story. Yeah. And I think, yeah. Okay. That's, by the way, very poetic.
Beautiful. Life is the universe developing a memory. Okay. And then there's autonomy,
you said, complexity we'll talk about. But it's a really interesting idea, the selection
preceded biology. Yeah, I think. So what, first of all, what is chemistry? Like,
the sand still count as chemistry? Sure. I mean, as a chemist, a card carrying
chemist, if I'm allowed a card, I don't know. I don't know what I am most days.
What is the card made of? What's the chemical composition of the card?
So what is chemistry? Well, chemistry is the thing that happens when you bring electrons
together and you form bonds. So bonds, or I say to people when they talk about life elsewhere,
and I just say, well, there's bonds, there's hope. Because bonds allow you to get heterogeneity,
they allow you to record those memories. Or at least on Earth, you could imagine,
you know, a Stanislaw Lemtripe world where you might have life emerging or intelligence
emerging before life. That may be something like Solaris or something. But, you know, to get to
selection, if atoms can combine and form bonds, those bonds, those atoms can bond to different
elements and those molecules will have different identities and interact with each other
differently. And then you can start to have some degree of causation or interaction,
and then selection, and then existence. And then you go up the kind of the path of complexity.
And so at least on Earth, as we know it, there is a sufficient pool of available chemicals to
start searching that combinatorial space or bonds. So, okay, this is a really interesting
question. Let's let's lay it out. So, bonds, almost like cards, we say there's bonds,
there's life, there's intelligence, there's consciousness. And what you just made me realize
is those can emerge, or let's put bonds aside, those can emerge in any order.
That's really brilliant. So, intelligence can come before life. It's like panpsychists believe
that consciousness, I guess, comes before life and before intelligence. So, consciousness permeates
all matter, it's some kind of fabric of reality. Okay, so within this framework, you can kind of
arrange everything. But you need to have the bonds that precedes everything else.
Oh, and the other thing is selection. So, like the mechanism of selection, that could
precede, he couldn't that precede bonds to whatever the hell selection is?
I would say that there is an elegant order to it that bonds allow selection, allows the emergence
of life, allows the emergence of multicellularity, and then more information processing, building
state machines all the way up. However, you could imagine a situation if you had, I don't know,
a neutron star or a sun or what a ferromagnetic loops interacting with one another, and these
oscillators building state machines, and these state machines reading something out in the environment.
Over time, these state machines would be able to literally record what happened in the past and
sense what's going on in the present and imagine the future. However, I don't think it's ever going
to be within a human comprehension, that type of life. I wouldn't count it out because,
you know, whenever you, I know in science, whenever I say something's impossible,
I then wake up the next day and say, no, that's actually wrong. I mean, there are some limits,
of course. I don't see myself traveling fast and light anytime soon.
Eric Weinstein says that's possible, so he will say you're up.
Sure, but I'm an experimentalist as well. So, one of my, I have two superpowers.
My stupidity, and I don't mean that as a, you know, I'm like absolutely completely
witless, but I mean my ability to kind of just start again and ask the question,
and then do it with an experiment. I always wanted to be a theoretician growing up, but I just didn't
have the, just didn't have the intellectual capability, but I was able to think of experiments
in my head. I could then do in my lab or in the, you know, when I was a child outside,
and then those experiments in my head and then outside reinforced one another.
So, I think that's a very good way of kind of grounding the science, right?
Well, that's the nice way to think about theoreticians is they're just people who run
experiments in their head. I mean, that's exactly what Einstein did, right? And but you're also
capable of doing that in the head, in your head, inside your head, and in the real world, and
the connection between the two is when you first discovered your superpower stupidity. I like it.
Yes, there you go. Okay, what's the second superpower, your accent, or is that?
Well, I don't know. I am genuinely curious. So, my curiosity, so I have a, you know,
like everybody, ego problems, but my curiosity is bigger than my ego. So, as long as that happens,
I can, I can. That's awesome. That is so powerful. You're just dropping some powerful lines. So,
curiosity is bigger than ego. That's something I have to think about, because you always struggle
about the role of ego in life. And that's, that's so nice to think about. Don't think about the
size of ego, the absolute size of ego, think about the relative size of ego to the other,
the other horse is pulling at you. And if the curiosity one is bigger,
then ego will do just fine and make you fun to talk to. Anyway, so those are the two
superpowers. How do those connect to natural selection or selection and bonds? And I forgot
already, life and consciousness. So, we're going back to selection in the universe and origin of
life on earth. I mean, selection is a, I'm convinced that selection is a force in the
universe. So, not me, not a fundamental force, but a, but a directing, but it is a directing force,
because existence, although existence appears to be the default, the existence of what? Why does,
we can get to this later, I think, but it's amazing that, that discrete things exist.
And, you know, you see this cup, it's not the, you know, sexiest cup in the world,
but it's pretty functional. This cup, the complexity of this cup isn't just in the object,
it is literally the lineage of people making cups and recognizing that, seeing that in their head,
making an abstraction of a cup and then making a different one. So, I wonder how many billions of
cups have, you know, come before this one. And that's a process of selection and existence. And
the only reason the cup is still used is quite useful, like the handle, you know, it's convenient,
so I don't die, I keep hydration. And so, I think we are missing something fundamental in the universe
about selection. And I think what biology is, is a, is a selection amplifier. And that the,
this is where autonomy comes in. And actually, I think that how humanity is going to humans and,
autonomous robots or whatever we're going to call them in the future, we'll supercharge that even
further. So, selection is happening in the universe. But if you look in the asteroid belt,
selection, if objects are being kicked in and out the asteroid belt, those trajectories are quite
complex, you don't really look at that as productive selection, because it's not doing anything to
improve its function. But is it? The asteroid belt has existed for some time. So, there is some
selection going on, but the functionality is somewhat limited. On Earth, at the formation of
Earth, interaction of chemicals and molecules in the environment gave selection, and then things
could happen. Because you could think about, in chemistry, we can have an infinite number of
reactions happen, but they don't all, all the reactions are allowed to happen don't happen,
why? Because they're energy barriers. So, there must be some things called catalysts out there, or
there are bits of minerals, that when two molecules get together on that mineral,
it lowers the energy barrier for the reaction. And so, the reaction is, is promoted. So,
suddenly you get one reaction over another series of possibilities occurring that makes a particular
molecule, and this keeps happening in steps. And before you know it, these, almost these waves
as discrete reactions work together, and you start to build a machinery that, that is run by
existence. So, as you, you go forward in time, the fact of the molecules, the bonds are getting,
there are more bonds in a molecule, there's more function, there's more capability for this molecule
to interact with other molecules, to redirect them, it's like a series of little, and I don't want
to use this term too much, but it's almost thinking about the simplest von Neumann constructor,
that's the simplest molecule that could build a more complicated molecule, build a more complicated
molecule. And before you know it, when that more complicated molecule can act on the causal chain
that's produced itself, and change it, suddenly you start to get towards some kind of autonomy,
and that's where life I think emerges in earnest. Every single word in the past few paragraphs,
let's break those apart. But who's von Neumann, what's the constructor, the closing of the loop
that you're talking about, the molecule that starts becoming the, I think you said like the
smallest von Neumann constructor, the smallest, the minimal, so what do all those things mean,
and what is, what are we supposed to imagine when we think about the smallest von Neumann constructor?
So, John von Neumann is a real hero, actually, not just me, but many people, I think, computer
science and physics. He was an incredible intellect, who probably solved a lot of the problems that
we're working on today, I just forgot to write them down. And I'm not sure if it's John von Neumann
or Johnny, as I think his friends called him, but I think he was Hungarian, mathematician,
came to the US, and basically was involved in the Manhattan Project and developing computation,
and came up with all sorts of ideas, and I think it was one of the first people to come up with
cellular automata. And but he- Really? I didn't know this little fact. I think so, I think so,
Well, anyway, if he didn't come up with it, he probably did come up with it and didn't write
it down. There was a couple of people did at the same time, and then Conway obviously took it on,
and then Wolfram loves CAs, there is his fabric of the universe. And what I think he imagined was
that he wasn't satisfied, and this may be incorrect recollection, but so a lot of what I say is going
to be kind of, you know, just way out of my- You're just part of the universe,
creating its memory, designing- Exactly, yeah, rewriting history.
Rewriting history. Exactly, imperfectly. So, but what I mean is, I think he would,
he liked this idea of thinking about how could a Turing machine literally build
itself without a Turing machine, right? It's like, literally, how did state machines emerge?
And I think that von Neumann constructors, he was, wanted to conceive of a minimal thing,
autonomous, that could build itself. And what would those rules look like in the world?
And that's what a von Neumann kind of constructor looked like, like it's a minimal hypothetical
object that could build itself, self-replicate. And I'm really fascinated by that, because I think
that, although it's probably not exactly what happened, it's a nice model, because as chemists,
if we could go back to the origin of life and think about, what is a minimal machine
that can get structured randomly, so like with no prime mover, with no, with no architect,
and it symbols through just existence. So random stuff bumping in together, and you make this
first molecule. So you have molecule A. And molecule A interacts with another random molecule B,
and they get together, and they realize by working together, they can make more of themselves.
But then they realize they can mutate, so they can make AB prime. So AB prime is different to AB,
and then AB prime can then act back where A and B are being created, and slightly nudge
that causal chain, and make AB prime more evolvable, or learn more. So that's the closing the loop part.
Closing the loop part, got it. It feels like the mutation part is not that difficult. It feels
like the difficult part is just creating a copy of yourself at step one. That seems like
one of the greatest inventions in the history of the universe is the first molecule that figured
out, holy shit, I can create a copy of myself. How hard is that? I think it's really, really easy.
Okay, I did not expect that. I think it's really, really easy. Well, let's take a step back. I think
replicating molecules are rare. But if you say, you know, I think I was saying on, I probably got
into trouble on Twitter, there's about more than 18 mils of water in there. So one mole of water,
6.022 times 10 to the 23 molecules, that's about the number of stars in the universe,
I think, of the order. So there's three universe worth, but between one and...
