So many corrected John Twitter.
Yeah, I'm always being corrected. It's a great fact. But there's a lot of molecules in the water.
And so there's a lot of... So although it's for you and me really hard to conceive of,
if existence is not the default for a long period of time, because what happens is the molecules
get degraded. So much of the possibilities in the universe are just broken back into atoms.
So you have this kind of destruction of the molecules for our chemical reactions.
So you only need one or two molecules to become good at copying themselves,
for them suddenly to then take resources in the pool and start to grow. And so then replication
actually over time, when you have bonds, I think is much simpler and much easier. And I even found
this in my lab years ago, I had one of the reasons I started doing inorganic chemistry
and making rust, making a bit of rust based on a thing called molybdenum. Molybdenum oxide
is this molybdenum oxide, very simple. But when you add acid to it and some electrons,
they make these molecules, you just cannot possibly imagine would be constructed big,
gigantic wheels of 154 molybdenum atoms in a wheel or an icosidodecahedron 132 molybdenum atoms,
all in the same pot. And I realized when I just finished experiments two years ago,
I've just published a couple of papers on this, that there are actually...
There is a random small molecule with 12 atoms in it that can form randomly,
but it happens to template its own production. And then by chance, it templates the ring,
just an accident, just like just an absolute accident. And that ring also helps make the small
12 mer. And so you have what's called an autocatalytic set, where A makes B,
and B helps make A and vice versa, and you then make this loop. So it's a bit like
these, they all work in synergy to make this chain of events that grow. And it doesn't take
a very sophisticated model to show that if you have these objects are competing and then collaborating
to help one another build, they just grow out of the mess. And although they seem improbable,
they are improbable, in fact, impossible in one step. There's multiple steps. This is when the
people look at the blind watchmaker argument, and you talk about how could a watch spontaneously
emerge? Well, it doesn't. It's a lineage of watches and cruder devices that are bootstrapped onto
one another. Right. So it's very improbable, but once you get that little discovery, like with the
wheel and fire, it just explodes in because it's so successful, it explodes. It's basically
selection. So this templating mechanism that allows you to have a little blueprint for yourself,
how you go through different procedures is to build copies of yourself.
I don't know. So in chemistry, somehow it's possible to imagine that that kind of thing
is easy to spring up. In more complex organisms, it feels like a different thing and much more
complicated. Like we're having like multiple abstractions of the birds and the bees conversation
here. But with humans, sorry, with complex organisms, it feels like difficult to have
reproduction. That's going to get clipped out. I'm going to make fun of that. It's difficult
to develop this idea of making copies of yourself or no. Because that seems like a magical idea for
life. Wow. That feels like very necessary for what selection is, for what evolution is,
but then if selection precedes all of this, then maybe these are just like echoes of the
selecting mechanism at different scales. Yeah, that's exactly it. So selection is the default
in the universe, if you want to. And what happens is that life, the solution that life has got on
earth, life on earth, biology on earth is unique to earth. We can talk about that. And that was
really hard fought for. But that was that is a solution that works on earth, the ribosome,
the fundamental machine that is responsible for every life for, you know, every cell on earth
of whatever wherever it is in the in the thick kingdom of life. That is an incredibly complex
object. But it was evolved over time. And it wasn't involved in a vacuum. And I think that
once we understand that selection can occur without the ribosome, but what the ribosome does
is it's a phase transition in replication. And I think that that and also technology that is
probably much easier to get to than we think. Why do you put the ribosome as a central
part of living organisms on earth? It basically is a combination of two different polymer
systems. So RNA and peptides. So the RNA world, if you like, gets transmitted and builds proteins,
and the proteins are responsible for all the catalysis, the majority of the catalysis goes on
the cell. No ribosome, no proteins, no decoding, no evolution. So ribosome is looking at the action.
You don't put like the RNA itself as the critical thing, like information, you put action as the
most important thing. I think the actual molecules that we have in biology right now, entirely
contingent on the history of life on earth, they could, there are so many possible solutions.
And this is where chemistry got itself into origin of life chemistry, gets itself into
a bit of a trap. Yeah, let me interrupt you there. You've tweeted, you're going to get,
I'm going to set your tweets like it's Shakespeare. Okay. It's surprising you haven't
gotten canceled on Twitter yet. It's your brilliance once again saves you. I'm just kidding.
You like to have a little bit of fun on Twitter. You've tweeted that quote,
origin of life research is a scam. So if this is Shakespeare, can we analyze this word? Why is
the origin of life research a scam? Aren't you kind of doing origin of life research?
Okay, it was tongue-in-cheek, but yeah, I think, and I meant it as tongue-in-cheek. I am, I'm not
doing, I'm not doing the origin of life research, I'm trying to make artificial life. And I also
want to bound the likelihood of the origin of life on earth, but more importantly, to find
origin of life elsewhere. But let me directly address the tweet. There are many, many good
chemists out there doing origin of life research, but I want to nudge them. And I think they're
brilliant. Like, there's no, there's, there's no question. The chemistry they are doing,
their motivation is great. So what I meant by that tweet is saying that maybe they're making
assumptions about saying, if only I could make this particular type of molecule, say this RNA
molecule, or this phosphodiester, or this other molecule, it's going to somehow unlock the origin
of life. And I think that origin of life has been looking at this for a very long time. And whilst I,
I think it's brilliant to work out how you can get to those molecules, I think that chemistry
and chemists doing origin of life could be nudged into doing something even more profound. And,
and so the argument I'm making, it's a bit like right now, let's say, I don't know, the first Tesla
that makes its way to, I don't know, into a new country in the world, let's say I,
let's say there's a country X that has never had a Tesla before and they get the Tesla.
Russia. And they take the Tesla, and what they do is they take the Tesla apart and say,
we want to find the origin of cars in the universe and say, okay, how did this form and
how did this form? And they just randomly keep making till they make the door, they make the
wheel, they make the steering column and all this stuff. And, and they say, well, that's the
route. That's the way, that's the way cars emerge on earth. But actually, we know that there's a
causal chain of cars going right back to Henry Ford and the horse and carriage. And before that,
maybe, you know, where people were using wheels. And, and I think that obsession with the identities
that we see in biology right now are giving us a false sense of security about what we're looking for.
And I think the origin of life chemistry is in danger of, of not making the progress that it
deserves. Because the chemists are doing this as there's the field is exploding right now,
there's amazing people out there, young and old doing this. And there's deservedly so more money
going in. You know, I used to complain, there's more money being spent searching for the Higgs
boson that we know exists in the origin of life. You know, why is that the origin, we understand
the origin of life, we're going to actually work out what life is. We're going to be at a bound,
the likelihood of finding life elsewhere in the universe. And most important for us, we are going
to know, or have a good idea of what the future of humanity looks like. You know, we need to understand
that although we're precious, we're not the only life forms in the universe. Or that's my very
strong impression. I have no data for that. It's just right now a belief. And I want to turn that
belief into a more than a belief by experimentation. But I coming back to the scam, the scam is if we
just make this RNA, we've we've got this, you know, this, this fluke event, we know how that's
simple. Let's make this phosphodiester, or let's make ATP or ATP, we've got that part nailed,
let's now make this other molecule, another molecule, and how many molecules are going
to be enough. And then the reason I say this is when you go back to Craig Venter, when he invented
his life form, Cyndia, this micro, this, this minimal plasmid is a myoplasma, something I don't
know the name of it, but he made this wonderful cell and said, I've invented life. Not quite. He
facsimilead the genome from this entity and made it in the lab, or the DNA, but he didn't make the
cell. He had to take an existing cell that has a causal chain going all the way back to Luca.
And he showed when he took out the gene, the genes and put in his genes, synthesized, the cell could
boot up. But it's remarkable that he could not make a cell from scratch. And even now today,
synthetic biologists cannot make a cell from scratch, because there's some contingent information
embodied outside the genome in the cell. And that is just incredible. So there's lots of layers to
the scam. Well, let me then ask the question, how can we create life in a lab from scratch?
What have been the most promising attempts at creating life in a lab from scratch? Has anyone
actually been able to do it? Do you think anyone will be able to do it in the near future if they
haven't already? Yeah, I think that nobody has made life in the lab from scratch. Lots of people
would argue that they have made progress at Craig Venture. I think the synthesis of a synthetic
genome milestone in human achievement, brilliant. Yeah, can we just walk back and say, what would
you say from your perspective, one of the world experts in exactly this area, what does it mean
to create life from scratch? Where if you sit back, whether you do it or somebody else does it,
it's like, damn, this is, we just created life. Well, what I can tell you, what I would expect,
I would like to be able to do, is to go from sand to cells in my lab. Can you explain what sand is?
Just inorganic stuff, like basically just so sand, it's just silicon oxide with some other
ions in it, maybe some inorganic carbon, some carbonates, just basically clearly dead stuff
that you could just grind rocks into sand. And it would be what, in a kind of vacuum,
so they could remove anything else that could possibly be a shadow of life that can assist
in the chemical. You could do that. You could insist and say, look, I'm going to take,
and not just inorganic, I want some more, I want to cheat and have some organic,
but I want inorganic organic, and I'll explain the play on words in a moment.
So I would like to basically put into a world, say a completely, you know, a synthetic world,
if you like a closed world, put some inorganic materials, and just literally add some energy
in some form, be it lightning or heat, UV light, and run this thing in cycles over time,
and let it solve the search problem. So I see the origin of life as a search problem in chemical
space. And then I would literally wait for a life form to crawl out of the test tube. That's
a joke I tell my group. Literally wait for a very, and don't worry, it's going to be very feeble,
it's not going to take over the world. You know, there's ways of ethically containing it.
Last words. Indeed, indeed, indeed. You know, this is being recorded, right? It will not make
you look good once it crawls out of the lab and destroys all human civilization. But there is
very good things you can do to prevent that. For instance, if you put stuff in your world,
which isn't abundant, so let's say we make life based on molybdenum and it escapes,
it would die immediately because there's not enough molybdenum in the environment. So we can do
responsible life. Or as I fantasize with my research group on our away day that would go in,
I think it's actually morally, if we don't find, until humanity finds life in the universe,
this is going on the tangent, it's our moral obligation to make origin of life bombs,
identify dead planets and bomb them with our origin of life machines and make them alive.
I think it is our moral obligation to do that. Some people might argue with me about that,
but I think that we need more life in the universe.
And then we kind of forget we did it and then come back.
Where did you come from? But coming back to what I'd expect.
Father, are you back? I think this is once again a Rick and Morty episode.
Definitely all Rick and Morty all the way down. So I imagine we have this pristine
experiment and everything is sanitized and we put in inorganic materials and we have
cycles with them, day night cycles, up, down, whatever. And we look for evidence of replication
and evolution over time. And that's what the experiment should be. Now, are there people
doing this in the world right now? There are a couple of, there's some really good groups doing
this. There's some really interesting scientists doing this around the world. They're kind of,
perhaps, too much associated with the scam. And so they're using molecules that are already,
were already invented by biology. So there's a bit of replication built in.
But I still think the work they're doing, they're doing is amazing. But I would like
people to be a bit freer and say, let's just basically shake a load of sand in a box
and wait for life to come out, because that's what happened on earth. And so that we have to
understand that. Now, how would I know I've been successful? Well, because I'm not obsessing with
what molecules are in life now, I would wager a vast quantity of money. I'm not very rich. So
just be a few dollars. But for me, the solution space will be different. So the genetic material
will be not RNA. The proteins will not be what we think. The solutions will be just completely
different. And it might be, and it will be very feeble, because that's the other thing we should
be able to show fairly robustly that even if I did make, or someone did make a new life form in
the lab, it would be so poor that it's not going to leap out. It is the fear about making a lethal
life form in the lab from scratch is similar to us imagining that we're going to make the
terminator at Boston Dynamics tomorrow. And the problem is, we don't communicate that
properly. I know you yourself very, you explain this very well, you know, there is not the AI
Catastrophe coming. We're very far away from that. That doesn't mean we should ignore it.
Same with the origin of life Catastrophe, it's not coming anytime soon. We should ignore it.
But we shouldn't let that fear stop us from doing those experiments.
But this is a much, much longer discussion, because there's a lot of details there. I would say
there's potentials for catastrophic events to happen in much dumber ways. In AI space,
there's a lot of ways to create, like social networks are creating a kind of accelerated
set of events that we might not be able to control. The social network, virality in the
digital space can create mass movements of ideas that can then, if times are tough,
create military conflicts and all those kinds of things. But that's not super intelligent AI.
That's an interesting at scale application of AI. And if you look at viruses, viruses are pretty
dumb. But at scale, their application is pretty detrimental. And so origin of life, much like
all of the kind of virology, the very contentious word of gain of function research and virology,
sort of like research on viruses, messing with them genetically, that can create a lot of
problems if not done well. So we have to be very cautious. So there's a kind of whenever you're
ultra cautious about stuff in AI or in virology and biology, it borders on cynicism, I would say,
where it's like everything we do is going to turn out to be destructive and terrible. So I'm just
going to sit here and do nothing. Okay, that's a possible solution, except for the fact that
somebody's going to do it. It's science and technology progresses. So we have to do it in an
ethical way, in a good way, considering in a transparent way in an open way, considering
all the possible positive trajectories that could be taken and making sure as much as possible that
we walk those trajectories. So yeah, I don't think Terminator is coming, but a totally unexpected
version of Terminator maybe around the corner. Yeah, it might be here already. Yeah. So I agree
with that. And so going back to the origin of life discussion, I think that in synthetic biology
right now, we have to be very careful about how we edit genomes and edit synthetic biology to do
things. So that's kind of, that's where things might go wrong in the same way as, you know,
Twitter turning ourselves into kind of strange scale effects. I would love origin of life research
or artificial life research to get to the point where we have those worries. Because that's why
I think we're just so far away from that. We are just, you know, right now, I think there are two
really important angles. There is the origin of life, people, researchers who are faithfully
working on this, and trying to make those molecules, the scam molecules I talked about.
And then there are people on the creationist side is saying, look, the fact you can't make these
molecules and you can't make a cell means that evolution isn't true and all this other stuff.
