into hydrogen and oxygen, that you got more energy out than you put in. People got excited
and they thought that this was a nuclear reaction. In the end, it was kind of discredited because
you didn't detect neutrons and all stuff. I'm pretty sure... I'm a chemist. I'm going telling
you this on your podcast, but why not? I'm pretty sure there's interesting electrochemical phenomena
that's not completely bottomed out yet, that there is something there. However, we lack the
technology and the experimental design. All I'm saying in your response about aliens is we lack
the experimental design to really capture these anomalies. We are encircling the planet with
many more detection systems. We've got satellites everywhere. I do hope that we are going to discover
more anomalies. Remember, the solar system isn't just static in space. It's moving through the
universe. There's just more and more chance. I'm not one with Avi Loeb. He's generating all
sorts of a cult, I would say, with this, but I'm not against him. I think there is a finite chance
if there are aliens in the universe that we're going to happen upon them because we're moving
through the universe. What's the nature of the following that Avi Loeb has? He's doubling down
more and more and more and say there are aliens, interdimensional aliens and everything else. He's
gone from space junk accelerating out of to interdimensional stuff in a very short space of
time. He's obviously bored. Or he wants to tap into the psyche and understand. He's playfully
trying to interact with society and his peers to say, stop saying it's not possible, which I agree
with. We shouldn't do that, but we should frame it statistically in the same way we should frame
everything as good scientists statistically. Yeah, good scientists. Recently, the idea of good
scientists is, I take quite skeptically. I've been listening to a lot of scientists tell me
about what is good science. That makes me sad because you've been interviewing, well, I would
consider a lot of really good scientists. No, that's true, but that's exactly right. Most of the
people I talk to are incredible human beings, but there's a humility that's required. Science can
not be dogmatism. Sure, I agree. Authority, a PhD does not give you authority. A lifelong pursuit
of a particular task does not give you authority. You're just as lost and clues as everybody else,
but you're more curious and more stubborn. That's a nice quality to have, but overall, just
using the word science and statistics can often, as you know, become a catalyst for dismissing
new ideas out of the box ideas, wild ideas, all that stuff.
Yes and no. I like to, some people find me extremely annoying in science because I'm
basically quite rude and disruptive. Not in a rude, some people say they're ugly or stupid or
anything like that. I just say, you're wrong, or why do you think this? Something, a gift I got
given by society when I was very young because I was in the learning difficulties class at school
as I was told I was stupid. I know I'm stupid, but I always wanted to be smart. I remember going
to school going, maybe today they're going to tell me I'm not as stupid as I was yesterday,
and it was always disappointed, always. When I went into academia and everyone said,
you're wrong, I was like, join the queue because it allowed me to walk through the wall. I think
that people like to always imagine science as a bit like living in a Japanese house,
they're paper walls, and everyone sits in their room, and I annoy people because I walk straight
through the wall, not because why should I be a chemist and not a mathematician? Why should I
be a mathematician and not computer scientist? Because if the problem requires us to walk through
those walls, but I like walking through the walls, but then I have to put up, I have to
do good science, I have to win the people in those rooms across by good science, by taking
their criticisms and addressing them head on. And I think we must do that. And I think that I try
and do that in my own way. And I kind of love walking through the walls. And it gives me,
it's difficult for me personally, it's quite painful. But it always leads to a deeper understanding
of the people I'm with, and particularly the arguments I have with all sorts of
interesting minds, because I want to solve the problem, or I want to understand more about why
I exist. That's it, really. And I think we have to not dismiss science on that basis. I think we
can work with science. No, science is beautiful, but humans with egos and all those kinds of things
can sometimes misuse good things, like social justice, like all ideas were all aspired to
misuse these beautiful ideas to manipulate people to all those kinds of things. And that's,
there's assholes in every space and walk of life, including science. And those are,
those are no good. But yes, you're right. The scientific method has proven to be quite useful.
That said, for difficult questions, for difficult rare explanations for rare phenomena,
you have to walk cautiously. Because the scientific method, when you totally don't
understand something, and it's rare, and you can't replicate it, doesn't quite apply.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's it. I agree with you. The challenge is to, is to not dismiss the anomaly
because you can't replicate it. I mean, we can talk about this. This is something I realized when
we were developing assembly theory. People think in the track they're on is so dogmatic,
but there is this thing that they see, but they don't see. And it takes a bit of time,
and you just have to keep reframing it. And my approach is to say, well, why can't this be right?
You know, why, why must we accept that RNA is the only way into life? I mean, who said,
was there, you know, does RNA have a special, special class of, of information that's encoded
in the universe? No, of course it doesn't, right? You know, RNA is not a special molecule
within the space of all the other molecules. But it's so elegant and simple of, and it works
so well for the evolution process that we kind of use that as an intuition to explain that
that must be the only way to have life. Sure. But you mentioned assembly theory. Well, first
let me pause. Bathroom break needed? Yeah, let's take two minutes. We took a quick break and offline
you mentioned to me that you have a lab in your home. And then I said that you're basically
Rick from Rick and Morty, which is something I've been thinking this whole conversation.
And then you say that there's a glowing pickle that you used something involving cold plasma,
I believe, I don't know, but can you explain the glowing pickle situation?
And is there many arbitrarily many versions of you in alternate dimensions that you're aware of?
I tried to make an electrochemical memory in at home using a, and the only way, using a pickle,
the only way I could get any traction with it was actually by plugging it into a very high
voltage alternating current and then putting in a couple of electrodes. But my kids weren't
impressed. They're not impressed with anything I do, any experiments I do at home, I think it's
quite funny. But you connected that pickle to some electro, I mean, you... To 240 volts,
yeah, AC. Yeah. And then had a couple of electrodes on it. So what happens is a pickle,
this is a classic thing you do. I mean, I shouldn't, pranks you do, you put a pickle
into the mains and just leave it, run away and leave it. And what happens is it starts to decompose,
it heats up and then explodes because the water turns to steam and it just violently explodes.
But I wondered if I could cause the iron, sodium potassium ions in the pickle to migrate,
it'd been in a jar, right? So it'd been in a brine. That was, yeah, that was not my,
that was not my best experiment. So I've been far better experiments in my lab at home.
At that time it was a failed experiment, but you never know. It could,
every experiment is a successful experiment if you stick with it long enough.
Well, I mean, I get, I got kicked out of my own lab by my research team many years ago,
and for good reason. I mean, my team is brilliant and I used to go in and just break things.
So what I do do at home is I have a kind of electronics workshop
and I prototype experiments there. Then I try and, then I try and suggest to my team sometimes,
maybe we can try this thing. And they would just say, oh, wow, that's not going to work
because of this. And I'll say, aha, but actually I've tried and here's some code and here's some
hard work and we have a go. So that I'm doing that less and less now as I get even more busy.
But that's quite fun because then they feel that we're in the, you know, in the experiment together.
You do, in fact, brilliantly, just like Rick from Rick and Morty,
connects up chemistry with computation. So sort of, and when we say chemistry,
we don't mean the simulation of chemistry or modeling of chemistry. We mean chemistry in
the physical space as well as in the digital space, which is fascinating. We'll talk about that.
But first, you mentioned assembly theory. So we'll stick on theory and these big ideas.
I would say revolutionary ideas. There's an intersection between mathematics and philosophy.
What is assembly theory? And generally speaking, how would we recognize life if we saw it?
So assembly theory is a theory. It goes back a few years now and my struggle for maybe almost
10 years when I was going to origin of life conferences and artificial life conferences
where I thought that everybody was dancing around the problem of what life is and what it does.
But I'll tell you about what assembly theory is because I think it's easier. So assembly theory
literally says if you take an object, any given object, and you are able to break the object
into parts very gently, so just maybe let's say take a piece of very intricate Chinese porcelain
and you tap it just with a hammer or the nail at some point and it will fragment into many parts.
And if that object is able to fragment into many and you count those parts, the different parts,
so they're unsymmetrical. Assembly theory says the larger the number of parts,
unsymmetrical parts that object has, the more likely it is that object has been created by an
evolutionary or information process, especially if that object is not one-off, you've got an
abundance of them. And that's really important. Because what I'm literally saying about the
abundance, if you have a one-off object and you break it into parts and it has lots of parts,
you'd say, well, that could be incredibly intricate and complex, but it could be just random.
And I was troubled with this for years because I saw in reality that assembly theory works.
But when I talked to very good computational complexity computation lists, algorithmic
complexity people, they said, you haven't really done this properly, you haven't thought about it.
It's like this is the random problem. And so I kept working this up because I invented an
assembly theory in chemistry, first of all, with molecules. And so the thought experiment was
how complex does a molecule need to be when I find it, that it couldn't possibly have risen by chance
probabilistically. And if I found this molecule able to detect enough quantities in the same
object, like a machine, like a mass spectrometer, so typically in a mass spectrometer, you weigh
the molecules in electric field, you probably have to have the order of 10,000 identical molecules
to get a signal. So 10,000 identical molecules that are complex, what is the chance of them
occurring by chance? Well, we can do the math. Let's take a molecule like Strickneen or
yeah, so Strickneen is a good molecule actually to take. Or Viagra is a good molecule. I made jokes
about Viagra because it's complex molecule. And one of my friends said, if we find Viagra on Mars
in detectable quantities, we know something is up. But anyway, it's a complex molecule.
So what you do is you take this molecule in the mass spectrometer and you hit it with some electrons
or in electric field, it breaks apart. And if the larger than the larger the number of different
parts you know, when it starts to get refresh old, my idea was that that molecule could not be
created by chance, probabilistically. So that was where assembly thought theory was born in an
experiment in a mass spec experiment. And I was thinking about this because NASA sending mass
spectrometers to Mars to Titan is going to send them to Europa. There's going to be a nuclear
powered mass spectrometer going to Titan. I mean, this is the coolest experiment ever.
They're not only sending a drone that's going to fly around Titan, it's going to be powered by a
nuclear slug, a nuclear battery, and it's going to have a mass spectrometer on it.
Is this already launched? No, it's Dragonfly and it's going to be launched in a few years. I think
it got pushed a year because of the pandemic. So I think it's three or four years.
Dragonfly, nuclear Dragonfly is going to fly to Titan and collect
data about the composition of the various chemicals on Titan.
Yeah, I'm trying to convince NASA, I don't know if I'll be able to convince the Dragonfly team
that they should apply this approach, but they will get data and depending on how good their
mass spectrometer is. But I had this thought experiment anyway and I did this thought experiment
and for me it seemed to work. I turned the thought experiment into an algorithm in assembly theory
and I basically, assembly theory, if I take, let's just make it generic and let's just take the word
abracadabra. So can I, if you find the word, so if you have a book with lots of words in it and you
find abracadabra one off and there's a wrap book that's been written by, in a random way, you know,
set of monkeys in a room and you untype writers and you find one off abracadabra no big deal.
But if you find lots of recurrences of abracadabra, well, that means something weird is going on.
But let's think about the assembly number of abracadabra. So abracadabra has a,
you know, has a number of letters in it, you can break it down, so you just cut the letters up.
But when you actually reassemble abracadabra, the minimum number of weights of organizing
those letters, so you'd have an A, a B, you know, and keep going up. There's just the, you can,
when you cut abracadabra up into parts, you can put it together again in seven steps.
So what does that mean? That means if you basically don't read, you're allowed to reuse
things you make in a chain at the beginning. That's the memory of the universe, the process
that makes abracadabra. And because that calls all chain, you can then get to abracadabra
quicker than the number of letters we're having to specify only in seven.
So if you take that to a molecule and you cut the molecule up into parts, and you can,
on the causal chain, and you basically start with the atoms and then bonds,
and then you randomly add on those parts to make the A, make the B, make the, and keep going all
the way up, I found that literally a assembly theory allows me to say how compressed a molecule is.
So when there's some information in there, and I realized the assembly theory isn't just
confined to molecular space, it can apply to anything, but let me finish the molecular argument.
So what I did is I had this theory, I was one of my students, we wrote an algorithm,
we basically took the 20 million molecules from the database and we just calculate their assembly
number, and that's the index. Like basically, if I take a molecule and I cut it up into bonds,
what is the minimum number of steps I need to take to reform that molecule from atoms?
So reusability of previously formed things is somehow fundamental.
Exactly. So it's like a memory in the universe, right? I'm making lots of leaps here, like,
it's kind of weird. I'm saying, right, there's a process that can form the A and the B and the C,
let's say, and then there's, and because we've formed A and B before, we can use A and B again
with no extra cost except one unit. So that's the kind of the chain of events.
And that's how you think about memory here when you say the universe, when you talk about the
universe and or life is the universe creating memory.
Exactly. So we went through chemical space and we looked at the assembly numbers,
we were able to classify it, said, okay, let's test it, let's go. So we're able to take a whole
bunch of molecules and assign an assembly index to them. And it's just a function of the number
of bonds in the molecule and how much symmetry. So literally, assembly theory is a measure of how
little symmetry a molecule has. So the more asymmetry, the more information, the more
weird it is, like a Jackson Pollock of some description. So I then went and did a load
of experiments. And I basically took those molecules, I cut them up in the mass spec and
measured the number of peaks without any knowledge of the molecule. And we found the assembly number
there was a almost, not quite a one to one correlation, but almost because not all bonds
are equal, they have different energies. I then did this using two other spectroscopic techniques,
NMR, nuclear magnetic resonance, which uses radio frequency to basically jangle the molecules and
get a signature out. And they also used infrared. And infrared and NMR almost gave us a one to one
correlation. So what am I saying? Saying by taking a molecule and doing either infrared or NMR or mass
spec, I can work out how many parts there are in that molecule, and then put it on a scale.
And what we did in the next part of the work is we took molecules randomly from the environment,
from outer space, from all around Earth, from the sea, from Antarctica, and from fossils,
and so on. And even NASA, and they, because they didn't believe us, blinded some samples.
And we found that all these samples that came from biology produced molecules that had a
very high assembly number above a threshold of about 15. So basically, all the stuff that came
from my ebiotic origin was low. There was no complexity there. So we suddenly realized that
on Earth, at least, there is a cutoff that natural phenomena cannot produce molecules
that need more than 15 steps to make them. So I realized that this is a way to make a scale of
