Codex. We say abstraction in the hardware. What do you mean? So right now,
a lot of people doing machine learning and reading chemistry and just saying, oh,
you've got all these operations, ad shake, whatever he, but because they don't have a uniform,
I mean, there's a couple of groups doing it, competitors actually, they're good, very good.
But they can't run that code automatically. They are losing meaning. And the really important
thing that you have to do is generate context. And so what we've learned to do with our abstraction
is make sure we can pull the context out of the text. And so can we take a chemical procedure
and read it and generate our executable code? Yes. What's the hardest part about that whole
pipeline from the initial text interpreting the initial text of a paper, extracting the
meaningful context and meaningful chemical information to then generating the program,
to then running that program in the hardware? What's the hardest part about that pipeline as we
look towards a universal Turing computer? So the hardest thing with the pipeline is that
the software, the model gets confused between some meanings, right? So if
chemists are very good at inventing words that aren't broken down, so I would, the classic word
that you would use for boiling something is called reflux. So reflux is you'd have a solvent in
the round bomb flask at reflux, it would be boiling, going up the reflux condenser and coming down.
But that term reflux to reflux could be changed, you know, to people often make up words, new words,
and then the software can fall over. But what we've been able to do is a bit like in Python,
or any programming language, is identify when things aren't matched. So you present the code,
and you say this isn't matched, you may want to think about this, and then the user goes and says,
oh, I mean reflux and just ticks a box and collects it. So what the codex or the chemx
does in this case, is it just, it suggests the first go, and then the chemist goes and
corrects it. And I really want the chemist to correct it, because it's not safe, I believe,
for to allow AI to just read literature and generate code at this stage.
Because now you're having actual, by the way, chemx, nice, nice name. So you are unlike,
which is fascinating. We live in a fascinating moment in human history. But yes,
you're literally connecting AI to some physical, and like, it's building something in the physical
realm, especially in the space of chemistry that operates sort of invisibly.
Yeah. Yeah, I would say that's right. And it's really important to understand those
labeling schemes, right? And one of the things I was never, I was always worried about the beginning
that the abstraction was going to fall over. And the way we did it was just by brute force to start
with, we just kept reading the literature and saying, is there anything new? Can we add a new
rule in? And actually, our QIDL language expand exploded. There were so many extra things we
had to keep adding. And then I realized the primitives still were maintained, I could break
them down again. So we get, it's pretty good. I mean, there are problems, there are problems of,
you know, interpreting any big sentence and turning it into an actionable code.
And the codex is not without its problems. You can, you can crash it quite easily, right? You
can generate nonsense. But boy, it's interesting. I would love to learn to program now using codex,
right? Just hacking around, right? And I wonder if chemistry in the future will learn to
do chemistry by just hacking around with the system, writing in different things. Because
the key thing that we're doing with the chemistry is that where a lot of
mathematical chemistry went wrong is people, and I think Wolfram does this in Mathematica,
he assumes that chemistry is a reaction where atom A or molecule A reacts with molecule B to
give molecule C. That's not what chemistry is. Chemistry is take, take some molecule,
take a liquid or a solid, mix it up and heat it and then extract it. So the programming language
is actually with respect to the process operations. And if you flick in process space,
not in chemical graph space, you unlock everything. Because there's only a finite number of processes
you need to do in chemistry. And that, and that's reassuring. And so, so we're in the middle of it,
it's really exciting. It's not, you know, the be all in the end all, and there is like I say,
errors that can creep in. One day, we might be able to do it without human interaction,
you simulate it, and you'll know enough about the simulation that will, you know, the lab won't
catch fire. But there are so many safety issues right now that we've got to really be very careful,
you know, protecting the user, protecting the environment, protecting misuse. I mean,
there's lots to discuss, if you want to go down that route, because it's very, very interesting.
You don't want novachocks being made, or explosives being made, or recreational drugs
being made. But how do you stop a molecular biologist making a drug that's going to be
important for them looking at their, you know, particular assay on a bad actor trying to make
methamphetamine? I saw how you looked at me when you said bad actor, but that's exactly what I'm
going to do. I'm trying to get the details of this so I can be first. Don't worry, we can protect you
from yourself. Okay. I'm not sure that's true, but that statement gives me hope. Does this ultimately
excite you about the future? Or does it terrify you? So let's, we mentioned that time is fundamental.
It seems like you're at the cutting edge of progress that will have to happen,
that will happen, that there's no stopping it. And I, as we've been talking about, I see obviously
a huge number of exciting possibilities. So whenever you automate these kinds of things,
just the world opens up. It's like programming itself, and the computer, regular computer,
has created innumerable applications and made the world better in so many dimensions,
and it created, of course, a lot of negative things that we, for some reason, like the focus on,
using that very technology to tweet about it. But I think it made a much better world,
but it created a lot of new dangers. So maybe you can speak to when you have, when you kind of
stand at the end of the road for building a really solid, reliable universal computer,
what are the possibilities that are positive? What are the possibilities that are negative?
How can we minimize the chance of the negative? Yeah, that's a really good question. So there's
so many positive things from drug discovery, from supply chain stress, for basically enabling
chemists to basically build more productive in the lab, right? Where the computer's not
going to replace the chemist. There's going to be a Moore's law of molecules, right? There's
going to be so many more molecules we can design, so many more diseases we can cure.
So chemists in the lab, as researchers, that's better for science, so they can
build a bunch of, like they could do science at a much more accelerated pace. So it's not
just the development of drugs, it's actually like doing the basic understanding of the science of
drugs. And the personalization, the cost of drugs right now, we're all living longer, we're all
having more and more, we know more about our genomic development, we know about our predetermination,
and we might be able to, one dream I've got is like, imagine, you can work at your genome
assistant tells you you're going to get cancer in seven years time, and you have your personal
computer that cooks up the right molecule just for you to cure it, right? That's a really positive
idea. The other thing is, is when drugs, so right now, I think it is absolutely outrageous
that not all of humanity has access to medicine. And I think the computer might be able to change
that fundamentally because it will disrupt the way things are manufactured. So let's stop thinking
about manufacturing in different factories. Let's say that clinical grade computers or drug grade
computers will be in facilities all around the world, and they can make things on demand
as a function of the cost. Maybe people won't be able to afford the latest and greatest patent,
but maybe they'll be able to get the next best thing and will basically democratize,
make available drugs to everybody that they need. And there's lots of
of really interesting things there. So I think that's going to happen. I think that now let's take
the negative. Before we do that, let's imagine what happened to go back to a really tragic
accident a few years ago, well, not an accident, an act of murder by that pilot on the, I think it was
Euro wings or Swiss wings off. But what he did is the plane took off. He waited till his pilot
went to the toilet. He was a co-pilot. He locked the door and then set the autopilot above the
Alps. He set the altimeter or the descend height to zero. So the computer just took the plane into
the Alps. Now, I mean, that was such a tragedy that obviously the guy was mentally ill, but it
wasn't just a tragedy for him. It was for all the people on board. But what if, and I was inspired
by this, and I thinking, what can I do to do, to anticipate problems like this in the computer,
had the software, and I'm sure Boeing and Airbus will be thinking, oh, maybe I can give the computer
a bit more situational awareness. So whenever one, some tries to drop the height of the plane,
and it knows above the Alps will just say, oh, no, computer says, no, we're not letting you do that.
Of course, he would have been able to find another way, maybe fly it until it runs out of fuel or
something. But keep anticipating all the large number of trajectories that can go negative,
all those kinds of running into the Alps, and try to at least make it easy for the engineers
to build systems that are protecting us that. Yeah. And let's just think, so what are in the
computer world right now with KIDLs? Let's just not think about what I'm doing right now. What
I'm doing right now is it's completely open, right? Everyone's going to know KIDLs and be playing with
them, making them more easier and easier and easier. But what we're going to start to do,
it makes sense to encrypt the KIDLs in such a way you're, let's say you work for a pharmaceutical
company, and you have a license to make given molecule, where you get issued with a license
by the FDA or your local authority, and they'll say, right, your license to do it,
here it is, it's encrypted, and the KIDL gets run. So you have a license for that instance of use.
Easy to do. Computer science has already solved the problem. So the fact that we all trust online
banking, right, the right now, then we can secure it. I'm 100% sure we can secure the computer.
Because of the way we have a many, you know, it's like the same mapping problem that you,
to actually reverse engineer a KIDL will be as hard as reverse engineering the encryption key.
You know, brute force, it will be cheaper to just actually buy the regulated medicine.
And actually, people aren't going to want to then make their own fake pharmaceuticals,
because it'll be so cheap to do it. We'll drop the cost of access to drugs. Now what will happen?
Recreational drugs. People start saying, well, I want access to recreational drugs.
Well, it's going to be up to, it's going to accelerate that social discussion that's happening
in the US and Canada and in the UK, everywhere, right? Because cost goes down, access goes up.
Giving cannabis, THC, to some people who've got epilepsy isn't literally
forgive the term and no brainer, because these poor people go from seizures like
every day to maybe seizures just once every few months.
That's an interesting idea that tried to minimize the chance that it can get into
like the hands of individuals, like terrorists or people that want to do harm.
Now, with that kind of thing, you're putting a lot of power in the hands of
governments, in the hands of institutions. And so then emerge the kind of natural criticism you
might have of governments that can sometimes use these for ill, use them as weapons of war,
not weapons, not tools of betterment. So, and sometimes not just war against other nations,
but war against its own people, as has been done throughout history.
Well, I'm thinking, so there's another way of doing it, a decentralized peer-to-peer version
where, and what you have to do, I'm not saying you should adopt a blockchain,
but there is a way of maybe taking KydLs and put them in blockchain. Here's an idea,
let's just say, the way we do it in my lab right now is we go to the literature, we take a recipe
to make a molecule, convert that to KydL and diligently make it in the robot and validate it.
So, I would call mining, proof of work, proof of synthesis, right?
Proof of synthesis.
Yeah, yeah, but this is cool because suddenly, when you actually synthesize it,
you can get the analytical data, but there's also a fingerprint in there of the impurities
that get carried across, because you can never make something 100% pure. That fingerprint will
allow you to secure your KydL. So, what you do is encrypt those two things. So, suddenly,
you can have people out there mining, and what you could do perhaps is do the type of thing,
we need to basically look at the way that contact tracing should have been done in COVID,
where people are given the information. So, you have just been in contact with someone COVID,
you choose, I'm not telling you to stay at home, you choose, right? So, now, if we could imagine
a similar thing, like you have got access to these chemicals, they will have these effects,
you choose and publicize it, or maybe it's out somewhere, I don't know, I'm not a policy maker
on this. And my job here is to not just make the technology possible, but to have it as open as
a discussion as possible with people to say, hey, can we stop childhood mortality with this
technology? And do those benefits outweigh the one-off where people might use it for terrorism,
or people might use it for recreational drugs? Chemify, which is the name of the entity that
will make this happen, I think we have some social responsibilities as an entity to make sure that
we're not enabling people to manufacture personal drugs, weapons at will. And what we have to do
is have a discussion with society, with the people that invest in this, with people that are going
to pay for this, to say, well, do you want to live longer? And do you want to be healthier?
And are you willing to accept some of the risks? And I think that's a discussion to have.
So, by the way, when you say personal drugs, do you mean the illegal ones? Or do you have a concern
of just putting the manufacture of any kind of legal drugs in the hands of regular people,
because they might, like dose matters, they might take way too much?
I mean, I would say, to be honest, the chances of computers being, well, should always never. So,
the fact I can now say this means it's totally going to come true, right?
Yeah, yeah. And I'm going to do it.
I cannot imagine that computers will be in people's houses anytime soon,
but they might be at the local pharmacy, right? And if you've got a drug manufacturing facility
in every town, then you just go and they give you a prescription and they do it in such a way,
they format it so that you don't have to take 10 pills every day. You get one manufactured
for you that has all the materials you need in the right distribution.
Got it. But you mentioned recreation drugs and the reason I mentioned it, because I know people
are going to speak up on this. If the drug is legal, there's, to me, no reason why you can't
manufacture, I mean, for recreation. I mean, you can do it right now.
What do you have against fun, Lee?
So, I mean, I'm a chemistry professor in a university who's an entrepreneur as well.
I just think I need to be as responsible as I can in the discussion.
Not sure, sure. But I know, so let me be the one that says there's nothing,
because you have said recreational drugs and like terrorism in the same sentence.
Yeah, yeah. Okay.
I think let's make sure we draw a line that there's real dangers to the world of terrorist,
of biowarfare, and then there's a little bit of weed.
So, I have, I mean, I think it's up to the society to tell his governments what it wants,
what's acceptable, right? And if it becomes, let's say that THC's become, you know, heavily
acceptable, and that you can modify them. So, let's say there's, let's say it's like blood type,
there's a particular type of THC that you tolerate better than I do, then why not,
why not have a machine that makes the one you like?
Yeah.
And then, and why not-
It's the perfect brownie.
And I think that that's fine. But I'm, you know, we're so far away from that.
I can barely get the thing to work in the lab, right? And I mean, it's reliability and all this
other stuff. But what I think is going to happen in the short term, it's going to turbo charge
molecular discovery, reliability, and that will change the world.
That's super exciting. You have a draft of a paper titled,
autonomous intelligent exploration, discovery and optimization of nanomaterials.
So, we are talking about automating engineering of nanomaterials.
How hard is this problem? And as we continue down this thread of the positives
and the worrisome, what are the things we should be excited about?
