life, a scale of technology as well. And literally, you could just go sniffing for molecules off Earth
on Titan, on Mars. And when you find a molecule in the mass spectrometer that gives you more than
15 parts, you'll know pretty much for sure that it had to be produced by evolution. And this allowed
me to come up with a general definition of life based on assembly theory, to say that if I find an
object that has a large number of parts, say an iPhone, or Boeing 747, or any complex object,
and I can find it in abundance and cut it up, I can tell you whether that has been produced by
an informational process or not. And that's what assembly theory kind of does. But it goes a bit
further. I then realized that this isn't just about life, it's about causation. So actually,
it tells you about where there's a causal structure. So now I can look at objects in the
universe, say that again, this cup, and say, right, I'm going to look at how many independent parts
it has. So that's the assembly number. I'll then look at the abundance, how many cups are two on
this table, maybe there's a few more you got snatched away. So assembly is a is a function of
the complexity of the object times the number of copy numbers of that object or function of the
copy number normalized. So I realized there's a new quantity in the universe, you have energy,
entropy, and assembly. So assembly, the way we should think about that is how much
reusability there is. Because what reusability is like the like, can you play devil's advocate
to this? Or could this just be a nice tertiary signal for living organisms? Like some kind of
distant signal that's, yeah, this is a nice property, but it's not capturing something
fundamental. Or do you think reusability is something fundamental to the life in complex
organisms? I think reusability is fundamental in the universe, not just for life in complex
organisms is about causation. So I think assembly tells you if you find objects, because you can
do this with trajectories as well, you think about it that in the unit, the fact there are objects
in the universe on earth is my is weird. You think about it, we should just have a
commentary explosion of stuff. The fact that not everything exists is is really weird.
Yeah. And then as I'm looking at two mugs and two water bottles, and the things that exist
are similar and multiply in copies. So I would say that assembly allows you to do something
that statistical mechanics and people looking at entropy have got stuck with for a while.
So I'm making, it's pretty bold. I mean, I'm writing a paper with Sarah Walker on this at the
moment. And we're realizing we don't want to get ahead of ourselves because I think that
there's lots of ways where this is, you know, it's a really interesting idea. It works for molecules,
and it appears to work for any objects produced by causation. Because you can take a motor car,
you can look at the assembly of the motor car, look at a book, look at the assembly of the book.
Assembly theory tells you there's a way of compressing and reusing. And so when people,
I talk to information theorists, they say, oh, this is just logical depth. I say it is
like logical depth, but it's experimentally measurable. They say, oh, it's a bit like
Comma Golarov complexity. I say, but it's computable. And now, okay, it's not infinitely
computable, gets NP hard very quickly, right? It's very hard problem when you get, but it's
a computable enough, you contractible enough to be able to tell the difference between a
molecule that's been formed by the random background and by causation. And, and I think that that's
really interesting because until now, there's no way of measuring complexity objectively.
Complexity has required algorithmic comparisons and programs and human beings to label things.
Assembly is label free. Well, not entirely, we can talk about what that means in a minute.
Okay. My brain has been broken a couple of times here.
Sorry, I explained it really badly.
No, it was very well explained. It was just fascinating. And it's a,
my brain is broken into pieces and I'm trying to assemble it. So NP hard. So when you have a molecule,
you're trying to figure out, okay, if we were to reuse parts of this molecule,
which parts can we reuse to as an optimization problem and be hard to figure out the minimum
amount of reused components that will create this molecule. And it becomes difficult when you start
to look at a huge, huge molecules arbitrarily large. Cause I'm also like mapping this. Can I,
can I think about this in complexity generally, like looking at a cellular automata system and
saying like, what's the, what can this be used as a measure of complexity for like a arbitrarily
complicated system? Yeah, I think it can. It can. And I think that the question is, and what's the
benefit? Cause there's plenty of, I mean, in computer science and mathematics and physics,
people have been really seriously studying complexity for a long time. And I think there's
a really interesting problems of where we course grade and we lose information. And all assembly
theory does really assembly theory just explains weak emergence. And, and so what assembly theory
says, look, going from the atoms into atoms interact, those first replicators that build
one another assembly at the, the minimal level just tells you evidence that there's been replication
and selection. And I think the more selected something is the higher the assembly. And so
we were able to start to know how to look for selection in the universe. If you go to the moon,
there's nothing a very high assembly on the moon, except the human artifacts we've left there.
So again, let's go back to the sandbox. In assembly theory says, if all the sand grains could stick
together, that's the infinite convent or explosion in the universe, that should be the default.
We don't have that. Now let's assemble sand grains together and let's, and do them in every
possible way. So we have a series of minimal operations that can move the sand together.
But all that doesn't exist either. Now, because we have specific memory where we say, well,
we're going to put three sand grains in a line or four, make a cross or a triangle,
or something unsymmetrical. And once we've made the triangle and the unsymmetrical thing,
we remember that we can use it again, because on that causal chain. So what assembly theory
allows you to do is go to the actual objects that you exist, you find in space. And actually,
the way you get there is by disassembling it says disassembly theory works by disassembling
objects you have and understanding the steps to create them. And it works for molecules beautifully
because you just break bonds. But like you said, it's going to be very difficult. It's a difficult
problem to figure out how to break them apart. For molecules, it's easy. If you just keep low
enough in molecular weight space, it's good enough. So it's a complete theory. When we start to think
about objects, we can start to assign, we can start to think about things at different levels,
what do you assign as your atom? So in a molecule, the atom, this is really confusing,
because word atom, I mean smallest breakable part. So in a molecule, the atom is the bond,
because you break bonds, not atoms, right? So in a car, the atom might be, I don't know,
a small amount of iron, or the smallest reusable part, a rivet, a piece of plastic or something.
So you've got to be really careful in a micro process of the atoms might be transistors.
And so the amount of assembly is something as a function, you have to look at the atom level.
What are your parts? What are you counting? That's one of the things you get to choose.
What is, at what scale is the atom? What is the minimal exact thing? I mean, there's a huge
amount of trade-offs in when you approach a system and try to analyze. Like if you approach earth,
you know, an alien civilization, try to study earth, what is the atom for trying to measure
the complexity of life? Are humans the atoms? I would say to start with, you just use molecules.
I can say for sure, if there are molecules of sufficient complexity on earth,
then I know that life has made them. And you can go further and show technology. There are
molecules that exist on earth that are not possible even by biology. You needed technology
and you needed microprocessors to get there. So that's really cool.
And there's a correlation between the coolness of that and assembly number,
whatever the measure, what would you call the measure?
Assembly index. So there are three kind of fundamental kind of labels we have. So there's
the quantity of assembly and the assembly, so if you have a box, let's just have a box of molecules.
So I'm going to have my box, we count the number of identical molecules,
and then we chop each molecule up in a individual molecule class and calculate assembly number.
So basically, you then have a function that sums over all the molecules for each assembly,
and then you divide through. So you make it divide through by the number of molecules.
So that's the assembly index for the box.
So that will tell you the amount of assembly in the box. So basically,
the assembly equation we come up with is basically the sum of e to the power of the assembly index
for molecule i times the number of copies of the molecule i, and then you normalize.
So you sum them all up and then normalize. So some boxes are going to be more assembled than others.
Yeah, that's what they tell me. So if you were to look at me as a box, say I'm a box,
am I assembling my parts in terms of like, how do you know what's my assembly index and be gentle?
So let's just, we'll talk about the molecules in you. So let's just take a pile of sand the same
weight as you, and I would take you and just cut up all the molecules. I mean, and look at the
number of copies and assembly number. So in sand, let's say there's probably going to be nothing
more than the assembly number of two or three, but there might be trillions and trillions of
sand grains in your body, there might be, the assembly number is going to be higher,
but there might not be as quite as many copies because the molecular weight is higher.
So you do want to average it out. You can average. You do average it.
I'm not, I'm not defined by the most impressive. No, no, you're an average in your volume. I mean,
we're just working this out. But what's really cool is that you're going to have a really high
assembly. The sand will have a very low assembly. Your causal power is much higher. You get to make
decisions. You're alive. You're aspiring assembly says something about causal power in the universe.
And that's not supposed to exist because physicists don't accept that causation exists at the bottom.
So I understand at the chemical level why the assembly is causation. Why is it causation?
Because it's capturing the memory. Exactly. It's capturing memory, but there's not an
action to it. So I'm trying to see how it leads to life. Well, it's what life does. So I think it's,
we don't know. That's a good question. What is life versus what does life do?
Yeah. So that's, this is the definition of life, the only definition we need.
The assembly.
It's basically that life is able to create objects in abundance that are so complex.
Your semi-number is so high, they can't possibly form in an environment where there's just random
interactions. So suddenly you can put life on a scale and then life doesn't exist actually
in that kind. It's just how evolved you are. And you as an object, because you have incredible
causal power, you could go and launch rockets or build cars or create drugs or you can do so many
things. You can build stuff, build more artifacts that show that you have had causal power. And
that causal power was this kind of a lineage. And I think that over time, I mean, realizing that
that physics as a discipline has a number of problems associated with me as a chemist is kind
of interesting that assembly theory, and I'm really, you know, I want to maintain some,
some credibility in the physics side, but I have to push them because physics
is a really good discipline. It's reduced the number. Physics is about reducing the belief
system, but they're down to some things in their belief system, which is kind of really makes me
kind of grumpy. Number one is requiring order at the beginning of the universe magically. We
don't need that. The second is the second law. Well, we don't actually need that.
And this is blasphemous. In a minute, I'll recover my career in a second, although I think the good,
the only good thing about being in the religious chair means I think there has to be an active
parliament to fire me. Yeah. But you can always go to least Twitter and protest.
And I think the third thing is that, so we've got, you know, we've got the order at the beginning.
Second law. Yeah, the second law, and the fact that causation is emergent,
right? And that time is emergent. John Carroll just turned off this program.
I think he believes that it's emergent. So causation is not...
That's clearly incorrect, because we wouldn't exist otherwise. So time, so physicists have kind
of got confused about time. Time is a real thing. Well, I mean, so look,
I'm very happy with the current description of the universe as physicists give me, because I
can do a lot of stuff, right? I can go to the moon with Newtonian physics, I think, and I can
understand the orbit of Mercury with relativity. And so, and I can build transistors with quantum
mechanics, right? And I can do all this stuff. So I'm not saying the physics is wrong. I'm just
saying, if we say that time is fundamental, i.e. time is non-negotiable, there's a global clock,
I don't need to, I don't need to require that there's order being magically made in the past,
because that asymmetry is built into the way the universe is.
So if time is fundamental, I mean, you've been referring to this kind of
an interesting formulation of that as memory. Yeah. So time, time is hard to like put a
finger on like, what the hell are we talking about? Well, it's just a direction, but memory
is a construction, especially when you have like, think about these local pockets of complexity,
these non-zero assembly index entities that's being constructed, and they remember,
never forget molecules. But remember, the thing is, I invented assembly theory.
I'll tell you I invented it. When I was a kid, I mean, the thing is, I keep making fun of myself
to my search group. I've only ever had one idea. I keep exploring that idea over the 40 years or
so since I had that idea. Well, aren't you the idea that the universe had? So it's very kind of
hierarchical. Anyway, go ahead. I'm sorry. That's very poetic. So I think I came up with assembly
theory the following idea. When I was a kid, I was obsessed about survival kits. What is the
minimum stuff that I would need to basically replicate my reality? And I love computers,
and I love technology or what technology was going to come. So I imagined that I would have
basically this really big truck full of stuff. And I thought, well, can I delete some of that
stuff out? Can I have a blueprint? And then in the end, I kept making this, making it smaller,
I got to maybe a half a truck, then to a suitcase. And then I went, okay, screw it. I want to carry
my entire technology in my pocket. How do I do it? And I'm not like going to launch into Steve,
Joel B, and you know, I play. I came up with a matchbox survival kit. In that matchbox survival
kit, I would have the minimum stuff that would allow me to interact the environment to build
my shelter, to build a fishing rod, to build a water purification system. And it's kind of like,
so what did I use in my box to assemble in the environment to assemble, to assemble, to assemble.
And I realized I could make a causal chain in my survival kit. So I guess that's probably why
I've been obsessed with assembly theory for so long. And I was just pre-configured to find it
somewhere. And when I saw it in molecules, I realized that the causal structure that we say
emerges, and the physics kind of gets really stuck, because they're saying that time, you can go
backwards in time. I mean, how do we let physicists get away with the notion that we can go back in
time and meet ourselves? I mean, that's clearly a very hard thing to allow. The physicists would not
let other sciences get away with that kind of heresy, right? So why are physicists allowed to
get away with it? So first of all, to push back, to play devil's advocate, you are clearly married
to the idea of memory. You see in this, again, Rick from Rick and Morty Way, you have these
deep dreams of the universe that is writing the story through its memories, through its chemical
compounds that are just building on top of each other. And then they find useful components that
can reuse. And then their reused components create systems that themselves are then reused.
And all in this way construct things. But when you think of that as memory, it seems like quite
sad that you can walk that back. But at the same time, it feels like that memory, you can walk in
both directions on that memory in terms of time. You could walk in both directions. But I don't
think that that makes any sense. Because the problem that I have with time being reversible is that
I mean, I'm just a, you know, I'm a dumb experimental chemist, right? So I love burning
stuff, you know, burning stuff and building stuff. But when I think of reversible phenomena,
I imagine in my head, I have to actually manufacture some time. I have to borrow time from the
universe to do that. I can't, when anyone says let's imagine that we can go back in time or
reversibility, you can't do that. You can't step out of time. Time is non-negotiable. It's happening.
No, but see, you're assuming that time is fundamental, which most of us do when we go
day to day, but it takes a leap of wild imagination to think that time is emergent.
No, time is not emergent. Yeah. I mean, this is an argument we can have, but I believe
