So, yeah, but you have a really bad autobiographical memory, so you're probably just forgetting
all this stuff.
It's all this really cool shit that I can't remember.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
That time I saved the world.
Yeah.
I feel really good at, like, you know, from my perspective anyway, being really supportive
kind of people around you, which I don't know if you've always been that way.
I know that I think like when we first met and then like a few months at a time, you
were talking about like trying to deliberately improve on that.
And I think that that's a really strong point of yours.
I appreciate that.
I don't know how much credit I get for that being a rationalist thing or not, but you
get credit for it regardless.
Oh, thanks.
Cause that's a cool way to be.
I, I, it's been a long time.
It's been a lot to me personally.
It feels like I'm patting myself on the back, so I'm reluctant to do it, but like I feel
like it's just the natural thing to do.
I like getting people to do it to me.
I wish more people felt that way.
It takes no effort to do really.
So just go forth and be nice to people.
But yeah, I don't know.
I'm, I should have thought of a better answer for this.
I actually did have notes and stuff, but they're all just random little tidbits about me that
aren't, aren't interesting.
So I'll let you go ahead.
I guess, hold on, the cryonics thing too.
That is a good one.
That would have been around 10 years ago that I signed up.
So everyone should do that too.
Like, I don't know.
It's, I, when I,
Did you sign up for the 30 year term?
Uh, no, I'm, I'm on the annual term still through the cryonics Institute.
I'm even from my life insurance.
Yeah.
For your life insurance.
No, uh, Rudy.
Oh, that reminds me.
Rudy Hoffman was life insurance agent I worked with.
If you're curious about this, you should check out his book that he sent me for free.
And I, I think I forgot to email him a thank you, but he, he hit me up with this like longer
package where I think I'm paying into it forever.
Um, but if like, if I live to be 90 something, there's like $330,000 in it that I get to
just take out in cash, but it's not like I have to hit 91st, I can take out less money
before that.
Yeah.
And that's just mine.
Yeah.
I don't, I don't have to pay back.
It's on a loan or whatever.
I got a similar thing except mine explicitly ends after 30 years.
So I've got another 20 years in which I either have to die or come up with a difference between
what it pays out and what it'll cost.
So it does pay out in 20 years though.
So 30 years from the start.
At least it's not like a use it or lose it policy.
That would have been a kind of a shit deal.
Um, yeah.
So anyway, Rudy Hoffman wrote a book called the, um, the affordable immortal, which you
can find on Amazon.
And, uh, if you're curious about this and it sounds way too out of reach or something,
check it out.
I have made a note.
Yep.
Me too.
Me too.
So I, wow, I've had a lot of changes over the last 10 years.
I think 10 years ago I was still in my alcoholic phase where I was drinking close to a fifth
of vodka every night.
Um, it was near the end though.
Uh, and after I quit that, I started working out and I mean, I have, I have regressed a
bit since then.
I think I'm like eight pounds heavier now than I was a few years ago, but no one can
tell you look buff.
It's great dude.
All right.
All right.
I ever since the back of drive worked out much less.
But the, I mean, I think the big change happened.
I, I quit drinking.
I got surgery.
I lost weight and I started recording the HPMR podcast.
Uh, and wow, my life really changed around after that because like, like I said, it started
out with seven listeners.
So every week was just like another win when, as more people started listening, you know,
having constant unantrupted weeks of more affirmation for like two years in a row really
does a lot to build up your self-esteem.
And after that, I like started writing and I started like being social and having friends
and I had this wonderful relationship, which did not end wonderfully, but it was, I learned
a lot.
I learned a lot about myself.
Um, I learned how to have good sex, which was actually really important.
Um, and I know we're never going to do a not safe for work episode, but I'm curious
what, we don't, we don't have to do it, but I just, I, I'm curious at some point, just
you and me can sit down.
Yeah.
We'll turn off the lights.
We don't have to look at each other.
So for the record, I'm already awesome at sex.
So I'm curious what, what, what, what the reference was like, like, I sucked, then I got good
at it.
Anyway, sorry.
Um, yeah, but as long as we're boosting your ego, it's worth, it's worth pointing out
that like, well, I've had some major defeats in the past two years.
Well, everyone has, I mean, if it was all that, that's like, but, but this podcast,
one I'm doing that is still on your feed is completely piggybacking off of yours.
Okay.
I see, I'm not, I don't go to like, to the HPMR subreddit like specifically, but I see
on the front page of my regular feed, once every two weeks, someone's like, you guys
heard the audio book and it's like, it, this, this bring, this, this was my introduction
really to the rationalist movement because I was driving a lot and that's how I listened,
that's how I listened slash read the book and I met you.
You were at my wedding.
We're doing this podcast, this where you're coming up on four years.
Um, like it's, it wasn't just like this one thing you did.
Now it's behind you.
This is still happening.
And so don't, don't, uh, stop patting yourself on the back for that, or at least the rest
of us will keep doing it.
Yeah.
I think the thing that most surprises me is that when I was in my late teens and twenties,
I was really much sort of a violent revolutionary leftist.
I was very much a burn the system and start over because it's all corrupt kind of thing.
And now I am much more conservative and I'm still like extremely liberal, but I no longer
like want to kill everyone in power and, and eat the rich and burn down the city.
Like I'm like, most of my stuff is in the city.
Please don't burn it down.
Yeah.
People will get hurt.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So that's, that's very weird.
I don't know.
That like sounds a little bit like maturity.
I, I guess I just 20 year old me would look at revolutionary things sounds more like the
kind of YA like, yeah, it sounds more like you're just like, I would be disappointed.
Young me would be disappointed in my current self though.
That's a question.
Couldn't go back and answer that for the two of us.
Like how, how would you have 10 years ago feel about you today?
Yeah.
Because me of 10 years ago, I think would be stoked on who I am today.
Yeah.
Um, there are, for the most part, I don't, I don't feel any sense of accomplishment or
like anything like that, although I recognize that I probably should.
Um, but yeah, I, I think my life is better in every way.
It's just that my values have drifted somewhat and that would be concerning to younger me.
Yeah.
Younger you'd probably hate the fact that you own property or something, right?
Um, maybe.
Yeah.
Maybe.
Yeah.
Younger you was weird.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I'm just remembering because I have, again, my journals, like telling a
friend of mine that if I stop believing in magic, then kill me because I'm not me anymore.
And he's like, no, I don't know.
Like the, like 10 years ago, me would have looked back at that, which I guess was another
10 years.
Like what, what the hell?
That's not 10 years ago, but, but yeah, like 33 now, so like 23 year old me would have
been like, well, fuck, like I didn't think, I didn't have the self esteem to think that
I could go into a scientific field or that like I was going to ever make money or understand
how to adult, how to have like stable relationships or manage money or any of that.
So like the fact that I managed to do a lot of that and I'm like, it's not like some of
this stuff is not even that hard.
It was just, there was a big barrier of it seeming unattainable.
The Ugg field also.
Yeah.
The Ugg field.
The just like, I know nothing about this, so it must be the hardest thing in the world.
Is that the word for that?
The Ugg field?
I mean, I mean, that's kind of the less wrong concept for it.
I would say, I mean, where I was 10 years ago, that's probably something I struggled
with a lot, which is the idea of like, I was in, I was in graduate school, but just like
everything about graduating just seemed impossible.
It's like this, you know, in a certain sense, you could say I was in grad school to avoid
having to go into the real world.
That's why I went to college.
Yeah.
And so like, but that wasn't really a solution because like that's just a stress, a stressful
thing too.
And one thing about less wrong is, you know, getting a name for it, getting a handle on
it and getting this idea that like, hey, just recognize that's what's happening, recognize
that you're having an aversive reaction to this idea or this, this deadline or whatever.
And here are some tools or here are some ways of thinking about approaching that.
I think personally, that's one of the ways less wrong and then rationality movement helped
me the most in a day to day sense.
Yeah.
Giving you all kinds of tools and frameworks, like here's the model I'm using.
Here's what the mental motions towards doing that thing look like.
I wish that I'd had a lot of that stuff explained to me earlier on, but it was still invaluable
