I've got a trans cranial direct current stimulation unit.
And I bought what I think was the first commercially available one on the market.
Like when I was first looking into this like a decade ago, I, there was nowhere that was
making them.
And I was like, okay, well there's, and I, I don't know enough about electrical engineering
to ever hope of making a safe one to myself that I put on my head and zap my brain with.
So I was like, well, maybe I could pay somebody to do it.
And then when I was still tossing around the idea of trying to figure out how to get someone
that I could trust and, you know, how, like how to budget getting this all together, some
place online was selling these.
And so I bought one of the first commercially available units and I want to compare it to
yours because you just bought one a few weeks ago.
Yeah, it's a, I have the Halo sport, which is a consumer ready one that's been tested
in clinical trials.
And it is the second generation.
And I like it a lot.
I mean, it sits over the band of your ears and it is just for training the muscle memory
portion of your brain.
So it's for doing exercise or doing something like learning a musical instrument.
I have a lot of ideas for what I want to try to train with it though, like sign language.
I have been using it with Beat Saber, which I think I mentioned before, but it just looks
fucking hilarious because you already have to wear this big VR headset in order to play
Beat Saber.
And I've got a headset over a headset.
And then I'm usually playing Beat Saber like in my underwear because you get really fucking
hot playing that game.
So, you know, the weird cyberpunk feature.
I'm going full cyborg.
Yeah.
Well, they compared the surgery to, they wanted to be like a Lasik surgery.
And Steven and I have already, oh no, all three of us already have that.
You and me soon, hopefully, because I just got vision insurance.
Laser eye group.
So that, yeah, like a bit of a tangent, but I was told that I have a stigmatism and near
sightedness.
So they were like, if you get Lasik, then you'll have your distant vision corrected.
But when you get old, your close vision will deteriorate and you'll end up needing glasses.
And I was just like, oh, well, that's not worth it.
And then now I'm thinking like, yeah, but I'm not getting old.
And also like that happens to everyone.
Well, it wouldn't have happened to me or like, I'm talking like I've already gotten the
vision.
My close vision is very good and it would continue to stay sharp.
It's just that I'm going to need glasses forever anyway because my far vision is shit.
So it would reverse.
But I mean, I'm hoping that the technology gets better by the time I'm old, that there's
going to be better and better ways to correct stuff.
So I might as well do it now, especially if I've got the vision insurance.
And if you get it where I got it done, they'll give you touch ups for life.
Well, I guess basically they'll give you more surgery for the rest of your life.
I was hoping that touch up was less in like less of a ordeal than regular, but it's not
because they use the word touch up.
I guess that means that you spend two seconds under the laser rather than eight.
But like, that's not the hard part.
The hard part is the two weeks of disgusting, tasting antibiotics that run through your
like the hole in your eye down your throat.
Do you remember those?
Yeah.
Somehow it's awful.
I don't understand it.
And it's like, I mean, it's amazing how much of it gets into your throat.
Well, I mean, the trick is you can, you put it on this way and it drains out this way.
And then I usually just would drink tea when I was putting in the drops too.
But then, then the, the two or three weeks of paralyzing concern afterwards that I'm
going to scratch my eye and to, you know, written off.
And yet like the second morning I woke up doing this and I'm a light sleeper.
So that woke me up immediately and I'm, no one could hear me scratching my eye.
But I was fine.
And the main thing that also kept me saying about it was that like, this makes me sound
like I'm, what am I, like I'm, have a big ego, but like the average idiot gets laced
on all the time and almost no doctors have worked with a patient who's ruined their eye.
But you know, the guy who I got my lipstick with, he's done, he's worked with several
thousand patients.
And I think he said he's had one person who ruined their eyes afterwards.
And that's because they got wasted the night after and had been wearing contacts for a
decade and went to go remove their contact lenses.
Oh my God.
Oh, why did you throw me off?
I kind of wanted that reaction to know how bad it would be.
So yeah.
I mean, yeah, regardless of how much you get ablated away, they still have to peel your,
your cornea away.
So it's going to be a big recovery, but yeah, I don't have to.
They can laser directly on your current cornea.
PRK is what I got, but the recovery for that is so much worse.
Yeah.
You basically have to dare double it for like a week, right?
Yes.
For a week I had no vision and I had to have people leave me around the house and I was
just in intense pain for two weeks, I think, and then very decent amounts of pain for another
month after that.
And this was because you didn't want to be conscious during the surgery or?
No, this is because I couldn't, I couldn't have something touch my eye.
I got enough of a thing about eyes that they gave me a double dose of what is the thing
that calms you down?
Valium.
Valium, a double dose.
And I was still freaking out when it came down into my eye and they're like, you're going
to rip your cornea.
We're not going to do the surgery on you.
And I said, is there any other option?
They're like, we can laser right on the surface of your eye, but the recovery is awful.
And I said, do that.
They let you consent to that while on double dose of Valium?
I think I had already told them that this could be an option.
Okay.
Yeah.
Since this is not a horror podcast, I just wanted to say like, like I was, I was moderately
apprehensive.
Like I had kind of heard that it, that people, that it was kind of not a big deal, but like,
I was not prepared for how not a big deal it was because they gave me Valium and Dilaudid.
And it was just, it was just like nothing.
It was like having somebody like clip your fingernails as far as my like mind was concerned.
I was just like, oh, so that's what it looks like to not have your cornea on.
That's cool.
If you don't have like a weird thing about nothing can touch your eyes, then yeah, it's
fine.
Like I couldn't even wear contacts before I tried.
Yeah.
I couldn't watch other people put in contacts because that would freak me out so much.
How did you handle the month of eye drops?
I fucking just powered through it.
I mean, I would, I would literally hold my eyelids open and like force it in.
It was, it was a pain.
Yeah.
For me, the interesting part about getting it done was I, one of my co-workers had described
it and they do this thing where they kind of push down and not pop your eye out, but
they give it, they give it some extra pressure area to work with and it does, it does pressure
it out a little bit.
And he was like, it really hurts.
So be ready for that.
And like, I felt pressure.
Like someone was pushing on my face, like, but not, not hard at all.
And then yeah, when they, like you said, when they, when they peel back your cornea, it
was like really, really low res.
Yeah.
And it was, it was, it was merely interesting.
Right.
And I wasn't the least bit alarmed.
Exactly.
My co-worker got her Lasik done over lunch and came back and worked the rest of the day.
That strikes me as a little irresponsible.
I took, I went home and took a nap because I was with the doctors.
That was doctor's orders.
So my wife fed me a quesadilla because there was nowhere nearby to get like easy, like
feed a blind person food.
And so I had a quesadilla and went to bed listening or listening to the episode of Brooklyn Nine
Nine where one of the detectives gets Lasik surgery.
I got to say, even with the horrible recovery of PRK, one of the best things I've ever done
in my life.
And this was within the last decade.
No.
Was it?
Oh, it was right around 10 years.
May have been before 2010.
I'm not sure.
Really?
Yeah.
You still feel that good about it though.
Yes.
Yeah.
That's great.
We should probably move along.
But before we do that, any major personal life things changing over the past 10 years?
Let's go around the circle.
Yeah.
I have a lot of them.
I mean, I switched careers twice, moved, had my house burned down, changed genders.
Man.
Yeah.
Man.
Yeah.
I made a lot of these changes were directly the result of lesser on in the rationality
community or indirectly from inspiration that I got from reading Gorn and realizing that
this is a person putting science in a framework where I can understand it and I'm super interested
in it.
And then just like kind of changing the way I thought about, well, changing values really
like I had always kind of like held a bunch of the values that the lesser on community
held as important, I guess, but I didn't have vocabulary for them or any way to really
refine them.
Like, oh gosh, like, um, empiricism, I guess, just kind of, yeah, like focusing and doubling
down on empiricism really was the main thing that like helped drive me forward.
There are a lot of things doing experiments, seeing what happens, and then like not making
you, you know, forcing yourself to not flinch away from the data, what the data shows.
I don't know for going in a circle, I don't, I, I touched on some of mine already.
I mean, it's mundane stuff.
I like maybe if I had to put weight on it, probably 25% of the reason I got into programming
was because it seems like a, you know, a rationalist thing to do.
But the, the main thing that got me into it was or that let, let me do it rather was
just this, I don't know, I'm not sure where this would be in the rationalist vernacular,
but I don't know, the like just do it kind of mentality, like there's nothing stopping
you from doing whatever you want, given that you're not, you know, filing laws of physics
or whatever, but sort of just this, this serious attitude of like, okay, I've got to like take
charge.
Um, yeah, I mean, other than that, I don't know, all the, you know, regular life stuff
that people do, got married, um, got, I guess, a house, which, you know, is like a, it's
like a, my house is basically an apartment.
Um, I don't know, nothing super exciting.
I'm feeling rather like I've not done much, which is totally fine.
My life's in a good spot.
