the Snopes article that I feel like I like paid some enemies with people.
Yeah, that's my role on Facebook as well.
And then I just like mostly stopped going on Facebook, except to share memes
or to use Facebook Messenger with my few friends that refuse to use any other
messaging app. I really got to get that new one riot.
Is it that Matt was talking about the new message app?
Yeah. Oh, I don't know.
The only reason I have so many messaging apps now, yeah, it's like,
can we use less messaging app?
I like this, but I've basically stopped using Slack entirely in favor of discord.
I do like discord.
It has a few flaws, but for the most part, that would be nice if
I keep trying to find some kind of this is such a tangent app, like messaging app aggregator.
They claim to exist.
There's a few that I've tried.
None of them has impressed me yet.
The funny listeners know of one that works really well.
I'd really appreciate a recommendation.
Now I'm going to shut up.
I like discord because it has all the strengths and flaws of the old IRC channels.
I like it. But like, what about your friends that won't use anything but Facebook Messenger?
Yeah, there's a reason I say that.
They actually are dead to you.
Well, no, I use Facebook Messenger.
Yes. OK. All right.
I mean, so all right, back to the post.
So so here, you know, the anticipated reaction, I'll play the part of the
the person that he's reacting to.
Well, so so Eleazar, you're you're telling me that the the person that says,
oh, well, I whatever experiment after experiment,
keeps showing that vaccines aren't causing autism, but they just get to keep saying,
I defy the data. That seems like a really stupid argument you're making there.
He says, specifically, you can't defy the data on multiple experiments.
At that point, you either have to relinquish the theory or dismiss the data
by pointing to a design flaw or a larger body of experiments that fail to replicate it.
He. Yeah, he specifically is making this a you can defy the data one time.
It makes a lot of sense, because like just file drawer effects by themselves
are enough to explain a way like, oh, we did one experiment
that came up with a really weird finding. It's like, oh, yeah.
He's a what is it?
Confidence interval of point oh five.
It's going to happen all the time.
Yeah, there's lots of noise and data.
Yeah. All that means is, OK, run a real experiment on that topic now
that you have found that finding. So, yeah.
Well, he does try to make replication higher status by this.
I think it seems almost like this seemed like a hack
to try to get more things replicated because if someone prominent
defied the data publicly, then, you know, that would be news.
And then the replicators could get their names in the journals
as the people who, you know, either confirmed or or.
Not deny, but. Confirmed or defied.
Yeah, the defile confirmed defied the defile.
And then God damn it. Denied. Denial. Thank you.
And then the person who denied the data either gets more status
for, you know, sticking their neck out and defying this data
or gets to make look like an idiot when the replication went through.
And they're like, oh, OK, my bad, I guess.
Or they get they get props for defying or, you know, for denying the data
when it looks deniable. Right.
That's how it should be, right? Or it's just neutral.
It would be good to have a hack that makes replication higher status somehow.
Yeah. Yeah. Interestingly, in that sentence about you either have to
relinquish the theory or dismiss the data.
Um, neither of those are or you have to update your your model and say
that you were wrong and the data is actually right.
And it's a prize that wasn't wasn't one of the either's.
He does say defying the data admits that the data is not compatible with your theory.
Sticks your neck out, so your head can be easily chopped off.
Yeah. People are like, turns out your theory was wrong, Mr. Feynman.
Reminds me of Einstein, like some experimental result,
disagreed with his prediction for like some eclipse measurement.
He was like, they did their experiment wrong.
Nice. Yeah.
And what turned it was funny, because it turned out that they did
their experiment wrong, but his prediction was also slightly wrong.
But then he had a chance to correct his theory by the time
the next eclipse rolled around or the next experiment.
So but he came out looking good, obviously, because he's Einstein.
But to your point, what you were saying, yeah, I do think people can
and often do take this to a way big extreme.
But they're like, I just defy any data that doesn't fit what I believe.
But by that point, you're not playing in the spirit of the rules
and you're going to be able to just rationalizing anyways.
Yeah. Yeah.
Which is an unfortunate accident of English language history
that rationalization and rationality are so closely tied together.
Yeah.
Want to wrap this up?
You think of hatred and call it a night?
Oh, for next time, our our last wrong post will be absence of evidence
is evidence of absence and conservation of expected evidence.
There was a whole book I read on that first post
that I think before I read less wrong and I'd like to know if.
Oh, I had his name when I started that sentence and I forgot it.
But the book was called God, the failed hypothesis.
And he says that the lack of elephant footprints and
droppings in Yellowstone National Park are are evidence that there aren't
elephants that live there.
Right. Is the is the example that he gives at the beginning.
By Victor Stenger.
Thank you. Yes.
Who used to teach, I think in Boulder.
I think he subsequently has died.
I missed a talk that he went to
and I really should have gone.
But yeah, Victor Stenger wrote that book.
It's nice to have somebody at the computer handy.
Yes. Before we think our current patron,
I want to say that the previous patron that we thanked,
which was a while ago now because we didn't do one on our live episode.
We thanked thunk.
We thanked thunk and talk for a bit about who this thunk person might be.
Turns out, thunk is a channel
on YouTube creating educational videos that have their own Patreon.
And it turns out that if someone on Patreon
patronizes us, I guess, donates to us, I don't know what the term is.
We can just click on their name and go to their thing.
So yeah. Yeah.
So I found thunk after we thanked them and I love saying that.
And yeah, I found their videos and it's really cool.
So everyone check out thunk's YouTube channel, which I don't know
how to like hashtag YouTube channel.
But I'm sure if you search thunk, education or something or whatever.
We can post a link in the show.
That's probably the easiest way to do it.
YouTube's a weird spaghetti mess.
So it seems like this would be like up our alley, too.
I haven't seen any thunk videos yet,
but like episode 179, the most recent one is called Rationality Without Justification.
So yeah, seems like.
Oh, and there's 179 episodes.
Yeah. How long are they?
I'm assuming since it's YouTube, it's like 15 minutes or less.
That's a weird assumption to make.
10 minutes for episode 179.
Perfect. All right.
Sounds great.
And that's about the attention span of people watching YouTube.
Yeah. Every now and then there's an 18 minute video on YouTube
and I'm like, that's just too long for me.
Well, that's why you watch it to speed it.
Yeah, I make some exceptions.
Like ContraPoints is always awesome,
but usually anything longer than 15 minutes.
I'm like, this is not the time I have allocated for YouTube.
Anything that's like two hours on YouTube.
I like I've got that ContraPoints that's been open for like a month on my computer
or one of the videos has the big one that made the rounds recently has been open
since it came out, but I have to have my browser open the entire time.
It's like, now put this on a podcast app
and I can pause and play and leave the app.
That'd be great. Thanks.
Yeah. You can do that because you pay for good YouTube.
Yes. Yeah. It's worth it.
Yeah. It's true.
Yeah. I usually think that like, you know,
things that are really long, like debates that I watch sometimes,
it's stuff that I'll do at work while I'm doing bank reconciliation or whatever.
I can take it. Yeah. All right.
But the patron that we are actually thinking this week is whose turn is it?
I think it's been a while since I've done it.
OK, go for it. Jonathan Mast.
Thank you so much for your support.
You're super awesome.
And this podcast wouldn't happen without you.
If it sounds rushed, that's because it is because we've overstayed our
not our welcome, our window at Inayash's house where we where we record.
So Jonathan Mast, thank you very much.
You have helped make this decade a good one for this podcast anyway.
So partly the rationally rationality community.
And, you know, we're going strong to the next one.
That's right. You're the first patron thanked of 2020.
Oh, that's true. Awesome.
You know what I'm going to do?
I have the cyberpunk 2020 rulebook still.
I got to scan that and then post it on my Facebook, telling people,
this is the future I was promised.
It is it is not the future I have.
I mean, I'm pretty happy with my future work and like where a VR headset
with a brain stimulator in my underwear in my living room.
I mean, I am glad that I'm not living in a burnt out urban health scape
while the mega rich do whatever they want.
Hey, give it any election cycle.
Right. You know, hold your breath.
On the other hand, I really would have liked to be able to hack
into the matrix with my brain and, you know, have guns wired to my nervous system.
Well, it's only January.
Call you on us.
Maybe the neural lace will be coming out in, you know, second quarter of the year.
We don't know. Nice. All right.
We should wrap it up. OK.
Thank you, everybody. This was great.
We'll see you all in two weeks.
All right, everybody. Bye.
Big shout out again.
Thanks for Matt for coming. This is great.
Of course, my pleasure.
Willing to cast stuff on the show notes as well.
Yes, thanks.
