Yes. And then you never change.
I love it. No, I think it's great.
I knew I recognize the ancient language.
Is that what it's called? The old tongue.
The old tongue from from Wheel of Time, which gives me shit for mentioning
because it's the only long series I've ever read.
That wasn't Harry Potter.
But yeah, I couldn't remember the word parts are anyway.
Yes. So that cool.
Our first post was your strength as a rationalist,
which starts off as a him telling about
and thing that happened to an anecdote as one will
in an IRL IRC, rather, chat room.
Do people all know what IRC chat rooms are?
I think so.
They still explain for our listeners.
Internet relay chat.
It's basically discord back before discord existed.
It would you would type in real time to people one line at a time
and everyone in the room could see it and you would all just kind of chat like that.
You know how IRL is where you do that with meat space.
This was that, but in the computer, IRL IRC.
Perfect. Yeah.
Anyways, someone was telling him that a friend of theirs needed medical advice
over IRC that he'd been having chest pains and he called an ambulance.
An ambulance came, but the paramedics said nothing was wrong and left.
And now the chest pains were getting worse.
And Eliezer remembers that he was very confused by that story,
that he remembered reading that paramedics always have to take someone
to a hospital when they complain of chest pains,
because otherwise they risk being hit with a huge lawsuit if it actually was
a heart attack and they don't have to end up paying the person's bills.
So as a matter of policy, you always take someone to the hospital.
But he also remembered, you know, he'd gone to the doctor
complaining about chest pains before and the doctor explained, it's not a heart attack.
You have this or this or whatever.
And every time he'd done that, the doctor had always been right.
And so he was he was confused by the story, but like he waved it off and said,
yeah, the paramedics were probably right.
And then it turned out his friend came back a little later,
said that this friend of theirs made everything up entirely.
And at that point, Eliezer begins the self-flagellation
where he says that he he felt really bad about this
because he had explained an entirely fictional story
within his existing model by contorting his thought process to fit it.
And he should have at that period, as soon as he was confused,
stopped and noticed and said, I don't think this is in the post,
but it's become sort of a meme, or at least for a while.
I notice I am confused is the term that was used because whenever you are confused,
that is a sign that either the story is wrong or something about your model is wrong.
That if you can change your model to explain any anomaly, even one that never happened.
I believe the line was a hypothesis that forbids nothing permits everything
and thereby fails to constrain anticipation.
And the I wasn't in this post, but somewhere on the blog, too,
like the the the issue was that like that little note of dis dis concerning like confusion.
It's just a failure of human architecture that that's not a blaring siren.
It's just like a beep. That's confusing.
And part of the training that are as rationalists is to try and promote
that to conscious attention when you notice it.
And I make an effort of saying either in my head or out loud.
I notice I'm confused if I'm confused by something.
And that's one of the the core principles of skepticism
that Brian Dunning's articulated over the last 15 years of his podcast of like
before you move mountains to try and explain some bizarre event
that someone was describing to you.
First things first, make sure it actually happened.
This is that's a little more straightforward than trying to map
a something into your existing mental model and stuff.
But it's the same and it's in essence has serves a similar course.
I'm trying to say.
If I had to guess, I would say that this is some kind of artifact
of having minds that evolved to make models.
I mean, it would be OK, it's raining and now it stopped raining.
And maybe God is crying.
I don't know.
Like people kind of come up with stories to explain why things happen.
And then they I guess, like, corroborate them over time.
And the model has some kind of explanatory power.
I mean, we have like Newton's laws, which are exactly right.
But they had explanatory power.
But we have like as a as a species standing on the shoulders of giants
who have actually done the math, we have good models now.
And it makes a lot less sense for us to try to come up with an explanation
than to kind of pause and be like, well, it makes more sense
that this person was making something up.
Although the thing with the paramedics, the first thing, of course,
that jumped into my mind was that's actually not true.
The paramedics do not have to take you to the hospital if you refuse care.
Oh, yeah. I mean, of course, you know, the
elliors probably knew that and that was probably one of the things
that was disconfirmed early on.
But like it's just like me reading this story.
I couldn't get that out of my head because I was like remembering a time
when I was doing volunteer EMS and we showed up on scene of someone
who had cut their finger off and they refused care.
They're like, I'm just going to duct tape it back on.
And we had to leave because you're not actually allowed to force
somebody to the hospital if they don't want to.
But like, dude, you really.
OK, do you just need like two people to to affirm their verbal consent?
Or do you need them to sign something saying, OK, you're telling us sign something?
Or if they like are unable or, you know, uncooperative,
but you can use verbal consent, there's some like confusing legal
stuff around it. But basically, like I remember an EMS person telling me
that one time they went to someone who was having a heart attack
and they refused care because it would be too expensive for them to go to the hospital.
That was the same reason this guy with the finger said that because
even though we were the volunteer EMS unit, so it was like the ambulance
ride is not going to cost anything in the care we give in the ambulance.
But once we give you to the hospital, it's going to probably like bankrupt you.
Unfortunately. Yeah.
And so the EMS team left and she said like the whole time they were just hoping
I hope he falls unconscious soon and his wife calls us back
because once you're unconscious, you can't refuse care.
Yeah. And they show up.
Oh, there's an unconscious guy.
It looks like he's having a heart attack to the hospital. You go.
Yeah. If that feels you with this awesome sense of whatever,
there's a great subreddit for that called a boring dystopia
where it's like the whole sentiment is like, oh, yeah,
I have decided to discontinue a living because I can no longer afford it.
Yeah.
God. Yes.
Yeah. One thing I like, I think that both of the
the ones we're going to discuss today are on similar topic,
but like I find that people lie a lot
and it's a nice it's a nice framing for for being like
like I used to I think I used to be a lot more credulous and over time
just been a lot quicker with the filter of rather than thinking like
hmm, that's odd that that story doesn't quite make sense.
But I'll just be like, that's bullshit.
And like your people lie so much.
Honestly, like you're so but
you're seriously like you're so likely to be right
if you assume people are lying if their story doesn't make sense.
Even necessarily lying out of bad faith.
I remember when I was a little kid,
my mom would just make shit up all the time, like she would make up her own
science facts.
And like, I really think that there's this human instinct to like
that there's a comfort in like having things make sense or there being
some kind of story to something.
But I remember one time my mom was like bees.
Bees aren't scary because they just want to drink the flowers or and I was just
like, OK, and then another time I was wearing this floral bathing suit
and a bee was buzzing around me.
And I was like, don't worry, just think you're a flower.
But like before that, she had told me bees go and sting flowers
in order to like sting flowers.
She's like the bees go sting the flowers in order to like drink the nectar,
which she didn't know what the hell she was talking about.
She just made that up.
And then like, so of course, she's like, oh, don't worry,
it's just it thinks you're a flower.
And I'm like, oh, so it's going to sting me to try to drink my nectar.
Like, OK, I remember being like, I forget.
Like, I think I was not going to school at that time.
So I would have had to been like less than five years old and realized
like my mom was full of shit.
She's just making shit up.
Like I was reading books about biology at the time.
Of course, they were for kids or whatever.
But like, I was like, wait a minute.
So like really early, I was like, oh, my parents will just make shit up.
So like everybody must be making shit up to me.
If like, you know, if my parents are, I've been trusting forever.
I still am pretty trusting.
Unfortunately, I have this thing I've been trying really hard to work on it.
But I still do it sometimes where I lie out of like social nicety.
Like white lies, I guess.
Yeah, just something to like make things less awkward.
And the ethics are really confusing.
You get stuck in a web of lies, you know?
I mean, I would love to do a whole episode.
Actually, that's another thing about radical honesty, because the ethics
around lying get really confusing when it comes to like consent.
Like whether or not someone can this would be going off on a huge tangent.
But like the short version of this is like the standard culture.
It is acceptable and expected that you do white lies in order to not hurt
people's feelings or in order to go with whatever, like the, you know,
like socially acceptable way to respond to certain things is.
So doing radical honesty is actually subversive.
Most people don't want it.
I tried to do radical honesty, but like with people who have consented.
I was wondering, like sometimes you'll be telling a story and then I'll just be like,
OK, if I tell this as it happened exactly, it will be boring and take 10 times as long.
I can just make like a kernel of the story, which is not it's not a lie,
but neither did it happen exactly this way.
I almost feel like that's a public service sometimes when you're not altering
the facts in a way that's going to mislead anybody in a dangerous way.
But you're just you're just making a more exciting story or one that's more
palatable to listen to.
That's how I that's how I think about it, too.
I don't really worry about it too much, but I do sometimes feel like,
I hope this is my being unethical by making a better story for my friends.
Yeah, I'm holding back a bunch of anecdotes and sidebars because we're
running low on time, but I do the same thing and I feel dirty when I do it.
Like I'll be at work and I'm explaining, like, you know, something
that happened on the way in, and I'm like, well, I'll save them the long version.
And like, I feel like I'm not telling the truth.
