And the interviewer was talking to the researcher and the scientist, something about like, you know, it would be,
it would be something positive about ending aging, right?
And the interviewer who looks to be somewhere in his 60s or 70s said,
Yeah, let's get on that.
I would really like that.
Not those exact words, but a very positive affect.
And I was like, Holy shit, the world has completely turned around from where it was 20 years ago.
Like that, that blew my mind.
And my parents were actually like believing it.
And I mean, believing in like, this is when I talked to them about ending aging five, 10 years ago.
They were like, Ah, that'll never happen.
Who would even want to have such a thing?
And now they're like, this is a great idea, son.
Wow, this is this.
I love how things have progressed.
I want to say the advent of CRISPR is probably one of the things that is primarily responsible for people becoming more hopeful about that kind of thing or more terrified.
I, what was the name of the book?
There was this audio book I was listening to and I went to the New York solstice because Phoenix and I drove.
So we had a lot of time to listen to audio books.
I was trying to, I think it was some book that was like talking about the 10 biggest things that are going to change the future.
And the view they had about ending aging was so negative or at least so like, you may not like it, but here's the things that might happen.
And like, I think it was just everything that they brought up about how like, oh, there's going to be genetically engineered babies that are going to be healthier and smarter.
You might have to never say goodbye to your loved ones.
Here's some bad news. In 50 years, your body will cease to break down and get worse and worse until you eventually die forever.
How bad does that sound?
I read that book Lifespan by that aging researcher recently, which is why I started taking in him in.
What, sorry?
Lifespan?
Is that right? Is it Lifespan or is it?
Was it Aubrey de Grey?
No.
Because he's the guy who looks like Gandalf, but he's like 41.
No, this guy's like the head of the Harvard Aging Research Lab. He's a much more legit scientist.
Oh, David Sinclair?
Yeah, David Sinclair.
But I bring it up to say like, I've started taking a lot of supplements from that book and they make me feel a lot more, I have a lot more energy because of those, but that's a tangent.
The point is, like, the first half of the book is a slightly highly detailed and technical explanation of like his theory of aging and why he thinks these supplements work.
The second half is like an impassioned argument why it's okay to want to live longer.
Which I was very bored by, but in light of this conversation, I'm like, yeah, I mean, good on you.
I guess that needs to be part of the package at this point.
Yeah.
And I'm glad that it is. I'm glad that the opinions are changing on that topic and about AI too, because like, I used to feel like, I used to feel like I basically was part of a cult whenever I brought up like AI around like acquaintances or like my extended family.
I just kind of mumble self-consciously because I'm aware that I sound crazy, but like now it's a mainstream topic.
And now it exists in the world.
We've got these baby AIs that still are very impressive, GP2-2 and the chess and...
AlphaGo.
AlphaGo and...
StarCraft, if you happen to know.
StarCraft.
If you happen to be able to know what...
StarGo.
Young enough to know what StarCraft is.
Old slash young.
In a certain specific geek window.
Yeah.
Like the people who know what muds are.
Yeah, right, right.
Maybe this is just a confidence issue, but I remember when I first was getting into cryonics, I didn't tell anybody.
Uh-huh.
I felt, for whatever reason, embarrassed.
You know, because it was a weird thing and it's, I don't know how much more widely popular cryonics in particular is, but I was giving the pitch to my co-workers this week and they were interested.
I gave it to two of them last week.
I've got three.
And then the other one was in the office this week and they were talking about it and it was out of the room.
And they're like, oh, Zoopz is back.
We've got here.
Tell them about what you're going to be frozen when you die.
And I have no problems whatsoever talking about it.
And they seem to genuinely interested in hearing about it.
And that's not, I guess that's only tangential in the fact that, like, I don't know if this is yet to hit, like, critical mass where people are going to be signing up a lot yet.
But I'm confident it will be.
Maybe.
Well, I don't know.
I'm leaning more towards the connectome preserving, uh, plasticine thing.
Which I think you guys actually interviewed the person that's working on it.
We did.
Before I was on the show.
Twice.
Yeah.
Downside is that that's not an option yet, is it?
It's destructive.
Well, no, you can sign up for it.
I think you can be on the wait list or something.
Well, but what happens if I die while I'm on the wait list?
Yeah, no.
No, it's.
And he's also, last I heard a couple of years ago, literally the only person working on it.
So.
It's really bizarre to me because this is such a hot topic.
At least have like an assistant, you know,
I think it's probably like at least more than literally one person working on it.
But.
Well, in his words, he was the only person that he knew who was working on it.
Maybe when he says he, maybe he meant he and his team.
No, I think he said that he was working solo.
Like one time I interviewed him.
He was like.
I said, hold on a sec.
Let me go change some, some files or whatever.
Cause he was literally mixing stuff in the lab because he doesn't have grad students to do it for him.
Huh.
Well, they now have.
Connectome the brain preservation foundation.
Cool.
Things are progressing.
Might just be this one guy's website.
But.
I mean, originally.
It looks.
Mary was just posting stuff.
Yeah.
Another exciting development on this front is the whole neural lace thing where the,
you know, the, the Elon Musk.
Fronted.
What's it?
What's the company called?
I forget what they're talking about the.
The brain computer interface.
Yeah.
The brain computer interface where we're like the presentation on, on that was way ahead
of where I expected it to be.
I mean, it's still sort of experimental, but like they're, they're very ambitious with
it.
Like, I don't know if you'll, if you'll watch it.
I could come soon enough for me because I like empathize so hard with Elon Musk talking
about how terrible it is to have gone from, well, we used to have these, you know, computers
with keyboards that you could use all of your fingers to type on.
And now we've got our thumbs.
And you're just deep, deep, deep.
I like, I feel so much pain when I'm trying to keep up with correspondence on my phone
and I'm not able to pull my laptop out.
Yeah.
I don't put much stock in presentations because they always show you the stuff that they
have working well.
And you know, you don't get to see all the things that break immediately if you try to
go off script.
Sure.
I mean, so they've apparently actually tested some versions of this in mice and it works
or whatever value of works means.
And basically their plan is to have a thing where like they drill a little hole in your
skull.
It's like an outpatient surgery.
The drill a hole in your skull.
They get this little robot that like goes inside your skull somehow and stabs like a thousand,
literally a thousand electrodes throughout your cerebral cortex.
And then there's like input output capability with these electrodes because that like, there's
a whole bunch of little innovations like the electrodes themselves being like able to
tolerate that environment and detect really, really small voltages.
So they end up getting like the voltage trace across basically your whole, you know, human
part of your brain, the outside.
And if our understanding of how the brain works is correct, then that should give you the
ability to like control things or even have it like shoot information into your brain.
Fucking awesome.
I know kung fu.
I know kung fu.
Yeah.
If I could just type with my brain, that would just be such a quality of life improvement.
Yeah.
Well, it depends on how fast you typed.
If I could type.
I mean, I only bring that up because Stephen Hawking, you know, could type with his brain.
Right.
But it took ages.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
But he was pretty prolific.
I think you wouldn't be able to get an MRI anymore though if you had that, right?
Oh, gosh, no.
I don't know.
Unless the metal was a non-ferrous.
Non-ferrous, but even then they'd probably freak out.
It has to be ferrous because it has to conduct electricity.
You know, it would be useful as an output.
I got a photo from a coworker of mine that was amazing, which was his, he was a former
neural, he worked in neurology, works in cancer now, but his wife still works in some neurology
thing.
And she sent him a picture of like, this is why you don't, I forget what the exact like
quote was, which is bad, but it was a wheelchair that was smashed.
Like just absolutely like as though like a giant had taken a wheelchair and like smashed
it into the front of an MRI.
Apparently somebody had left a wheelchair in there.
Luckily, no patient was sitting in the wheelchair, but it was just like, I was thinking about
like, this is why you don't let interns use the MRI.
Somebody was in the machine.
Is aluminum non-magnetic?
Well, I was going to say ferrous means it has iron in it and gold is super conductive
and has no iron in it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I don't know how, how corrosive that would be or how, how, again, part like titanium
might be a good, good go, go to, right?
And it doesn't, it's non-reactive with the immune system.
You can definitely get an MRI with titanium.
So yeah, I think they'll probably figure it out.
I'm, I'm first in line though.
My usual thing on these is all on things in general, but I think specifically with drilling
something into my brain, I'm second in line.
I, I want the gen two version.
I bought, I, well, I bought gen one versions, like the, the closest I've got to this is
