Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, I'm Jess Dickey,
I'm Matt Freeman, welcome back Matt Freeman, thank you very much. Matt, so most people probably know you as the guy from We've Got Worm,
We've Got Ward and the Doofcast and also soon coming up and what's new Dark Tower one called? Kingslingers. Kingslingers, right?
This time I will be the Scott and Scott will be the Matt. It's gonna be so weird. Yeah, but we had you on before was it just once?
We had, I came to talk about rational parenting once and then another time I feel like we ended up talking a lot about community, although it was supposed to be I think to talk about seeing like a state.
That's kind of appropriate though. Yeah, I remember you didn't get to talk too much about the rational parenting because you had that terrible migraine that got you, which although update you don't have those anymore really.
Not nearly as bad yet, but it's much more easily handled due to the progressive technology and transhumanist development and so forth. So now I'm mostly fixed, which is, which is nice.
Fucking awesome.
Not transhuman yet, but trans Matt of three years ago.
Yeah, on the way.
Awesome.
I was curious how the rational parenting thing is coming along.
You know, I don't put a lot of conscious energy into engineering their lives, but I do certain things like I got a three printer and they're really like Marvel. And so we're basically very slowly building like an Iron Man suit.
Basically the purpose just being they think it's cool and it gets them exposed to all this technology and science concepts and I'll just like blather about the engineering behind what we're doing and if they pick any of it up. Great. And if not, we're still having fun and it's that's kind of what it's all about.
So I try to do more stuff like that and less like alright today we're going to sit down in a circle and practice our our catechism from the sequences.
Yeah, I might work up to that at some point.
So that's that's basically sounds like unschooling almost.
I mean, they're definitely going to normal school, but yeah, just kind of doing things through play because like they're not going to pay attention and they're going to be annoyed and they're going to go they're going to groan if you try to lecture them, you know, so at the ages they are anyway.
Do you have any opinion?
I only bring this up because Wes is very active on the discord so I see his comments a lot.
Do you have any opinions on the whole unschooling thing? Do you think it's a terrible idea?
I don't think it's a terrible idea. I think it depends on the kid and the situation in general.
I'm sure it works great for some kids. I kind of feel like it might have worked for me, but I definitely feel like I know some people that it wouldn't have worked for at all.
And I don't know, you know, I think you have to have a certain kind of infrastructure in place to even make it work.
I haven't thought about it seriously because I don't know how that would work with three kids so closely spaced together in age.
Yeah, lots of factors basically.
Plus you would need someone to watch them during the day while you're at work.
Exactly, and that's probably the deal breaker actually is like the function of school as daycare.
Yeah, that's like the structure part of that.
If I ever have kids, I'd really like to do the unschooling thing, but then yeah, it's also you never know whether or not you're going to.
Yeah, I mean like you have to have a parent to stay at home with them.
Would be great is if we had a big rationalist group house and one person that like didn't have to work anymore and they could just, you know, daycare the kids.
Long term goals, which could that be a segue into our topic?
It could possibly if that is our topic.
I don't know.
The problem is I haven't thought about this topic at all because I thought that Steven wanted to do a 10 year retrospective thing.
But on the other hand, like if Matt's here and you guys want to talk about the community thing we could.
Could merge those things together and just say like how the community has progressed over the past 10 years and where we want to see it go.
I'd be interested in talking about that.
That sounds good to me.
Well, once we get to the future part of the present.
Yeah.
Okay.
So in that case, Steven, you pitched this to us.
I will be frank.
The half the reason the other reason I invited Matt was because you sent out this cool email that was like you have.
It was like a kind of an open journal thing.
Oh, yeah.
And you were keeping track of like here's what my goals were in 2013.
I realized that was not structured enough to like actually track progress here.
They were in 2014 and 15.
And then it was just you actually like regimented in a way that at least more than anyone else.
I knew like actual goals and progress over the last 10 years.
And so I thought it'd be kind of fun.
I don't know.
It's a lot happened in the last decade, which I guess that's true for literally everybody.
And every decade.
Yes, exactly.
So much always happens.
Yeah.
But you know, it doesn't have to be all this boring personal stuff.
And yeah, I didn't have like a lot on the subject.
I just thought it would be a kind of a fun just first episode.
Oh yeah.
This is the first time we're recording in 2020 because we split the episode into two parts.
So yeah.
And sorry again for the audio quality on that.
We have learned from our mistakes.
Hopefully.
I thought that was fine.
We learned a little bit anyway.
It's going to continue to be probably a weird work in progress, but we'll we'll just gradually get better as one does.
It seems like that's going to happen when you do weird stuff involving people calling in and such.
I'm kind of surprised you write down your goals because I don't know.
I've never had the courage to write down my goals because then there's no evidence I failed at them.
Yeah, I can explain this.
I mean, since I wrote a thing about it, like this is connected to the fact that like, I guess it was like seven years ago now.
Me and and a handful of my friends.
We wanted to keep in better touch after college.
And so we would do this like biweekly or maybe it was monthly Skype call where we would just like talk about like some topic that we had agreed on beforehand.
In a very real sense, this eventually evolved into doof.
But it was mainly just a thing to keep us together.
And like I started like one time we were like, we should have we should have like a New Year's goal thing where we all have New Year's goals and we hold each other to them.
And I was like the only one who took this seriously.
But then I started like giving the monthly updates on my goals.
And then I just kept doing that for seven years.
Did anybody else get inspired by this and also start doing it?
Not really.
Although I eventually posted unless wrong about it and people were like, this is an awesome idea.
I'm going to try it.
I don't know if anyone's tried it there either.
But this is the closest thing I have to like a journal is like a monthly kind of roundup of like, what have I been thinking about and what is my progress been on whatever I wanted to do.
And I guess like the thing that I wrote in the thing that I sent to Steven and all the Patreon patrons was like, I have this.
I haven't quite solved the problem yet, which is kind of embarrassing because it's been seven years.
But like the first year I had like 10 very specific goals.
And then the next year I reacted to that.
I was like, that was stupid.
I'm just going to have like three kind of general focus areas I want to dwell on.
And then the next year I was like, that was stupid.
I couldn't tell if I accomplished anything because how do you know if you accomplished anything if it's just a general focus area?
I need five very concrete goals.
And the next year I like, I just like kept seesawing like, and I never at any point, like still I'm not, I, I don't know what I should do now.
Should I pick concrete goals or should I have a general area that I focus on?
The nice thing about concrete goals is at least you know if you accomplish them.
So you could always just keep waffling back and forth between the two.
That's true.
So it worked out so far.
That's true.
Yeah.
One year work on very specific things.
One year, you know, on general bettering.
I think I've, when I have tried to make New Year's resolutions, I will try to pick a kind of a combination of the thing you were talking about where it's like one or two specific goals that I feel like I will make.
I hate the smart acronym.
I guess that's the specific measurable, et cetera.
But like, it does kind of make sense where it's like, by this time I want to have achieved this and this amount.
And then some more vague ones where it's like, I want to do this more.
I want to like be able to point myself towards this thing a bit.
I always having a combo is nice.
I always kind of hated New Year's resolutions because I thought my thinking was if you want to do something you actually want to do it.
So you go out and do it and making a resolution is more like, I want to want to do this.
So then you just beat yourself up all year about not actually doing it.
Whereas if you wanted to do it, you wouldn't even need to make a resolution.
You just go and do the thing.
The art of wanting to want is really important though.
There's, I mean, I've described my, I've been trying to break down the process that I have used to improve for various people that are like interested in what I did.
It's hard to go back and think about what I did, but like, some of the things do have this very complicated structure where it's kind of like, I was describing it as,
I kind of had this goal far in the distance that I'll occasionally joke about, well, I want to be a scientist.
And then I'll kind of side eye it and I'll be like, well, whatever and slowly just sort of inch towards it.
But like by tricking myself into like not really being that intimidated by the fact that I'm doing it until I get close enough to it that I'm not scared of it anymore.
That's a really like complicated way of explaining the thing that I do.
There is something really intimidating about facing a very like long term difficult goal that feels pretty hard to achieve and scary.
And I don't know, some people probably naturally are just like, yeah, I'm going to do that thing.
And then they just can throw all their energy and self-esteem on the line like that.
I can't.
I when I when I wanted to write the book, I just kind of sat down, wrote the book because I wanted to.
Now I want to get back into writing because it's been a while and I fallen out of it and you know, there were there were reasons for that.
But now I feel like I have this goal of getting back into writing and it is almost anti motivating.
I'm like, I don't want to start working on that yet. I'm just going to wait a little longer.
Yeah, you want your goals to not be aversive. Like you're comparing yourself to this future you that seems unattainable.
I've probably given like $200 to B-Minder due to failing because I tend to especially like on those years when I have the really specific goals.
I'll set up a bunch of B-Minders and it's a horrible idea.
And I kind of like the concept of B-Minder but all it ends up doing is just like I'm convinced this is like part of the whole headaches thing is like is I like grind myself into doing the thing that I kind of like meadow want to do but don't actually ever want to do in the moment.
And it causes a lot of stress and internal conflict and friction and just like something like, you know, you want to get better at playing an instrument or whatever.
And it's like, OK, but practicing to get better is never actually fun. Playing songs is fun.
And so you're basically just making yourself do something terrible and it's it eventually breaks down.
And that's I think that is one kind of learning that I can take away from years of iterating on this process.
And it sounds just like you kind of arrived at a similar conclusion that like if you want to if you want to kind of get yourself to do something that you don't really want to do, you have to go about it in a pretty tricky circuitous fashion.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure all the guitarists that I've seen interviews with never really disliked practicing.
They just like noodling around on the guitar and they found that fun and they got better just doing what they thought was fun.
I have a yeah, something to say about that.
So the most aversive part of learning a new skill is being really bad at it and having it be completely incomprehensible and like pushing yourself to do it and just making no progress.
So when we learn skills, a lot of that process happens when we're a kid and everything feels like that when you're a kid.
But when you're a kid, you don't have the pressure of you should be good at things.
When you're a kid, it's like you're a kid. Of course, you suck at everything like do whatever you want, you know, play.
People encourage you to play with a guitar.
So when you're a kid, you're like, if somebody gives you a guitar, your family plays guitar and you're just like screwing around with the guitar being terrible at it.
Nobody like thinks that you're a terrible person because of that.
I mean, that's how I basically learned programming.
Yeah, that's how I learned art.
I mean, like somebody gives you something, you're a kid and it doesn't matter being bad.
But when you're an adult being bad at something and taking a long time to get good at it just feels terrible because we're adults now and we're supposed to be good at things.
And we're supposed to be able to be more logical at approaching it.
We're supposed to have that self discipline.
That's stupid.
Yeah, I don't remember being a kid.
I imagine that's probably what it was like learning stuff.
Stephen was old since the day he was born.
Basically that and I just I mentioned before my autobiographical memory is terrible.
Like I couldn't give a range unless it's a very specific thing like usually within like plus or minus two years.
But my my only way of like achieving goals as long as that's the subject, I need like an external motivating factor.
And part of that actually I got from reading Childini's influence science and practice and the like the public commitment and consistency I use all the time for myself.
And so like if I don't feel like putting together notes for we want more or something, I'm like, well, no, we're recording in a couple days and it has to come on Monday.
So like, no, it's going to get done.
And I if there's if there's any public commitment to do it, I don't think I'm trying to think of any time recently where I've like flaked on something or failed to do something that I committed to doing publicly.
Certainly I don't like misobligations that I made with people.
You know, I can't even think of anything that's come up in the last year where I've been stopped from doing something I wanted like I said, I'll be there be there meet somebody and I totally forget or something.
Yeah, when it comes to like learning hard things, I'm not a self driven person.
So like, since I wanted to get into programming, the option, I mean, there's if you're a self motivated person with the energy to get started and maybe a couple of good resources that's on points in your direction just from ground up, you can totally get going and do it yourself.
I'm not that guy.
So I found a bootcamp and I also didn't have a job.
So I spent I was able to spend like 100 hours in the eight weeks or so.
No, I don't know, whatever.
Yeah, a couple months.
That sounds about right.
I'm doing prep work and this and that.
But I chosen in person bootcamp in no small part because I'd have to go there every day and do it.
Now that I work from home three, three or four days a week, I have no trouble staying motivated because like now and even like learning new stuff for my job.
It's it's easier because the stick is there.
And it's like, if I don't learn this, I don't get to keep my job.
Like it's never, you know, that's never been a thread.
But it's like, figure this out now you have to because you're getting paid to do it.
That's that's plenty enough motivation for me to learn stuff now.
But speaking about not having energy for things, I have like a whole new level of respect for you.
And I mean, like, I never disrespected you.
Like you're you're awesome and I respect you a lot.
I'm going to read into that.
Okay, good.
Good.
But I so I'm not sure if I mentioned it on the podcast, but I managed to injure my back a few months ago while doing squats in bad form.
Note on everybody.
