Don't get lazy about your form.
But your reps with less weight is better than like more weight with worse form.
Yes.
Yes, absolutely.
But I created a disc and I'm going in for surgery next week on Wednesday, which is great and all.
But the past two weeks, I have not been able to be on any of the anti-inflammatories, the good drugs, you know, and it is remarkable how hard it is to do anything when you're in constant pain.
I just I have no motivation.
I don't want to do shit.
I can't even like think of doing stuff.
And I'm like, oh my God, like Stephen has this intermittently his whole life.
Like how how do you get things done like blows my mind now?
I'm feeling embarrassed and spotlight on that.
Oh, shit.
Sorry.
No, no.
I in a polite way, I appreciate what you're saying.
It's not nearly as heroic or gallant as it sounds and your discomfort is no doubt worse than what I'm going through.
It's I at some point you just like I will not I can't generalize the way that it worked for me was when it became apparent that there was like no viable treatment options to like fix it.
All right.
Well, then what are my like non physiological things I can do to fix it?
You know, like I do nightly PT.
I am constantly like aware of like form and come, you know, all this and that.
But mainly it's just, in fact, Matt knows more about the terminology and stuff than I do because he directed me to an app that had all this cool vocabulary about it.
The way that I did it without the vocabulary was just basically it was the couple of times that have been turned down for surgery on the reflection of like, OK, well, that's not going.
I'm not going to get a fix.
Like, well, I'm also not going to let this ruin my life.
So you just kind of just decide to not let it and then you stop obsessing about it and just, you know, try and take it easy.
But don't let it ruin your life.
But it is.
I don't know.
Yeah, it's awkward.
So I don't know.
But anyway, yeah, I'm doing fine.
You're going to be doing fine in a week and that's super awesome.
So rock on.
Yeah, everybody kind of has a different set level of motivation of things that distract you.
I recently had some kind of stomach flu, like a gastroenteritis thing going on for like a week and a half.
And I had to miss a bunch of days of work.
I was just like complaining the whole time.
I was like, oh, this sucks.
Like, I hate being non-functional.
I hate being useless.
I was like, kept trying to, I like went back to work one day and I was just slowly dragging myself like through the office.
And so he's like, I don't, should you be back at work?
Like, no, it's great.
I'm fine.
And then like an hour later, I'm not fine.
I'm going to go back home.
But I had to like talk to my boss and he had to show me the handbook that's like, hey, we work with cancer patients and their immunosuppressed.
So if you had these symptoms in this handbook right here, then you should leave.
And I looked at it and I was like, yeah.
But definitely like, I don't know, I have two partners that have various like stomach issues just chronically.
And I was kind of just with both of them like, how do you guys love like this?
Like, it's, I do have a lot more respect for anybody that can just have like chronic diarrhea, you know, like, because that's just so draining.
And it sounds hilarious until like, you have to deal with it.
And then it's just like, wow, I feel terrible all the time.
The worst part, like, sorry for the TMI, but no, it's also there was a joke in there.
Like you said, chronic diarrhea is draining.
Sorry.
Yeah, levity.
Like when it comes to coping mechanism, though.
Yeah, exactly.
You got to make light of everything.
Like my general thing when it comes to like being injured or sick is like anything that affects basically like your neck, head or core like sucks.
Because you can't like, you can sometimes like lay in a better position to make your like stomach hurt a little less or whatever.
But you've got like a really sore throat or migraine.
It's just like, that's just there.
But if you have a broken foot, you just take it easy on it and it'll get better.
I don't know.
I would rather have a broken wrist than I mean, I guess I'd rather have a day of a broken wrist than a day of a migraine any day of the week.
Because you can just like be careful with an arm, but you can't be careful of your fucking brain.
That's totally people I'd rather have physical pain than like nausea and stomach things and serious about that.
Like, I just can't stand that.
Yeah, we're talking about B-Minder earlier.
And Stephen, you were talking about, um, what was it?
Well, you're saying, uh, like public commitment, I guess.
Yeah, commitment and consistency.
I think that was chapter two or three of Sheldine's book.
And that reminds me as B-Minder, like stick, where you like...
Well, that's what I was just going to say.
I think stick is where you, I'm not exactly sure.
I think you say that you're going to do something publicly and people hold you to it.
And then B-Minder is where you hold yourself to something, but you pledge a certain amount of money and that you have to pay back if you don't like make your milestones.
I think the other stick with stick, maybe that's why there's two Ks, was that it wasn't necessarily public.
You'd have like a, um...
Or you had a, um...
A person.
Like a contract buddy.
Yeah, exactly.
An accountability buddy.
Yeah.
Who you would say, all right, well, I've put up 50 bucks that will go to Trump's 2020 campaign if I don't quit smoking or if I have a cigarette in the next three months.
And then your roommate or friend, whoever you can count on to enforce that will, you know, make sure and you'll, you know, you can...
There's some self-honesty involved too, but if they watch you smoke, then boom, you've given money to a charity that you hate.
I think that's the other motivator behind stick was that you put it up for a charity that you really don't want to have your money.
Yeah.
The thing about B-Minder is it's very regimented and especially tailored toward like incremental goals.
So, you know...
Well, it was more of a kind of, you want to do more of this or less of that, right?
Yeah.
Like I remember I was trying to do like 100 words a day for writing.
Exactly.
They had like, what was it?
The yellow brick road that you have to stay on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then...
It'll give you a little bit of leeway.
Give you a little bit of leeway and let you kind of like reset the leeway and play with that.
Yeah.
But yeah, I mean the thing is I would just always just like eventually get to a day where I'm just like, I don't have the spoons to do this.
And I guess I lose.
I lose the game.
And then you're demoralized and you don't want to start over because now you had to pay money and you're pissed off.
Yeah.
I actually was talking to the co-founder of B-Minder when I was at CIFAR and I think that they've been developing it more too.
They're aware of these kinds of issues and they use it themselves.
I was really hoping to have him on.
I met Daniel and I know he is, I think his wife or partner created B-Minder.
It would be really neat to have them on.
Totally.
We talked about that.
So hoping that that might happen soon.
Yeah, that's cool.
So where does the money go if you don't succeed at your goal in B-Minder?
You said you lost 200 bucks.
Does it go to their company?
Did they donate its charity?
It goes to B-Minder, yeah.
That's the only way they make money.
It's free to use unless you fuck out.
Yeah, right on.
Which they were talking about.
They just take perverse incentives.
Yeah, we're aware that our business plan is kind of, you don't want to pay the money,
but they were saying that they try to make it as gentle as possible.
So it's like any time that you give them money, you don't feel like you've been cheated out of that money.
You're like, yeah, that's what I signed up for.
Yeah, as long as you're signing up for it, I think it sounds great.
They give you a lot of warning emails.
My inbox has like a thousand.
You are in imminent danger of derailing from your goal emails because I would always go right up to the line.
Yeah.
Did you take the Slate Star Codex survey?
Not yet.
Oh, I did.
Has it run out yet?
No, no, it's still open.
I was just curious because you said a million emails and one of the questions in it is how many unread emails are in your inbox right now?
Really like two thousand.
Really?
I don't care at all.
I put zero for that, even though I read ones that come into the Bayesian Conspiracy account,
then I mark them unread so that I remember to make a note about them and put them in the show notes so I didn't count those.
Okay.
But if I have an email, it's to me the little red circle is an action item.
And so if I deliberately left my statement for my HOA due payment unread until today when I paid it.
Yeah.
That's my thing.
I don't know how you look at that two thousand.
And then if one more comes in, I guess so don't email you if you want to get in touch with you.
If there's something important, then I will put it into my actual deal with this shit system.
Otherwise, it goes away into the memory hole forever.
Yeah.
I have heard that the shorter emails are much more likely to get responses.
Like not even to friends or businesses or anything.
Just in general, the shorter an email is the higher the likelihood of a response.
So I've gotten better at shortening them down when I forwarded you that email.
I was like, oh man, it has that whole digression at the beginning.
If I had known this back then, I would not have done that.
Yeah.
The email I sent ended up being really short.
I still haven't heard back, but cool.
I could confirm that the ones that come into the podcast email, if they're really long, I will often put off reading them because it's like, I don't have 10 minutes.
And then I'll read them and I'll be like, thanks.
I don't have time to reply everything because I usually don't.
And I do appreciate everything that goes into it.
All of the, you know, that's the whole point.
They've spent a long time writing it and thinking about what to put into it.
But I don't have that much time to put into replying to it.
So it's like, this was awesome.
Thank you.
It's all I can really say.
But if it's a quick one off question, I can answer it.
This is everybody's reminder that if you read SlateSarcodex, go take the survey if you haven't yet.
So it's very handy.
So speaking of SlateSarcodex and synthesizing the last several minutes of conversation into that, there was this post on r slash SlateSarcodex.
That was just like, how does, how does Scott Alexander do it?
How does he find the time?
And, and yes, he's extremely prolific and extremely impressive and so forth.
But, but I'm like, my thought was like, I think this is just fun for him.
He's playing.
And like, I was thinking like y'all were talking about chronic pain.
Apparently everyone here is a famous chronic pain sufferer.
And I'm like, I have only been for the past few months.
Yeah.
Well, like so, so I was thinking like most of my like less wrong posts, for example, get written when I'm having a horrible migraine or something.
Like, like most of my intellectual diversion tasks are when that's kind of all I can do, but I'd rather not.
And like, I don't have the, whatever willpower is, I don't have the willpower to do something that I should be doing.
And so I'll do something like a less wrong post, for example, or, or just comments.
