Yeah, exactly.
So that's just how it works.
And I think that that realization made me just like kind of put every memory I had into like the, this is probably bullshit bucket in my brain that eventually gets garbage collected.
So you just stopped forming memories entirely?
I think so.
And I'm kind of worried about that, actually, because this, you know, my ability to pin things down within a year or two is only like easier now, because I can usually reference it off of somebody else.
Like, I'm going to go see a comedian tomorrow, Beth Stelling.
She's really funny.
I knew that I saw her at some point in the last three or four years, but Rachel has an app on her phone that like this day and your history, your social media history.
And it was like three days ago, she's like, oh, we saw her two years ago, three days ago.
So it was two years ago, apparently.
If you had asked me how many years ago it was, I would have guessed one to three.
I'm terrible with the passage of time.
Yeah.
Um, like, how do you always know, like, what, what, what month of what year something fell on, even if it was eight years ago?
And like, she just, it's funny, because I must have never asked the question to her right out like that, because I've always been amazed by her kind of autobiographical memory.
And she's like, oh, I just have like, and she like waved her hand to kind of over her, over her head.
There's like a tape that I see with all the dates laid out on it with the events kind of arranged in order.
And I was like, what? You never mentioned this.
I don't have a tape.
That's pure fucking magic.
That's awesome.
Dude, does she have the perfect autobiographical memory?
No, it's not, it's not supernatural.
It's just like, I'm just continually like,
What is the thing where people have the ability to like see numbers as colors?
Yeah, it almost sounds like that.
It does seem like it.
Yeah.
I mean, it's, it's, it's to the extent that it's impressive to me, partially because I feel like I can, I don't, I don't remember numbers at all.
Like, which is not a useful thing.
I mean, like as an engineer.
As an engineer.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
But yeah, I thought that was pretty funny because I was, I wish I was still moving every year because that was a very handy metric for knowing how long ago something happened.
I would count back, you know, the number of times I've moved since that happened.
But haven't, haven't moved regularly like that in good five, six years now.
Why were you moving every year?
Because I like to move every year.
Oh, I just like to change where I am.
I feel that.
But, you know, that's, that's easily doable when you're renting, much harder when you're buying.
Yeah.
I mean, I switched from buying to renting and yes, it's a, I don't know, it was, it was a really positive life change for me.
Probably like there's different reasons for why different people might do both.
But more on topic, the one thing I keep thinking about is when people are talking about like, how do you have a good memory of what happened or what you were thinking at that time?
I've kept a journal since I was about eight or nine years old, like pretty regularly, and I have all of them.
Wow.
So on one hand, it's like, I do, I can actually go back and look at what I was thinking or what I was doing in, you know, middle school or like, you know, when I was 10 or 13 or 18.
On the other hand, it's all written with pencil on notebooks.
And I've got all of these stored in my closet right now.
I have this project plan where at some point I would just want to rip all the binding out and mass scan these.
So I at least have a digital version of them because like when I had the house fire, luckily my filing cabinet that I had all these journals in was spared.
It was not just my journals, but all my drawings.
But like, I was just like, man, it was really close to just having all my memories destroyed, but
I was gonna I was grinning a little bit because I was thinking the obvious way to store these forever for posterity is to record them all to tape.
Because we've all listened to the Magnus archives.
You obviously just need to commit these to a tape recorder.
I forget where I read this.
There's probably some rat-fic or I don't know.
But like, I really love the idea of being able to take all of these writings that I have.
And then like, if, if, if slash when in the transhumanist future, we get the ability to like add memory to our brains.
I want to just have this like be stored there and I can be just pull it up.
The text would have to be parsable or it would have to be in some form that's beyond text in terms of like readability, legibility.
I don't know.
But I really love that idea of I'd like to be able to take all these memories that have been stored externally and then make them internal again.
I guess it depends on what you wrote down.
I mentioned because I the condition where people have perfect, near perfect autobiographical memory is real.
It's usually it comes with like heavy deficiencies in other areas though.
Yeah, like, well, they, they, they can read a book, you know, a textbook like the rest of us and they don't retain all of that,
which is a drag because that's also, I don't know how it works in your brain, but that's also autobiographical, right?
Like you remember reading the book.
You presumably remember what it says.
You remember what you had for breakfast at 743 AM on January 11th, 2010.
There's why wouldn't you remember what was on page 333 of your college biology textbook, right?
Different ways the brain stores different kinds of memories.
Yeah, but I guess the folders that I guess are labeled autobiographical are like arbitrary.
Well, that's the point. Yeah.
So different memories are to store different ways.
What TV show you watch, but you don't remember like, yeah, I guess the pages of that book were probably stored somewhere else.
I have this stupid thing when it comes to reading that like, especially with fiction books, I could tell you back, you know, five years later.
Oh, yeah, it was on the right hand page of the hardcover copy that I had or something.
But I can't do that with useful information.
Do people with that perfect autobiographical memory not change as much in their lives?
Because I've changed radically in my life.
My impression is that usually people in the autism spectrum and they tend to kind of live these very regimented lives.
The only other thing that's going to say that I knew about them is that it tends not to be a happy thing for them.
Oh, yeah.
Because you remember every schoolyard disc someone threw your way, you know, 30 years ago.
But then couldn't you also remember every time you had great sex or something?
I guess.
I think you don't like...
Maybe this is just a reflection on the fact that more bad things happen to you than good things.
But maybe that depends on the person.
I think it's not even bad.
I think you have so many memories of mundane things and they're so intrusive that it's very hard to actually process things in real time
because you're getting inundated by like very specific memories of very similar things.
Every time you go to poop, you remember every time you ever pooped.
That does sound super boring.
Yeah, I think I remember one instance where it was like, it was really clear.
It was about this one particular case where the woman was clearly just like ruminating on all these details.
Like, you know, she remembered that she had her coffee at 9.30 because like at the end of the day,
she would be like thinking about the fact that she had her coffee at 9.30, which like, I...
It's the end of the day and I don't remember what time I did anything today.
So, yeah, I don't ruminate that way.
But if you do ruminate that way, then at least you have a chance at remembering it, I guess.
So much of the thing that's important about thinking in memory is the selective forgetting process.
And nothing reminds me of that more than like, I've been getting back into my meditation practice.
And so like today, I just did 20 minutes of mindfulness meditation.
And when you sit there and you try to just be really conscious of everything your body's doing,
everything you're feeling and everything you're thinking,
I have this meta process of labeling where I go, ah, feeling.
I'm feeling attention in my lower back muscles and that feels unpleasant.
Thinking. I'm thinking a plan about what I'm going to do after I'm finished meditating.
I'm going to go put some tea on and that feels neutral.
And you do that for 20 minutes.
It's just like, yeah, this would be like, this is a really interesting thing to do daily.
It really helps you get an idea of how your brain works, what kinds of things it's doing,
and gives you more ability to focus and whatever.
But if you had to live like that all the time, then that would be all you were doing.
So much of like what we're doing is our body going into autopilot or us like thinking back about memories.
We're thinking about these like bright points of memory that we have crystallized as this is important.
This is important. We're not thinking about that coffee we had.
Yeah, I basically stopped meditating after kind of like doing it fairly intensely for a few stretches
because I don't mind being an autopilot.
If my life were rife with suffering, then I might want some distance from that.
And I feel like that's part of the motivation for why I was meditating back then
because I wanted distance from the headaches.
But now I'm just like, things are good.
I'm fine being swept up in samsara.
I don't need to be aware of my own whatever it is that I am.
I think meditation is fascinating though. I want to talk about it.
I did vaguely like regimented meditation for a few months, like 10-15 minutes a day.
But then I've been doing like not exactly like pop quizzes because it kind of just comes up randomly.
If you constantly have whatever muscle tension or something, one way to manage it is to notice that as a problem before it's a problem.
And so you're like, oh, I'm flexing my shoulders. Let me fix that before it starts hurting.
So kind of just like an auto reminder in your head to like just check in with your body and see how things are going.
But one thing that's kind of fun to do is if you, this is like you have to like,
I have to just turn this on and then I get bored of it after a few seconds or I forget.
But just like I watch the narrative train in my head go through and you know, I'll go walk to my car.
And that's usually like a 10-second walk, but I'll leave my, I'll watch my thoughts come in as they're doing it.
And it's just, it's, it'd be hilarious to like put this to, to, to the, like to write this down or to record my thoughts as they're happening.
Because it's just like, I'm saying things to myself like, oh, I forgot to check where my car keys.
There they are. And like, why am I asking myself these questions out loud in my head?
I mean, oh, look, there's, you know, there's the neighbor's cat in the window.
Oh, but it's like so soft. And it's just like, if I was verbalizing all these thoughts, that sounded insane.
And I think that's just kind of fun.
Yeah, there's two concepts of the arising and the passing away.
And then also like one of the ideas of meditation is the idea of the no self.
So what you're supposed to do is when you hear yourself saying something, then you go, who said that?
And then you're like, and then he said that. And now he said that.
Damn it.
And eventually you follow it all the way back and you realize that like, yeah, there's, oh, nobody.
Speaking, speaking of patterns noticing themselves, you all saw the post on Slate Sarcodex about the GPT-2 playing chess.
Oh, yeah.
That was awesome.
Then I got to share the original Slate Sarcodex post about GPT-2 with all my coworkers.
There's somehow a route of the loop on all this, which I thought was interesting.
Yeah, I love it. I think it's really interesting.
For anyone who hasn't seen it yet in the listeners, Scott and a few other people put together, I think Scott just played it.
Someone else put it together using GPT-2.
It's the text predictor program.
We did an episode on it earlier where you put in a line of text and it like spits out a paragraph or two of, you know, something that could come from that.
It's remarkably interesting.
Got to talk about that cool dungeon thing.
Yeah.
But they used it with chess moves because every chess move can be encoded as a combination of a few characters and letters that tell you what piece to move and where to move it.
And it could play chess, not well, but passively.
It played well for a bit and then like it kind of lost interest after a while, which I find really funny.
I think it was literally like it could play well for 12 moves and then like that was the length of its like memory buffer.
Or an attention span.
But it doesn't actually have a memory buffer or an attention span.
The really fascinating thing was Scott pointed out, this is literally just a text predictor.
It has no concept of chess or the rules of chess or that there is a physical space or pawns and pieces.
And that brings up, but we're not playing chess either.
Like we're also kind of just a predictor.
Right.
Or like an experience predictor.
I think that was his point that just a random, you know, a pattern recognizer and predictor could do remarkably robust and powerful things.
And, you know, eventually you get powerful enough, maybe this pattern predictor can recognize patterns that it itself is doing and then we become self conscious.
Oh my God.
It does make me wonder how many like nodules kind of like GPT2 you'd have to stick together in order to get a fully sentient being because you do get these like really bizarre emergent things out of very simple processes like that.
It's hard to tell how much of sentience is the result of these very complex like inner changing nodules.
I don't know why I keep saying the word nodules.
That's a weird word.
Yeah.
Like what if it's just like three GPT2 stuck together?
What if it's not, you know, and it's just this weird coincidence.
That's a good tie into the AI Dungeon app that you introduced just introduced us to at the meetup.
Yeah.
I guess I'll talk about it for a second.
First of all, I recommend it.
Just get the AI Dungeon app or you can just go to the website.
I think it's just AI Dungeon.com and it's basically somebody sort of made their own tailor made.
I guess the word is fine-tuned GPT2 model where you basically give it like a story prompt of like your Bob the rugged survivor.
It's the post zombie apocalypse and you're in your bunker and then it gives you a little prompt and then you basically treat it like one of those old text based adventure games where you type like look around or open the door or whatever.
The thing is you can type in whatever you want.
And because it's GPT2, it'll just be like basically it's constantly running the algorithm of, all right, what would happen?
