Like, just, and so I'm like, think if you're lucky enough that it's the fascination lottery concept, which is another sort of codex thing.
But like, if you're lucky enough that, you know, the playing guitar is just fun for you, even if you're noodling around pointlessly on it.
No matter what, or even if practicing scales is fun for you, then you're going to be really good at guitar.
You lucked out.
You lucked out if writing 20,000 word blog posts about complicated top topics is your thing, you're going to get good for you, you know.
It's actually really surprising how much time there is in a day when you aren't...
Sweater bros.
What up?
It's surprising how much time there is in a day when you aren't distracted by other things.
Like, right now I'm playing World of Warcraft and I'm really enjoying it because I'm playing the guill leader game and that's just a whole different game from the actual game itself.
But before I was playing this, I basically didn't play video games much anymore, maybe a couple hours a week.
I didn't really watch TV anymore.
I just wasn't interested in most things that are on.
And so you...
I had all this time in the day for podcasts or writing or cleaning my house, you know, it was...
It's amazing when you don't have those little distractions just how much time there is to do things.
And I get the feeling Scott's probably also that kind of person where like, you know, he could read a nonfiction book for fun and then write about it for fun.
And that's his evening because, you know, like you said, the fascination lottery.
Yeah.
How do I get a good fascination?
Is there a trick for that?
Because I spend all my like, unconstructive time doing nothing productive.
I should be reading books that I find interesting.
Instead, I'm playing Clash of Clans and Browsing Reddit.
I don't know.
I think you're simple on something.
Or you probably already have things.
I mean, I...
My fascination was getting drunk up until I was like 31 or 32.
I think I should try that.
You have like seeds of things, I think.
Yeah, that's fine.
I have found...
This is something that made me really relieved that when there were things that I wanted to do and wanted to work on,
I guess first of all, there's something that makes you interested in them.
Like, I ended up with fascination lottery for drugs.
And that was...
I actually kind of got back into less wrong after I had read a little bit of HPMOR and then kind of fell out of it a bit like through Guern.
You should probably just...
The first place people's minds go when you say you got really interested in drugs is probably not where you are thinking of.
Well, actually, no tropics specifically or supplements and just like the pharmacodynamics and so forth, but like...
Maybe the average patient conspiracy listener got where you're coming from, but I hear that and I'm like,
Okay, you got really into cocaine for a few years.
I expect our listeners to know what I mean by that, but like...
No, I'm working on a CAR-T now, which is chimeric antigen receptor T cells for blood cancers.
And but the thing is that like anything that led up to that, it was kind of this like,
I don't know, like weird little fascination thing of like reading about pharmacodynamics on Wikipedia and it eventually became a career.
But that's how all of my career started.
It was this little nugget of like this thing's kind of cool and then just digging deeper and deeper into it.
As long as you approach it, I think incrementally and you don't exhaust yourself on it.
You don't force yourself into it very much.
I was just like, I don't know what you call it, praising and admiring what you like.
You and Phoenix are like hobbyists and neurochemists.
And now it's like a career for you, but it's like...
Well, I'm a hobbyist too, though. I mean, my career is very specialized.
Yeah, but like, I'm like, we were talking about the interactions of like medaffinil and other things.
And I'm like, Oh, you know what?
I bet not only can just answer that, but they can tell you like neurochemically and biologically what's going on with it.
And that's awesome.
Yeah. I mean, and I just love that.
I find it really cool.
And it comes from, I guess, like, there's something I want to use that for.
The reason I really liked reading Guern and looking at all of his N of 1 experiments was that science just seemed so intimidating.
And here was this guy who was doing N of 1 experiments and it made complete sense if you could kind of break it down into,
Okay, so he's taking magnesium and something that looks like magnesium every day and making a journal about it.
And then just throwing that into a spreadsheet and over time seeing whether or not it improved these different mental tasks that he was doing,
like a reaction speed test and a memorization test and so forth and so on.
That's like, Oh, okay. Like, I could do that.
I feel like a disproportionate number of my and your podcast listeners are graduate students.
So I just wanted to kind of follow up on that story with my story of like me and my friend Michael are like the only two people who I know who had a good time in graduate school.
Everyone else seems to just, it just seems to be the most miserable time of their life.
And I think for both of us, it was actually that we, we did kind of flounder for a while until we actually found a project that we just thought was intrinsically fascinated.
And we became kind of obsessed with figuring it out.
And then it was like our thing.
And similarly to how, you know, Neofarmacarp, yeah, that is your thing.
And it just, you got into it because you're interested in it and it's like a self-powering wheel.
Like that's, if you, if you can't find something like that in graduate school, it's going to be the most miserable grind of your life because someone's basically saying,
solve this really difficult problem that you have no real interest in and you've never done this before by the way.
And we're not going to help you. Good luck.
But if you're, if you're really fascinated, you want to solve it, it becomes your thing and you, you will quickly know more about it than anyone else around you.
And that's, because that's, it's not much, it's not much of an ask, right?
Like if, think about it, anytime you've been into, even if it was Pokemon when you were eight years old, like, like you probably knew more about Pokemon than 99.9% of people, right?
It's very easy to, to be an expert in something if you really think it's awesome.
I was once at the point where I had a friend call me on the, on like my parents' landline because we were kids and they had asked me like,
what was the code to do this in one of our video game?
And off the top of my head is able to give them like the, you know, press start and press in these 16 keys and then you're good to go.
I wish I could do that for something like real in my adult life.
But you totally could because you could do it with Pokemon.
That's what I'm saying is, is.
But I don't have the drive anymore to do stuff.
But if you find the right thing, then I think the drive would appear.
All right.
And I don't know, like, and like, you kind of asked earlier, like, how do you fabricate the drive?
I don't know. I'm sort of trying to, like, like the Iron Man suit and stuff like that.
I'm sort of trying to trick my kids and being fascinated with engineering and physics and, and science in general.
You should show them a random and rose what if, which I'm sure you're aware of if you haven't read it.
I haven't read it, but yeah.
Oh, I have a thing explainer, which might be better for kids because it's a big picture book.
I was going to say, what if it's probably too dense for little kids?
Yeah, but when they get older, as long as like the physics physics and engineering, it gives physics and engineering answers to absurd hypothetical questions like.
How much electricity could Yoda generate?
Yeah, what's what's the oldest force output and jewels?
Can you make a hoverboard out of AK 47s?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it's fantastic.
Fun one. What would happen when you do a if you pitched a baseball at the speed of light?
The relativistic baseball pitch.
Yeah, I have like a bunch of basic conspiracy topics that I wanted to propose and I just keep forgetting that I've got a minute text document.
But like one thing that I've been getting into is trying to find children's books written by smart people.
Because I was reading David Allen's GTD for teens.
And I just happened to like find it at the library, started paging through it and laughing a little bit and then like looking at it and being like, wait a minute.
Like smart people writing books for children.
Like it's kind of the idea of the explain it like a five or however old I forget.
Yeah, it's five.
Taking a complex idea and then breaking it down into simple metaphors drawings and like the idea is smart people know that children aren't stupid.
They just lack the life experience.
But they're as smart as adults.
So it's like if I can take this idea that maybe you lack all the background knowledge that I and that I'm assuming adults have and break it down, then I can explain it to you.
And the thing is that like people like David Allen or whatever expert is trying to explain whatever their expert topic is.
They're generally always making a little bit of the what do they call it the inferential distance bias where they're assuming that kind of OK, like average person knows about this much and average person is some kind of like avatar of you because you know you the best.
Yeah.
So like that you're always going to jump a little bit ahead.
They should really do like the Feynman approach, which I don't think he ever at least he didn't say he did in his books, but I like the quote that you don't really understand something unless you can explain it to your grandmother.
And that's what anyone who writes a book for kids should do is like just dry run it past like a parent or a grandparent or a child before you publish it.
Well, I mean, you're a programmer, so you probably know about Robert Ducking, right?
Yeah.
So if people listeners don't know about that, it's where a programmer like I don't know the I guess the myth behind it is a programmer is trying to get an answer from their like fellow programmer about something that they're confused about.
And in the process of explaining what their problem is, they were like, wait, I just I just figured it out.
And they were like, I could also just explain this to a rubber duck.
It doesn't have to be a whole person there because like in the process of you like pretending to explain it to someone who's sitting there, which could just be a rubber duck.
You might actually just like figure it out yourself.
Yeah, the parable was like an instructor at a college would say yes, you can come in and ask me questions during my office hours.
But first you have to tell your question and your problem to the duck that's sitting on the table.
And then knock if you don't know by then.
And I have two ducks in my desk at home and one in my desk at work and I never remember to actually talk to them.
But the trick is like, you're something's not working.
And you're like, OK, why isn't this working?
And at that point, your brain hits a wall for many people.
So what you try to do is train yourself to say, OK, let me explain what I'm doing to this my little, it looks like a grateful dead little duck.
I have my desk at work.
It looks like a grateful dead bear, but like the way it's painted.
And like, OK, well, here I'm doing this and I'm doing that.
And then, oh, I'm not doing what I think I'm doing.
That's why that's not working.
And that's that's usually the trick.
So, yeah.
Makes sense.
Back when I was more active with my blog, I would often find that by the time I was done with the blog post, I had to delete the blog post.
It's my position to change entirely.
That sounds like a fun thing just to leave up.
Yeah, maybe you publish.
Or I guess you add like a post script.
To be continued.
Yeah.
Or like, I've changed my mind.
All of this is wrong.
Yeah.
While writing this, I realized I've changed my mind.
See, you know, check next week's post.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Speaking of blogging and the 10 years thing and so on.
Scott Alexander did that 10 year retrospective.
That's one nice thing about having like a shitload of internet comments and so forth is that you can look back over it and be like,
that's how I used to think about things and I don't know if I can necessarily track my progress on intellectual topics the way
Scott Alexander can, but it's a fun exercise to do.
I do it occasionally just like look back through old comments.
Yeah.
So, since we were supposed to be talking about like the past 10 years, are there any major changes in your thinking over the last 10 years?
Or your life in general, I guess?
I mean, I want one of us to say, no, I was right about everything 10 years ago.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Not me.
No, nothing's changed.
I mean, I just looked up my first less wrong post was apparently in 2011, which is almost 10 years ago.
So, prior to that, I didn't know about any of this stuff.
And I think like I definitely use a lot of the kind of less wrong inspired thinking and everything that I do practically.
So, to the point where it's hard for me to even remember that it used to be different.
Yeah.
I mean, it's that's that's a really interesting question.
And I kind of want to go back and like specifically think about that question.
It's not something that I can just ad lib.
Yeah.
I don't think but but yeah, I mean, if any of you have any ideas of like specific major shifts you've had 10 years is a long time.
I'm sure there's a lot of shifts in a 10 year period.
Yeah, we should do this on a yearly basis 10 is too much because I mean 10 for me, I was 20, which I think puts me the youngest in the room.
And let's see, I would have been finishing my community college degree.
And then I took six months or a year off.
Are we?
Yeah, about a year.
And then got my undergraduate degree met my wife while I was at CSU.
And oh, but cute.
This is the cute story.
We met in elementary elementary school, but we we reconnected when I was in college.
And then, yeah, at some point, in fact, I remember this as much as I remember anything.
I think part of why my autobiographical memory is so bad is I remember reading Elizabeth Loftus's work about how easy it is to fabricate memories and not just implant them in other people, but more or less recreate your own from scratch.
And so you cannot do that.
Right.
That's how memories form.
