having like, red blogs where other people talk about, here's how I do social skills
or like, here's how I approach something that seems just really difficult to the point that
it makes me so anxious that I can't think about it.
Like, it makes your problems seem less intractable.
The fact that someone else is like saying, I've had this problem and here are some steps
that you used to overcome it.
Granted, that's the opening page of every self-help book, but like, I think that there's
a lot to that.
Like you said.
But then there's actual steps.
Like I was talking about trying to read self-help books where it was like, I've had these problems
too, but then I just learned to believe in myself or like, I started reciting a mantra
every day and I was just like, I don't see how this relates to being able to like, I
mean, I remember when the field was first explained to me, the example was somebody
talking about a verse of mail and that resonated with me because I would always have this thing
where I'd receive lots of letters and like some of them look like, oh God, that's a tax
thing or like, oh man, I don't know what this looks like a bill.
This looks like, oh, did I get like a speeding ticket or something like they just pile up
and I'm just like, I can't even open those.
I don't, but like, you don't actually like consciously think the words I can't open
those or I don't want to look at them today.
Your subconscious is doing all of that in the background and your conscious mind is going,
oh, I really need to do this thing right now.
And I'll definitely get to that later today.
Oh, like, I guess I didn't get to that today, but definitely first thing tomorrow.
But yeah, you're like, when you realize like what's going on some consciously and that
there are ways to fix that, it's like, oh, OK.
Like, because like opening the mail and then figuring out what to do about it,
isn't even that hard.
It's just really aversive because you've like negatively reinforced opening
mail so many times.
Yeah, it's funny because I didn't even realize this about myself until you talked
about it, but like I used to have that, that exact reaction about mail.
I used to have that reaction about email, except maybe even worse because I had
like this horrible boss where I would like on an intermittent reinforcement
schedule, get these horrible like, like it's the middle of Saturday, but you're
dropping everything and working now because God because one of those.
Yeah.
And so I had this horrible relationship with both of those things.
And just over time, just kind of turning the crank of of using the right,
you know, the right mindset on them.
I don't really have any particular emotions about email or mail anymore at all.
So and that's a huge relief, right?
Like you're carrying so much constant stress and turmoil that you're not even
conscious of, but you're definitely carrying it and to not have that anymore.
It's, uh, you breathe, you know?
Yeah, I feel like we still a lot of your time.
Where were you a decade ago?
What have you been up to other than building a media empire that is going
to be challenged or has been challenged by Disney for its epicness?
Well, media empire was only in the last four years, but that's been a huge thing.
Obviously, I mean, in the last 10 years, um, I mean, I'm, I've got a PhD.
I graduated, uh, I moved to, um, I moved to the Bay Area and then I moved to Houston
and then I moved here.
I got married.
I had three kids.
I got divorced.
Um, uh, I got a real job and then I got a different real job, um, which is
where I am now.
And, uh, it's just a lot of other stuff in there, you know, then picking up
hobbies and such would young you think of current you?
I think they'd be impressed in some ways and probably disappointed in some
ways because I have always had and continue to have a, uh, delusion,
like delusion of grandeur about my, my destiny, like anyone who consumes a lot
of science fiction.
Um, so just to be honest, like I'd probably be like, Oh, you're not running.
Um, Tesla space X.
You're not president of Mars yet.
Right.
Right.
Exactly.
And, and, but, um, and I'd probably be a bit, a bit baffled and confused at some
of my like personal relationship decisions and I would absolutely not
understand, uh, my, uh, I, I, I had no conception of what it is to have kids.
And now I've, my oldest is seven.
So I've spent most of the decade having kids and it's, it's not at all what I
thought it would be and it's wonderful.
And I would have no frame of reference for it.
So that would just be kind of a big confusing, um, uh, maybe, maybe I
wouldn't be able to relate to myself if that makes sense.
Now that makes perfect sense.
When I was thinking about going back and tenure increments, I was like each of
the like different tenure increments of me probably like would kind of recognize
myself and each of me, but then also there would be these big gaps of this is
a different person.
Yeah.
If I look back, not, not even that far, I'm just like, that person was an idiot.
And, uh, I'm probably going to feel that way about myself in 10 years.
The weird thing about again, having the journals is that like, it was funny
because I first noticed this about my art where, um, a couple of years later, I'd
look back at my art from two years ago and be like, God, I sucked.
Oh my God, that's such crap.
I can't believe I thought this was so good.
It's spent so much time on it.
It showed a term.
And then like two more years, I'd look at it and be like, Oh no, that
was, that was pretty good actually.
Like, and then I feel the same way about like going back and reading my journals
where I'm like, Oh, I was such an idiot.
What embarrassing thoughts.
And then you get enough distance from yourself and you look back and you're
not seeing, Oh God, that was the embarrassing version of me a little while
ago, but that was 17 year old me and like they were really trying their best
and had all these ideas and thoughts and fears that are valid.
Like, and I guess I also like working at a library with other kids, pre-teens
and like kind of looking at it.
It's like, Oh, there's the frame of reference for like that age of person,
that genre of person.
And it's like, no, that like I was a pretty cool teenager and I was way too
hard on myself.
I don't know.
That's kind of an important, I think it's important to not look back and be
like, God, I was an idiot because like you're still that person, partially.
When I look back on how easy my parents had it with me.
And at the time I thought I was a rebel because I would get punished for
little things, you know?
And now I'm like, Oh my God, I did zero drugs.
I skipped zero classes.
You freaking bastards for jerks.
Yeah, I I never give my younger self a hard time.
Luckily, my period of like, you know, delusions of grandeur, if you want to call
it that only lasted maybe a year or two.
So I never got too entrenched in that.
But my like, I I'm hoping that, you know, in another 10 years, I'll look back
on 30 year old Steven and be like, Oh, OK, you know what?
Yeah, he wasn't nearly as awesome as he could have been, but he was doing
what he could and you're who you are now because you're because of who that guy
was. So that's how I feel in relation to Steven sub 2010.
So yeah, yeah, I like what Jess just said about being easier on yourself.
Because I do think it creates a lot of unnecessary internal conflict for
me to I think the label for as good ism, like, like just the constant pressure
on yourself that you need to be better and that you should be better.
And it's like, just go easy on like, first of all, that's probably not even
doing you any favors.
Yeah. And it's and it's causing you very real suffering.
I've done a lot of work in therapy where I feel like I almost was trying to hide
the person that I used to be because I felt like it was shameful.
And it was just because it was this person who had really bad anxiety and
depression and was bad at social interactions.
And like, and it's like that those aren't shameful ways to be.
Like that's like sad.
I would never want like some 14 year old to feel like they're a bad person
and don't deserve nice things because they're like bad at social interactions
or like can't figure out how to get good grades in school because they have ADD
or you know, like people are pretty good on the whole.
I that's another weird like mental shift that I think I've gone through.
I can't think of anything like sort of like sadistic torturer,
like unrepentant torture that I'd say you should feel bad for who you were
10 years ago, right, even if you sucked at all the things that you care about.
Like you're, I don't know.
There's some people that are just mean.
Well, they they take advantage and abuse other people.
Yeah, yeah.
Like maybe that's not even sadistic torture.
That's the soft version of sadistic torture, like an unrepentant dick.
Yeah.
Then then, yeah, sure, maybe you should feel bad about it.
But only to the extent that it makes you a better person.
Well, even if it doesn't, and it at least makes you stop being a dick.
And that in that sense, minor utilitarian is like, yeah, OK, you'd be miserable
if that stops you from making other people's lives miserable.
But for the most part, no one should ever feel bad about what any, you know, they're
like as a kid, I was probably a dick.
I had a lot of terrible role models.
But like, I think it's I don't blame myself for the things
that didn't as 12 or 13, right?
It's been a long time since I've looked back at the mean things I've done
and like felt bad about it.
I don't identify with that person at all, right?
Yeah, I mean, I share very few atoms with that person
and very few memories of that person.
There's some vague sense of physical continuity, but like other than that,
I don't I don't feel like I relate to that person whatsoever.
Yeah, I still feel vaguely bad about every single time I was mean to my brother.
But that said, I don't think it's healthy to like continue to
flagellate myself about that at age 30 something.
Some years ago, I apologized to my brother for one time as really
like I yelled at him because he ruined one of my save files on Majora's Mask
because that game has like a time thing where if you and I like yelled at him
and made him feel bad and like a decade later, 15 years later, I remembered it.
And then he was like, I have no idea what you're talking about.
And like, of course you don't because this wasn't this wasn't like a thing to you.
Like you remember it at the time and then it went away.
And I that's not often thinking about it for ages.
Yeah, it's life's weird.
That's the part of the podcast where I get inarticulate.
And we're supposed to do the last wrong post.
But we're once again, probably do we have time because I love we got time.
All right, good. Let's do them.
All right, on to the less wrong posts then.
Did you get a chance to get to that?
I did. All right.
OK, our first list was familiar with the blog, right?
Yeah, less wrong dot com.
He's heard of it.
You can find some of Matt's posts at more dinner mail.
In the mail with my hand for everything.
All right, so translate that again for me from the the old ancient language.
Death of hope. Death of hope. Oh, wow.
It's the kind of handle you choose when you're 16.
