And I feel like that comes off and it's it's it's weird.
And I don't I don't know a quick way around that.
I know what you mean. Yeah, we'll solve it later.
Deal. So yeah, the title of the post is your strength as a rationalist.
And the line, the title line is your strength as a rationalist
is your ability to be more confused by fiction than by reality.
If you're equally good at explaining any outcome, you have zero knowledge.
So that's that's on the boilerplate title page of my PhD dissertation.
Really?
The the if you're equally good at explaining any outcome, you have zero knowledge.
Yeah, nice.
Love it. Yeah, it was a good tattoo.
Yeah, it would be. Yeah.
So, man, all right, small digression.
The only like when you're describing your mom, like having just like any model
is better than no model and not realizing that she's making up stuff
as like on the fly or not caring that she is.
It makes me think of that scene in methods of rationality
when they're all trying to explain some big plot event that I don't want to spoil.
But they're people who have been part of like the cult of not the cult of Harry,
but like in in in his way, his sphere influence.
And they're like, well, luckily, we're all perfectly sane.
Right? Yeah, man, that must have sucked to be like the rest of those people.
And like, that's what I feel like right now.
With the same sense of irony.
I often I still don't notice confusion.
It's a skill I need to work on because, I don't know,
but lots of time when you're reading fiction, it may not be perfectly written.
And you're like, OK, so the author flubbed a little here,
but I don't want to be taken out of the story while I examine every little detail.
So whatever, I'll be slightly confused and it'll clear up in a chapter or two.
Same thing you're doing in like the whole rest of your life.
Well, this is confusing.
I don't want to not have my life make sense.
Maybe this. Yeah, that seems fine.
All right, I'll I'll permit myself to other quick sidebars.
One, I'm super gullible and I'm trying to work on that.
I don't know why. I've had that problem, too. Yeah.
I don't I'm just I'm you're a high trust community.
No, but even as a kid, I would believe that dumbest shit.
And it took like it would take minutes for it to go away.
Like my biology teacher and my chemistry teacher in high school
were both ex hippies with beards.
And one of them explained to me like, oh, yeah, we're actually we were
we were twins joined at the beard as kids.
And like I spent like a minute unpacking that in my head.
I'm like, that's not possible.
But I so I so trusted my teacher was telling me this that, like,
it I spent a good minute dissecting that.
Like, there's no way that's true.
It's kind of be a metaphor for some. What is that?
What is beard?
But for for a solid minute, I was trying to work into my world model.
How do people could be born joined at the beard?
And yeah, so again, this is not like a.
Oh, yeah, you could convince five year old Stephen something.
This is I don't know if I'd be that stupid today.
But anyway, you know, Jesse Cannonball Jenkins
sometimes just has the the flat effect
deadpan kind of joking that he does with people.
Yeah, and people like him. I hate those.
Yeah, because they hold a straight face.
And so when they just bullshit me, I'm like, really?
They're like, yeah. Oh, OK.
And the nice ones then say like, no, man, I'm just fucking with you.
But every now and then I go around believing something for months.
And it turns out it was just someone fucking with me.
I had a co-worker like that.
And I could share stories that were as humorous as that, but I'll save it
and just jump on one thing that you said about assuming bullshit.
Oh, I found something last night.
We got a new cat that we're both terrified
that something about will happen to it, something bad happened to our last cat.
And she read she read that, uh,
like the stuff in jet dry, like wipes on the wood floors is toxic to pets.
And then she showed me
actually, she went up to go look at the box in the closet.
So I looked at her phone because it had the article on it.
It was just a picture like shared on Facebook or something.
And I'm like, oh, this is all the kinds of bullshit that people see.
So I immediately called bullshit.
But I don't want to be like, it's fine.
You know, it's bullshit and just call after her.
So I went looked and then I actually read the thing and then I was like, all right,
you know what, let's check to be a hundred percent sure,
because I'd be willing to bet you a hundred dollars right now that I'm right.
But let's be sure.
And there was a Snopes article that actually had the exact cut and pace.
This is just a thing that's been going around for years.
Nice. So. Good job.
But but yeah, calling bullshit, I think is is a good default.
And not to say push it away as bullshit, never accept the fact,
but say, no, I'm not going to leave that right away until I verify it,
which brings us to our next less wrong post.
Our next less strong post is a snap.
I lost my position.
I defy the data.
Thank you. The title of the post.
Would you like to give the synopsis?
Sure. It opens with one of the great weaknesses of science is that it's
this mistaken idea that if an experiment contradicts a dominant theory,
we should throw out the theory instead of the experiment.
And I agree with what you put in brackets there that I don't necessarily think
that's true, but that is sort of what you're supposed to think.
Like, oh, we've just falsified Newtonian gravity.
We need it's out.
Throw it away.
Maybe that's like the perceived ideal in high school science or something.
I think that's closer to it.
Yeah. But that's not how science really works.
And also like this was written during the time of the great atheism debates
on the Internet and a lot of, you know,
scientific proofs of God not existing or scientific proofs that faith
may have magic powers, you know, or around at the time.
And basically lay people were using science very much in this sort of way
that like this experiment proved this and this and therefore science is on my side.
And so I don't think that like scientists necessarily maybe ever treated it this way.
But a lot of the at the time, the common perception was that this was sort of a thing.
But I think this is one of these rare cases where
Ali Azar's lack of formal training in an actual academic setting
shown through a bit because I'm not sure real scientists thought that.
I feel like 10 years ago, I would have I would have just believed this as it was.
But like, especially after reading a lot of Scott Alexander's posts about philosophy of science,
I would I agree with you guys.
It's it's that's that's not how it works.
And that's not how it's supposed to work.
But I mean, the post, I think is salvageable, despite that.
Yeah, because there's there's there's lessons that you can take out of it
that aren't necessarily about the truth of how academia works. Right.
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, basically, he's saying, like, if you get if you get a new piece of data that
it's that's why I think it's related to the previous post.
It's like, if you if you get a new piece of data that doesn't make sense to you
and it's just one piece of data, then you can just say,
nah, you get one free, nah, and then and then give kind of the world
a chance to prove that, you know, get a better get a better experiment or something like that.
I think yeah, he says that if it contradicts the standard model, it's an important fact
that needs to be openly acknowledged.
And I think he he goes farther than that, which I like when he says
he he like almost coins this term defy the data, which I mean, never caught on or anything.
But he pointed out that, like, it would be interesting if experiments like this
that contradicted the model were published and with the note published, but defied,
where someone, you know, important member in the community could be like,
I defy this data, I don't think it's true.
And then, you know, there would be ongoing follow up experiments or something.
This was posted before the it was the replication crisis.
Curses, which so in that sense, kind of foresaw it.
Yeah, I don't know if that had anything to do with that.
But I do remember that was a thought that kept going through the rationality community
where people are talking about wishing that falsifications have more status.
Publishing like new data was always the highest status thing to do.
Doing new experiments, yeah, exploring new areas.
But like replicating and falsifying or confirming stuff was always kind of
and never made the front page of journals.
And I think that's one of the reasons we have the replication crisis.
No one who wanted to have a career in this would bother replicating things.
It was not something I got published.
And no one would pay you to do an experiment that while we already know that works.
Right. Yeah.
So and turns out there was p hacking involved and, you know, other bad things.
I think there was something that came out recently that showed even a bunch
of meta analyses tend to be skewed.
Yeah.
Where that's kind of upsetting.
Yeah. But also kind of predictable.
Yeah. He even says, you know, if someone defied the data, scientists could say,
I'm holding my breath waiting for replication rather than having to take sides.
And like literally, that's now what we do.
Whenever I see a new article, I'm like, well, I'm going to wait for that to be replicated.
Recently in the discord, someone posted something about a potential faster
than light communication, which first off, I just dismissed off hand.
But it could maybe I don't know the physics behind this shit.
So I'm just like, well, I'll wait for it to be replicated because this is
a popular science story about some possibly anomalous finding.
And every I mean, when I was on Facebook, every six months,
I'm going to come across the front page that would be like, oh, look,
we've got a cure for Alzheimer's.
And I'm like, I saw this three years ago, the science reporting is so bad.
I don't even look at very much of the science reporting unless I know
that it's from a source that like very is very, very diligent about like fact
checking and posting all their sources.
But generally I'll go right to the publication.
I really love the skeptics guide to the universe.
It's a podcast because specifically they ride this hobby horse a lot.
They're like, these are the current popular articles.
This is why the news you're reading is fucking stupid in the actual research.
That's not what it says at all, because generally the articles you read
are, you know, a reporter with maybe a little bit of science background
reading this and finding the most crazy headline they could make to grab
people's attention or not even like, yeah, like I remember a bunch of times
looking at some crazy headline claiming something and then going and looking
at the actual article it was based on and showing that it was actually
saying the exact opposite of what the headline said.
Yeah, it's ridiculous.
And so skeptics guide to the universe does that almost every week where they're
like, here's a thing that's been published.
You might hear about this from your crazy friend soon.
But this is what the actual study was.
Man, I used to be on Facebook, like being the asshole that was like the one
person out of my 20 friends who have shared this thing being like, and here's
