It's all right about it.
I do love the dig he gets in on creationism at the very end because lest we forget,
this was written back in the mid 2000s when, uh, creationism and the religion
debates were still sort of a thing.
Uh, it was like during the, what was it?
The heyday of like new atheism.
Yeah.
Or at least on the tail end of the new atheism thing.
It was still strong.
Maybe it was still the heyday.
Don't recall now.
It was the tail end, but I think, but because this was like what?
2010 ish, uh, we can actually look at the date.
I thought it was 2007.
Okay.
Oh yeah.
Right in the middle then.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Then everyone moved on to more important things to talk about.
Yeah.
But yeah, he says, if it's the first time you're ever hearing something, you
should be aware and no one can really trust the theory of natural selection.
If they, if they're just hearing it for the first time until they've listened
to creationist for five minutes, then you know it's solid, which was great.
It's fun.
Yeah.
And then the next post was, uh, rationalization, which, uh, to me, I just
always liked this cause it has the very memorable, uh, it makes the very memorable
point that like rationalization is like calling lying truth, this is Asian.
Like it seems so weird that like, cause it's the, it is basically, uh, top bottom
line thinking, right?
And so you're reasoning backwards so that you can find out what it is to support
your position and that's what they call rationalization.
And that's not like close to what rationality is the root of rationalization.
Um, or the root word of, and so it's, it bears as much resemblance as lying
does to telling the truth.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That the curious incurer writes down all the signs and portents on the box and
that's rationality, whereas the clever arguer first writes down box B contains
the diamond, then goes looking for evidence and that's known as rationalization.
And basically the entire post is saying, this is a stupid word.
I hate this word.
Why did they make such a stupid word that sounds just like rationality when
it's the exact opposite?
Yeah.
Uh, can I pull a quote?
Yes.
To improve our beliefs, we must necessarily change our
beliefs, rationality is the operation we use to obtain more accuracy for our
beliefs by changing them.
Rationalization operates to fix beliefs in place.
It would better be named anti-rationality with pragmatic results and for its reversed
algorithm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
On that refers to algorithm thing, that's a thing he touched on a couple of
times in that post.
So figure we should probably mention it.
Maybe it'll come back in the future.
He says a few times that rationality is the forward flow that gathers evidence,
waste it, and then outputs a conclusion, whereas rationalization is a backwards
flow from conclusion to selecting evidence.
So yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, like, and it's easy enough to rationalize, uh, you know, I almost had an
example of this last week and then, uh, there's a couple, I mean, that's what I
like about this is you don't have to be a, you know, perfect Bayesian in a box.
Like you can, you can put your, uh, your confusion out to trusted sources and
then like heavily update on that and just throw out what you were trying to
rationalize yourself into.
And this is a very modest example.
I bought some, uh, ground up turkey meat that I had in the freezer for, I don't
know, a couple of three weeks.
And it says use or freeze by a date that was a few days past, um, but in the
freezer for a few weeks, right?
And yet it looked kind of gray, like a patch of it on the top.
That's not that's what that's
oxidation, like a little bit of brown.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's still good.
Oh, well, I threw it out because like, it wasn't the healthy looking pink that
I'm used to seeing.
So, um, I was trying to talk myself into using it because I was really
looking forward to eating it and it didn't smell like anything in particular.
I'm like, okay, well, you know, it seems like it should be fine.
Um, and then my wife, like, cause I was showing here, I was like, all right,
like, what, what should I do here?
She's like, well, you know, if we're not sure, let's just toss it out.
You know, it's only like $4.
I'm like, yeah, all right.
That's, that's fair.
Um, yeah, I was trying to rationalize
myself into eating the thing I wanted to eat, knowing that it had a
non-negligible, uh, probability that I might be poisonous.
And now I have to have an instance.
That just means that it's oxidized for some reason.
Like even though it's in an airtight container that was just in the freezer.
Yeah.
That little bit of air that got stuck in with the packaging.
Very well.
Well, when it freezes, but yeah, like it's probably a good
realistic if you're, if in doubt, throw it out.
I mean, you took the safe option, definitely.
Well, but now that I know if it's just a smidgling gray, I can still
eat it. I'll try that.
And if I get poisoned, I'll complain to you.
Okay.
You might be able just to cut off that little gray part.
I thought about that.
And yet, like I had this before where like a few years ago, I had like a thing
of bagels and like only the bottom bagel had mold on it, but I'm like, I'm not
going to eat like the top two bagels that are left.
Just if I move them from the thing that has mold, because like there's no way
that the mold hasn't moved through the whole thing.
It just hasn't grown a colony on these two, two.
Sends like little roots through your bed.
Yeah.
I wasn't about to, these were, these were distinct bagels, but they were
distinct bagels, but like I, they were still in the same container.
Oh, okay.
Like they were in discreet containers.
No, no, they were, they were in one sleeve, but they were, they were, like,
they weren't one piece of bread.
You know, they were, you're good.
I just didn't want to fuck with it.
Yeah.
So anyway,
the main thing I know about mold is that it'll turn your bagels into bagel
league, monstrosities, and you want to put them down fast.
You can cut a moldy part off of, I think, most cheeses and contribute with
the rest because it doesn't send the little roots through it.
It's just got the one spot.
Cheese is weird for lots of reasons.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cheese basically is mold anyway.
Exactly.
It's like here, this is like the sticky stuff that you get when you let
cow juice sit out for too long.
Enjoy.
Um, yeah, not a good sales bitch.
So the first person to eat cheese must have been really hungry.
Hey, that's probably the case for pretty much everything that anyone's eaten for the first
time.
We humans make a lot of weird, like, fermented foods.
Uh, actually, speaking of grow, I went and really cooked food at his place.
And I, he asked if I could stop at the Spanish market and get morongo
sausage, which is this, like, gross looking blood sausage.
And I was just like, I wonder, like, what was going on in the head of like the
first human that was like, Hey, I think, you know, it'll be cool.
Let's get some blood and awful and like wrap it up in some intestine and then
just leave it for a while.
What they were probably thinking is like, Oh God, here's some food I've
wrapped up and left for a while.
But if I don't eat something, I'm going to die soon.
Yeah.
Have you, speaking of that, have you guys ever tried nature balls?
Uh,
that's not the actual term.
I was feeling more awake out of thought of a great joke to throw in there,
but no,
it's what I call like little berries and just brightly called colored
balls that you find out in nature, growing on bushes.
Like oftentimes when I'm out hiking out, there's, you know, little nature
balls on, on, on bushes and stuff.
And I'll pick them.
I mean, I don't eat it.
I take it and I put it in my mouth and just kind of break one or two with
my teeth and I taste it.
And if it's bad, I spit it out.
And if it's good, I also spit it out, but like, I think this is the process
for like finding what things you can eat.
You just try a tiny bit and if it's bad, you stop.
And if it's not bad, maybe you swallow, but you wait like a day afterwards
to see if you get sick and experiment from there.
There's probably a procedure for this thing.
Don't.
Yeah.
Like that, that's the, some berries are poisonous.
Yeah, I know.
But I figure like 200 pound person, if you eat one berry, it might be sick,
but it's not going to kill you when you get sick, you know, not to eat it.
Just don't do that with mushrooms.
Are mushrooms extremely poisonous in tiny doses?
Many kinds of mushrooms are that there's like a mushroom called death cap.
Well, yeah, I've heard of the death cap mushroom.
That is bad one.
Because you don't know if I went on site.
Oh, I just don't put mushrooms in my mouth unless I bought it from a dealer.
Smart.
Or a food or a drug.
All right.
I don't have much else to add on this one, but we do have to say that next week
we're doing a rational argument.
We change our minds less often than we think and avoiding your beliefs.
Real weak points, which I can already remember is one of my favorites.
Cool.
