And, uh, with the, for the Capitol protests, they, they told the National
Guard not to come in.
Uh, they just had a few of the Capitol police there because, well, I mean,
honestly, I think it's because they, uh, they treat right wing protests with a
lot of deference that, that the entire law enforcement community sees them as
an in group.
And so, you know, they don't think they're going to get attacked by them.
And, uh, maybe, maybe this will wake up some people to, to realize that
right wing protesters can be violent murderous lunatics too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There was, there's a 538 article that summarizes, uh, that left wing protests
are about twice as likely to be shut down by the police, the right wing protests.
Uh, we're like the other side, whereas the right wing is our guys and we
don't got to worry about our guys.
They're good guys.
Well, it's a good thing that, you know, all this rationality nonsense, like we've
been worried about people not having good, like thought processes, but it, you
know what, like, it's good to know that the world is fine and nothing happened.
I mean, honestly, I'm glad that the people that were there are so bad at
rationality that they were disorganized and incompetent and couldn't do anything
when they got in the building.
That's my thing is imagine, like, if some of them were coordinated, it would have
been, this could have been insanely worse.
Someone could have stolen the Declaration of Independence.
Then they found the map on the back of it.
Yeah.
I mean, you would think that, you'd think that breaking into Nancy Pelosi's office
during a Senate, Senate congregation would actually be really hard, but turns
out, no, it's actually super easy, barely an inconvenience.
You get a thousand mobsters to rush the building with you and then you get
to just walk in and put your feet up on our desk.
Like, it's madness.
You know, there's been, I don't know, at this date, I think something like 60
people arrested.
I don't even know how they got all out of the building.
You'd think that all would have been, you know, by the non-complacent officers.
You'd think that all have been shut down immediately, but I don't quite get what
happened on the inside.
I'll look forward to watching the documentary in a month of what the
fuck happened in there.
That's a little bit totaled.
What the fuck happened?
So, yeah, that was weird.
Um, to me, the most interesting part was like, what happened once the people
got inside?
And I think I want to talk about this more a little bit later, but first, like,
let's just talk about the fact that once they got in, people didn't know what
to do.
It was like, I believe movie Bob said they got in the capital and they expected
for the, uh, the quest to be completed.
The level's over.
Cause it's like, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't
know.
And after that, people just kind of milled around and took selfies and it almost
turned into like a music festival party.
You know, where people were just like, eh, let's, let's wander around and see this
place.
Cause no one really knew what to do at that point.
Yeah, that was the real thing, just seeing people wandering through like this was,
you know, an exhibit somewhere in Coachella or Burning Man or something.
That was the weirdest part.
Like I said, that would have been a little bit of a bit of a, of a, of a
or something.
That was the weirdest part.
Like you said, it would have been one thing if they ran in and they had carefully placed
napalm to burn the building down or something, but no, they just got in and they're milling
around for hours.
Yeah.
Like just...
Well, we did it.
High five.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
We did it.
We saved our democracy.
The nation is secure.
That's something that like when I was watching this unfold, I was kind of just sitting there
like just taking it in for like the first hour and then I was like trying to like actually
process it and like it's not hard to put yourself in the heads of these people and say, okay,
yeah, I totally get what they were doing.
Like it's much how I can imagine people would react if say this went down, if say the day
didn't have the Trump protesters break in and Pence had said, you know what, I reject
your reality and substitute my own Donald Trump won this election and like stamped the
paper and disagreed with everybody, right?
Like that's not how it works, but pretending like it had this.
Like if we had seen the democracy, the Democratic vote fail and it was announced that Trump
was going to win, right?
You can imagine that there'd be riots and people saying, no, fuck you, you guys can't
destroy our republic like this.
And that's what these people think they were doing.
Like they, and they were, you know, of course this is the result of just, no, just years
of bullshit, bizarre propaganda and then months of Trump saying, they stole our election,
they're lying, they cheated you, whatever.
And right up until that morning when he said, all right, now I'll join you guys, let's march
down Pennsylvania Avenue.
I love Pennsylvania Avenue and we'll all go break it, we'll all go, we'll all go show
them what we're made of or something.
And like, yeah, I think this really ties into the, the what evidence filtered evidence
post because like I, every now and then I watched the Hodge Twins on YouTube.
They're also known, I think the YouTube channel is called conservative twins or something,
but they're these twins, black dudes that have a, you know, they're very charismatic,
they're fun to watch and they seem to more or less encapsulate what the right is thinking.
So every now and then I'll watch, well, the right as in the Trump right, I'll watch them
just to like get a, get a feeling for how they're doing.
And like a week or two weeks before the, before this thing went down, I was watching one of
their videos and it was crazy.
They were like, they were legit, just talking to your audience, like liberals, if you're
watching this, you know that this was a stolen election.
Like no one out there believes that we had a record turnout for Joe Biden.
No one there really believes that this many people came to vote and like they honestly
literally believe that everyone in the US knew that this was a fraud because it was
so blatantly obvious.
And that was like what a good chunk of probably the vast majority of Trump supporters feel
that this was, this was just blatant theft and that the left was okay with letting it
happen because it meant Trump would leave office.
And so they were, you know, looking the other way this one time.
It's insane to me that like you can be like, you know, we've all heard over and over again
about fake news and the media being like putting people in a bubble of their own, you
know, like it's like a sense of having their own facts that you can be that like insulated.
And really just the uncritical questions, you know, like what the same piece of paper
that people check the Lindsey Graham box and check the Joe Biden box were like part of
that paper was fraudulent, but the rest wasn't.
It's not like you sent in different pieces of paper voting for the president and the
senator, like this blows my mind.
It's, I don't know.
I just want to be like, what evidence did they have for the, like, did anybody even
like present a good case for the election being a fraud?
Like, so I don't know what they did it or did they just say the words enough times and
everyone's like, yeah, it's a fraud.
I don't know what your standards for good are necessarily, but yeah, there is always
some evidence that something untoward has happened and that's, you know, if that's all
you hear and it's reflected and magnified over and over, and that's what you hear everybody
else is also talking about.
It starts to sound convincing.
Yeah, I mean,
I think that they're just repeating it's a fraud, but not saying like how they found
that out or what, like how they suspect someone pulled it off.
That's asking one question too deep, right?
Like their first piece of evidence and their probably primary piece of evidence is that
the outcome of the experiment wasn't what they expected.
And so like, I don't like that.
No, I don't like it either, but I don't know what I mean, like that was their evidence was.
Oh, yeah.
I don't like this reality.
Exactly.
So I mean, I mean, in one way, you know, like, if I had a very low probability
estimate on something and then my experimental result said it was that something, I'd be
like, OK, let me double check.
Like that's not unreasonable in general, right?
It so like one of their pieces of evidence, it's interesting, was that all the courts
when they were approached with the protesters didn't or not the protesters,
but the people saying, hey, throw out these results.
They did not even look at the cases for the most part.
They like they took a look and it was like, this has no standing.
There's no evidence here.
We're just throwing it out, which for everyone else in the world was like, yeah,
it's so obvious that they court didn't bother wasting his time with it.
But for them, it was like, look, they're not even looking at it.
They don't want to see it.
They are hiding things.
Yeah.
And when you're when you're primed to be things to a certain lens, that's that's
also evidence.
And then, of course, you're getting evidence from authority, people who you would
expect to be very in the loop on these things.
If you're primed a certain way, saying, yes, this was a fraud and it was stolen.
So like, if the president himself comes up and says this was a fraud, it was
stolen and you're like, I already trust the president.
He seems to be in the know.
He has privileged information.
Totally read about coronavirus after all.
Eventually, sure.
Yeah.
I mean, it's like, I it's weird.
Like the, I mean, some parts of this are so farcical.
You know, it's like every, every death has a tragedy and I, I'm an immortalist.
You know, everyone, everyone should know that that's my position.
And yet, like I turned that switch off for a second.
And then I hear that a woman with a don't tread on me flag was trampled to death.
Like, I mean,
so it happened.
So I hear, I didn't verify all the deaths, but I think that's, that's one of them.
So like, you know, if they would have paid attention to the flag, she'd still be alive.
But like, if I put that on a TV show, people would have dismissed it as being, you
know, farcical, right?
Yes.
Like, and yet that, that's what happened allegedly.
So I like, I, I don't know, man, it's, it's wild.
I, I don't have much else to add on it.
Like, I'm looking at a simulation because that's what I said, but I heard this, but
that was literally my joke.
I'm like, okay, is this a simulation?
Is this a TV show?
Yeah.
Where's the camera?
I think my, my favorite joke that I've heard from this so far is one that
apparently is going around in South American countries, that the reason the
coup failed is because there was no U.S.
Embassy in D.C. to provide logistical support.
