Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy. I am Niyash Brotsky.
I am Steven Zuber.
I am Jay Sticky.
Good morning and hello, everybody.
Yeah, welcome to the new year.
Oh, yes.
Or continuation of the old year, maybe.
It's going along.
Yes.
On the plus side.
All right. You know what?
Because it has been a weird week.
We re-scheduled what we're going to talk about.
I figured because it's been a rough week,
we should start with happy news.
Happy news.
The blue, which is kind of cool.
Oh, yeah.
I took two weeks off for the holiday.
Helped to do some mock interviews for recent grads of skill distillery.
One of the people who I did mock interviews with,
the one who listens to this podcast,
is going to land a high-paying job,
I think probably before this episode airs.
Oh, wait, this comes out in a couple of days.
I'm going to say before the end of the month,
I'll bet $720.
Does that person listen to this podcast?
Yep.
Oh, cool. Congratulations to this person.
Yeah, go that person.
No, it's great.
Oh, I did not actually know it was great.
I wasn't sure.
I mean, I was pretty sure.
Yeah, I mean, it was like, it was hilarious because I was,
I think he was my middle interview.
And, you know, like the other ones were,
we talked about what I'd expect from bootcamp grads, you know,
vaguely able to talk about what they learned,
able to do, which is expected.
It goes way too fast for them to have, you know,
an operative understanding of everything,
like crib notes that's basically just say,
all right, look, have your resume that you sent to them
and then have your longer version that you look at
when you're interviewing on the phone that has definitions
of all the things in your resume.
And then listening to Gray,
he's explaining it to me like my, you know,
my mid to my mid tier slash,
like upper mid tier colleagues would explain their stuff.
I'm like, okay, yeah, you're fine.
I've got nothing to teach you.
As soon as you get through and talk to anybody,
like that's not a recruiter
and on like the engineering side,
you're going to get offers like it's just going to be a matter
of applying to enough stuff
to where somebody will respond to your, you know,
or give you a call.
I think he applied for a few things
and then like was depressed like a few days later
that he hadn't heard back.
And I was just like, you know, it takes like,
like job search, I think I heard somewhere.
It's like an average of what two, three months.
I think that's probably faster
in the software industry, maybe, but.
It's about the same, probably for your first job.
Yeah.
Well, and for them too,
they graduated like the third week of December.
So like, you know,
no one's going to be calling them back, you know, in 2020.
So I don't know if,
how true this is about everywhere,
but generally people don't like doing work
and interviewing new recruits is work.
So often it gets pushed off for, you know, several weeks.
At least this, this has been the case in my job that like,
unless we are desperate for someone
that we really need to get an ASAP,
it's like, okay, how I'll interview these people
next week and stuff.
So it gets pushed off.
Yeah.
And there's like onboarding and.
Well, he's had interviews and stuff.
So that's all coming together faster than average.
So.
Cool.
Anyway, props to you, dude.
What else, what else is going on?
So this was, this might be a good,
I'll let you guys get out any happy news
before I talk about my Wednesday
and then the country's Wednesday.
Also, we're doing the less wrong posts first still.
Yes, I forgot.
Yeah.
So we've got to do the, the posts, but well,
I still have my segue.
So I'll, I'll lead it in.
But anyway, what do you, what's your guys having this?
It's been a while since we sat down to talk
since the, what, second week of December.
Yeah.
It's been a while.
It has been.
What have you guys been up to?
Let's see.
Jase, you want to start?
I'm, you know, doing my programming boot camp,
so practicum and not a lot else.
I've been playing D&D, which has been pretty awesome.
I have been getting back into writing slowly.
I finally completed a draft of a new short story
and now I'm waffling as to whether I should do
one more short story or start in on my second novel.
Got, you know, I find myself playing a lot of video games
and I realized just how much time they take up.
Like during my, uh, mid late thirties when I was super
productive and writing and doing the HP more podcast
and everything, like one of the keys to my success
is I basically didn't play video games anymore.
Sometimes in the evenings for an hour or two,
but like most of my day was spent doing other stuff.
And now that I'm playing video games again,
I'm like, holy shit.
No wonder I don't have time for things.
This, this takes up a lot of my time.
It depends on what you're doing.
But no, no, the video game fun is very temporary.
It, it, you know, lasts for the evening and then it goes away.
Whereas making the HP more podcast fun is something that lasts like,
I mean, people still write to me and like this thing is amazing.
You have helped make my life for the better.
I'm like, ah, that was a thing I did years ago
and yet it's still paying dividends.
It keeps giving.
Yeah.
I'm supposed to like that boss that I killed three years ago.
I don't remember that.
No one else remembers that.
Who cares?
It was a thrilling fight.
I suppose.
Hey, I'm just justifying my video game playing habits.
I go month, I go like on months where I don't play and then months where I play a lot.
Yeah.
There are some Christmas deals.
Yeah.
What other game do you need?
Well, I'm re-playing a video game that's 15 years old.
So.
What are you playing?
World Warcraft.
Yeah.
Well, that's, I mean, you're socializing with people, right?
That's the hard part.
Like if I were to quit playing this game, I would stop hanging out with those people.
And like that part, just thinking about it makes me kind of sad and anxious.
Cause I really like those people.
Yeah.
I don't want to quit hanging out with them.
It's a social experience.
I think you're getting more out of it than you're giving yourself credit for.
What I really should have done is like rounded up all my meat space friends here and especially
the like the Denver Rationalist community and sucked all them into World of Warcraft.
Absolutely.
I think you exited the offer back when the game was being announced and I told you that
I didn't think I could handle that and a job at the same time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, basically no one wanted to play a 15 year old game.
Yeah.
No, it's just that I like, so when I graduated high school, I think I got like an eight day
demo of World of Warcraft and I was like, okay, I know myself.
Do I want to go to college or play World of Warcraft?
Cause I can't do both.
I'll be the one who stays up till three in the morning.
I mean, like, okay, yep, if I play, if I finish this, I can stop at three, get four hours
of sleep, play another hour and then go to class.
Like I'm like, nah, that's not sustainable.
I'll die.
So.
Tim, can I give you like a amazing thing I have discovered over the past year of playing?
Yes.
You know how like drugs nowadays are much more potent?
Like the weed that you can get in a Colorado dispensary is like 12 times the potency and
purity of the shit that people were smoking in the 60s.
That's right here.
Yeah.
And like nobody knows this unless every now and then and the old person used to smoke
in the 60s, try some and it gets knocked flat on their ass and they're like, holy fuck,
what's going on?
The same thing happened to video games.
Like that shit was extremely addictive at the time it came out because it was the only
thing going that was the best thing.
