to solve our problems, rather than let's fight until we're all too tired
and bloody to solve our problems.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm not trying to say that we should we should have a war or something.
But I mean, like, yeah, what I'm just trying to, you know, when I'm
ignoring it, the like, or the like dismissing it as, you know, that
was us versus them and we won so they could suck it.
Yeah, I totally agree that like, it is a thing that we should work on together
and not a thing that we should fight each other about, because I think
fighting is like violent fighting is the worst thing you could possibly do.
It's it just leaves one side bad as opposed to anything resolved.
But yeah, but I think that like a lot of times, at least up until Trump was
elected, when people said, let's work on this together, what they meant was,
let's let the let's let the the elites in power that are leaning liberal left
just enact their policies and the the other side has to suck it up
because they know what's right.
Like work together was a code word for you are racist and sexist and wrong
and you must change and be like us instead.
And that's that's not working together.
That's just kind of imposing your own view on the other side.
I don't like this mystery code talk.
I mean, what more could it have been?
Like, I guess if your real message is let's work together to solve this.
What will you what what more could you say?
Like, I guess you could do things differently.
Is that what you guys are saying?
Say let's say I would say like I think when people make the when people
come back and say affirmative action feels like reverse racism to me.
And that's not great.
What the response was was no, it's not.
This is just, you know, equalizing things for people.
You're a racist for even saying that and there can be no such thing as racism
against white people because of structural inequities.
Like the the pushback was basically shut up.
You're a racist as opposed to, you know, let's take their concerns seriously about things.
Yeah, I guess I I mean,
I maybe I'm revealing inside myself some partisanship.
I didn't know I had, but like part of me thinks that like it if someone says,
you know, I want a an ethnic and ethnic ethnically pure United States
and I want all those, you know, non whites out of here.
Like, where do you meet in the middle on that?
Right, you don't fuck those people.
But I mean, like I guess like those are actual racists and we don't want them around.
Oh, so you oh, you're talking about like just the tribalism thing is,
I don't know, I feel like think about what you mean, rather than branding
anyone who disagree with us, the hated enemy.
Yeah.
OK, I thought that you were saying like the the the actual small subset
of those people that we brand that way, who actually are that way.
OK, yeah.
Yeah, God, I just like to lighten the mood.
I was sort of when we were talking about Trump and Twitter earlier,
I was like, I wonder what it would look like if like Hitler had Twitter.
I wonder if anybody is like doctored tweets, like if not,
somebody please make a blog and do that.
Like, I want to see Hillers 3M tweets.
Like from what I hear of Hitler, it would have been very similar to Trump
in that it was the very emotionally pure and relevant, but kind of incoherent
and semantically fucked up mess.
I think for me that the horrifying part is that like Hitler was effective.
Like this, this is how bad it can get with an effective imbecile.
Like I and I am not an expert, maybe Hitler was actually completely stupid.
But I feel like you don't you don't successfully overthrow government
and like run a campaign to take over the world if you're a complete idiot.
So like I think that he must have not been as stupid as as Trump.
And like that's the thing that I I see people worry that, well, you know,
Hitler went to jail and then he came back and took over the country.
And like, I don't really see that happening with Trump, like in terms
of both governance and military, I hear Hitler was a fucking disaster.
Yeah, he was just incredibly persuasive.
And like the thing with Germany was they were so fucked at that point
that almost the entire nation was like the hardcore Trump supporters we have now.
Yeah, it's like the deal, actually, where it was just somebody getting up
on a podium, flailing and giving speeches about, like, you know, that showed deep
emotion. And he also gave, you know, the German populace, the scapegoat
or a bunch of scapegoats, you know, it's you people aren't failing.
It's their fault. It's, you know, these others fall.
Like imagine if Hitler, instead of having a hardcore base of 20 percent
had a hardcore base of 60 or 65 percent of the populace, that's that he still
would be absolutely incompetent, but he'd have a ton of power and would likely
be, you know, dissolving the Senate right now.
OK, fair enough. Yeah, I was just reflecting earlier this week
that my knowledge of history is complete bull, is complete garbage.
Like I don't know if you ask me what World War Two started about
and who the main players were I couldn't couldn't tell you other than like the
obvious superpowers. Like an arc duke for an end.
That was World War One. Oh, did I say World War Two?
I meant World War One. Yeah.
So like I don't I don't know fuck all about history.
So I it is I was just thinking about it earlier this week that it's a gigantic
blind spot in my like knowledge base.
Yeah, I don't know history.
I absolutely cannot recommend enough listening to the entire backlog
of Dan Carlin's hardcore history.
It goes deep into stuff and he presents it in a way that is very compelling
and fun to listen to. So anytime you want to learn more stuff about history,
check out Dan Carlin. He's awesome.
I always keep meaning to it.
And I've heard three hours of his podcast, but that means I listen to half
of an episode. So I need to get back into like actually dedicate time.
The older ones were a lot shorter.
Right on. All right.
I got one last thing before we go on.
And this this is part of the reason that like I think what happened may have
been good is the fact that it didn't really have any bad side effects.
They were this started out like as sort of a riot slash coup attempt slash
something and basically devolved into people meandering around and taking selfies.
And it turned it turned into a meme.
It was a meme protest or protest meme and an amazing login over on our
basing conspiracy discord server pointed out that like this should be taken as
empirical evidence as to how riots can be handled and that, you know,
maybe the hard handed approach being used to be a BLM approach is BLM protests.
Is is bad.
And and I was like, so, so what do you mean?
Like when there's a writing mob, you just kind of evacuate the area of anyone
that could be hurt and just let them just let them go until they get tired
and they wander away.
And it sounds like, yeah, kind of a little bit more nuance about like, but like,
yeah, I mean, I think you're taking that into account too.
Like, yeah, an amazing login said like, okay, so this style clearly does
some things we like, like nobody or almost nobody was killed and buildings
weren't burnt to the ground, but property damages there might have been
if they had encountered resistance.
Yeah, yeah.
So like, how can we get this where it turns into a meme and people wander
away unhurt and we can avoid the bad things that happened like the entire
capital building being wrecked.
Like we would like to avoid property damage and looting and stuff if possible.
But like, this is a point of evidence and the fact that I don't
know, like again, the same, I'm going to reference altered carbon again,
because I really love that series.
At one point, the author says in the form of the main character that all
wars are hormonal, that they're just things people need to get out of their systems.
And I think, I think that's why we attacked Afghanistan after 9 11.
Or rather, why we attacked Iraq after 9 11.
Because when in Afghanistan, it was like, you know, something terrible happened
and people needed to point a finger at somebody and be like, and have a sense
that someone's doing something about it.
Yeah, we went to Afghanistan.
The country folded like in a month and we just didn't, the populace in general
didn't feel like the Arabs had been punched hard enough.
And so they went after Iraq after that.
And like, I mean, that's not the reason our leaders did it, but I think
that's why the populace was behind it.
They were like, we need to do more violence in revenge.
And, and I, you know, Maisie and Logan kind of made the point that like when
you have the resistance of the cops, you get more and more people stoked up
and things escalate, whereas if like one side folds entirely, the other side
eventually gets some shit out of their system by breaking some windows
and then gets tired and goes away.
Yeah.
I mean, like, but also putting this in the context of 9 11.
Oh, okay.
What about also just like, try not to get to the point where people are rioting?
Like when people are, I mean, like, again, like, you know, there was, you could
see stuff building up to the Trump administration, like people were unhappy.
There's a lot of, yeah, I don't know.
I'm obviously like, huh?
I said, unrest.
Yeah.
Yeah, there was an arrest, but there were people with like real concerns.
And maybe like, you know, I think that the fact that we have our two
party like us versus them system and like, you know, you guys are dumb
hicks shut up and it's like, oh yeah, like, well, you liberals and your
educations and like, it's kind of like maybe like, can we grow up as a species
and start like, no, we cannot.
Not until we get immortality.
So we'll speak for over a hundred.
So kind of frustrated.
No, I mean, the thing is, I'm sure this wouldn't work in all contexts.
Like I don't, I'm not sure if you guys were like alive and or conscious to
the news when the, the LA riots happened.
Rodney King was beaten by some cops almost to death and then they were
acquitted and then LA erupted in fire for like a week.
It was insane.
But like, I, I'm not, God, now I don't remember because it was so long ago
and I was so young.
I don't know if there was like a big counter riot police force at the time.
I kind of thought that it just sort of spontaneously happened and nothing
would have changed that, but maybe, maybe there were a lot of cops out for
them to have someone to fight against.
Shit.
Now I feel like should lift that up before I started talking.
I don't know.
So like very confused about whether, whether they're, whether backing off
would have had any effect on preventing those riots from getting worse.
Yeah.
I guess we can't know.
Well, we probably could look into that, but I didn't right now.
But I mean, like, Logan points out, nevermind, go on.
Yeah.
Well, Logan points out one of the end states of these riots is that they turn
into a fucking meme and we want to encourage that as much as possible.
And like, this should be some evidence as to how that can be done.
And can we incorporate that into the future, as opposed to just cracking
down harder and harder and making things worse?
If this is a way that we can make, that we can guide riots into, into resolving
themselves, that would be much better, I think.
I guess I still sort of think like it's sort of ignoring the root cause though.
Like I'm looking at the 1992 Los Angeles riots and it kind of like people
