And there are three because the first two are really short.
So I figured let's just get three in.
So we have something to talk about.
Sounds like a plan to me.
All right.
Okay.
Moving on to everyone's fun week.
So Wednesday morning, this is always a fun thing.
I'm not sure if this ever happens at your guys's jobs.
You ever get like a company-wide notice to be like, hey, in an hour and a half
we're having a company-wide meeting.
I am trying to think and in my two years at this job, that's never been good news.
They never hold emergency meetings for good news, right?
So I was thinking, oh, shit, like more essential people are quitting.
No, it's actually way different than that.
So the like my company was acquired in like October of 2018.
It made no difference to the company up until like maybe a year later
when the parent company started actually doing stuff.
And then, let's see, the pandemic hit, tanked our numbers.
And they announced in September that they were sunsetting our product.
And so like all the salespeople were let go that day, almost all the support
people were let go and all the engineers weren't because we were all going
to be offered lifeboats to stay with the parent company.
The job was basically going to be just maintain the product, keep it running
for another year and then dump it.
So Wednesday, they announced, hey, somebody bought the product.
So five of you guys are going to go work for this new company, completely
different from the company that's currently signing your checks.
And you'll, you know, you guys get a choice, but you'll get offered
letters and stuff.
It's a whole new job, but you're not being fired.
So very different from where I thought this episode was going.
Well, it was just weird because so there's two things with that.
One, I'm not a business person, but if I'm looking for someone to buy something,
I don't tell all my customers, hey, we're quitting.
We're not, we're not re-upping your contracts.
We're not, we're not listening to customers.
I first go look and see if someone will buy the product.
And then when everyone says no, then I, then I announced that we're shutting it down.
Right.
Okay.
So instead, what they did is I kind of fuck everybody and completely fuck
like our, our user base by saying, yep, we're shutting this down.
Everyone get ready to jump ship and then they went and sold it.
So that'll be weird.
But the other thing is like, for the last month, we've been, uh, like
planning out the next several months worth of work and we're building like this
dope ass thing on bleeding edge technology that now I'm being told, Hey,
you know what, you get to go keep working on this product instead, which is fine.
It's not a big deal, but it's just like, it was weird.
So never mind.
Yeah.
No, I'm just, I'm going to keep maintaining the product that I initially
started this company working on.
But the, the scary part is that then I also learned that the, like the most senior
Dev and the company who only had like another year and a half above me, um,
because literally every other engineer has left, uh, he's also leaving.
Yesterday was his last day.
So that makes me the most senior developer working on this product when he
moved to the next company, and this is going to suck.
So that's interesting.
How do you feel about that?
But I think he just answered.
Yeah.
I mean, it has its pros and cons.
Um, but we'll see how it all shakes.
Well, the dollars for it though.
Do what?
Do you get fat sacks of dollars for it?
Well, so that's the thing is I haven't received an offer letter yet.
I have, I haven't received an offer letter yet from the new company, but I'm
going to demand a fat stack of cash because I am like, in fact, everybody's
who moved over is business critical.
Like they just spent, I'm assuming tens of millions of dollars on this product.
And, or I'm guessing several millions.
I have no idea what it actually sold for, but some, some, some gigantic
amount of money and like, if we were just to give them the product, give
them the code and say good luck, they'd be completely fucked.
We, we are worth a fortune to help with the transition to make this actually
a product for them and not just a, a spaghetti mess of code.
So, um, I think, I think we all are in a position where we're very well poised
to roughly, or not, not harshly negotiate, um, very competitive salaries.
So that's cool.
Um, so then, yeah.
So that happened at like 10 30 up until like about one o'clock, we had
like meetings about that and then like talked about what this meant for like
the work we were going to be doing going forward.
And then it was just me and two of them, people who are being
horse-traded to this new company talking about like what all this meant and how
we felt about it and stuff and whether or not we're going to quit.
Um, and then we had a thing at two that we were going to jump on and all, it
was like a tech demo for something that one of the people was working on.
And I was skimming through something, reading the news or, uh, while eating
lunch and then somebody, oh, uh, Matt messaged me and said, Hey, yeah,
there's a firefight opened at the Capitol.
I'm like, wait, what?
Um, so I found a live feed on the Guardian's website.
Um, and it was just being updated every few minutes from like tweets from
sent or from, from senators inside the building, uh, messages from, um, like
what do you call it, uh, media people, um, photographers and that stuff.
And so I'm watching this whole thing unfold for like an hour, just sitting
there before like this meeting to like try and just like, all right, cool.
Let's, uh, let's all change gears and talk about this cool thing I put together.
Um, yeah, the, the, the, yes, so everybody knows what we're talking about.
Um, on Wednesday during the confirmation for, uh, the election results, there
were initially protesters soon to be rioters.
Um, you know, it's, it's one thing to stand outside and wave signs.
Some of these signs are rather creepy and weird.
Um, some of the flags are not, uh, patriotic to put it lightly.
Um, but yeah, then, then it quickly escalated to the escalation part.
There's probably plenty to unpack there.
Um, you know, parts of it were them shoving the way past barriers.
Other parts were cops moving barriers, waving them through and taking selfies.
Um, which I don't quite understand.
Uh, so yeah, I mean, I'm not summarizing this well because I, I'm just
summarizing how my day felt with it.
It was so surreal.
Like I was already having a weird morning and then I'm watching this go down
and like, is this real life?
It's such a weird year that like I kind of saw that and I was like, yeah,
that might as well happen.
Seems like a fitting end to, or maybe it's not the end of the whole debacle.
Well, uh, hopeful, I guess we'll see.
I mean, so yeah, I mean, I'm, I'm not doing it up.
Summarizing it, just kind of giving my own stream of consciousness on it.
So like, you know, I, I had heard a report that someone died.
It took like three hours for the National Guard to get there.
So, I mean, some protesters made it inside the building.
Um, the, the Senate was evacuated, you know, Pence was ushered out immediately
with a secret service guarding him and, uh, you know, people were like hiding
under chairs and behind, uh, podiums and shit.
And I think it doesn't do justice to say some protesters got inside the building.
Like some, right.
Yeah, I, I'm not particularly well riders rushed the barricades, overwhelmed
the police, apparently beat one of them to death with fire extinguishers.
That sucks.
Uh, and then broke windows and kicked indoors and forced their way into the
Capitol building.
And fortunately, everyone important was evacuated in time.
And I believe the guards inside shot one of the people rushing them, uh, lady
who later died in the hospital.
I saw the video of that.
Um, it's, it's not safe for life.
I mean, you don't get to see her die when you see her get shot.
Like it's the final barricade behind which the, you know, the, the
elected officials are hiding in rooms and there's like a hallway behind the
doorway and they've got like chairs and desks and guards on, on the, you know,
the reverse side of it holding the, holding the guard.
And like, uh, they, the protesters break a window.
This cop standing there with a gun set, you know, you can, you can tell
that they're shouting, but you can't hear it over the pandemonium.
And then gunshot, the person falls back because the person was climbing
through the window that they'd shattered.
And it's like, well, no shit, you're going to get shot.
Like, you know, it, nobody likes police violence, et cetera.
But this, this is like exactly what you want cops for.
So like, that's what they do.
Ideally.
Yeah.
What, what they don't do.
And that's why I like, and, and, and, and Enya's summary is, is closer to accurate
than the one I was giving, but like the thing that's weird about it is, I mean,
you can see videos of them moving barricades and literally just waving
protest, they were, at this point, they were like protesters, whatever
rioters, soon to be rioters through.
And then when they're inside the building, you see cops taking selfies with them.
There's videos of this.
It's so weird.
Like half, half the cops weren't doing shit.
I don't, I don't know what numbers, numbers were.
I'm not sure if half is right, but enough.
We're just completely complacent.
And like these, these nut jobs, you know, scaled the sides of the building,
couple fell and died.
Um, they, they, they took down the American flag and hung up a, a Trump flag.
Um, it, it was like, to me, the, the weird part was like, this is the group
of unorganized, ridiculous lunatics.
And they had presumably a super easy job of doing this.
If you'd had two dozen people, I guess what helped was the size of the crowd.
But if you were there with the crowd and you were there with two dozen, like
highly coordinated individuals, you could have gotten some shit done.
Right.
Oh yeah.
Like the thing is, you use, I've, you see these movies, like a white Olympus
fallen or White House down or whatever they are.
And there's always like this super trained elite cartel of foreign or, uh,
foreign agents or, um, or well-trained, like, uh, organized criminal people.
And they have like Gatling guns and helicopters and like all the shit to break
in and all it really took was like a whole bunch of people with clubs.
Yeah.
They're just like, yep, yep, rushing this place.
And I was like, wow, I made for the least exciting capital takeover movie I've
ever seen.
I kind of had, I don't know, it's, it's like, I thought that they had better
security.
Like that would have always been that like, yeah, it looked like what you were
saying, that it would be actually difficult to do such a thing.
Apparently security is really good as long as they prepare.
Like when, uh, BLM marched on the Lincoln Memorial, there was like tons of
National Guard out front standing and, you know, waiting.
