I think there's a difference there.
They're like, and I'm not exactly sure, kind of mixed thoughts, but I feel
like banning Trump from Twitter doesn't, it's not silencing him.
It's just saying we like, you know, you violated the terms of our platform.
Like, I don't, I actually think that, you know, as a democracy, like, shouldn't
the leaders also, like, have to follow the same rules as everybody else?
I mean, like, contact, uh, uh, with regard to conduct, that's the word.
I don't know.
I mean, I personally think they should.
And, uh, the fact that they don't, in my opinion, you know, points out the
fact that we live in an unfair, unjust, stupid world.
But, uh, yeah, I personally think that everyone should be held to the same
standard, even if it's a stupid standard.
I, I, I'm on the fence, like, I, because I, I agree on paper, that, that makes
perfect sense.
And yet, like, I think that it's, it's nice to have the historical record of
all of this insanity that otherwise wouldn't have come out, right?
Like, I think I wouldn't have been on Twitter.
I mean, but, but on TV, he's, he's less insane because he doesn't get a
spot at three AM on TV.
Like when he's tweeting at three in the morning, that's like, okay, you're
seeing a that the president is up at three in the morning with nothing
better to do than tweet.
And, uh, you're, I, I don't know.
I, like I said, I, I think I'm probably on your guys' side and yet I can
kind of see.
I think you would have found alternative platform that would have become
really popular with like Trump supporters.
Well, he's tried that with Parler, but Parler is now off the Google
Play Store and it'll be off the App Store.
I'm guessing by next week.
Oh, dude, at some point, I don't know.
I want to talk about like what's going on with Parler, but like if I'm not
necessarily even saying that everybody should be, uh, that the
president should be censored the same as all the other users, like I'm just
fine if everyone else is allowed to say the same stuff.
Trump is allowed to say, like, I just want the standards to be the same for everyone.
I see what you're saying.
Yeah.
I, and I think you make a good point.
I, like I said, for me, it's just been, I think it's, it's, it's revealing
an important to have this, this, this public record of, of insanity.
So that it's, it's available to everybody forever.
Uh, like granted, he's still, like I said, he has, he has ways to communicate
with the public and get on the TV whenever he wants.
He still has access to that national service that can, you know,
emergency paying all of our phones with cofefe at three, three, three in the
morning.
Um, I really kind of hoping I get one of those before the end of the year, over
the end of the month.
Um, like, I mean, how hilarious would it be if he just decided, yep, that's
how I'm going to ping every phone in the country and I'm going to give
some bullshit insane message, but more fun than that.
I'd love if it was just another cofe fe like that would blow my mind.
Um, so like it's, it was also interesting too.
I think that the, uh, when, when Twitter blocked his, his support video or his
endorsement video, like the minute long one during the, the actual assault on the
Capitol, they, they, they, uh, I don't know what kind of block it is.
I'm not fluent in Twitter, but like you couldn't retweet or reply or something.
And yet I still saw them retweeted and replied.
I'm not sure how that worked.
But, uh, there was, um, the, there was, uh, uh, a warning there that said, like
risk of, you know, you can't, you can't use, you can't retweet this because of
a risk of violence.
And that was the first time that, that message had ever appeared as like a
warning label on Twitter.
In fact, I don't think they introduced warning labels on, on tweets until
Trump started tweeting out coronavirus bullshit.
Was that literally the first time that risk of violence thing had been used on
Twitter?
Yes.
Oh, neat.
Like other, other ones, they just delete, right?
Um, so like, but it's, it's, I don't know, the whole thing was fucking weird.
So I don't know what much else I have to say on it, other than like, on the
plus side, Georgia, flip blue, um, there's a good chance we'll get some shit done.
Uh, progressively going forward the next four years, like, don't get me wrong.
You know, and this is, you know, speaking of letting the perfect to be the enemy,
the good, you know, like the better, too late, the never kind of mentality.
Like, you know, I, I would never have campaigned for Joe Biden, but I would
have crawled through glass to vote for him.
Right.
Like, you know, he's, he's, I don't think, I don't know, anybody who has a stoked
Biden's or a, yeah, Joe Biden supporter, but it has a sticker on their laptop
that says Biden sucks vote Biden.
Yeah.
I mean, I think that that's kind of the attitude.
And like, I guess, I guess I'm getting at those that I do trust a, a return to
like five years ago when, and I've been told by a couple of people that like,
yes, Steven, but you were just out of the loop.
Things actually were bad five years ago, but I am prepared to, to, you know, fight
on the hill of they weren't this bad.
They weren't even close to this bad.
You know, Obama didn't walk on water, but he, like, he was not three in the morning
screaming that, you know, Pocahontas was being treasonous by endorsing the
articles of impeachment against him.
Right.
Like this, that's, that's, that's how the current president of the United States
spent his time.
Like,
I do think, I mean, while yes, he is the worst president that we've had in living
memory, at least, I don't know how bad they were back in the 1800s.
Possibly he's the worst in history.
I'm not sure.
Like, I think Andrew Jackson could be worse.
And the, the vice president that took over when Lincoln was shot, very likely
much worse, but Jackson, Jackson wasn't as a complete shit.
But I think he at least advanced the goals of the country.
Yeah.
So Trump, definitely absolutely terrible president, but, um, I, I believe
that you are strongly having the same filtered evidence thing because there
are some good things that Trump did.
Uh, and I don't want to like list all of them because I don't want to seem
like I'm supporting him here, but there were definite bright spots to the
administration and, uh, he, he like Obama just kept sending more troops into
foreign countries and bombing more people.
And Trump actually curtailed that a bit.
So if nothing else, he killed less foreigners than the previous presidents.
Um, yeah, I mean, and that's a good point.
You know, there, if, you know, if called upon to name positive things that,
that Trump's done, I mean, he did follow through on his promise to donate his salary.
Um, he reduced the power of the FDA, obviously not nearly enough to stop
them from fucking us all with COVID shit, but, uh, he, he helped a little bit in
that regard.
Yeah.
So, you know, it's, it's tough to say, like, I think a good or no, no, I mean,
the harm was, was really bad.
I just want to point out that like there's a filtered evidence thing going
on here as well, where I don't want to go on the record that like everything
he did was the worst ever.
Right.
Exactly.
Yeah.
I wouldn't, I wouldn't go so far as to say that.
Like I will, I will, I will confidently assert that everything that he
did that had any positive outcomes were done for self-serving reasons.
Um, like it's, and I think that's like motivations matter for that reason.
Like I can count on somebody to do repeat behavior of this vein.
If their motivations were, uh, of a certain clear of a certain kind, right?
Um, like I can't, I can't count on, uh, I mean, it's, it's, it's, it's the intent.
Right.
Um, that let's, that's like why manslaughter is a different charge than
murder, even though the outcome is, you know, dead people on either case.
Like I think that, that intent matters a lot.
And like his reasons for doing things is, um, self-aggrandizement.
Yeah.
And, but like I said, you know, if, if it, well, not if it worked out that a handful
of times that, uh, the, the blind squirrel found a nut a couple of times
over the last four years, great.
Um, and I don't want to be like just a complete, you know, uh, leftist shill.
Um, I mean, I'm registered independent.
Like I, I have never voted, uh, Republican on any tickets because since I've
been old enough to vote, it's been pure insanity over there.
And it's only gotten worse since I've gotten older.
Um, but it's just, uh, I don't know.
I don't have much else to say on it.
Like I'm looking forward to, uh, the next four years in the sense that like, you
know, I, I wasn't, I didn't, I, the, the amount of time and bandwidth in my brain
that, that what's going on in the White House has taken up over the last four
years is not positive.
Like I didn't, I didn't feel like I needed to be in the loop five years ago
cause there was, it wasn't as insane five years ago.
I have at least two things to touch on before we move on.
Uh, the first thing being, do you guys, uh, and let me explain myself before
you jumped down my throat about this.
Do you guys think maybe this attempted coup was a net positive for the nation?
And I, oh, okay.
Well, that was easy.
Um, really quickly, my, my, my, uh, reason behind this is that like, if it had
never happened, I think things would have gone on as they were before with
Trump and his supporters having some legitimacy, uh, and being still coddled
and treated like, uh, like participants in the game.
And now that this has happened, like everybody has just, or everybody except
for the insane hardcore, uh, supporters, which hopefully are going to be, um,
dwindling and not increasing, uh, has been cast aside by the body,
politic and by everybody reasonable.
And they've just been, you know, galvanized into this.
This must be rejected.
We cannot, uh, we cannot put up with this shit anymore kind of thing,
which I think is ultimately probably a, a, a good thing.
I think some positives I see coming from this are better security and
thicker glass at important government buildings.
Um, I don't, I don't mean that as a joke.
I mean, like for, for, for real, you shouldn't be able to smash your
way into the Capitol building with, with the pole.
Like it should be really hard to get in there.
And like, I get it's an old building with a lot of historical value to it.
And that's probably, you know, that glass I'm assuming was really old.
Um, cause it hadn't been physically tested like that before.
And it had no, it had no cause to me.
Um, I think that these people should be hidden behind bulletproof glass, right?
Um, or at least secured behind it, uh, while they're conducting government business.
Like I don't want it to be easy for anyone to just barge their way and
start shooting people like we talked about.
These people were the least bit organized.
We would have had tons of dead government leaders.
And I don't see that as a good thing.
Um, some people will say they do.
And I don't think that they know what they're talking about.
Um, like the, the community, like you said, uh, some will
