started rioting because of excessive use of force by the police.
And then it was resolved by the California National Guard, the US
military and several federal law enforcement agencies coming in and just
like stamping it out.
So it's like kind of proving the point, actually.
Like, oh, you know, the police uses excessive force that it's just like,
we're going to stop that with more excessive force.
Yeah.
One of the points for force will be required.
Like force should have happened on this insurrection.
Like, I mean, especially if they were in there with hostages, right?
We wouldn't call it excess.
And I'm not saying that that's analogous to the LA riots.
I'm just saying that like, just because there's a military response doesn't
mean that it's an excessive use of force.
Right.
But like, what if there had been National Guard at the Capitol building and
they'd opened fire on the protesters?
Like either we'd have a massacre on our hands or we'd have like people going
crazy and burning fucking the Capitol to the ground in riots, as opposed to just
sort of, you know, trashing one building.
I guess I don't know if I want to place trust that every, you know, every
riot will be a meme riot like this one.
Right.
And so if like, how do we get that?
Well, I think I'm liking Jayce's proposal more and more to just not let it
get to that point.
Yeah, I think we can't always get that.
But like, it just happened that these people were unorganized and didn't know
how to do proper guerrilla warfare.
Like they didn't have a plan.
But like, that's yeah, like next to none of them even had guns.
Like, and this is the, I mean, it's going to be the case.
Yeah.
I, I don't want to, I think it's an interesting idea.
Like, all right, go in there, scream your little hearts out and get tired and go
home.
Like that, I mean, it's like letting your kid hold its breath when it's
pissed, right?
Like I suppose there are circumstances where like, yes, it's just going to yell
itself until it's, you know, yell until it's tired and falls asleep.
Like that's the issues are going to go away that caused them to have the tantrum
in the first place, though, that just like, they're going to quiet down for a
while and then probably more angry later, though, that like,
That's what I'm saying.
But the thing you really want to prevent is people be dying and cities burning
down, and then you can work on the longer things in the long term.
Suppose as long as you're working on them.
I don't really know exactly.
I mean, I can't really run enough.
Like, I don't have enough, uh, like, uh, I don't
have enough RAM or data to run that simulation enough times in my head to
see how it would work out.
Well, I mean, you don't need that.
What I think would be great is if the government actually ran experiments.
I mean, obviously, covertly, they can't say they're doing this, but like when
there is violent BLM protests or violent protests of any kind, instead of pushing
back, just like withdraw, withdraw everyone, let them do their thing, let
them smash some buildings and like, see what happens, see if it does make
things die down instead of escalating.
And if so, like maybe this could be a new playbook.
I mean, it's worth, at least putting a pin, a flag in the fact that like the
overwhelming super majority of BLM protests were nonviolent, like, and
to the extent that there were violence as people getting their asses whooped by
the cops, like, there was a lot of burning of buildings.
I think in the, in the like subsequent days, maybe that's what kind of what
you're talking about.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
So you go to, you go to stand peacefully in line and hold a sign and you get
your mask gripped off and maced in the face that, yeah, next day, you're going
to come back with a brick.
Um, yeah, keep escalating.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, the majority of people who went to the capital protests were just
holding signs too.
And then, you know, it escalated.
Yeah.
I'm not an enough of a political scientist to have a strong opinion on how
to work out.
Like I, I don't like the idea of just saying, yep, let them, let them, let
them scream, and then we'll, we'll see if we can get around to solving their
problems, um, especially too.
There's certainly no way you can solve a problem in a night while people are
screaming.
No.
These are long-term things that are going to take a while.
But it never starts with a, with a, with a riot in the streets, right?
The, the, the, the, the contentions that people have that, that spark riots and,
and, uh, protests never first appear with people screaming in the street by in
the, in the tens of thousands.
Like, so, so you get, you adjust the points before that point.
Yeah.
But again, that's, that's hard.
And, you know, who do you capitulate to?
And, um, how do you make it happen?
Like, yeah, this is not an easy problem.
This is going to require massive coordination.
Come to think of it.
Isn't that basically what they did with the Chaz area in Seattle?
Chaz, the, the, the free republic in that, that took over the Capitol Hill
of Seattle for like a month or two.
Yeah.
And the, the US government was basically like, okay, this few square
miles is now an independent republic.
Now have fun.
And after a couple of months, they kind of got tired and went away.
Governments is hard.
Yeah.
Right.
Maybe, you know, once we're all living in a simulation and we can be weird
experiments, I don't know.
Uh, or once we're all immortal.
I mean, like, yeah.
Hopefully, you know, we're not in one of those simulations.
People are running to see what would happen.
I mean, it kind of feels like it lately, but.
Like the, the, I guess the only part that sucks about Chaz is like the people
who had businesses there, just having their, their businesses ruined for the
number of months that, that that thing was around.
I like don't know very much about this.
Did they just, they just had to like evacuate and like, and then they were screwed.
Like, okay, your, your house and your business are now like in this independent
republic of whatever the fuck.
And like, did anybody take care of them or like, no, not really.
It was a place that had no laws for a period of time.
I need to look this up actually.
Like, I, I, I didn't hear very much about it because it just kind of went away
over time, but, uh, yeah, there was, I don't know how many weeks it was where it
was just like, we, we hold this property now.
US government come at us, bro.
And the US government was like, yeah.
Well, I think space travel is the answer.
Mars colony, you know, like get people off the earth, spread people out
enough that they can all form their own little like Dyson colonies.
And yeah, you know, we just need to get like unlimited resources, UBI mortality.
You know, it's, that's how we fix it.
Yeah, and the rights, it's not like riots have no body count.
They're people were burnt to death in, in some of these things.
Yeah.
I think, I think we've got a, I think it's like, you know, getting the
amount of damage though is the thing that we're trying to figure out.
Like, yeah, I think we just hurry and solve problems.
Like you said, you know, yeah, I, I don't know.
I mean, I, there was another point I wanted to keep jumping in my mind and
then slipping, like, I don't think we've used the word terrorist yet.
And like, it's, it's mainly because people want terrorists.
Well, I wasn't, uh, I know you're joking, but like, I, I was just going to
say that like, I feel like the, the, I also want to give this the credit of
a terrorist attack, right?
Like, don't get wrong, you know, some of the people who jumped in
with weapons and, uh, those hog tying zip ties, I think it's unequivocal.
Uh, there are a few people who wanted it to be terror attack, but right.
Like, confidence doesn't weigh into whether or not you get labeled a terrorist.
I, I, I almost does.
In my mind, just as like an, like an implicit handle, but you're right.
I think, uh, realistically, it doesn't.
Um, I'm also just skipping back through this guardian article and like, uh,
you know, I'm in, uh, representative Mondaire Jones.
I, I disagree.
Uh, he says that Washington DC is designed to be one of the most
secure places on earth.
And I'm like, no, it's not.
Yeah.
What if that thicker glass?
No, I was just thinking with the whole pulling back and letting the
riot burn itself out and become a mean thing that could work for like government
buildings, but like part of the death count that happened in the, the BLM riots
was people trying to loot small businesses and, you know, property owners who
like, this is their livelihood fought back.
They like had guns.
They're like, get out of my shop, get out of my house, or I will shoot you.
And then they didn't, and they shot them.
And like, you, what, what are you going to do?
Unless you have the national guard go and evacuate everyone in the area that's
going to be, that's going to be damaged.
And even though it's sort of like the Republic of whatever the fuck, like then
what happens, like, you know, you evacuate everybody, they come back.
They're, they're out home and like their business is burned to the ground or like
looted and it's like, well, but at least, you know, the death count was low, which
I guess, like, I'm actually still looking at this Wikipedia about the 1992 Los
Angeles riots.
They destroyed Koreatown.
Yeah.
400 million dollars damages.
And then it says Korean America's, the rioters and the National Guard.
What did the rioters have against Koreatown?
Uh, it, it was there in Koreatown and it's saying that like, because
Korean Americans, you know, where had a low social status and a language barrier,
they got like no aid or protection from police.
And then like that, that sort of exact happened.
Uh, yeah, a bunch of people and businesses were burned down their whole like, so
yeah, that, that's like, I want to like minimize also just collateral damage like
that.
If they could channel rioters into like government buildings that are designed to
be destroyed until people are happy and then rebuilt over the next week, that,
that would, I guess that would turn into theater and people would stop doing that
soon.
Yeah.
