probably dwindle off, but I think we'll see some of that evaporative cooling.
I think the ones that are left will be even more, uh, charged than they were
last week.
And I am desperately worried about the safety of the inauguration.
Um, you know, and oh, that was the, that was Trump's last tweet.
I will not be attending the inauguration or to many people have asked me, no, I
will not be attending the inauguration.
Um, which people took as a, um, if you read, if you, if you're dedicated
to read between the lines there, I never like want to give Trump the credit to
say that he is smart enough to put things between the lines.
Like, I think he's just saying, I'm not going to be there because I don't like him.
Me, I'm a sore loser.
I think that's what the tweet meant in its entirety.
But what it, what it also conveys is that, Hey, if the bomb goes off there, it
won't kill me.
Um, and so that was his last tweet before he got banned.
Uh, like, so I do worry that the, the galvanized base there, uh, will be less
unorganized next time.
Um, I also don't think that they'll make a bunch of security gaps at the
inauguration.
So I'm not losing sleep over it, but I, I don't expect it to go peacefully.
Um,
Jase, you had a strong agreement with me to convey.
Basically, I mean, um, I'm like trying to think of a way to put it.
And, uh, it's like, I sort of also just feel like there's good that came out of
coronavirus too.
And like, it's just the sort of like shaking somebody by the shoulders.
Like pandemic was, pandemic outbreak was something I was super worried about.
Like since I was the little nerd kid reading about like virology and stuff.
It's just, it was always this like, like the, the, the pandemic we got could
have been so much worse.
Yeah.
Um, and we still kind of fucked it up.
But I mean, like it, like it woke people up.
Oh shit.
Like, you know, like people are dying.
I remember like, I mean, one of the things that, uh, one of the outcomes, like I
think I've told you that like my parents and my dad in particular, like just
like anti-science based medicine.
And my dad's a like global warming denialist.
And I remember that when reports of like the pandemic were first coming out of
talking to my parents and they're like, Oh yeah, they're totally overblowing this.
This is, this is ridiculous.
And like their tune has changed now.
Like now they're like, Oh my God, it's horrible.
I'm watching the news.
It's like there's all these people in ventilators and I'm like, you know,
scared about your grandma.
I'm just like, yes, thank you.
Take things seriously.
And that's kind of like, yeah, this was like a bumbling attempt at what could
have, you know, been like the riot we could have gotten could have been so much
worse, but like now, you know, people are, have been woken up that like, okay, like
this isn't just a funny joke, I guess.
Yeah.
It's, yeah, it's, again, it's really hard for me to like say that like, yeah,
that like this was a good thing.
Cause obviously these are both terrible things.
Like, but I mean, I think like, I'm just grateful that like what we got wasn't,
you know, a organized militant group with like 30 bombs or something.
We just got like the people that kind of broke the windows and then walked
around and like took a selfie of themselves, like their feet up on Nancy
Felici's desk.
Ryan and luckily too, they were nice enough to use, you know, their own phones
and post to their own Twitter's like, so a lot of them are really easy to track down.
Not the sharpest crayons in the box.
But all right.
And let it not be conflated that like this event had positive outcomes.
That's not the same thing as saying this was good that it happened.
The thing I was saying is like, I wasn't saying that this is a bad thing
that had happened, but it has some positive sides.
Like I was literally putting forward the proposition that it is a good thing
that this happened because it has resolved some things that the future
could be much worse if they hadn't been resolved at this point.
And I don't know if that's actually true.
I think we will find that out as time goes on because maybe this is just
another step in the escalation escalator and things are keep going to get worse.
And this was just the one time where people realized, all right, now both
sides can use lots of violence to advance their agenda.
But on the other hand, this this may be a thing where finally people stop
treating it like a game and treating it and treating the Trump like some
a serious problem that needs to be acknowledged and dealt with quickly
and firmly.
And so I think it's entirely possible that this whole thing was indeed
a good thing that it happened.
Yeah, we as a species need to or at least like maybe just we as Americans
really need to do postmortem analysis like, OK, like, how did this even happen?
How do we like prevent this sort of thing from happening in the future?
Like, I just am sort of like exasperated that it took this this long
and like this ridiculous of an outcome for people to start realizing
that just the insanity that's been going on.
Yeah, I guess I'm less interested in like attaching like good or bad label
to things and just like looking at the outcome of it.
And I think that you're right, it may well have a net positive.
On other hand, like you said, it could show people like, oh, all we need to do
to get our way is to start throwing Molotovs through the Capitol building windows.
Well, I wouldn't show them that because they didn't get their way.
Well, good point.
What it kind of proved is like you won't accomplish anything with this idiocy.
Maybe it'll show how easy it is.
Maybe it'll open the door to say, oh, look, it's actually a lot easier
than I thought to to assault our elected officials.
Like, I'm not really sure exactly what it'll take or what the outcome will be.
I'm hopeful that that things will be less insane going forward.
And I mean, that's that's the thing too.
Like imagine if we had imagine this alternate universe where we had a liberal
Trump, like I can't quite picture what that would be like
because I want somebody just as unorganized and selfish and insane as he is.
And imagine you what I can kind of imagine.
Like I imagine like some of the people I'm like, you're doof discord.
Yeah, absolutely.
OK, yeah. All right.
You gave me some some concrete examples.
So imagine how much worse the next four years would be
if we had a polar opposite of Trump and like we had
like instead of Biden, his accepted his his
it wasn't his acceptance speech.
It was the yeah, that's what whatever it was, his victory speech
that he gave when he won the electoral vote.
He stressed over and over like I am not the president for people who voted for me.
I am I am everybody's president.
You know, we as we as Americans are going to come together and come.
It was it was a whole unity message, you know, and granted it's political
platitudes, but I think that's going to be more or less like the kind of
sentiment he's going to be pushing forward for the next four years,
where imagine if instead it was like, all right, we got him.
Fuck these guys.
We're going to get them back.
Like they tried to get us like that that could have happened.
Right. That would be terrible.
Yeah.
Did you see his speech that he gave in the middle of the Capitol, right?
I read the highlights of it.
Like I call on President Trump to get on TV now and tell him to stop.
Yeah, it was really interesting.
It was only like five minutes.
One of the things he said right near the beginning is like we this is not us.
This is not Americans.
We don't do this sort of thing when he was referring to, you know, the writers.
And like on the one hand, sure, it's a unifying message and all that.
But like I noticed that he was authoring the people that were currently
looting the Capitol because at least it's struck to me that like if they need
to send people in, like send the guard in to sweep these people out and have
massive casualties and people killed in on the floors of the Senate to get them out.
Like they are not true Americans is what he's saying.
This is not us.
These people are not Americans.
And I thought it was subtle and I'm not sure if it was effective or not
because we never had to find out.
But I thought that was an interesting thing he did.
I mean, I'm trying to think of what else you could possibly have said that
wouldn't have been exactly like what Trump said other than, hey, you're just like us.
I understand you, you know, like other than endorsing it, I can't imagine
what he would have done other than using some other language.
I mean, like I don't like that it's sort of it's suggesting that like sort of
the way like Nazis are like almost in retrospect, like being characterized
as these kind of like mythical demons, like this, this is what can happen.
Like this is the way people's minds can get turned if, you know, they're
following the wrong, like the crazy figurehead.
And like my understanding is really a lot of like Trump's effectiveness was
just sort of that he is sort of incoherently emotional and people were
able to sort of just project their own anxieties.
Like, you know, a lot of like rural poor, opioid epidemic affected, like, you know,
like people losing jobs.
Like there's people that are just like people in the suburbs that are.
Yeah, I'm sort of like anybody who did end up becoming a Trump supporter.
Like some of them are just as nuts as Trump and believe all the like
conspiracy stuff, but like some of them are just like, I don't know.
Like people genuinely suffering who have like real concerns.
And I think that it's a little bit, it's a little bit invalidating of like of
that to kind of go like, you know, I'm not being very like coherent with this.
I think you get what you're saying.
Yeah, like I always like don't, I don't know, that's kind of like the identity
politics thing that bugs me about that too, or like, or any of the us versus them.
Like, I don't, yeah, I don't know.
If it feels overly simplistic, it feels tribalistic.
Like I would prefer having a leader that could actually face the people and be
like, like, hey, that happened.
Let's pay attention to that.
Let's not like, you know, laugh at it or brush it aside or be like, well,
like we fixed that and that's gone forever.
It's like, no, there's like, we've got issues in this country.
Maybe let's look at that.
And I guess I trust Biden and his administration to be able to do that
more, certainly than we've seen.
I mean, I should hope I can hardly imagine doing it worse.
Well, I mean, I could trust Trump to point at the issues and yell and like
basically scratch at the wound, right?
Just keep inflaming it and infuriating it and making things much worse.
Yeah.
Where I think I can trust Biden to completely ignore the wound and pretend
it's not fair and let it get septic, which probably is not as bad as
constantly making it worse, but isn't that much better?
The things things we're building up until we got Trump, though, and that
was, I think, the result of, you know, Obama was doing the same thing with the
like unity and like, you know, we're going to try to like have this bipartisan
thing. And it's like kind of ignoring the fact that like, actually, there are
like people that hate each other.
Like, what are we supposed to do?
Like, I mean, like, I feel like pushing forward message of let's work together
