Right.
Yeah.
I mean, it's just, I mean, this, I can link to this Guardian post that has the
timeline of all of this.
They can just start at the oldest and go to the newest.
And it was just, it was surreal watching this unfold.
You know, it, it, and the other thing too, I guess this is worth talking about, you
know, part of the fallout of this.
So it was spurred on by, you know, Trump's morning message of saying, go down
there and give him hell.
And they did.
And so like, oh, so I've got mixed feelings on it, but they're mainly positive.
And I think there's nuances to why it took so long.
But so the day of, you know, Trump put out that insane video and I watched it 90
seconds after it came out where, where he's like, okay, yep.
You guys, you guys did a fine.
I don't remember enough to summarize the whole thing, except for the end where,
and it was like a minute and 13 seconds, so you can bear listening to it for that
long, but he couldn't be more tacitly opposing what happened.
But he just says, okay, yep, we're going to stay up.
Well, that's the thing is he was tacitly encouraging, but it was, it was supposed
to be a message of like, you know, knock it off.
You guys are fucking ridiculous.
Go home.
No, stop.
Yeah, you know, you're very, you're very special and we love you.
It's time to go home or something.
Like, so, so shortly after that, he was suspended from Twitter, which, you know,
to many people, you know, great four years too late, but we can talk about that in a minute.
So then the next day I did watch to see what he would say when he got back.
He posted a video that was like clearly written by his lawyers saying, look, read
this verbatim or I can't defend you in court.
That, that was like unambiguously condoning the, or not what's
opposite of condoning, disparaging and condemning.
Thank you.
The violence and everything that, and the, and the riots, everything that happened
and conceding the election already lost the coup.
Like when it was still going on, he, that's when he was giving them encouragement.
Yeah.
But this was written like you try to get losses.
But the three, the three or so minute video the next day was just so clearly
written in not Trump speak that, you know, it was a verbatim, pre-prepared
note for him.
And then, yes, yes, you can be, you can be sure it wasn't a free flowing Trump thought.
And so a lot of his stuff is, it's, it's coherent as long as you look at the emotion,
like the video that you mentioned, the 92nd video, it is all about saying like,
we have been wronged.
This is unfair.
You are fighting for justice.
Good job guys.
And even though like the words at the end are like, and all of you should go home
with peace and love, like, sure, those were his words, but you can tell what the
message was, the message was, we have gotten royally fucked.
And it's a good thing that someone's doing something about it.
Yeah.
Like I, I get that the, the emotional core of that was consistent, but I meant like
semantically consistent.
Oh yeah, never happens with him.
Yeah.
So then the only other thing that day was some innocuous tweet that I can't remember
what it was, but it was, uh, it was not like perma banned worthy.
And yet he got perma banned.
Um, the president, you know, like, so if I get on Twitter and I'm like, let's kill
all the senators or something, I get banned because I'm a nobody, right?
Like, and that makes sense.
The, the, the president of the United States is delegated the same, uh, like
response by social media platforms that me, a nobody would get.
And it, it's like, so when I heard that, I'm like, wait, I didn't believe it.
I'm like, wait, what?
And I went and checked and his accounts blocked or it's still, like it's, it's
deleted.
Um, it was announced on the news that like, or on various news outlets that he was,
he was blocked from Twitter, then Facebook, then Instagram, then left my butt off.
And then for some reason, like Spotify and a bunch of other people, like, like
he's getting as much as out through Spotify, whatever.
He's bent from Cole's shopping.
Like, I don't know.
Yeah.
Pinterest.
Banned from everything digital.
So like, again, this would make sense if it was like Alex Jones, right?
Like, and don't get wrong, it makes sense for Trump, but it's so surreal.
Like the, the president is no, is, is, is no longer trusted with the
responsibility of handling a Twitter account.
I mean, like, like, like what he did with it, though.
I, well, I know, don't get wrong.
They made the right call.
But what weird TV show do we live in where it's like, Oh yeah, you know what?
My 13 year old isn't allowed on Twitter because they're not old enough.
Neither is the president for similar reasons.
I found, I found what I found really interesting.
And I think this is going to maybe have bad repercussions for people in power, but
maybe good for the rest of us.
I'm not quite sure is that basically for four years, they just tap
danced around, around Trump's bullshit.
They were like tacitly, you know, being like, yeah, but okay.
He's the president.
We can allow him to do stuff.
Republicans sort of, sort of had his back the whole time.
And like they, they accommodated it.
They used his lies and his bullshit for their own advantage because it would get
them votes.
And it wasn't until their personal physical safety, like they literally
could have been maimed or killed for this, uh, as soon as that went down, then
right away they snapped into this president is awful.
He's a liar, uh, like Pence basically denounced him.
I suspect that there may have been a secret 25th invoke that we just
haven't been told about, but who knows.
Um, I had a weird thing about that, but yeah, but like Mitch McConnell finally
turned against him and was like, this president has got to get out of here.
Like there's still some diehards out there.
Like the fucking Ted Cruz's of the world that will lick his butthole forever
because they know their constituents want that.
But, uh, for the most part, right away, people just stopped humoring him
and took it seriously.
And I'm like, huh, so if you want, uh, politicians to actually take your
suffering and problem seriously, all you have to do is personally threaten
their physical safety.
I'm not sure that's a lesson that politicians wanted to get out there,
but it's certainly a well, loudly received message.
I mean, it's not controversial that like, or I don't know, uh, I think it's
a generally understood fact about humans that they will start to like take
things seriously when their life or yeah, personal safety is on the line.
Like, yeah, I don't think that like people didn't think that until now.
I think one of my favorite, uh, book series is Altered Carbon.
Um, by Morgan, which has a terrible Netflix adaptation.
Which I don't know, okay.
Yeah.
The adaptation in my opinion is awful.
Just go read the books.
The books are fantastic.
But at one point, like someone tells him, look, this, this was just business.
This wasn't personal.
And he's like, it was fucking personal to me.
So now I'm making it personal to you.
And that's what happened to the, the lawmakers here.
Yeah, it's, it's wild.
I'm sorry, go ahead, Jayce.
No, that's just a green, just, I don't know.
I'm still kind of like trying to check around to see if I'm on the
candid camera or something.
I know, right?
It's, it's surreal.
I, for, for me, it's just watching, you know, like, yes, it makes sense that
of course they're going to change their tune now because they're like,
Oh, turns out there's consequences to what we've been saying for the last
three or four years.
But like, I just, I, I saw, I was trying to think about like the Twitter thing,
you know, because I saw a lot of things and I don't, I don't, I don't like when
people shit on people for doing the right thing, even if like it's too little,
too late or whatever.
It's like, yeah, but it's still like, you know, it's like articles, articles
impeachment will be introduced again on Monday.
They're not going to go anywhere.
Well, they probably won't.
But like, does that make it, does that make it a pointless gesture?
Like should they have done it earlier?
Probably.
Yes, they should have been at the same day if this shit happened.
Oh, yes.
I mean, they should have done it last week for sure.
But I mean, like, so they've done it a month ago again, probably.
Yes.
Like all of this, this has been incited for a long time.
This didn't just spring up on Wednesday morning.
So like the, but I don't want to give people shit for eventually coming
around to doing the right thing.
And yet, like the, that's been the response to like him being banned from Twitter
is like, well, great, but you should have done it four years ago.
And it's like, yeah, sure.
But like, I do want to say it literally is better late than never.
Like that is actually better.
But the other thing is like, I remember Jack Dorsey was on
Sam Harris's podcast a couple of years ago, and he's the CEO of Twitter.
And Sam asked him like, look, why is Trump still allowed on the platform?
He violates the terms of service.
You know, he's threatened nuclear war on there.
Like, and I can't remember Dorsey's response exactly.
I should go back and listen to the episode, but it was something along
the lines of like, I mean, on the one hand, this isn't what he said.
They do have different standards for world leaders on that platform.
So there's, there's more leniency given to world leaders, which I think
kind of makes sense.
Like, I think, I mean, don't be wrong.
Not that you should be allowed to do anything.
And yet they're not the average user.
So I haven't fully fleshed this out, but I think that there's at least
a case that can be made there that I'm not going to make yet.
But the other thing is like, I, the analogy I was giving when I was
talking about this the other day was like in Europe or many parts of Europe,
it's against the law to voice the belief that the Holocaust was a hoax.
I think that's a stupid law.
Like I get why, and my context isn't there on the ground.
There might be good reasons for doing that that I'm unaware of.
And yet I like the idea of letting stupid people broadcast how stupid they are
rather than not let them do it.
So we don't know how stupid they are.
Like, I think that that a case can be made that says, yes, let these, let
these people go on TV and say that they don't believe in the Holocaust.
And then we'll all know they're idiots.
