But yeah, by all means, please reach out.
We owe you and you rock and with that, I think we can call it.
Uh, yeah, let's quickly remind people that they can subscribe to us on all the
various podcasting places, please give us a review.
If you haven't, you can support us on patreon.
And if you don't want to support us weekly on patreon, you can't just buy
some neat merch to wear around or to put on your phone or, you know, whatever.
We have a merch store with our logo on it.
I did buy the, the slim phone case and it's awesome.
Um, not only does it look good, but it's minimalistic.
Like it's, I don't know how thick it is, like less than half a centimeter.
And it adds no bulk to my phone.
Like my old case had like a kickstand on it that never used and it was like big.
This thing is, is sleek and sharp.
And I know I'm like sounding like I'm selling it, but I, I bought one.
So like, I think it's cool to see if there's a lot that fits my phone.
I've got a weird phone, but there was a variety of options, but I don't think it
had a ton.
So I've got, um, what the fuck?
Is it a Modo bullshit phone?
Yeah, probably I don't have it, but there's like stickers, right?
Yeah, I can just put a sticker there are.
All right.
All right.
Good point.
Good point, Tiniash.
All right.
Everyone have fun.
Have a safe couple of weeks.
And enjoy watching the aftermath of this thing.
And do something fun.
Yeah.
Watch some of my videos.
There's a, there's a Netflix show called the history of swear words hosted by the
greatest actor to ever grace the screen, Nicholas Cage.
And the first episode was on the, on the history of the word fuck.
And it was delightful.
Oh, that sounds really good.
Yeah.
I've watched, I've only seen the first episode, but I was looking for some
levity this week and found that.
And I was like, this is what my life needed today.
Send that to me.
I'll send you some puppy videos.
I found some really good puppies.
This is just on Netflix, the history of swear words.
Okay.
Then I'll have to check that out.
To be available to everybody or anyone with Netflix anyway.
All right, everyone.
Have fun.
See you in a couple of weeks.
Bye.
