Excuse me.
Right.
What I meant to say.
Yes.
A hundred million days.
A hundred vaccines is, is 50 million people is working at the point.
I believe we are going, uh, pivoting to the, everyone gets one vaccine shot first thing.
Oh, well, yes.
That seems to be the vast majority of the protection anyway.
And the booster shot is just kind of a little bonus.
You know what?
Okay.
Yeah.
For science-based medicine.
And by God, I mean, scientists.
Yes.
The only true God.
We, we didn't, you know, again, like I'm glad that the pandemic we got wasn't as,
wasn't the worst pandemic we could have gotten by a long shot.
And that now, uh, people are going to take things more seriously.
Like science-based medicine.
We almost did, you know, after the Ebola quote unquote pandemic.
Then it became a meme.
Well, yeah.
But, but we had, we had put things in order to be prepared and have a proper
response, which were then immediately disbanded when dipshits came in and had
the ability to do so.
So like, I'm hoping that we take a positive, you know, move from this as
well and, and, uh,
Can the lesson for both of these be like, maybe listen to like intelligent
experts who warn you about like potential catastrophes and like, uh,
how can I get back into my frustration?
Back to happiness.
Who else has happy?
No, no, I can say that all sounds like barn until we all disagree on who the
trusted experts are, but the scientific method at least, like, I don't know.
Uh, pandemic is one of the things, you know, that like could, could be an ex
risk, um, and I, you know, definitely talked about pandemics before.
I don't know.
I'm like a weird married kid.
I liked reading books about pandemics and virology, but like, it was always
just this like, you know, potential extinction event.
And I would like talk about it, you know, like being in the medical field and
stuff and bits and people just like didn't take it seriously.
It's like, after we did start getting good healthcare and sanitation, uh,
germ theory of disease, et cetera, people seemed to think that like, oh,
okay, well, we're, you know, we as a species are past this like whole
disease thing.
And it's like, yeah, no.
Y'all don't remember a few generations ago.
Like, yeah, and really it wasn't, it wasn't that long ago.
You know, how many like, children died in childbirths, like women dying in
child, but like, you know, there were diseases that would really mess you up.
A lot of people had childhood diseases that even if they didn't kill you,
you left permanent scars and neurological things.
Like just, mm.
We're still in the up and up.
Polio was eradicated last year in, uh, Africa, right?
I thought so.
At least I've been telling people that and I hope I'm right.
Cause I thought I heard it somewhere trustworthy.
You're right in that, uh, wild polio.
Yeah.
Africa is free from wild polio virus says the who.
Yeah.
Positive stuff.
Right.
Yeah.
I think it's just like Afghanistan and Pakistan where it's left now.
One of my coworkers, uh, got ahold of a PS five, um, as far as just like
random, random, happy news, he really wanted one.
So he wrote a Twitter bot that would monitor Twitter for like the word sale,
um, or, you know, PS five sale or whatever.
And then it would ping his phone only when that came up and then he
could go check it out and, uh, that's smart.
Very immediately.
Yeah.
I think it took him much purchases more.
Yeah.
I mean, uh, it certainly, uh, I could send you the code for his, uh, his PS five
hunting bot.
I mean, I'd appreciate it.
I like know how to do it.
What I'm just saying is I should stop being lazy and start like,
yeah, I'm finding the virtue of just like looking for, like when you're
looking at making purchases to look on different platforms.
It was funny.
I bought YouTube premium, like for the month free trial a month ago.
And if I looked at buying it on my phone, it was like 17 bucks a month.
Right.
So when I went to my computer and said, all right, YouTube premium promo code,
I, it just took me right to the regular page, but it was 14 bucks a month.
And I, I checked and for whatever reason, if you're buying it on your phone,
it's $3 more a month than if you buy it on your computer.
And I've no idea why the fuck that is.
I was looking at buying a nice office chair that I just saw in Shark Tank.
And if I look it up on my computer, it's $100 more than if I buy it on my phone,
because my phone has like a pre-order $100 off.
What the fuck?
I don't, that actually is why I didn't pull the trigger on buying that yet,
because I'm like, this seems so disingenuous screw you guys.
But, um, it does have a six a day money back guarantee, so I'll probably get it.
But like, I, it, anyway, if you're shopping, look, look on different for
whatever reason, different, uh, hardware to see if you can get different prices.
That is bizarre.
All right.
Who else has something positive?
I don't have something positive, but I have like a listener feedback thing from earlier.
Hit it.
We'll end on that.
Okay.
Uh, so this is back from when we did the Einstein's arrogance, less wrong post.
Uh, one of the posters in our discord was wondering like, why, why is this okay
for Einstein to like say, no matter what the experimental result is, I feel bad
for the person doing the experimental result.
If it doesn't match the theory, like that really does seem the opposite of how
we want to do science, where we always go with what the experiment reveals.
And, uh, there was some discussion about this.
Cause you know, it sounds like a good objection.
Uh, eventually our user do the math gave the answer.
He said, Einstein had a mathematical proof that if the speed of light was
constant for all observers, something which can be proven using Maxwell's
equations and verified by just looking at every experiment done on the matter,
then the only possible world we could live in is one with time dilation.
If he was wrong, then not only would he be wrong, but ZFC set theory would also
be proven wrong.
And we would no longer be able to make predictions about the world because the
world wouldn't have a logical structure that or every experiment we did to try
to change the speed of light would have yielded spurious results.
And Maxwell's equations would be wrong in their way, which would allow us to
change fundamental constants of the universe and generate free energy.
Too bad we're not living in that universe.
Yeah.
So the difference here is that there's more than one logical step between
Maxwell's equations and relativity.
So people can't realize how absurd it is to get a result proving the theory wrong.
Said, uh, I hear you write that the post view is named to do the math.
Yes.
And, and they said, because, because math.
Yes.
What I love about that is I was like two things.
One, I was there for the, the beginning of that conversation and I was able to
like respond a little bit.
And I was like, we're going to need a mathematician to come in here and settle
this and I miss the mathematician coming in to settle this.
So thank you, do the math.
Uh, and thank you for bringing it to my attention because I didn't, didn't get
to see the, the wrap up on that.
Uh, yeah.
And, but that's one of those things too, where it's like the, the summary in the
post wasn't given, like you're, you're the thing to their explanation would have
been, I think duly included in that less wrong post to explain why it wasn't arrogant.
Um, just saying he had good reasons and we can trust that they were good reasons.
Um, definitely left to open a very legitimate question of like, how is
that not the most arrogant thing anyone's ever said ever.
So, um, yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
You have a lot of wrong posts next month or next week or next, next fortnight.
We are doing, um, pull up a minute.
I almost had it.
We are doing, I guess, I know, but just to remind people you're doing a rational
argument, we change your mind less often than, often than we think and avoiding
your beliefs, real weak points.
Yes.
Wait, everyone's safe.
Have fun.
Wait, what were you going to say?
Okay.
I think a patron it.
Oh my God.
Do I save in the day?
It was such a like politically charged episode today.
Do we want to like lay this on a patron's feet or should we something?
Okay.
Alrighty.
People that listen to this podcast, I like have the same interests, or at least
I don't know, like Hobo demon, we couldn't have done this about it.
Yeah.
Hobo demon is also on the discord.
And I hope we'll enjoy the call out on this episode.
So, um, he's totally fucking rock.
And, uh, it's always, I, I, I'm enjoying, you know, I, I don't engage much with,
with much that happens on discord, but I do watch some of it.
So it's nice, uh, seeing your, your contributions as well.
So.
Yeah, I'd like to give extra props to hobo demon real quick because hobo demon was
one of the people that helped together the, uh, audio book for my book, um, what
lies dreaming, which hopefully that'll be, and you know, available in its entirety
soon, but it is available in all the different chapters currently.
And yeah, like you just did it free out of the goodness of his heart.
And I really appreciate it.
So thank you for enjoying that.
Thanks over demon.
I think what we're getting at is we definitely owe you one.
We owe you at least one, probably two.
So, um, whatever you need, whatever you'd like, give us a shout.
It's yours.
One wish, possibly two wishes, depending on how intense the first wish is, but none
of those wishes can be for us to teach defense against the dark arts next year.
