And yeah, people did lose their lives over it.
I knew a guy who dropped out of college due to Evercrack.
But like now that you play it and you compare it to modern video games, you're like, this,
you know, this is all right.
It's a fun enough game, but it is, it is not nearly as addictive as the modern stuff is.
And like we've just kind of developed antibodies and resistances to it where like it's still
addictive the same way 60s weed is still addictive, but it's not nearly as bad.
I hear what you're saying.
Yeah.
I think that they've mastered the surface to me less more on like newer video games.
But I just remembered like I played, I think in a year or less, I put like 450 hours into
Elder Scrolls Oblivion, which has none of the online component like competitiveness that
World of Warcraft has.
And so then again, that was Steven, you know, 12 years ago, maybe now I do a little better.
So.
Yeah.
Now that means just the old World of Warcraft game, the game part of itself is just objectively
less good than the current games that are out in current retail Warcraft is much better
in terms of like minute by minute play.
It's just not a great game, all things considered, but it is, it's more than the game, like the
both the social aspects and the overarching like logistics of trying to get a raid completed
is that that feels like the real game.
And that's not like pushing buttons and knowing what spells to use when that's like, like
actual human stuff.
Yeah.
That's the fun part.
And I was addicted to MMOs for six years.
I was in college at the time and I think I mostly just sacrificed sleep.
Yeah.
I did that too.
But like until sunrise and then like had to go to school.
I mean, I almost died a couple of times in car accidents due to my sleep sacrificing.
So that was a bad idea.
Yeah.
You guys are more partial than me.
If you guys almost died, I definitely will die.
So yep.
I actually woke up on the oncoming traffic side of the road.
Yeah.
But I mean, there was no oncoming traffic.
So it was fine-ish, but still really scared to wake up like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Waking up in motion is probably not something that fails to, you know, send an important
message to you.
Yeah.
Well, cool.
I'm glad you're writing again too.
If you ever need a dummy reader who doesn't, you know, who's not an articulate reviewer
to read your stuff, send me anything you got.
Sure.
Yeah.
Jace is crushing it.
Programming boot camp.
Everyone's winning at stuff.
Yeah.
So it sounds like you're getting up for it.
But it almost did.
But if we're going to do the wrong post, I can wait.
But speaking of winning, we're going to talk about Wednesday.
After we talk about what is evidence filtered evidence.
Yes.
In a sentence, I'm going to just summarize that this is like, if you're going to do really
formal Bayesianism, this is kind of like, to me, I don't need to articulate the points
in my head.
Or at least it's my understanding of it.
I don't need to articulate the points made in this post, like formally to intuitively
understand and implement them already.
But if you're looking for formalisms, this is a good, or I guess semi formalisms, there's
not that much math in this.
So I think this, this post, like it's, I think it's pretty intuitive, but it's also extremely
applicable, like much more nowadays than it was before, because basically all the news
we get everywhere is extremely filtered.
And that is, that has many applications the modern day.
Let, I don't know, let me, let me touch on this real quick, the what evidence filtered
evidence post, he hearkens back again to his dilemma about the clever arguer that he set
out in an earlier post where someone is hired to sell you a box that may or may not contain
a diamond.
And the clever arguer points out, for example, the blocks box has a blue stamp.
And it is a well known fact that diamond containing boxes are more likely to have a blue stamp.
And at that point, like, what do you do from a Bayesian perspective?
Because that is true evidence.
Like stamp containing boxes are much more likely to have diamonds.
And as a Bayesian, you should update your probabilities on true, true facts like that.
But on the other hand, you know, this is a clever arguer who will only tell you things
that are in support of the box having the diamond, and will not tell you about any other
evidence.
So are you supposed to not update on actual true evidence that exists?
Like what the hell do you do here?
Yeah, basically, this is the dilemma of what do you do when you're when you know you're
interacting with a biased source.
And so, like, I, and correct me if I'm wrong, but the conclusion is basically, you don't
really, you're not obligated to do anything as a proper Bayesian until you've checked
that against other sources, or like, you know, you know, you know, the rest of the relevant
data.
So here's the example of like, all right, I've got a biased coin, Ian Yash and Jace.
It's either two thirds biased heads or two thirds biased tails.
And I flip it 10 times.
I tell you that on the fourth flip, the sixth flip and the ninth flip, they came up heads.
What is your posterior probability that the coin is heads based?
Well, the answer is, fuck you, right?
Yeah, I mean, if you had made a pre commitment to always report the fourth, sixth and ninth
flips, regardless, then this is a good evidence that it is in fact, heads based.
But if your commitment is to only report the flip that come up heads, then this is actually
evidence that it's tails based, because that would mean that all the other flips were tails.
And if you don't know which way I've pre committed to, it means that you can't make an informed
update.
Yeah.
So, sorry, go ahead.
Okay.
Well, I was going to say that it's really cool.
At this point, he brings up the Monty Hall problem again, which for people who don't know,
there was an old game show where there's three doors, the contestant picks a door and behind
one of the doors is $10,000 and the other two are empty.
And then the host goes and opens one of the other two doors and the door that the host
opens will always be one of the empty ones.
And the question is then, should the guests switch doors or should the guests stay on
the door that they already picked before?
And the intuitive answer is it doesn't matter because they got a 50-50 shot.
The actual correct answer is they should always switch doors because then they will get it
two thirds of the time.
The reason for that is exactly because of this, because the host is a biased source.
And like the biased source that will only report on heads, you know that the other seven flips
are tails, so it's actually biased tails.
This is the same kind of thing where you defect, the host opened that door, changes the probabilities
and you should switch doors.
Right.
And like, it's sometimes, at least for me at the beginning when I first heard this like
a decade ago, it wasn't intuitive.
Oh, not at all.
There are so many arguments about this thing.
Well, I think for me, what really settled it is like, all right, picture a thousand doors.
And you know, behind one of them contains $10,000, the rest contain nothing.
So I pick, you know, door 100, the host opens all the other doors except one, and they're
all empty.
I'm like, okay, well, what are the odds that the one I picked had the $10,000?
It was one in a thousand.
But now that I know all the other doors are empty, I mean, it seems to indicate that the
one in a row, yeah, so it's a, it's a much better chance that it's the new door.
So yeah, or the remaining door, rather, there's an admonition here, right.
There's a, there's an admonition here not to use the evidence filtering as a fully
general counterargument, like we've talked about before.
That's just like the, the, the tool you can whip out with the inappropriate tool you
can whip out and say, ah, I noticed your bias.
I get to disregard what you're saying.
Like, that's not how this works.
That's not really any, and so this isn't the only fully general counterargument, but
those sorts of things are things you have to be careful of, lest you find just enough
tools to never change your mind.
I like what he says here.
Do you mind if I quote it exactly?
Yes.
You do?
I'm kidding.
Go.
Yeah, I know.
I'm good.
Come on.
Okay.
I don't know.
Maybe you're like, oh man, I was trying to get through this now.
You know, I should slow this down again.
You're good.
Let's hope he, okay.
So, yeah, he's saying, people will say that argument was filtered.
Therefore, I can ignore it.
What he says is, if you're ticked off by contrary argument, then you are familiar with the
case and care enough to take sides.
You probably already know your own side's strongest arguments.
You have no reason to infer from a contrary argument the existence of new favorable
signs and portents, which you have not yet seen.
So you're left with the uncomfortable facts themselves.
So, you know, yeah, the other side's argument is filtered, but you already have
all the filtered pro arguments.
So don't just discount the other side.
Right.
And, you know, man, this sounds kind of appropriate for right now, doesn't it?
Yes.
But yeah.
I mean, it's just the idea that, like, I think everyone knows this on some level.
You know, you go to a used car lot, you know, the car salesman is trying to sell
you a car and they're not going to talk down the car that they're selling you.
They're going to talk it up if they think you might buy it.
They're not going to tell you all the reasons you shouldn't buy it.
So that's why you listen to their spiel and then you go to your phone and Google
the make and model and see if there's any, you know, common problems with this vehicle.
I think people know that just because they've been told it so many times, though,
like people still trust a lot of their own media sources, even though that is the
worst person to trust as they have the most filters.
Oh, that's what I'm saying is that people, people know about this, this, uh, this
problem in certain areas, the technique is applying it.
Broad.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Otherwise, uh, yeah, you're just leaving yourself open to be manipulated by used
car salespeople.
Chase, you're seeing?
Oh, I thought you had something.
No, I was just making it.
Okay, okay.
