So the, the proposed solution here is to build an easily breachable government
buildings that are designed to be destroyed.
And when riots start, like leave the doors to target Walmart open so that people
are incentivized to go after those places first, hopefully they get too tired
carrying everything out of there before a giant distraction.
Like, what if there was just a big inflatable Trump that they sort of threw
now, like Trump and the Trump supporters, like whatever, like, I don't know, a big
inflatable police officer, like just, yeah, I give everybody like sticks and make
a big pinata.
I feel like once we get to the point where people are throwing bricks and
molotovs, we've already lost.
And like, yes, you can lose harder after that, but I don't want to, uh, I don't
want to allow, like, I don't want to concede and say, let's let it get there and
let them get the, you know, I don't think anyone's proposing that.
I just, I feel like, uh, we can do better than have to run those experiments.
And even if it's hard, like, I don't know what to say.
Um, yeah, I mean, if I knew the answer, like, or, you know, if anybody knew the
answer, um, we're just, we're going to have to figure it out.
But like, I think, yeah, first step is like, and I know we're going to be
hearing about it forever, but post mortem, like what the fuck happened?
How do we prevent this in the future?
Like what, you know, what were the failure points?
The downside is that the, you know, more interaction is to be asking
themselves those exact questions and looking for, uh, you know, from the other
angle, maybe like, how can we fail?
What can we do to do better in the future?
Uh, well, maybe, I don't know.
Like it, again, sort of seemed like this is just like flailing in anger.
I don't even know if they had, like, you know, it sounded like it's, okay,
we're going to like take the white house and then like, then we're going to
dot, dot, dot.
Yeah.
That's partly why I've been gravitating more towards the use of the word mob
than terrorists.
Cause like granted, like I said, a handful, no doubt, unequivocal terrorists.
And yet, like most of this is just mob mentality.
I don't know if they just wanted to like stir shit up.
Right.
This, I think, I think a small group of people definitely did.
And like the rest of them wanted to be there to protest.
And then they see, Oh, look, the barriers are down.
Whoa, look, you can just walk right into the building.
Why not?
I'm near the front of the line.
Like I think, and that, that I'm assuming that's one thing through the head
because that's how they actually, when they got in there, right?
They did not know, like very few, very few people entered that building
looking like they had a plan.
And so it makes me think that this was not a, uh,
a part made this thing.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So that's where I just see it.
Like as a mob thing where it's like, Oh, look, I didn't know this door was unlocked.
Hey, check this out.
And then everyone else, you know, they had no intention maybe
at the beginning of going through this door.
And they, the end of the doors were unlocked.
I'm now inventing a bad hypothetical one.
I could point into the real thing, but like, Oh, look, this door's been kicked in.
How convenient.
Exactly.
Yes.
You get one, you get a handful of disgruntled dick bags at the front of the line.
And of course the ones who are most disgruntled to be closer to the
front of the first place.
And then people saw them walk in.
No problem.
And I, I, I would be unwilling to bet a thousand dollars that a handful of people
just walked in wondering, Oh, what do it looks like in there?
Like, looks like it's free.
I'm curious.
I don't even know if that winch was going through people's heads.
Honestly, like you get like tunnel vision, like, you know, people are riled up and
they were like, actually, I was like, If I was at a protest, like, assuming, I'm
just putting myself personally in the shoes.
Like if I was upset at the president and I was or at the Congress and I was at
the Capitol building, just, you know, protesting, holding my sign.
And some people rushed the Capitol building.
I'm not going to rush it.
I'm not a violent maniac.
I'm going to stay back.
But like, if it's been an hour and a half and there's people milling in and out
of the Capitol building and nothing's going on, I'm going to be like, you know
what, I'm going to go in there and just going to look around.
I always wanted to see the inside of the Capitol building.
Like, why not?
Maybe take a few pictures because it's not going to be that lucid though.
Like this is like people getting really riled up and like the initial people.
Yeah.
But like, when you see the video of after now, people just wandering around, I
could totally see myself being in there and being like, all right, well, the
doors kicked in, the cats out of the bag, the horses have left the barn.
I'm just going to check out the barn while it's open.
Yeah.
I've never been to a real like protest.
I did the initial, the first year, the women's march after Trump got elected.
And like, I didn't attend any of the protests this summer.
And part of me felt bad about that because like I had friends who were going
and I supported the efforts.
I just, I mean, really what it can do is I don't want to get hurt.
And I realized that like part of that is like, you should be willing to get hurt
for the cause, et cetera.
But like, I knew that like one good kick and I'd be limping for the rest of my life.
Like I'm more fragile than maybe the average protestor.
And I didn't want to, like, I mean, so I guess what I'm saying is I don't know
what it's like to be part of a protest where we're all like chanting and holding
signs because I've never done that.
Maybe it is just kind of like a thing.
You can just get totally swept up in it.
Right.
So that's what I'm saying is I, I can't imagine what it would be like to be
swept up that way.
So maybe I'm not doing it right when I'm pitching my hypotheticals here.
I've only had like good examples of this, like being a, you know, an awesome rave
and having people spontaneously like do cool shit.
But I've been very easily having had those experiences.
I can very easily imagine having the other experience.
And I imagine it would feel kind of similar.
Like it's this heady feeling.
This like sort of, yeah, I'm invincible.
Like we can do anything.
Oh my God, this is great.
But like flipped dark version.
And, you know, raising the sanity waterline, we need to probably like give
some lip service to that.
More than lip service.
If we can think of a way to actually do it, it would be great.
I don't know, man.
I, I think that my, I feel like I'm about to spend on things to say.
I don't know what else to, I feel like I've gotten everything out that I wanted to
get out.
Yeah, I think I'm the same place.
I mean, I'm sure glad nobody died.
And I, I include, you know, I mean, they went in there and they, they
erected a gallows and they talked about killing Mike Pence.
Like I'm glad they didn't kill him.
Oh, so you're glad no politicians died.
Right.
Excuse me.
Yes.
I, I know that, uh, that, uh, civilians and officers died.
I meant, yeah, I'm glad no politicians died, even the ones that disagree with.
I'm glad they failed to lynch, uh, Mike Pence.
Like I, uh, I, I think that would have been a catastrophe.
Um, so, see what the aftermath is going to be.
I don't like Mike Pence.
I'm, I, I wish he wasn't vice president, but if, if a mob could run in there
and kill the vice president, you know, to them, they can do it to us.
And I don't want that to happen.
Right.
So if we're thinking in them bad, us good terms, I think you still don't want
this to happen.
Still don't want that to happen.
Um, yeah, uh, I don't know.
I feel like I keep talking about it, but I also don't feel like it's
terribly productive to do so.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Cause there's just something we had to get out.
Like originally we had a different, uh, episode planned and then this happened.
Do you guys remember the last time we had a different episode planned and it got
preempted by, uh, events?
No.
It was when Trump won the election in 2016.
Long.
Yeah.
So both, both times have been due to Trump political stuff.
God damn it, Trump.
Stop de-villing us.
Well, let's, let's try and find some positive notes to end on here that probably
aren't related to January 6th.
Uh, I already, I already tried to open on a positive note and what good things
are happening, but they don't have any like random good news.
Yeah.
Uh, we were talking about the vaccine earlier.
I don't know if it's going to be kept in or not, but, uh, I did look further into it.
And so yeah, winter is going to be healthcare workers and people 70 older.
Uh, but then the spring phase is going to be the 60 to 69 and 16 to 59.
Uh, summer is going to be open for the general public.
Uh, that is the color of vaccine information, but like it's coming.
We're, we're going to have, you know, assuming that we can trust that the
manufacturing is going to continue to, you know, create the product, scale it up.
Um, by summer, it sounds like a, you know, all us regular folks who aren't in the
high risk, I mean, uh, and then I don't know, I'm talking to a bunch of listeners.
You might actually be in that category.
So sorry to assume that we're all young 30 somethings.
Well, although I think actually our demographics.
At the current rate, we're not going to hit the, you know, we're not going to get
to everybody by the end of this decade.
Like we definitely need to up production and distribution.
The more people get it, the more herd immunity is going to be a thing.
And like, I'm just looking forward to being able to see other humans again.
And yes.
Locker.
Yeah.
By the way, the race builds out where I'm asking fear of touching something.
And, and Biden has said that he's going to try to get a hundred vaccines in 100
days and his first hundred days.
So a hundred thousand or a hundred, wait, a hundred million.
