Hello, and welcome to the Beijing Conspiracy.
I'm Stephen Zuber.
Oh, I'm Yungash Brotsky.
I'm just picky.
It's so weird not having this in the room, so we can look at the person who talks next.
Yes, we are having a fun new style of doing this.
Well, not new. This is a probably temporary thing.
But we also have two guests with us today. Matt, why don't you go first to avoid confusion?
Hi, I'm Matt Freeman, and I am here to argue.
He's back.
And I'm Wes Fenza. I am also here to argue.
Oh, right. This sounds like fun.
And the fun format of what's going on here is we're all recording from five different locations across the globe.
Mostly across, I don't know, 60 miles or so.
But anyway.
This is all the way on the east coast somewhere, right?
That's correct.
South Jersey.
Cool. South Jersey. Is it as bad as everyone says?
No, it's wonderful.
Oh, okay.
This all sounds sarcastic. I'm bad at picking up sarcasm.
No, that was like, I actually like the one little section where Wes lives of New Jersey.
Yeah. I mean, it's basically east Philadelphia.
Yeah.
And as we know, it's always sunny in Philadelphia, so.
I, you know what? Getting off topic, never mind.
Well, I'm happy to take this off topic really quick and point out that Mack from It's Always Sunny is now on this show called
Well crap, I forgot the name.
Anyway, the main guy, or the guy plays Mack on It's Always Sunny is on the game, or is on the show about a company that builds this video game and kind of like World of Warcraft.
And the first two episodes are available for free on Apple's streaming service.
Yeah, but the first episodes are free. They're pretty funny, so I'm glad that he's doing his own thing.
Well, as long as we're doing plugs, I'd like to say I'm very glad to be here because
everyone from like my two favorite podcasts is here.
Nice.
Not everyone. We're missing scum.
Well, not everyone, but people, representatives.
I just finished We Got Worm like a couple days ago.
Awesome.
Which is, oh, I can't, anyone listening should go to get it right now.
Just stop listening to our podcast.
Go listen to that one.
Go get Worm.
Go get it.
Which is a podcast that I did a while back for those of you who don't know that.
Come back in a few hundred hours once that's done, being listened to.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's an ordeal.
Yes.
As you guys know, I recently had a brand new baby.
Congrats.
Congratulations.
So you have to feed her and it takes like 45 minutes of just sitting there holding her
and with a bottle in her mouth.
Feed a baby?
Yeah.
How did they ever live?
I don't know.
But I was basically listening to Worm and then we've got Worm for the entire time, like
four times a day.
Nice.
If you're learning.
That's a perfect activity to do.
Yeah.
For new stuff to listen to during your baby feeding time.
I don't think there are any episodes of the Magnus Archives about haunted babies.
So you should be in good shape, but I can't recommend that podcast highly enough.
You can look at your baby when they're debating whether to shoot a baby in the face or not.
I don't remember them even debating.
You know, I haven't actually read Worm, so all I know about this is secondhand information.
But I hear that at some point a baby might get shot in the face.
I'm not sure.
It's the least amount of deliberation that was ever put to that particular question.
It really was.
I am curious though, is this a normal thing for babies to need 45 minutes to eat?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
I can suck down the calories I need in like three minutes.
Whoa.
That's very impressive, Aniaz.
You're a very impressive person.
I'm much better at this than that baby is.
Fully formed digestive system and all.
Oh, is that part of the problem?
It's teeth are probably a big life hack.
My teeth.
I'm pretty sure that it's mostly the baby taking their time to force the Oxycontin to release in your brain
so that you are reprogrammed to love them more.
I think you mean oxytocin.
No.
Yes, definitely.
That one.
Both probably.
I was like, whoa, oxytocin.
I don't know.
I don't remember that happening.
It feels like oxytocin when you're holding and feeding a baby for 45 minutes, am I right?
I mean, it was a funny slip because basically you guys should come over and try it.
It certainly would make me love the baby more.
The new party drug is just feeding Wes' baby.
It's probably adorable.
Does it work?
And that's a nice segue.
It is.
Actually, it's not at all.
I was about to make the same sort of noise.
I wanted to point out also just at the opening of this that we are kind of jumping all over
because, or there might be some interruptions because none of us can see each other's faces
because visualizing this would be too distracting and suck up too much bandwidth.
So we are kind of just, there's going to be some talking over people and whatever,
but we'll do our best to moderate that.
So anyway, dive right in wherever you guys are.
Yeah.
I mean, so I actually am not sure.
I feel like y'all or some subset of people did an episode on,
which at least touched upon the idea of like ask versus guess versus teleculture.
I don't think we have actually.
Well, that was what Jess was talking about last week.
We mentioned it.
It was in the radical honesty episode.
Yes.
Well, I mean, it touched on it, but it didn't really go into the details, right?
That's true.
That's what we're doing now.
But it did spark, it did spark an argument on discord, which sparked this episode.
So.
Yes.
So Wes and I were arguing bitterly bitterly for hours about this.
And I think that that's why we're having this podcast is so we can continue that argument.
We should probably recap the argument too for people who are not on the discord.
Or maybe start with explaining what.
And I'll say for fun too that this, this is like it's,
we're not just on just to host a WWE match.
Just because I found myself, I guess, sort of on the fence on this issue or on this discussion.
I don't think it's really an issue.
And I'm curious to see kind of the, the long form coherent points of what people are advocating for.
And I can have my, my just one moment of old man yells at clouds, which is, I hate the norm of calling everything a culture.
Like where I think I was talking to somebody a few months ago and they did something about interrupt culture.
Like it's a thing that as a society, we all like put our heads together and decided to do.
And it's kind of a cultural thing like in the East Coast though, especially in New York.
Or just you maybe because you just interrupted.
Oh, I think it's just like, you can't, you can't call it anything that more than one person does a culture.
But that's probably my old man yells like clouds thing.
I think something can be used fully described as like a thing that is a population of people does.
So I think that's what a culture is like.
Yeah, I know. I just, I found it kind of just like grinding my gears.
I think it's the people to describe elements of a culture as cultures in themselves, which is not quite accurate.
I think it's, I think it's appropriate to the conversation to ask the question or to point out the conflict though.
Because the idea that there is even such a thing as guest culture and that guest culture is the background culture of the world is an assertion which requires defense, I believe.
And I feel like it gets taken as an axiom in these conversations too often.
So maybe we can start there and either we can start there or West.
You can just lay out what your argument since you seem to be kind of making the affirmative and I'd be taking the negative.
Can we also kind of maybe just quickly define what these things mean?
Yeah, that's where I was planning on starting.
So asking guest culture are terms that come from a very old thread on meta filter, which I don't even know what that is.
I'm surprised that you know the origin.
Yeah, and it was a, so it came from a comment, it's like 50 comments down that people just latched onto.
And it was a guy asking about how he lived in New York and his wife's friend was coming to town and she had asked to stay with him.
And he didn't want her to stay there.
He doesn't even know her and he thinks it's very rude that she's asking and doesn't know how to say no.
And the comment that everyone kind of latched onto and that vibed with everyone.
And I'm just going to quote a little of it here.
It says, in some families you grow up with the expectation that it's okay to ask for anything at all, but you got to realize you might get no for an answer.
This is ass culture.
In guest culture you avoid putting a request into words unless you're pretty sure the answer will be yes.
And that's basically the difference between the two.
It's been, you know, it's been refined and discussed a lot since then.
And when I talk about it, I'm talking about specifically the aspect of whatever culture you're in that deals with requests and refusals.
So it's how you ask for things and how you deal with other people asking for things.
I see it as a spectrum that, you know, there's no such thing as a pure ass culture.
There's no such thing as a pure guest culture.
It's just which side of the needle are you pointing towards some and it's comparing cultures to one another on this sort of axis.
Does that sound like the same thing you guys are talking about?
Kind of, except you haven't explained what either of those things are.
Like you gave the example, but I guess it's not clear to me.
Maybe I just missed it because I'm slow.
A couple more examples would help to eliminate the point.
So ass culture is where you can ask for anything you want, but you're acting under the assumption that the person can say no.
And that's totally normal.
In guest culture you don't ask for what you want unless you're pretty sure the other person is going to say yes.
Because otherwise it's rude.
And that people rarely say no because giving a direct no is also rude.
Those both sound like real life right now.
Yeah, well, so, and I think you're right that they're kind of different ends of a spectrum.
But I think what I tried to articulate in our discord discussion, and then I don't know if we got much farther beyond this.
So I'll just recap kind of my position and then we can maybe go from there was like, I agree that those tendencies exist and they exist in a spectrum.
But I think that each individual ranges across that spectrum all the time, depending on the context going into the situation.
And like one thing I did in our conversation is I made like, I think I made like six or so different scenarios where I was like, look, at each of these scenarios.
And in each of these scenarios, like one person is is being ASCII and the others is fine with it.
Or this person is being guessy and the other person is fine with it or this person is being ASCII but it's perceived as rude.
And I was basically pointing out like, it's literally always dependent on the specific context of the situation.
And yeah, it's absolutely possible to like, find yourself in a in a confusing edge case.
Like for example, you, you ask to stay with your wife's husband or whatever.
And it's like, maybe to that person, it didn't occur to them that that was like a really big ask.
And it would feel really burdensome.
But like, like if I were to call like one of my like one of my best college friends or whatever and be like, hey, I'm going to come visit.
And like, can I stay with you?
Like that wouldn't feel like, first of all, yes, I would expect them to say yes.
But if they said no, it wouldn't hurt my feelings.
