Well, I guess we've probably covered much of the advantages, but you were going to say, like, how it's possible to do it?
I don't know how to move from one to the other.
But I think if it was something like the Rationalist community that has actual, like, thought leaders in it that people read and understand,
I think it just takes the thought leaders to advocate this and say, like, hey, these are good communication norms.
I encourage you all to make use of them.
I think I like, God, go ahead, Matt.
Now you go ahead.
I almost forget what I was going to say.
I was going to say, like, I would, I think the idea of like a crazy, wild, intentional community sounds fun.
If someone were able to actually argue to me or prove to me or even argue to me in a persuasive way, not even prove that it would be potentially better.
And while I, while I am walking away from this conversation thinking like, okay, there are minds that work different from mine.
And I kind of already knew that, but now I have a little bit more data and I have enough data to kind of be even more explicit in certain ways.
I still am not persuaded that we should do this little social experiment.
Like, I'm not, I'm not necessarily all Chesterton's fence about this and saying, oh, no, no, no, things that we need to keep our culture the way the normal culture is,
because I see no reason why we can't have the rationalist culture be weird and strange.
Like, it sounds fun to me.
I just am not persuaded.
Like, like, like Enias was saying, I don't know what we would even do.
Like, if we all agreed, if, if everyone on this call just agreed, like, oh yeah, yeah, we're going to do it.
Okay, what do we actually do?
What do I actually do?
Like, because it's like that XKCD cartoon where it's like there are 14 competing standards.
We're going to make a new standard that synthesizes all of them.
Now there are 15 competing standards.
It's not, it's not like now I'm going to go to the less wrong meetups and have to do less cognitive computation.
I'm going to do exactly what I did before, except with an extra filter of, wait a minute, is this sufficiently asked culture?
And then how many levels of indirection are underneath the ask that I need to account for?
Because that's obviously still happening.
Like what Steven said a second ago about, like, like, are they saying, are they saying it's okay to say no, but they're still going to read into the no?
They're going to read into the no no matter what.
You can't stop it.
You, like, no matter what culture they're from, they're going to read into the no, right?
Even if you're like,
If you explain why you said no, then you don't have to read into it.
I've,
But they could be lying.
I guess, but I mean,
They don't lie.
Then, yeah, I mean,
Well, you know you're not lying, but do they know you're not lying?
Like, so Matt, when you'd said that you sometimes claims to like, I'm not feeling well as an excuse not to hang out, like now if you ever actually are sick and can't hang out,
There's a chance that now that this is out there, people are going to assume that you're pretending to not feel well.
Oh, yeah.
My whole migraine disorder is fictional.
I didn't want to say that, but I was guessing that, right?
No, that's a joke.
He's really committed to it.
He threw up in my toilet for like a half hour to get this out there.
He really had to sell it.
Yeah.
It wasn't for desk culture.
You wouldn't have to vomit in people's toilets, man.
Yeah, that's true.
I would just feel more comfortable asking people for things and saying no to people when they asked me for things.
If that's how I felt.
You know, I don't think it's that super complicated.
The thing is, I feel bad asking for things.
So oftentimes I won't.
And if I knew that people felt more free to say no, then I wouldn't feel as bad about it.
I think a lot of the problem is just that I hate to use the word patriarchy because now of all the culture war connotations it has,
but I do think a big part of the patriarchy is teaching half of our population to accommodate the other half and be very,
and just feel bad internally if they don't respond to a request with a yes.
And it's going to be hard to have an ass culture until we can fix that.
That was actually one of the things I wanted to mention is that this ends up getting very gendered in most of the country.
One of the things one of my friends on Facebook pointed out is that she presents very female and that she has had real trouble parsing
like what the ask and gas norms were in the various parts of the country she was in because she's a woman and the rules are always different for her.
I feel a large part of patriarchy is just teaching women how to be victims and accommodating, and I hate that.
And I don't know, maybe if ass culture were more prevalent, some women would have better training in how to say no and not accommodate every double request.
I think that's a double-edged sword because one of the big advantages of ass culture is that people do get a lot of practice saying no.
And that's an important thing.
I've never attended one of these, but I've heard people go on about cuddle parties and how a lot of what they do there is they practice asking people for things
and refusing those requests and it's very like training for how to be assertive, which sounds really great to me.
But the other edge of it is that one of the other failure modes of ass culture is victim blaming.
As you look at someone and you say, well, you should have said no. Why didn't you say no?
And not taking into account all the pressures that get put on people by taking too simplistic a view of it.
It's interesting. This is maybe an aside, maybe perfectly relevant. I'm not sure, actually.
So I have a very good friend who this is just kind of the best example I can think of off the top of my head where he and I were both asked at the same time to be groomsmen in a mutual friends wedding.
And I say, of course, I would be honored because I can't even conceive of saying no to that question.
And Michael, I mean, my unnamed friend says no. He says no. And he doesn't explain why. And ultimately, it's because he doesn't want to.
And the thing is, like, everybody knows, like, oh, that's Michael. That's just how he is. And then it's not a thing, right?
It would have been weird if I had said no with no explanation. It would have been perceived as highly rude.
But, like, he has created this iconoclastic personality for himself where he's allowed to do that.
And I think that's a fascinating feature of humans is that when you know someone, they can break rules like that, or...
Wouldn't it be better if everyone had that rule, though? If everyone was like Michael?
I don't know is the thing. Like, sometimes I envy him and sometimes I see my way of being as clearly superior.
Well, I think this goes back to what we were talking about at the beginning, too, is that when you know someone well, you don't need these cultural rules.
Culture is there for the people that you don't know that well. And I think that applies to your culture.
But Michael got that reputation by being like that all the time.
Exactly. I bet if you talked to him, you know, he would have lots of opinions on how the culture reacts to them.
Yeah. He does. And I mean, I think if... I don't know if he'd use the word ask culture. I'm sure he wouldn't because he's just always been like this.
But he definitely would be like, why would I pretend otherwise? It would be a huge waste of my time.
Right. And I didn't say I wish I lived in a culture where everybody acted like that. People were expected to act like that.
And I wish I lived in that culture, too.
Well, interesting. I never actually considered that.
I will say that of the few friends that I have like that. Well, I guess there's only one friend that comes to mind that's like that.
I respect the hell out of him. Like he is one of the people I most respect and I wish I could be like him.
Because he just doesn't do things that he doesn't want to and, you know, is upfront and honest about stuff.
And like, I don't know. He thinks he's an asshole and sometimes he gets like called an asshole, but he's a lovable asshole.
Like people like him.
I think there's definitely a way to do it without being an asshole.
I think he pulls it off.
And I think that would also like being like your friend. That's kind of my recommendation for how you can start to like introduce ask culture more into the wider world around you.
Like I kind of do that at work sometimes where I will or at social events with people I don't know or I will tell people I am on the spectrum.
I have a hard time with expressions and body language and tone of voice.
So like I might ask more questions or you might have to explain stuff more to me.
One of the ways I try to spread ask culture is when I hear a story like that, I always defend that person.
And I say they're just being honest with you. Don't you wish everyone was like that?
And on reflection, the nice thing is that when Michael does agree to be in your wedding, it means a lot more.
Yeah.
I feel the same way about what's the guy, the English guy from American Idol, Tyler Cohen? Stephen Cohen?
Tyler Cohen's economics.
Steven Tyler?
Yeah, yeah.
From Aerosmith?
Steven Tyler, thank you. No, goddammit, not Steven Tyler. Back when we were talking the mean British guy?
I mean Simon Cowell.
Simon Cowell, hey, I was close. I loved Simon Cowell because everyone else on that show, like if they just said you did pretty good, that meant shit.
You could have been the worst singer they've ever seen. They're like, yeah, you did okay, we'll get back to you.
Every time he would always tell you if he thought you were shit. And so if he ever told you, you did really good.
That was like, holy fuck.
Everyone loved you.
I must have done fucking good.
But the thing about it being a spectrum is you would not want to live in a society filled with Simon Cowell's.
Because he was also a jerk about it.
Yeah, he was a real dick about it. And that's probably not escort guest culture. That's just him being a dick.
I mean, like Chef Ramsay, I think is the same way where everyone kind of loves watching him get all mad and yell at people and tell them what he really thinks.
See, I hate people who yell. There's no need to yell. But I think I would like being around Simon Cowell because he didn't yell.
But Chef Ramsay, there's these great videos of him teaching kids to cook and he says I don't yell at kids.
And it's just, he's not actually like that. That's his TV persona. But I get the feeling that he is actually this like straightforward and honest person,
but not in this like TV version asshole screaming at people and calling them names way.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah, that thing is like Simon Cowell and Gordon Ramsay are both playing characters on TV.
Like I doubt when Gordon Ramsay goes out to a restaurant when he's not being filmed that he would be like this is dog shit or whatever, right?
Like, so I think I wouldn't even know how to model that person as a not TV person.
When he goes out to eat and the guy says, Hey, I recognize you from your shows, you know, you're not on camera. What do you think of my food?
Would he be nice? Would he be harsh? I don't, I don't, I'm not trying to draw. I try not to draw a lot from from those people in particular,
like from, from TV personalities, right? But I can sort of see the value of like, I mean, that's just part of this ties back into your radical honesty.
And that's my thoughts. Basically, you know, if, if someone asks me for feedback on their, their drawing or their music or their writing or something,
I, my response would be like, I can't do any of those things. So you're way better than me. So you're not asking for me.
I hate that response as a professional.
What was that?
I actually hate because I am a professional artist or, you know, I was, I hate when people are like, Oh, it's better than I could do. That's not an answer.
Do you like it?
That was the first half. That was the first half of my answers. Like, that's the thing is they're not asking me to be like, in your professional opinion, how is this?
I will, I will, they know to ask me in my, in the, in my capacity as someone who can't do any of that stuff. So I'll be like, it looks good, or I can say, I can look at it and say, I can't tell what this is.
Like, who was I just talking with this about? Oh, I remember it was the artist Billy Eilish. She was on SNL as the musical guest and did this amazing video sketch.
Someone, if you want, just Google Billy Eilish SNL. The music video is amazing involves some amazing camera work, and I don't want to spoil how it was done, but it's an optical illusion that that lends itself to this really, really cool trick.
But I'm listening to this watching it with Rachel, and I'm like, it sounds good. I can't make out a word she's saying. She is mumbling into that microphone. Like, I can, I, if there's like, so I can't tell if they're well written lyrics or not.
I guess, how did this tie in? Oh, this is just me, like, trying to assess like my Gordon Ramsay style approach to things. So, like, you want a good friend to say, if, like, if you showed me a short story, and you were like, what do you think I would be?
Well, if there, if you're trying to communicate something beyond like the text, I'm not picking it up, but I also suck at this. You would know that asking me so I could just say that, right?
If you had said, hey, was the was the subtext of, I don't know, this, this message, did that come through to you? I could say no. And I'm not sure if I'm higher or lower than the baseline reader. But if you're trying to communicate to idiots, it's probably not going to work because I didn't pick it up.
So because I'm an idiot at reading stuff, then yes, if you're trying to aim for that demographic, yeah, you need to dumb this down a bit.
It would probably be that sort of thing. I feel like I had a way to bring this back, and I can't remember what I was going for. It might have been the, if I tried to drag this train back onto the tracks, I was looking at the line in the notes here about no mind reading required and ask a culture.
And I, I guess that's, I can see where, like, if someone was giving you an explanation for something, you know, a request to do whatever lunch, and they said, no, sorry, I brought my own.
Like, that's a response, that's a response that doesn't take a lot of mind reading to parse in either framework. But I don't know if I was going to be able to pick up on that.
I feel like, like, if, like, if I'm going to try to take it in a direction, see if we get anywhere, like, if my, if my oldest comes up to me with something she drew, and she's like, do you like it?
First of all, the honest answer is yes, even if I can't tell what it is, I like it, because I just do. If she asks other questions, then I'm going to try to answer honestly, but I'm not going to be like, you know, look, your pencil technique is terrible.
You can't, you can't tell where the shadow is coming from. And, and, and these are unrealistic colors, like, like, I'm not going to say the things that would be some combination of hurtful and pointless.
I might, I might give like this, the tiniest shred of feedback in a critical vein of being like, you know, I probably wouldn't actually, I probably tend to just be like, oh, I really like how you did the eyes on this one.
As a way of pointing out, like, the thing that she did the best, and then maybe she can internalize like, okay, I'm doing good on the eyes, you know, I don't see the, but like, but this is all, this is all absolute mind reading and subtext awareness,
because when a child comes up to you with a drawing, the last thing they're wanting or expecting is, is detailed critical feedback.
I feel like that, that relates probably less to this episode and more to the last episode, which is, which was all about like, when do you want to tell someone your actual true feelings?
But again, this is, this is, you know, your interactions with your daughter, who I'm sure is one of the people closest to you in your entire life, like asking guest culture or not have nothing to say about that.
That's someone that you have established your own interaction style with.
I have a counter example, being a child who drew a lot, you know, draw a bunch of comics or characters that were like, I don't know, various dragon things and try to show them to my parents and they'd be like, oh, that's nice, honey.
I actually wanted feedback.
I actually like, wanted to like, know that they had actually looked at it.
So, yeah, what usually my, usually what I try to do is, is instead of saying that sucks start over, I'll say like, yeah, you should practice drawing that thing more.
So the, so you get really good at it.
That's like all the other good social skills, like you can be, because you said my true on my true answer is like, do I like it? Yes.
So you're not lying.
I guess kind of getting into the radical honesty thing too, but like, it's just, I think it's not that hard to, or maybe it is, it's a skill, but I think it's an important skill, being honest and straightforward while not being a dick.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
Well, I'm like, and like, like you mentioned too, like the context surrounding this matters entirely, like your daughter's seven, if she was 17, and she was applying for art school, and she was like, Dad, I'm working on this.
What do you think of, you know, can you give me some feedback?
You would not hesitate to give her real feedback at that point, right?
Yeah, right.
Especially if she was trying to pin her academic aspirations on getting good at this, you wouldn't help her stay bad at it, right?
Yeah, right.
I mean, especially if it was genuinely bad or something like that, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And again, I just, I feel like it's important to remember, ask and guess culture really only relate to requests for things and refusals to give things.
This is much more about, should you be honest?
It's not about, should she be asking for feedback?
Or is it okay to refuse her request for feedback?
That's sort of what ask and guess culture deal with, where it's the radical honesty, I think, is the idea that deals with like, okay, when you're communicating with someone, how honest to do you want to be?
Yeah, I think there's like a whole bunch of social skills that I would like to bring into the rationalist community, like not just this one.
Kind of when we were talking about, I wanted to communicate more clearly, or just here's some good communication norms.
I would say radical honesty, ask culture more, but nicely.
And then also like, stuff I want to bring up in future episodes about the courage to be disliked, which kind of goes hand in hand with replacing guilt.
So real quick, I'd like to talk about some of the failure modes of guess culture.
Because I feel like this is somewhat explains why I prefer that our subcultures and society in general move a little bit more towards ask culture.
Because I think these, I experience all of these.
And the first one is that getting punished for not picking up on subtext, which like I said, I'm on the spectrum.
So I'm particularly bad at this, but I feel like everyone I talked to has experienced this at some point, where somebody's putting down subtext, you're not picking up on it, and suddenly you're the asshole.
Another failure mode of guess culture is you get in a situation where neither party knows what the other wants.
And there's a really good example of this from Star Trek The Next Generation.
