It would just be like, oh, like they must have like, like that's fine, whatever.
Whereas I wouldn't, I wouldn't, if I were visiting like the town of some somebody I didn't know very well, I wouldn't, I wouldn't assume.
So it's, I know I'm starting to trip over my words here.
And I think it's just because it's really,
I like the example you gave of asking the your boss for his gold watch.
Yeah.
Yeah, I didn't necessarily want to go through all of them, but maybe we can just start there as like an example.
And then y'all can say like, what's, what's wrong with this?
So like, Alice is from Ask Culture.
She walks into the CEO's office and asks for his watch.
And the CEO says no.
If we were saying that like you should live according to the norms of Ask Culture, then like even if the CEO and Alice were both die hard Ask Culture people,
the CEO would be like, that was stupid in a waste of my time.
There was no way I was going to give her my watch.
Yeah.
So there's still an element of guessing.
And I completely agree with that.
And I think what that misses is that when I, when I talk about Ask and Guest Culture, what I'm really talking about is how much subtext there is in a request or a refusal.
So in Ask Culture, and again, these are, this is a spectrum, nothing is real, like 100% Ask or 100% Guest.
So when I, when I say Ask Culture, I'm talking about having less subtext attached to those things.
And in Guest Culture, there's a lot more subtext.
So when Guest Culture requests, kind of carries the subject that, that it's a demand that, that I will be upset if you refuse this thing.
So you only ask for things you really need, or that you're very confident the other person wants to give you.
Yeah.
Or like you could, you know, the question, like, do you want to go get a coffee with me is pretty universally understood to be asking someone on a date.
Except maybe not depending on the context.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And a,
I'd like to, I'd like to always be very specific when I'm asking someone on a date that this is a request for a date.
I've, I've learned to do that as well.
In high school, I went on a lot of things I thought were dates that I was the only one that thought that.
So, I mean, it's interesting because I up till this point, I think I agree with everything you're saying descriptively.
I think the, the, the, the actual budding of heads happened because it seemed like you and or other people in the discussion were saying, and therefore we should make, we should shift the norms of our social group to be more ask culture and less guest culture,
because it requires less subtext and communication is more clear.
And I, I identify as a rationalist.
I always think communication should be clear.
But I also think it's literally impossible to eliminate the need for subtext and context from communication.
So the, the idea that like, I need to write everything in, in a extremely formal and precise request, just to be like, hey, Steven, you want to hang out sometime?
Like, like, we both know what I'm asking.
We want to hang out.
Like it's, it, so, so do you, do you actually think that we should intentionally move the norms of our, of kind of the community as it were to a more ASCII direction?
Yes, I do.
Sorry, just to interject with that example of Matt saying, do you want to hang out?
It's not clear to me what's guessy there.
Like, if that was asked in a guest culture perspective or framing, what could that possibly mean?
It sounds to me like a simple question.
Hey, you want to grab lunch on Monday?
What am I, what am I to guess?
What am I to read if someone is wearing a badge that says guest culture?
Right.
I think in an, in an ASCII culture, there's very little subtext there in a guest culture.
The subtext is, um, I would really like to have lunch with you and I'll be upset if you refuse.
Yeah, I think that's like, it's, if Steven were to just be like, no, then that would, then that would be, that would be confusing.
But the thing is, the reason it would be confusing is not because I'm from guest culture.
It's because I think that I know Steven pretty well and can anticipate his response.
And so even him saying no to me rudely would give me information.
Right.
Like it, like you're getting information one way or another.
It's just that in guest culture, you have to spend a bit more time interpreting the information.
And that's, and the thing is, I don't think that's the worst thing in the world.
Well, I think, I think these different cultures break down when you're talking about people you know really well.
Because people you know really well, there's always going to be this shared subtext that you have together just from knowing each other and just from the experiences you have for each other.
The ask and guest culture tend to deal with strangers or people you don't know that well.
Like what are the default rules here that change once you, you know, form a relationship with someone and get to know them better.
Yeah.
That's, that's true.
I just wanted to interject in the middle of this.
Do you have any feelings about what has been called teleculture and should we include that in this conversation?
And define what that is.
Yeah. So teleculture, the definition is, sorry, I have it written right here.
You tell the person what's going on in your own mind whenever you suspect you'd both benefit from them knowing.
And you interpret things people tell you as attempts to create common knowledge for shared benefit rather than as requests or as presumptions of compliance.
And, okay, so the funny thing about that definition is there's nothing about that definition that I find terribly objectionable.
It's just that in the original post about teleculture, they then went on to give a bunch of examples of situations that I and like a whole bunch of people who responded to that original post found objectionable.
Where it's like, that's overdoing it. That's just especially like a lot of them, a lot of them did involve communications between people who knew each other.
And it was like, you just, you just can, you just can use subtext sometimes, like it's, it's fine.
And the amount of extra effort you have to go to in order to give people like fully transparent communication is not only not worth it, but it sort of burns up the sense that you know each other really well.
If you know what I mean.
And I actually agree with that. I think teleculture is a little overboard.
Specifically, tell the other person what's going on in your own mind whenever you suspect you'd both benefit from them knowing.
I do not want people doing that to me.
That sounds like a lot of unsolicited advice that I will end up getting that I do not want.
And this sort of goes back to the radical honesty episode.
My policy is tell people things that if you think they'd want to know.
Not if you think they'd benefit from knowing.
Doesn't that require guessing though?
It does. It absolutely does.
But that's impossible.
Yeah, actually, and that's one of the things I do.
It was a, there was a discussion about, you know, whether you tell people you're attracted to them.
And one of my strategies for that is asking a person, hey, do you like to know when people are attracted to you?
Because it, you know, it's kind of transparent what I'm doing, but it gives enough plausible deniability that people end up usually not being made uncomfortable by it.
Because it's easy enough to say, nah, I don't always want to know that.
And this is one of the fun things that makes me happy that I've been in a committed relationship for like eight or nine years.
Because even that, my dating history before then was sparse.
Like, I can't imagine what would have been like going through college and trying to navigate this terrain where like, if I were to try to, like if you ask somebody, do you want to know if I'm attracted to you?
Like, that would be such a forthcoming question with a classmate or something, right?
Well, Wes, you gave the, you just used the term plausible deniability.
I'm sorry, Stephen, I want to come back to that, but like, I don't want to lose this real quick.
Isn't plausible deniability like the absolute cornerstone of guest culture?
100%.
The thing I just described is very, very guest culture.
And one of the things I wanted to get to at some point is how, you know, how do you go from being in a guest culture, being an ass culture?
Because you can't just do ass culture in a guest culture.
You, that like, that, that, that ends up with you just like running over people's boundaries.
So that was like your way of asking someone if they want to join your ass culture then?
No, that's just me living in a guest culture and recognizing that and trying to deal with it.
Okay.
Because you can't, like if somebody, because one of the things about ass culture is you can't do it halfway.
You can't have people asking for what they want without the part that where people feel comfortable saying no.
Hey, Stephen, going back to your like dating thing, is it just me or is like 90% of ass versus guest culture mainly dealing with the dating market?
That seems to be my impression from the discord conversation where people were saying that it's hard to navigate this, this aspect of life while guessing all the time.
And it sure would be convenient if you could just know, I guess, vis-a-vis ass culture.
There's also heavy stress on people who have a hard time reading social cues or mentally modeling other people.
But I, I don't know if this makes you sound insensitive or not, so I'll just go for it.
I feel like modeling the rest of society around the social, I don't want to say deficiencies, but like if you're, if you're bad at like reading people or having those are picking up on the social sorts of social cues.
It's not, I mean, it is, it is literally your problem.
But that doesn't mean that people shouldn't make efforts to accommodate you, but it might mean that like, it might be over asking for an entire community to work around your particular issues.
Like, part of, like, I used to suck at talking to people and I'm told I'm okay at it now.
And learning how to do that was rewarding.
But like, and that's, I mean, that's probably because I don't suffer any particular like deficiency and ability to do that.
I just sucked at it for 15 or 20 years.
So like, I mean, learning how to navigate socially, I think is not, I don't want to say essential, but incredibly valuable, if you can.
And if you can't, I guess there's, there has to be ways to work around that like in your social circle of friends.
If you're, I mean, what's that called a prosopagnosia where you're really bad at recognizing faces.
I like, if you had that, but it was more specifically like you just can't read on people's facial expressions, like if they're uncomfortable or if they're excited or something.
And it didn't relate to you being a sociopath that just related to you like not being good at that.
It might be great if in your circle of friends, you could say, Hey, by the way, can you just be super straight up with me all the time?
Because that helps me not try to guess because I'm really bad at guessing.
That sounds like a great thing to set up there, but you still need to be able to navigate like the work life example that map had.
You know, you can't ask your boss for their watch, right?
Oh, let me take that back.
You totally can, but you can't without being seen as a weirdo.
Right.
And with the, with the watch example, I feel like there's no real difference there and ask our guest culture and either culture you're going to be seen as a weirdo for asking that.
Because even if the subcult, in a guest culture, you're going to be seen as more of a weirdo because the subtext is going to be like, I, if you don't give me your watch, I'm going to be upset with you.
But either way, you are wasting everyone's time and that doesn't change in an ass culture.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I would like to push back against this idea that, that this is primarily about dating.
So one of the things to prepare for this, the idea is I went on Facebook and asked all my friends like, Hey, if you, if you've moved around the country and moved around the world, like what differences do you notice here?
And people came back with lots and lots of differences in cultures around these questions.
And particularly in India and China seem like very, very guessy in with strangers.
It was, and it's funny because it seemed to be more ASCII with close, like relatives or close relationships.
So like in India, and I don't know if you guys know her, Divya Caroline Eden is, she has a lot of, she has a lot of rationalist friends.
But she says, you know, one thing I had trouble with when visiting India was the shopkeepers would almost never directly say no.
And she spent like hours on a Sunday running around trying to find someone who could change dollars to rupees.
And every person gave them directions to somewhere else that couldn't do it.
And she, she suspected that they knew those places wouldn't be able to, but also saw, you know, refusing her request is rude.
So they just gave her the information she wanted.
But she also added that her Indian relatives are far more direct than her Western relatives.
So they were like much more likely to comment on weight loss they're gained or how to find a husband, how much money she was making.
So it seems like in with strangers, they're much more guessy, but with closer relationships, they're much more ASCII.
And people, and people also said China has a lot of the same thing going on.
Yeah, that matches my experience with Asian culture.
I don't think somebody bad directions is giving them the information they want.
Well, it's just that it's, it's, it's impolite to say no.
And the politeness norm there is just to, to, you know, say something.
Wouldn't the politeness for me, like, I guess if it was me, I think the polite thing to do would be like saying, I have no idea where you can do that.
That seems like an honest answer and communicates the truth.
But it's not, there's nothing guessy or ASCII about it, right?
Apparently in that culture.
Well, I think it is guessy because, well, it's not, I think it is ASCII because you're, you're basically saying, No, I can't do what you asked.
Sure.
I mean, I, I, I think it's very interesting.
You know, we can be, I don't think I've disagreed with anything you've said descriptively.
Like human cultures are weird.
The culture that we're in probably looks really weird to people from other cultures or other eras for all kinds of reasons.
But I, I sort of, I sort of feel like there's always a modern Bailey thing going on with.
With this idea that like in that discussion, in the discussion on discord, it seemed to me like at several, at several points, there were people who were stating pretty clearly that they would like to see sort of the rationalist subculture shift as far as possible into communicating very, very, very clearly.
Very, very, very clearly trying to minimize the amount of subtext required, even between people who know each other, because it's just too burdensome to have to parse subtext and process context.
And then when they're, and then when people are challenged on this, and I saw this not just in the discord, but I've seen this elsewhere.
I've seen this on the less wrong posts as well.
When people are pushed on this, they then back up to the more defensible and kind of obvious position of like, oh, well, no, all I'm saying is that we should try to communicate more clearly.
And I'm, and I'm like, well, that's definitely not the thing that you were saying in the first place, like communicating more clearly.
Of course, of course, we should try to communicate more clearly.
But also, you kind of, you have to be constantly training the Slytherin in you to, to learn how to process that, that subtext and those social cues, because that's just always going to be part of human communication and interaction.
Like, if the, if the proposition is rationalists should try to communicate clearly, I don't think there's anybody I know who would disagree with that.
But if the proposition is, like, minimize subtext in all communications, that's, well, that sounds like hell to me personally.
And also, I don't think it would work.
I think it would just play out like a weird game of like pushing the subtext into ever more tortured, like, bandwidths that the people who are, like, the people who would most suffer from this are the ones who have trouble parsing subtext.
Does that make sense?
Kind of, but, uh, man, I had a thought about that.
Oh, I feel like the rationalist subculture is already so much more ask culture than, like, non-rationalist culture.
That's why I like being in it.
I don't know that we need to make it more that way.
I prefer it in, like, my social groups, but it already feels to me like this is just so much more comfortable for me.
Yeah, I agree with that.
So you're not suggesting the rationalist culture needs to be more, uh, ascii, more that we need to try to expand that to outside the rationalist sphere?
Well, the rationalist culture also feels pretty ascii to me.
And I think it could be more so, or it could at least be, I guess with the rationalist community, what I'd most look for is for us to be self-awareedly ascii.
And, like, understand that this is an important norm for us and kind of tell that to people when they're entering the community, you know, like we do with a lot of other stuff.
We have to be okay with lots of jargon.
Yeah.
Um, so could somebody give an example just for me of how the rationalist culture is more ascii?
Just any, even like a pseudo-made-up example would be fine.
Actually, I can give a direct example from something that happened to me just a couple weeks ago.
Someone from the Discord is going to be visiting in April in Pennsylvania.
And actually, this happened not too long ago with Gray as well, but it's happened with a number of people, really.
