One we've talked a lot in discord and it's great to talk to you I guess not in person but in voice.
And you've got this like wonderfully smooth cadence and it took me a while to place it like like Paul Bloom.
The psychologist who's on Sam Harris podcast once in a while.
I was like who does this guy sound like and it's Paul.
Paul Bloom.
I appreciate that.
I tend to like cringe when I hear myself recorded.
So I appreciate the compliment.
All humans seem to it takes a while to get used to hearing your own voice not filtered through your phones.
Yeah.
True.
I just learned to eventually grip my teeth and be like well that's what I sound like.
Anyway.
Awesome.
Well this was a really good time.
Just did you think of patron last time?
Yeah.
It was.
Okay.
I tell you what I'll just read this one that I know hasn't been read yet.
I'm going to say big shout out to the egos last stand.
That's the reddit handle.
Thanks for supporting the vision conspiracy.
The vision conspiracy.
It means a ton and I can tell from your username that you're clearly a super awesome dude.
So thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Oh.
I mean Matt probably has to go.
So I want to say like one quick thing but if Matt you want to go now feel free to run.
Just go ahead and I'll disappear if I need to.
Okay.
Great.
I just had like one piece.
We're not going to drag this on any longer but I did promise people in the discord that
I would take this piece of user feedback on the next recorded episode and just put it out there.
So someone said that they were very disappointed that we had walked back our position on punching
Nazis recently and I just I wrote back saying I don't know.
I didn't walk back my position.
I just didn't have anything to say on the matter because you know it was the same thing that
was before and they're like oh okay that's great.
Can you mention that?
And I'm like yeah okay sure.
So yes I still feel the same way I felt before about punching Nazis.
Wait when did that come up?
A couple weeks ago I think.
Huh.
Oh when did it was said in the podcast?
That's the context.
I don't know I think a couple months ago or something Steven said that he was less anti-punching
Nazis than he had in the past.
I remember saying that.
I think it's less that I'm more it's not that I'm more pro-punching people it's that I more
clearly now see where the people who want to punch people are coming from.
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't know exactly where that puts me.
If being more understanding of the opposition is a bad thing then I don't want to be right.
That's not what we're about in this community.
Yeah.
Alright well this is a really good time I really appreciate especially Wes and Matt for joining
in.
This is fun and now that we know we can do these remotely seamlessly well I guess we won't
know until we get it all together and shift out but if this does work out then this opens
up some smooth avenues for more kind of collaborative episodes like this.
Alright well thanks for having me on.
Thanks everybody.
Yeah this was very good.
Thanks.
I'm gonna thank you all.
Okay.
Goodnight.
Alright.
Great good night.
Good night everybody.
And signing off.
