But I'm wondering what is the difference between a society where the rule is you refuse once and if they insist you don't refuse anymore and you have to refuse three times.
Like the only difference seems like a number.
And if you were in that culture, that would seem like a natural number, right?
What do you mean?
I mean, I think both West and Stephen were saying like you refuse once, that's the rule.
And then if they insist you let them.
And that doesn't seem any different from when you guys were saying it's all crazy that in Asian cultures, you have to refuse three times.
Oh, yeah, I agree.
I think they're both equally weird.
Right.
Because you're both.
There's no concept of the thing that it seems like everybody was like, oh yeah, that seems pretty like normal to refuse once.
And then I wouldn't think that.
I don't know how long I'm supposed to argue with someone for.
Both of those things are very guessy.
Like if you lived in an ass culture, there wouldn't be a rule.
If you wanted to pay, you would say I'd like to pay.
And if you wanted to split it, you'd say, why don't we split it?
Or if you didn't want to pay, you'd say, ah, go ahead.
So the thing that I'm noticing is that paying for a meal, as Robin Hansen would say, is never about paying for a meal.
Right.
It's about communicating something else subtextually.
You've got lots of subtexts.
Yeah, if you're going out to lunch with an old college friend and you offer to pay, you're communicating.
I think I'm doing better than you.
Oh, really?
If it's a date and you offer to pay, you're communicating something completely different.
If you're out with a subordinate and you offer to pay or a client, for example.
Like you said, Steven, so all of these are saying different things and it's not about the meal.
It's about what am I sub-communicating.
And I don't think you can have a rule that encompasses all these situations.
See, that sounds like hell to me.
That's what you got already, because when you got someone saying, I'd like to pay for this meal, there's a lot of things that come along with that.
Even in a guest culture, when they only say it, if they actually mean it and the other person is immediately okay with it, there's definitely some implications.
I mean, I definitely think the Hansonian lens on human communication is depressingly accurate in the sense that most of what we do is not about the superficial thing that is...
Even when I'm hanging out with friends and we're talking, it's not really about what we're talking about.
It's the fact that we're talking that is giving us all of the kind of what we're after in that situation, right?
You know what I mean? We want reinforcement that we all like each other and care about each other.
That's more important than the fact that we're talking about some topic du jour, right?
Go ahead, Ines.
Okay, well, when I go on a first date and I ask that we split the check, the thing...
Like you said, it's not about the splitting of the check.
It's I am actively filtering for people who are enough in the traditional mindset that they would think less of me and not want a second date if I ask to split the check.
Because I don't want to date people that expect me to pay for everything.
I think that they're too high to bound in the past, you know?
And I realize I'm going to lose a lot of dates and people are going to think shitty of me.
They're like, oh, you asked me on a date and you won't even pay for it.
But I just don't want to date a person like that for a long period of time.
So that is the implication that goes along with that, despite it being an ass culture.
Yeah, and that implication is there regardless of whether you intended it to be there.
And I think that's the same, that's true of almost all communications between people.
Even if you're being maximally ASCII, the fact that you're being ASCII carries a sub-communication.
And one of the reasons why I have trouble imagining using this between close friends is that I feel like what I'd be sub-communicating is...
I don't trust you to understand what I mean, which is actually subtly insulting.
I don't think that. I'm very ASCII with my partners and good friends and I think that it helps avoid miscommunication.
And I actually really appreciate when someone takes the time to say something like...
I'm trying to think of an example like, hey, do you want to go on a date this Saturday?
That's the only date that I have available, but I'm not trying to pressure you by saying that.
I think with close friends I tend to skew more into tell culture, which is not a culture at that point.
It's just how I interact with this particular person.
Now that I know you and I want to explain what's really going on here without the subtext, or with as little as possible.
I had a really good friend who...
It felt to me like managed to split the difference between an ask and guess very well.
She could generally read the room well and know how to do things, but when she did ask, she would always end the ask with, and no is okay.
Or something very similar to that, like no is an okay answer.
And that just sort of right away took off some of the pressure to say yes.
And I thought it was wonderful.
I see that as being just a sign of being really good at all this stuff, better than I am.
I'm probably like generously 50th percentile in terms of ability to navigate all this stuff for my age group or whatever.
I think that people who are actually really good at understanding people and social stuff will know when they need to add that previso to their statement.
Because they know that if they don't add that, then the people they're talking to are going to feel put in a corner.
That's the level I aspire to.
I aspire to don't be asked or guessed, but transcend the path and walk the wave of the sage, etc.
Which I know we're in here.
I've met people who are very intuitive and don't really need rules like this.
Because they can read by your face, your body language, your tone, whatever, how you're going to react.
And it's very impressive.
And those are also some of the scariest people I've ever met.
If they use that power for evil, it goes really bad.
But I cannot do that.
Like I said, I'm on the spectrum.
And I think specifically why I think ASCULTURE is well suited to the rationality community is we skew very like, we skew autistic.
And there is a lot of, and so I think explicit communication is more suited for that particular subculture than a lot of others.
Can I see a thing on that topic?
I think there's, I mean, yes, we also definitely skew autistic, but I think a lot of it isn't even just that.
And I mentioned this on the Discord as well, but I've been saying some bad things about ASCULTURE.
But I think one of its good aspects is that as far as I can tell, me and a lot of people like me, so basically most of the people I hang out with,
grew up being told that we're constantly sort of not worthless, but actively no one wants you around.
You're lowering the status of everyone else with your presence. Please leave, you're awful.
And so with that conditioning over your entire teen years or whatever, you start to, all your guesses are always negative.
It's like, I should not ask for this thing because it's going to be turned down because I'm a garbage person that no one wants around.
And I think that once you get out of that toxic ASCULTURE environment where that sort of thing can be true and into the real world,
a lot of us have a lot of value, which we just don't see.
And we're robbing of ourselves of a lot of opportunities.
And if we can like more ingrain this mindset of, it's okay to ask because in the worst case scenario, they'll just say no and they won't attack me.
They won't call me a garbage person because they're also in the ASCULTURE and they realize that just saying no is an acceptable answer.
It gets people to ask things a lot more and not miss opportunities that they would other miss, but also very importantly, start getting some yeses.
And so they can start updating in the direction of, I'm not worthless.
And I can sometimes ask things and have that right because I'm an okay person.
That was a really important thing for me.
I wonder if Steven Enneash, you do remember when I first moved here.
I would like occasionally text you guys like, hey, I have really bad social anxiety and I just want to make sure you actually want me to like keep being on the podcast or keep hanging around with you.
Yeah.
I think ASCULTURE is really good for that.
When I would like fuck up editing the podcast or something.
It's like, I feel like you guys hate me and I'm a garbage person and you're like, no, it's fine.
But it's like the thing is when you do have anxiety and depression, then yeah, your priors are really wrong.
And there's also, I'm trying to remember if this is like, if there's a more specific bias name or whatever, but there's mind reading, the mind reading fallacy.
That's the thing that I kind of wanted to reply to you, Matt, where you're talking about like the importance of subtext.
But the thing is that nobody is actually good at reading people's minds, body language.
Like they've even tested holistic people and shown that they were much more confident in their ability to tell how somebody was feeling or similar things than like the truth was different than what they thought was going on.
And being aware of that, like I think, you know, it's a rationalist virtue to be aware of cognitive biases and to try to push against them.
Yeah.
Well, when you pray with that way, we're all obligated to agree with you, but yeah, yeah.
So you're saying that when they tested, what was the people you said?
Oh, holistic is just not autistic.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I mean, I think I went through a phase in my 20s where I probably somewhat influenced by HPMOR, thought that I could just read people's minds, basically, like I thought I was really good at parsing intent from people's actions,
and had a lot of experiences where I learned that I was wrong and then I just learned to have much wider confidence intervals.
And I think that that is the correct, you know, end point.
First of all, I make a lot less mistakes now, but also like you just keep a population of hypotheses of what's going on with probably, I don't know what's actually going on being one of those hypotheses.
And I think that I think that everyone kind of has to grow up and get toward like everyone individually has their own journey of getting to a place where they where they are and feel socially competent.
And everyone starts from different places.
So absolutely, I'm sure some people need to be told that it's okay to ask.
And frankly, I think some people need to be told, hey, like you asking all the time really feels like you're transgressing boundaries to a lot of people.
And those people might not know that, right?
Yeah.
Like there's a, I don't want to even say like it's a happy medium on a spectrum.
It's more like you transcend the spectrum and you become aware that there are lots of different types of agents out there and you need to try to figure out who you're dealing with.
And like, I don't think there is just one stable policy.
And to kind of look back around to the idea that we that we should like make the rationalist culture, explicitly ask culture.
I'm like, I don't, I literally don't know what that actually means because even some of the situations that we've been discussing throughout this conversation as hypotheticals.
Like one person thought they sounded really guessy and the other person thought they sounded really asky.
And it's like, yeah, like that's, that's exactly the problem I'm pointing at.
Like, like you're what one person's hidden subtext is another person's obviously part of what should be considered.
And it's, it's a constant ongoing process to try to, to try to adjudicate between those two things.
It essentially segues way pretty well into into something I wanted to make sure we discussed, which is failure modes of both policies.
And one of the things you brought up was that sometimes people just ask too much and it's irritating or it's transgressing boundaries.
And that's a big failure mode of ass culture is this endless parade of requests that people can get if you tell them, oh, it's okay to ask for what you want.
And then they go around just actually asking for every little thing they want without any filter.
And one of the, one of the examples of that, that I was able to think of are is a man hitting on women wearing headphones.
This is the thing this is the thing I see women complaining about all the time is that they'll be out like on the train or in a coffee shop or something.
They'll have headphones on or they'll be reading a book or something and men will come up and try to talk to them.
Happens to me all the time.
Yep.
Can I object to the funny anecdote with this?
What's that?
I have a funny anecdote related to specifically that.
At my last job, there was a co-worker who had that situation and she was describing how annoying it was because she was wearing headphones on the train and you know, guys kept trying to talk to her and stuff.
And I was agreeing with her.
I was like, oh yeah, you know, headphones in general are a sign of like, I don't want to talk to you.
Like, that's why I'm wearing these.
So I don't have to listen to anything going on around me so I can listen to something else.
And that same week, within two or three days, I'm making coffee at the coffee machine and she's talking to me and I'm wearing headphones.
And I pull one of the earpieces back and I was like, didn't we just talk about headphones and what that means?
And she's laughing and she's like, oh yeah, I forgot.
And it wasn't a hitting on situation.
And you know, it was just friendly banter.
But it's, I mean, that, I don't know, like, I feel like even in an Ascii culture, yes, I think labeling that as a failure mode is useful rather than like just labeling it as a con.
Because, I mean, I would think that whatever culture you're trying to come from, there are signals that if you're missing, you're missing them.
And you're failing to, by, I'm reiterating, you're failing to pick up on them and that's a failure mode.
And one such signal is like, I'm wearing headphones.
Don't talk to me unless it's important.
And this is why I try to stress that it is a spectrum.
Like, nobody wants to actually live in a society where everyone goes around asking for what they want all the time.
It's just that I think in most of the subcultures that I exist in, it would be better if people asked more and that people were okay with that.
Yeah, there's also other social skills that are important to have.
Like, I wouldn't advocate that everybody should just ignore signals.
If people are sending signals like they're turned away, they're reading a book, they've got headphones on in the cafe, they're sending a signal that this is what I want to be doing right now and I don't want to be in social interaction mode.
Right, so when I say I want to live in an ass culture, I don't mean I want to be like so far on that spectrum that nobody ever tries to pick up on nonverbal signals or subtext at all, ever.
See, what's funny is I feel like the kind of man who would hit on a woman on a train wearing headphones is also sub-communicating.
I'm the kind of guy who doesn't care that you're obviously not interested in talking to me and I anticipate that there's a small chance that you're going to find that bold and attractive.
And I'm willing to strike out 99 times out of 100 on this gambit and that's basically, once again, I'm flanking the situation and I'm like, I just always think that there's more to be read into the situation than you can possibly account for.
I think one thing I'll walk away from this conversation with is maybe lean more explicitly and clearly, especially in rationalist settings because the type of person who ends up being a rationalist would probably appreciate that in ways that might not be obvious to me.
But also, I'm just always aware of like, yeah, but there's more under the surface of this iceberg than there is above the surface.
The types of scenarios that we're talking about are all way more complicated than you can even address in a short kind of description.
Yeah, I agree with that.
Yeah, I think that's true, but I think there is also something to be said for the culture and what the shared cultural assumptions are about how people behave in that situation.
Well, it sounds very much like this is just a thing where you need to know your culture.
Like someone came from a culture where headphones weren't a clear signal of, don't bother me, wouldn't know that, right?
Is AskCulture just an attempt to influence the broader culture in a direction that is more to the person's liking?
Like, are we just trying to reduce the count from three to one or to spread the rule that everyone knows that headphones are not to be, you know, or don't talk to me signals?
In the case of headphones, I feel like that's pretty universal since you're covering your ears.
There's a, this puts me in mind, I'll have to find and link to the bit.
I think the guy's, the comedian's name is Matthew Bronger, but I might not be wrong, but he has a bit about some guy asking this clearly exhausted woman like carrying groceries on the train like on a date.
And she's just like, I have three kids, I'm not into it or something.
And she's, she rebuffs him somehow without saying like, I don't want to date you, I forget what it was.
And the guy's like, that's not the point.
And the comedian's like, what's not the point?
I didn't deliver it very well, but I'll find it in the episode.
I guess, like, so in the, in this situation, like if you're trying to navigate, like how you want people to work with you and how you want to work with people, other than like wearing a shirt that says I'm an AskCulture, what are you supposed to do?
Like, so you mentioned your friend who would say, it's okay to say no after a request, which I think is an awesome thing to do.
And I found myself doing that too, where like, hey, do you want to hang out?
It's totally cool if you don't want to.
Like, unless that person is like, you know, pre-pending or upending their message to you with a AskCulture, GasCulture tag, you know, so your friends who did that could have been saying, it's okay to say no.
But if they're quote, GasCulturing, they could say, I'm going to read a ton into that no.
Well, this is exactly why I describe it as a culture and why I specifically target a subculture to establish this in.
Because there's really no way to, like as I was saying before, there's no way to do AskCulture when you're in a GasCulture.
It has to be this shared understanding that people have.
So you were going to tell us about, like, the advantages of moving more to Ask and how that can be done in a GasCulture?
