And they just, you know, reached out to me and were like, hey, gonna be there for like a week and a half?
Can I crash at your place for a while?
There's two of us.
And I was like, probably not for that full week and a half, I'll ask around some more, which I plan to do our next meetup.
I'm not, like, offended that they ask, and I'm actually kind of glad that they did because now I have the option of, you know, interacting with these people for a few days and getting to know them, getting to enjoy their company.
And, you know, they don't have to pay for as many Airbnbs if they have to end up doing that.
Yeah.
I have a similar story of someone who, you know, was taking a flight out of Philadelphia early in the morning and they lived in New York and were like, hey, can I crash with you the night before?
And it didn't work out because I wasn't going to be home.
But it was, it was, I was very glad they asked.
And I feel like in a different culture, they never would have asked that because it would be seen as too presumptuous, just like the original post that sparked this whole thing reacted that way.
So I don't, I don't mean to nitpick.
It just seems like those, those are examples where the surrounding subtext of, like, who you are, who they are, what they know about you, what you know about them.
The fact that you share a cultural milieu, that that all has, like, everything.
So if you subtract it away, the fact that they were rationalists, I feel like that picture would have looked the same.
I mean, if someone from a random, like, gaming discord were to send me that tell, then you're right.
I would think that they were stupid for even asking.
Okay.
Okay.
No, I don't know you.
I don't know anything about your culture or anything.
I probably wouldn't even respond.
Okay.
So yeah, I'm trying to process whether I would respond.
I would just be like, no, I have kids.
Sorry.
But yeah, that's even what we're going to say.
No, you're good.
I was going to sort of just read, read, pick the same knit that you were picking at earlier, which was it seems like in both frameworks, you can ask somebody kind of crash at your house.
And it's still not clear to me what the difference is.
Maybe I might be dense.
I'm not sure what's going on, but maybe this was just guess culture.
Maybe these people were just really good at guessing that I'm the sort of person who enjoys that kind of thing.
Well, I can tell you from my perspective what felt different to me.
And there was somebody from the rationalist culture that and I knew that was that I felt completely comfortable saying no.
That I knew that be saying, hey, no, I'm sorry, I won't be home.
But even if I was going to be home, I would have felt totally comfortable saying like, ah, no, I have to get up earlier, something like that.
Whatever reason I didn't want to do it, they wouldn't get mad at me.
I think that's very weird because I would have if I could take someone and I said no, I would have felt bad.
And I don't know, is that not the normal human reaction?
Again, I mean, this is kind of what I had in that big post that I wrote for this and then did nothing with except share it with you guys.
But just I kept repeating the phrase, like the reason this situation went off the rails is because the characters in this scenario weren't paying attention to the context.
If you pay attention to the context, then this is what would have happened and then this would be fine.
Like in your situation, maybe the imaginary average American would have thought that you were rude for saying no, just like flat no.
But like in my situation, me saying, well, I have little kids in the house, so no, that would be viewed socially as just like, oh, of course, he's allowed to say that.
Of course, that is an allowed social move.
And this is subtext parsing.
I don't know whether to use the word subtext or context.
I like the word context because it's just like, you just have to look at the whole situation.
The whole situation is different.
If they were to have called me with the same request, the context of the situation is different.
I could just say no and not feel bad about it at all.
And nobody would have tried to guilt me over it because I have one of the allowed social excuses that can't be argued against.
In your culture.
But if this was China, it would have been completely different.
But what if you actually don't have an excuse?
Your friend asks if you want to hang out that night, you have nothing going on that night.
You just don't want to.
And if you just said, I just don't feel like hanging out with you tonight because you're kind of exhausting to talk to you, to be honest.
And I say this kind of thing to my friends and they will be like, yeah, oh, you're right.
I totally get it.
See, I think part of I mean, I'm going to be honest.
I think part of my problem is like the I'm super from guest land, which is another name for Texas.
Where like, I can't imagine saying I don't want to hang out with someone for any like for any reason other than like, oh, I'm just like, I just don't feel well.
Like like the the smallest the smallest valid excuse would be like, oh, I don't I don't really feel well.
I'm just going to I'm just going to rest and that's exhausting.
I hate having to do that.
I hate having to like that.
That's always the thing people say.
Oh, no, I'm not feeling what I kind of have a headache or I got a doctor's like they'll have to make up a lie so that their friend doesn't feel bad.
And I prefer if my friend doesn't feel like hanging out with me because I'm kind of intense and will like special interest at them about drugs or whatever.
Like they just told me that and I'm like, that's totally understandable.
And I'm thank you for communicating clearly with me.
I think I must be from the same kind of guest culture because I like I feel I almost feel like being in a guest culture is somewhat protective for someone who doesn't have intense ask training already because I can't just say no because I'd rather say no.
I would feel very bad about that and I would either have to make an excuse and if if making excuses itself was viewed as a bad thing, I would just this happened to me for a few years or I would run myself ragged doing everything anyone asked because I felt bad refusing them and I couldn't keep up with it.
Wouldn't it have been great to have just said now I'm exhausted.
I'm doing a lot of stuff and I don't feel like it right now.
Sorry.
It doesn't mean that I don't like you.
I eventually started saying something like that.
Yeah.
But you know, I didn't have the ask culture training yet.
We're just saying no is okay and no one gave it to me.
It was it was a hard thing to come into this.
There's also again, I have to return to the idea that that like you're not actually escaping from anything by going in that direction.
Like so like if if if I if I called one of my like really good friends and said, hey, I want to, you know, you want to hang out and then they said no, Matt, frankly, you're a little bit exhausting.
Like first of all, let's assume that I took it in good humor.
I'd just be like, well, I'll keep it toned down.
Like we don't like like we'll just kind of hang out in the same room and play video games or something like that.
That'd be fun.
Right.
Like so what I've done there is I've misinterpreted their refusal as a condition.
Right.
So now that just completely messes up this idea that they said no.
Because if someone gave if someone told me that like the thing is say I've got a friend who is a chatterbox and I'm exhausted and I'm getting off work and they're like, hey, do you want to hang out?
And I say, no, I like really can't do social interactions right now.
And they said, oh, what if we just hang out and watch a movie?
I would be like, okay.
Yeah, I could do that.
Yeah.
And I think that's the kind of communication I want.
And I think this is where it relates to the radical honesty episode because in guest culture, one of the things is, and I actually had this written down, but I didn't get to the whole thing is that you are not supposed to question people's excuses.
Because there's a sort of shared understanding that people give excuses that aren't necessarily true.
So if somebody gives an excuse for why they can't give you what you wanted or what you asked for, you're never supposed to be like, oh, well, I know how to get around that.
We'll just do this.
Whereas I would much prefer to live in a culture where people gave their true rejection.
So if there was an issue like Jess was talking about, you could work around it.
See, I feel like I'm the gessiest son of a bitch you'll ever meet.
But I still am capable of that kind of interaction if it's someone that I know really well.
So that's yet again, I don't want to seem like I'm moving the goalpost, but I just think that everybody is constantly moving in and out of these frameworks depending on some combination of the situation and how well they know the person and what information is available to them.
So to say like we're just going to unilaterally or even multilaterally shift everything in a certain direction, I'm like, I just, I don't see how that actually is any different than say let's just try to communicate more clearly, which we all try to do.
I think I agree with what you said and I don't see how it's different.
I think that.
Well, I'll give you an example.
So one of my rules for, because I'm on the autism spectrum, so a lot of like sort of rules of thumb I use for interacting with humans.
One of my rules is that for hanging out with people is that if they, if I ask them to hang out and they give an excuse twice, I stop asking.
And that is, you know, that's not for people I know really well, but this comes up with people I don't know that well that I might want to get to know better that I want to hang out with.
And this sort of the default cultural assumption I have is if they turn me down twice and don't propose an alternative arrangement, they're probably trying to tell me that they don't want to hang out.
So this is a good time for me just to see if I put my foot in my mouth earlier.
Like I mentioned the inability to navigate social situations as a deficit.
Did that come off to either of you as, you know, as spokespeople for people on the spectrum?
Was that a bad way to phrase it?
Because I do feel like deficiency has a connotation, but I trust that you guys understand what I'm trying to get across.
You could say a different neuro type if you want to be more politically correct or whatever, but it didn't bother me.
I mean, I mean, I also, I do see it as a deficiency.
It's something I'm not good at.
Different.
Different doesn't. Yeah, that's all I meant to ask is like not good at. I mean, so different just means different.
So I don't know if any of you guys can hear that car alarm in the background, but hopefully that's not coming through. Sorry.
I can hear you in the face.
Oh.
Anyway, yeah.
Time stamp.
Yeah, that would be hard. Yeah, we'll see what we can do.
All right.
So the, the example of like someone staying at your house, you know, that's a pretty big imposition.
And I like Matt, you're, you're coming from Texas.
I think what you're describing as, as guest land is also otherwise described as Southern hospitality where probably.
Yeah, you're supposed to just always say yes.
Another person's supposed to always know when to stop asking.
And yeah, which what's funny is, I think I said this on the, in the discord discussion, like, I don't know.
This was a completely separate discord discussion actually where I was like, I've never learned the etiquette of like if somebody says they want to buy the meal.
I'm just like, okay, cool. Thanks.
Like, I know that I'm supposed to argue with them, but it sounds so stressful that I'm just like, if you say you want to buy the meal, just buy the meal.
I don't, I don't, I don't know how to do this. I don't know how to play this game.
And I think part of it is like, I don't understand the like, like all of this is fundamentally about theory of mind in my opinion.
Like, like as, as you get older, you sort of linearly, but not quite monotonically build a better and better theory of mind of kind of what other humans are like in general.
And then specifically for the humans that you know, and as, as you get older, all other things being equal, you just get to a point where for at least some people you can basically read their mind.
And then for the average person, you can't read their mind, but you can at least have like a couple, two or three educated guesses about what is the most likely hypothesis for what's going on in their mind.
I mean, I think that's all very true, but I don't think that's what we're talking about here.
I think what we're talking about are the background assumptions for the culture.
Like there's a, I forget exactly which one, but there's some Asian culture that I was reading about where they say if you, if someone offers you something, you have to refuse it three times before they'll stop trying to give it to you.
And if you're, even if you're never supposed to say yes the first time, if you want it, you're supposed to say no twice and then accept on the third one.
And if you don't want it, you refuse on the third one.
And it's like that, that's a very explicit rule, but a lot of, you know, the things in our culture, a lot less explicit than that, but they're just these background assumptions for how people behave and it's all very cultural.
I'll agree that that sounds exhausting as all hell.
And it maximizes communication time for all of this.
I mean, like, I think the way that I currently navigated these sorts of things is picking up little rules here and there.
And Matt's example of like paying for a meal reminded me of a conversation with somebody in high school where I think it might have been paying for food, might have been, you know, help with something or whatever.
And he was like, oh yeah, my go to rule of thumb is resist but don't refuse.
So like you resist once and then that if that resistance is met, like so in the buying a meal for somebody example, we'd be like, hey, I can get this.
And then you would say, well, no, I'm fine to split it.
If they say, no, I insist, then it's like, cool, all yours.
But that one level of resistance is expected.
But it's not a refusal.
It's like a, you know, a negotiation or something.
That's sort of how I do it.
I don't know.
That's very similar how I do it.
I'm hoping we'd get back to that because I, you know, being Polly, I go on a bunch of dates and I actually have had someone offered to pay for the meal.
And then, well, if we even get to that point, I usually started out with, hey, I like to split things 5050, just, you know, but like if they do offer, then I'm like, do you want me to argue with you?
I think that would be oddly refreshing on an encounter with somebody.
That's because you want to live in an ass culture.
I mean, it depends.
It would be weird to ask that.
Like there are other times where it's expected.
Like if I go out, like my, you know, my first week at my new job, I was out of town for this.
I was at the home headquarters there and I went out to lunch with somebody who was basically assigned to take me out to lunch.
Every new hire that we had somebody there that was like supposed to show them the ropes and take them out that day.
I didn't even ask to pay.
Like at that one, it's like, you know, I think he may have said, I've got this and I'm sure it was caught by the company or something.
But, you know, if I went out with a co-worker, I don't know if they'd said, do you want me to argue with you?
Like, have you ever had someone say yes, Jess?
Yeah.
Really?
They're like, yeah, argue with me about this.
And then we could decide who's paying.
Not like, yes, I argue, but like, what did they say?
I actually like, it ended up just becoming this discussion about like what preferences we have around who pays for what and how long into a relationship like it should be before.
I don't know.
I think this person, oh yeah, that was it.
Their preference was that the person who asks the person on the date pays for the meal.
And then, but then it's like the next person's turn to both ask the other person on the date and then pay for meal the next time.
And that's the way they like to do it.
I thought that was like, I'm like, well, what if it ends up being like radically different prices?
But I guess if you ask the person out, then you get to choose.
I don't know.
It's just, I think, I actually agree with what I was saying about like this is kind of about theory of mind.
The thing I like about ask cultures that I get to learn a lot more about how people's minds actually work and what the real preferences are.
Yeah, that does sound like a lot of, it sounds like a lot of fun, especially on a date to have the conversation and find out about the other person.
