There's an episode where Picard and Dr. Crusher get something happens to them and they can read each other's minds.
And they both realize that they've been having breakfast with each other.
And they've been having these sort of lavish breakfasts with the rich, big meals, fancy meals.
And both of them realize that what the other wants is just coffee and croissant.
But neither of them would say so.
Because it's-
And is that because they were- I'm sorry.
Because it-
They thought that's what the other person wanted.
Right, and it's you don't, in a guess culture, you don't say, I'd prefer, you know, something else, unless you're pretty sure that's what the other person wants too.
Because you know that they, if you say that, they won't be able to say no.
They'll say, oh, well, of course, we'll do what you want to do.
And I've certainly been in that situation before in a lot of social interactions, including dating, but other, you know, just kind of friendship stuff, where nobody really knows what the other wants to do.
I think that's a lot of that is why it's hard to make friends.
Because it's hard to just go up to someone and say, hey, I'd like to be friends with you, or hey, do you want to hang out sometime?
Because that in this culture where people are expected to say, to not say no to that sort of thing, you're kind of putting them on the spot and putting pressure on them.
To say yes.
That's, that's, I mean, I think that's really interesting.
I think that has a lot to do with, like, what I would call just personal courage, rather than necessarily this cultural dichotomy.
Like, the fear that you're going to say something that's going to hurt that person's feelings or hurt your own feelings or both is often what keeps you from saying something.
It's not, it's not just kind of a blanket feeling that you're not allowed to ask for things.
That certainly happens too.
Yeah, but how much courage something takes depends in large part by how much backlash you think you're going to get.
Like, for the breakfast example, probably someone should have said something at some point, but more to the point, back like in high school, if you make a wrong guess about how you can ask out who you can ask out that that can have or any sort of social thing really that can have huge repercussions where you
experience massive backlash because apparently you asking someone had all these other implications and and in a guest culture, you don't necessarily know how bad the repercussions are going to be.
So just to defend Matt's point a little bit, there are two, two separate parts of that, one of which is the actual pain of realizing the other person doesn't want to hang out with you and that's a lot of what scares people in that situation.
And that's going to be even worse in an ass culture.
But I think there is a definite other part of that where in a culture it's weird to ask for things that you haven't gotten any signals from the other person that they want to give you.
And I think I know people who are so concerned about maintaining that possible deniability like I think that's actually where the nice guy, capital N capital G thing comes from.
Someone's like this has happened to me so many times because I'm bad at reading signals, where someone is into me, and they'll like ask if I want to go see a movie, they'll ask if I want to go skateboarding.
And here I am like an idiot like, Oh yeah, I love skateboarding.
Cool, I enjoy this friendship a lot.
And they're just doing the nice guy thing until suddenly they just explode and they're like, I've been giving you so many signals, how dare you reject me?
And I'm like, Oh, what?
So there's a failure, Matt.
Because they thought the whole time you were reciprocating with the signals.
Yeah, and I was just like, Yeah, I love coffee.
Because you were in two different cultures.
Oh God.
Yeah, and in an ass culture you don't, you know, the subtext isn't there.
That wouldn't be a problem.
So you don't end up getting punished for not picking up on it.
But I know so many people that are nice guys about lots of things.
And I'm just kind of sad for them.
Like they're just afraid to state their opinions about stuff or ask for anything and I having had social anxiety can relate a lot.
It was like such a relief to me to start doing that.
And you talked about courage.
This is kind of what the courage to be disliked is all about.
Realize that actually it's okay if people are confused by what you do or don't like it.
You can't make everybody happy and it's the best for everybody to just live honestly.
And one of the advantages of ass culture is one of the advantages of guest culture is that it does kind of protect your pride that way.
You can retain this plausible deniability and hint at things that you don't have to get this crushing rejection.
But this is another double edged sword and I prefer the other side where you get training at experiencing rejection.
So it feels okay.
Like I when I started doing the thing of actually just telling people when I'm attracted to them I got so many more hits.
Like I got a bunch more rejections to you but they didn't actually matter because it's like I've been through a bunch.
It's not the end of the world.
And actually it's not as big a deal as you think it is.
You're like oh my God this is so embarrassing.
It's the worst thing that's ever happened.
You're like actually like probably this person was just like a little bit upset about it and maybe a little weirded it out.
But they'll forget about it by the end of the night and nobody else cares.
It's spotlight bias thing.
Yeah.
You have listed here in your cons about guest culture that it encourages dishonesty, which to me is like a huge con because I'm very against dishonesty.
But can you explain what you mean by encourages dishonesty?
It encourages people to make up excuses instead of giving it direct to no.
Yeah like I have a headache.
Yeah.
Matt and his fake migraines.
Feel attacked.
Where it encourages you not to give your true rejection.
So I can relate to that a bit like if someone asked to stay over at my house and like the real reason is like I really don't want the imposition of another person in my home.
Like there are very few people I could say that to.
Yeah.
But I mean that's also a pretty huge ask.
What were you gonna say Matt?
Sorry.
I was gonna just, well first of all I was gonna say I'm a bit surprised at how much I've shifted my position over the course of this conversation.
Because I was expecting to just be like no this is stupid.
Updating.
Actually it seems like what I now kind of have come to realize is like it's more like learning another tool.
Because like Jess I would be interested to hear about the courage to be this like thing.
But also I was wondering if you guys know about like the nonviolent communication literature.
I'm somewhat familiar.
In concept in general.
I haven't read it but I'm aware of it.
Very briefly for the listeners it's just this idea where like especially in situations where emotions are going to be writing high.
Then it's a particular way of speaking where you are framing things in such a way that you're taking responsibility for your own reactions and emotions.
Every time the other person says something you recapitulate what they said back to them and say in your own words is this what you think?
Is this what I think you're saying?
Am I correct?
And then give them a chance to say yes or no and then clarify.
And it's actually sort of like horribly laborious and time intensive.
You get better at it.
Like it becomes natural.
But like the thing is like I can totally see it's never actually worked for me frankly but I've never had many opportunities to try it out.
But the point is I can totally see situations where that would be something that would be really good to know.
But I would never employ that in situations where I didn't like where it wasn't expected.
I've done it and I mean my like a couple of my family members have borderline.
One of my partners does one of my previous partners did.
It's really useful for just I think it's the most or one of the most useful tools for conflict de-escalation where but I actually like really try to frame almost everything I say in terms of I statements because I never like to assume the intentions of another person.
Like it's a when you do this it makes me feel this or like I'm feeling this way when about this thing that happened not you always do this.
You never do that.
Like you you tried to hurt me when you said this thing and it's like I don't know that like yeah.
And it's like so I think it's interesting you described it as a sort of a tool you can use because I think it's it's kind of similar to Crocker's rules in that respect where you can kind of put that banner and I know our friend Gray has that up on his discord name is that
Crackers rules in effect so people know that and I think as culture is pretty similar to that and if there's a good way to signal that that would be good.
I like his rules when I first read about it.
So the the the idea is that you just declare yourself saying look I am announcing that I am open to honest and direct conversation and feedback.
You don't have to like be delicate on behalf of presumed my feelings and part of doing part of making that making that declaration is saying that like I also won't be hurt needlessly by what you're saying.
It's not like an entitled like an open invitation for someone to be a dick to you.
But it's saying you know don't don't hold back for the sake of niceness.
Let's let's save some communication time here.
And that's actually something to ask about you've got communication is less efficient as a con of ask culture.
And I think I would see maybe you mean communication be less efficient as in like it's longer.
Yes.
Or like I just mean there's there's less subtext.
So in a guest culture there's more subtext so you can say more with less.
Yeah you're assuming a lot instead of checking.
Well yeah I guess.
Okay yeah so it's more efficient in that like message link is shorter.
But that's it's less efficient in that you might be communicating things that you're not meaning to communicate or vice versa fairly to communicate things that you intended.
Well I think message length is is pretty important.
Like I think we all kind of rejected tell culture because message length was just too long too large and it's cumbersome and people don't want to do it.
So I think it is kind of important to keep your your message length is as efficient as possible while still getting the results you want.
So I feel like that is a big advantage of guest culture in that it does make your communication more efficient.
Yeah.
Maybe I'm just I think I have so little aptitude well patience maybe is the word for these sorts of things like it depends on like you know how much energy or whatever I have at the time and that sort of thing.
But I mean it's interesting dynamic at work where my previous coworker is going to be my manager in like the next few weeks like my direct manager who like the one who like gives me feedback on like promotions and this sort of thing.
And we didn't know that for the first six months of knowing each other and then we have known that for the last couple of months.
And so it's it's made conversations especially about things not work sort of interesting because we I don't think we align politically.
And now we both know that about each other which is not a good thing for you to know about your subordinate if you're a manager if you're not capable of drawing a line there I bet he'll be fine but that could be awkward.
But there was a thing a couple of weeks ago most of our workers remote and he had asked something over Slack like hey is this doable or something.
And I was the first to say honestly I doubt it I don't think we could get this successfully out by Monday and then someone else on this very small team back me up.
And then he was like OK well I asked because we basically need people to move off of this and start on this and I was like oh if this is not a check in but a boss mandate then you got it boss will make people do this.
And he messes me privately because this is like in a group chat and then he was like was was I being like a dick was I coming off the wrong way and I was like no no no I just didn't know what what hat you were wearing when you made the initial like inquiry slash request.
And I think that that's part of the like what he coming back to this but you're not really sure where you're at with each interaction unless you're with like a close friend that you have established rules with already.
And it's so that there's going to be some level of mind maybe not mind reading involved with some level of having to read the room.
You know again unless everyone walks in wearing shirts that says ask a culture.
You're still going to have to try to ascertain what what kind of conversation you're having right.
Thinking about it I think that the efficiency drawback kind of cuts both ways to because definitely going further and expanding on what you mean by what you say and like framing it this way.
Yeah that takes a while but then also like there's a lot of bullshit that you cut through to by being able to just say directly what you mean instead of having to dance around it.
So sometimes one or the other can be more certainly less efficient if you're in the you have to refuse three times culture.
Yeah.
But I think I find myself kind of fluctuating in a lot of my relationships like my social interactions between the different modes.
Especially with when you're with partners or people you're more comfortable with you can switch into guess culture for the efficiency but then you can check in occasionally be like oh I just I noticed that you got quiet.
Is some are you upset by something that I said or something bothering you.
Like so I can often tell someone is more into ask culture when they when I'm communicating with them and this is something people sometimes do and I really appreciate it is they sort of take the subtext of what they're saying and make it text.
They say you know hey do you want to go out on Tuesday.
You know I'm not asking you out on a date or anything.
I just thought we could hang out or like if they're like no I am asking you out on a date.
And I'd like to know if you'd want to go on a date or hey can you do me this favor but it's totally cool if you can't I completely understand it's a big ask.
You know and when somebody somebody is interacts with me that way I can I can tell like OK this is a person I could be more asking with.
Yeah that facilitates conversation like and communication so well I think.
Yeah.
I've got to just interject really quick to say that we have a hard stop time of five minutes.
So if anyone has any any wrap up thoughts or anything.
There's a lot more that we could touch on especially in this dice.
Document they put together West but I don't think I have time to ask any more questions but I needed to raise that flag and I guess waste as much time as possible.
Closer to four minutes.
Yeah I guess I'd like my closing remark would be like I think interestingly I've sort of personally come around over the course of the conversation that I might try being slightly more ascii personally but I am nonetheless not persuaded that we should say and therefore we should try to make everybody in our community behave this way.
Yeah that's I don't think that's what I would have said either.
I don't think that I want to steamroll anybody and be like this is what the way we're doing things now.
Yeah I guess my my closing thought is that if anyone has any ideas about how to move from a more gassy culture to a more ascii culture.
I would be happy to hear it because it seems very difficult to me because like I was saying before you can't you can't do as culture and a guest culture.
You will you will violate people's consent you will steamroll them and you will just get a reputation for being an asshole.
So I don't I don't really know how one would do a transition and so far I've only really been doing it with other people who are sort of already on board and I can identify that.
I would I wouldn't know how to shift a few small like a subculture in that direction.
Yeah I know I think you would have to start at least a little bit on an individual level just getting people a little more accustomed to saying no and I don't know it sounded like the cuddle parties probably not a thing from most people but it seems like some sort of practice like that would probably help.
Crossing boundaries in a in a more low low stakes way to practice.
Yeah I did an exercise with some of my partners where they would make ridiculous like requests of me and then I would have to say no.
But it was like like hey Jess do you want to like go dance outside naked in the rain with me.
So it's like because I actually like wanted more practice being assertive at saying no.
And that was fun.
It's a fun exercise.
I can get behind that as a rationalist exercise.
Yeah I think that'd be cool.
All right.
I think I've got to go now.
But listen to the new Kingslingers podcast where me and Scott discussed the works of Stephen King's Dark Tower.
On the awesome Doof Media Network that includes Doofcast and We Want Ward and what's this other one.
We want more.
We want more.
That's a new one.
Yeah.
Stephen why don't you tell everybody about that.
I've heard good things.
Yeah.
Well I guess briefly because I'll wrap it up in the next 20 seconds.
I think we took some time finding our sea legs.
We didn't start off with the with the benefit of being having a lot of rapport like Matt and Scott did.
And I am of the opinion of the very objective opinion dare I say that we have gotten better in the last few episodes.
So if you found that like oh you know what I give it three or four and this wasn't for me.
I think our last episode is the best and I'm thinking they're going to keep staying good and maybe hopefully getting better.
So I'm having fun with it.
I've been enjoying them the whole time.
Check that out.
Me too.
I appreciate it.
And while I've got you Wes I've got to say two things.
