if we're thinking about, okay, what are all the things that we think are cool that if they really
succeeded could suck and or be not that important compared to the other things, we do a landscape
analysis of how the tech should develop versus how it's likely to develop right now, what that
delta is and how do we close it being able to think through that upfront and then say through
education through culture building of what is cool through formal legal regulation through
investment groups that only invest in things that meet these criteria and not others like
through the whole suite of capacities, how do we help steer that? I think that's a fucking amazing
opportunity. And that's what kind of I'm excited about here is to be able to think through the
steering of a fundamentally powerful technological domain more consistently.
Yeah. I mean, I think it's an amazing opportunity to sort of grasp the whole elephant. You know,
there's this whole idea that, you know, blind men grasping an elephant, whoever grasps the trunk
will think that it's a hose, whoever grasps the tail will think that it's a rope, whoever grasps
the tusk will think it's a sphere, but none of them is truly grasping the whole elephant.
And the metacrisis is kind of like this thing where you have to grasp all of the different
dependencies because, you know, if you tug the rope and then the elephant goes running,
then you fuck over everyone else. And so that's why I think that what's really inspiring about
you, Daniel, is not only can you address the problem, but you're also sort of galvanizing
these resources in order to also grasp the whole elephant and then start to address,
well, hopefully we'll see, address the metacrisis. So it's at this point that I think that
I will name drop metacrisisdow.com, which is a resource that I'm launching, which will be,
it's not a dow in the sense that there's no token or anything like that. It's just a discourse
forum where people who are interested in your work that are web three native can come and try to
grasp the whole elephant. We can start to think about the metacrisis in a systemic way, a holistic
way. And we're kind of working forwards from what is the metacrisis? What are some criteria for
evolving the metacrisis? And then backwards from our knowledge of web three towards how could web
three and crypto being used to solve the metacrisis? And I think those sort of like the a priori
theory, I think, is that the metacrisis is all about avoiding catastrophes, which is basically
like coordination failures, and then dystopias, which are authoritarian governments that are sort
of reacting to coordination failures. And this, this idea of a third attractor, which is finding
a way that is not centralized in order to address the coordination failure. And for me, it feels
like a priori, web three is decentralized coordination. So we should be able to find some
ways that web three eventually will move away from doing monkey jpegs and pump and dump schemes and
solve actual systemic global coordination failures like the metacrisis. And so anyway,
metacrisis style is going to be a discourse forum and a telegram channel in which we all kind of
start to try to support your work as much as possible, Daniel. But hopefully, eventually get
to building web three solutions that that address the metacrisis. So for the listener out there
who's interested in getting involved, metacrisis.com is going to be where we are going to be
coordinating. And it's just going to be a forum post and telegram channel and maybe
eventually weekly or monthly community calls from there. So how can how can this community
support you, Daniel, is the question? Yeah, I mean, I'm super stoked that you're setting that up
and I'm excited for the people that will come. And I am grateful for the way you framed it.
I would frame it a little differently is it's actually not about I don't really need people
to support me. The people who are interested in public goods and regenerative crypto already
interested in the same stuff I'm interested in. It's more like the frameworks of thinking about
these things that we've developed to be helpful to think through the things that the people in the
space are already innately interested in how to do that better. So you know, public goods
interest in the space has to do with the recognition that Commons Management is a big deal. And that
when we're talking about the oceans or we're talking about the totality of pollinators or
biodiversity or atmosphere, we need to be able to do a fundamentally better job of
global Commons Management than we currently do. Are there like, how do we do that? Are there ways
that the affordances of the new technology make that more possible that we can get the
off chain world on chain adequately to be able to do things like actually track externalities
and make it to where the cost of an externality has to be internalized into the equation where
the entirety of the market stops being perverse. And that's pretty humongous where you actually get
to track decision making provenance in ways that will make corruption much harder. I think these
are some of the most important kinds of things somebody could be working on. I think understanding
some of the problem space just a little deeper to be able to really think through adequate
solutions is really valuable. So I know you're already engaged in this, but I would love if
kind of following this, the other people that understand kind of Metacrisis Frame and understand
Web 3 better than I do could come and speak to some of their specific thoughts on this,
like I think it'd be great to have Matan and Primavera and Glenn Weil and Jordan Hall and
Arthur Brock and, you know, all those folks because they've got a lot of very specific
thoughts, Mahayla, on specifically how to do some of those things. I will say that it would be
silly for us to not acknowledge that one of the biggest possibilities that the space may ever face,
it's going to be facing right now. And it's huge, which is technologies emerge in relationship to
other technologies, right? Like I can't without breakthroughs in metallurgy and manufacturing,
I don't get breakthroughs in the weapons that require those toolmaking tools and vice versa,
right? Without breakthroughs in GPUs, I don't get the comparable breakthroughs in AI.
And so we have to be looking at Web 3 in light of the rest of the tool stack, in addition to the
culture stack, financial stack, etc., that the world is looking at. And so at the time of this
recording, chat GPT and mid-journey and the kind of totality of generator tech being available to
the public is not only one of the most interesting stories in the world right now, but one of the
most interesting inflection points in the entire history of humanity. Because when we think about
technological revolutions, we think about how much the world changed when we figured out how to
extract oil is pretty fucking big deal, figuring out how to increase the energetic process that
our body does outside of our body that powerfully. And so we went from half a billion people to eight
billion people really fast. And we increased the total amount of calories per person consumed by
100x. That's huge. Of course, some of the externality is that we're just destroying the
planet's ability to continue to maintain us. So there's a bunch of technological epochs that have
been big, where they're taking some human capacity and kind of externalizing it. AI is obviously
taking the technology creation capacity that is novel to humans itself and externalizing it and
putting it on a exponential self-recursion loop, which is why it's such a unique fucking thing.
It's why singularity is near and the focus on AGI takeoff is such a big thing.
And I anticipate that the very limited capacities that GPT-3 going public has shown
will be shown up by GPT-4 like whether through OMPAN AI or other leading companies in the space,
will be improved upon in the next month and couple months with public releases of technology that
already exists, so much so that it will change fundamental things about the world radically
forever. Very specifically, I think, Turing test passing content generation, where humans
really cannot tell if it was produced by machines or humans across most categories,
and the speed at which that content can be produced is such a humongously world-changing thing.
And so how do you, obviously, the ability to make recursive relationships of those AIs? You
already have the Facebook AI that curates existing content based on personalized data of the person
to maximize behavioral metrics. Now that you can have content creation AIs that are not just
taking the existing content humans are making, but bespoke content based on personal harvested
data about the person and then curation AIs and the intersection of those, and you start to think
about what type of propaganda and cult generation machine taking the humans aren't rational actors
because of behavioral econ and just pushing that to the fucking asymptote of how much we can make
that not the case. Polarization, doubling down on bias, hypernormal stimuli. There is another
direction it could go, right? You could use it to do the opposite, which is personalized education
and development to help people see other points of view and to become more rational actors and
etc. There's way the fuck less incentive currently to do that direction than the other one. Now,
is there a way that the relationship between Web3 tech and AI is particularly interesting?
Yeah, right? If you start having this deep fake, ubiquitous deep fake thing, does tech like
rigorous identity start to become one of the most important things? I think that's a probably
very likely development, right? Do I know at least is this a human or a bot that is developing it?
Things on the provenance of info that goes into something,
kind of info provenance tech, I think become hugely important. So I think this is an area that
deserves a tremendous amount of attention. And I think we'll probably get a tremendous amount of
attention. I wouldn't want it to suck up all the attention in a reactive way because
how do we identify all of the externalities of environmental externalities? Let's say we take
the paper that was published since last time we talked on PFOS levels, fluorinated surfactant
levels crossing planetary boundaries globally, published a couple months ago that showed that
rainwater all around the world, even if you go off grid in the middle of Montana or Canada or
whatever, your rainwater still has beyond EPA levels of fluorinated surfactants that are carcinogens
or whatever. I can't begin to describe what a humongous fucking thing this is. So can we have
sensors? Can we have IoT sensors, etc. that are monitoring where that shit is coming from and
where it is going and actually creating both legal accountability and enforcement of financial
externalization of those costs? Same with nitrogen effluent and phosphorus effluent that's causing
dead zones. This is where guys like Greg Landua from Regen Network are looking at. We use some of
these crypto tools to help the proliferation of soil regenerative technologies rather than soil
depleting technologies. I think all of these applications are so profoundly interesting
and fascinating and frighteningly developed. I think the AI one is going to get going to get
and deserves to get a huge amount of attention right away because I think it fundamentally
portends changes about the nature of open society itself and all paparian ideas and all
rational actor theory and all representative democracy. So I think that would be a really good
kind of clarion call of coalescing the space to deal with that thing but then wanting to
simultaneously generate what is the whole problem set because if you can use crypto as one of the
tools to be able to bind AI for its more positive and less harmful applications, the combination
of those things along with the nature of the social tech is capable of being used in problem
solving technologies across all the areas. I think there's an amazing opportunity to take all
this really incredible technology that's creating existential capacity and use it for the public
good and that's my greatest hope for what crypto can accomplish. I know that we've opened up the
aperture of a lot of possibility here. For me, the thing that I just keep coming back to is
go to metacrisisdow.com, sign up to get the updates and we'll just be having discussions there.
We'll be doing possibly at some point weekly and monthly community calls. We'll see what form
things want to take and then I think that there will be work groups. I call them think
field groups because we're not paying anyone so they're think field groups about different
aspects of this and one of the things that I'm really excited about is that through my work
and through the podcasts that we've done, you've already gotten to know some people in the Web3
space who were like, for example, we talked about Steven Reed and the map of your work that he did.
This is an opportunity for people to get on your radar that who are doing really good work in the
space and I think that the thing that I can do is just shed a shelling point for people to come
and get involved and start using this tech for good. Metacrisisdow.com is where it's at.
You know, I'm curious what else you want to say before we wrap this episode. This was going to
be a shorter episode, just a bridge episode to give people an update on what we've been up to.
I'm curious what the rest of 2023 looks like for you, Daniel, and how what you're up to is going
to ebb and flow with the questions that we're asking at Metacrisisdow.
Yeah. So the questions that I would love to see really well populated,
debated, thought through, I would like to see and kind of learn from.
The first one is thinking about the entire field of web three technologies. It would be good to
even just kind of make a short taxonomy of what that means, what are all the types of technologies
and kind of primary applications that are being thought of. But in that space, what are all of the
possible negative externalities, both physically and psychosocial, that this space could either
accelerate or exacerbate or novelly create? I would like to see some just deep workshopping on
that where you just read team the fuck out of the idea of the positiveness of the crypto itself.
And say, okay, well, let's say we make uncorruptible ledgers for the provenance of
information and science or whatever so that people aren't going to be messing with the data.
So we can do better open data, open science stuff. That seems really good. Where is that not good?
Well, let's say we have a situation like we happen to have in the world today where you've got
people doing viral hunting and then gain a function research on pathogens to make
way more potentially dangerous virulent pathological pathogens, hopefully in the name of how to develop
anticipatory responses, vaccines, medicines, whatever it is. But then publish those gene sequences,
which may be before cheap gene sequencers might have been a good idea. But then say the technological
landscape changes like it has, and you have cheap gene sequencers and getting cheaper to
where we're only a few years out on the current trajectory, if it doesn't change, which hopefully
it will, of the ability to take the information about a genome and actually make it being really
quite cheap and very decentralized. And not something that only state actors have. And that
even if you tried to regulate who are the companies that can make the gene printers,
you could DIY it yourself. All right, well, now if that new technology emerges, I want to be able
to get those fucking gene sequences offline. Well, can I do that if I just made a situation where
it's impossible to do that? Well, now we need to say like, okay, is there some way to have an
uncorruptible ledger but that can have access protocols and various levels of access protocol?
Obviously, if we're trying to deal with government stuff, there is shit that shouldn't be totally
publicly available because it involves national security stuff that saying where the most vulnerable
infrastructure targets are out in the public is stupid. And yet you also don't want no provenance
on information. So how do you think through those things? So I think if one starts to just really
think through what are the technologies that and people have already been thinking through,
if you try to make a trustless system, are you actually making a system that will have cultural
effects of less trust? And, you know, do you on and on? I think a population of all of the positive,
I mean, all the possible negative applications of the tech, including not just the obvious thing,
but second, third order type things, I think that would be extraordinarily useful not to
discourage the space as a whole. It's, you know, if you look at what Bostrom did with super
intelligence and kind of populating what are all the places where super intelligence could go wrong,
I think the web three version of that would be a good idea, right? What are the places it could
go wrong to really think about how to avoid that and how to steer that? That's the first thing I
would really like to see. And the other thing, because if you then take focus on the next part,
which is the problems that can solve in the opportunities, and you haven't done that other
one, you might be wrong, where, yes, it might solve that thing, but make some other worship in
the process, you want to make sure you're not doing that. So that's why I'm making the order
of operations. The next step I would really like to see people engaging in and generating ideas on is
both by vertical topic area, like let's, by topic area, you could say planetary boundaries and
exponential tech x risk, or you can make it much narrower and just say dealing with weaponized drones
and dealing with grid fragility and dealing with fragility of the Amazon coral, etc. For each of
those types of issues, does web three tech by itself or in conjunction with other technologies,
laws, projects, enable solutions that are not currently existent? I think really trying to
populate that how could it be not by itself? How could it be part of a suite of endeavors
that enable new solutions? I think that's an extraordinarily rich, useful process. And I think
in web three folks engaging with topic matter experts in major global risk areas and global
problem areas, not just even global risk, even like SDGs and saying, what are the hardest problems
that you can't fix? What makes them wicked and really trying to see, is there anything about
