the affordances of this technology that could help solve that? That would be just amazing to
populate and to kind of taxonomize. And that's kind of the vertical divisions, the deeper horizontal
divisions are things like the generator functions. How could we address perverse incentive writ large
or in different contexts? How could we address commoning writ large? How could we address
internalizing externalities in the decision making processes writ large? How could we address
turning theory of trade-offs into synergistic satisfiers? Being able to think through those
deep things, which is where if someone doesn't have enough of the metacrisis context there,
it's worth getting it. And that's why the things Stephen Reed started to put together
took all those podcasts and made it to where you can just go straight to the point in the video
where the things are talked about, because long-term video is hard to search. That's a really cool
tool right now until we have better resources. But to start to think through, what are the
solutions there? And then again, Red Team, your own solutions in the space. But you'll start to find
like, in the externality part, you might be like, God damn, some of the things we're working on are
actually terrible. Now that we think through it better and should really not happen the way they
are. That would be great. And then simultaneously, there's like, there's actually a couple areas
where we could develop things that are profoundly awesome. And we should really focus the entire
community's efforts on this and really work to get groups focused on capital investment,
focus there, et cetera. The last two things I'll say in this section is, so that's what I'd love
to see people working on. And then so far as contribution really starts to happen there,
then I look forward to learn about it and comment on it. You're mentioning that it's,
you know, there's not kind of paid work. It's more contribution that people are interested in.
I do think being able to have a small number of people who are full-time focused on that
research and being able to find the research that has already been done and some of the good work
that's been done in various places, obviously, Vitalik and Charles and lots of groups have
worked on some of these things and tried to synthesize it and taxonomize it would speed it
up a lot and who can even host the convening. And so I think if anyone listening to this likes
the general direction and wants to donate small amounts to a couple of people being able to do
that that Kevin could help manage, that would be a thing I would be really stoked on. So I'll say
that and yeah. Amazing. Well, listeners can't hear it, but if you're watching the video,
you may see it. I'm furiously typing and ticking notes and there will be a post on Metacrisis
Dow with the five prompts that you just gave us right there, Daniel. So curious to see what the
Web 3 community brings back, but the fact that you've already discovered people like Stephen Reed,
I think is hopefully a sign that there's that there's something here.
Amazing. And I mentioned a few names of people that I think would be really valuable to get on
is obviously a lot more people. I think having Audrey Tang on and a deep discussion of what
Web 3 tech and other tech, what is the what is the whole suite of both tech and like
social and government activities that would need to happen to advance better digital governance
system in relationship to state governments and where could people actually really start to make
progress with that? That'd be amazing, right? I think that'd be super valuable. And also wanted
to say there's a somebody that works with me named Chris Eddie, who I know is engaging in the
calls that you guys are doing to make sure that some of the Metacrisis analytics are available
when people are talking about them. So I'm happy about that. And yeah, I look forward to see what
comes. Amazing. Well, Daniel, I think that this is not the third episode that we were planning to
make when we started this series, but I'm very happy to be continuing to build a channel between
the Web 3 community and your work. And I'm just so thankful to you for continuing to spend time
here. I think that a lot of the world, we're recording this at the end of January in 2023,
a lot of the world has moved on from Web 3 into AI. And the fact that you still see promise here,
I just appreciate your conviction that the Web 3 community is going to be able to contribute here.
And I think that we will. So thanks for taking the time. And I hope that we prove you right.
You guys should get some of the folks from Radical Exchange on, whether plan or matter,
because the relationship between what AI does and what Web 3 can do that is critical and
relationship with it is something that they are working on, have a lot of academics contributing
to that I think would be really, really valuable. Yeah, obviously, where all the attention has a
lot to do with the economic opportunities and there was a bullshit economic opportunities in
some way associated with crypto. And I think, you know, there's the AIs there. But the problem
space that was interesting is still there, the same kind of problem space and the opportunity
space. And so everybody who is still actively focused on it, hopefully is because they're
actually independent of a bubble, really interested in what can be built that is meaningful there.
So yeah. Yeah. Well, I hope that by the time the next market cycle and the attention that comes
back on crypto associated with that arrives, that we'll have something more interesting to play
with than just toy NFTs and that Web 3 can actually have some meaningful examples of things that fund
the commons and public goods and address the metacrisis. So that is a hope. And that is what
I'll maybe end the episode on as an aspiration. Anything that I didn't ask that you want to say,
Daniel? No, I'm just, I really love what you have done with getting all the people that are
interested in the actual interesting applications in an entire space to be collaborative together.
And that's why I'm here talking with you and I'm stoked to see what comes next. So thank you,
man. Yeah, well, it's all about coordination. And, you know, you mentioned Audrey Tang and
she has this quote about how her role is not to be a minister for a certain group,
but to be a channel for greater combinations of strength and intelligence to come together.
So I think that that's an aspiration that we have with the Green Pill podcast. Hopefully,
Metacrisis Dow will become that. And yeah, so if you're listening, then open up metacrisisdow.com
on your phone or on your device and sign up and let's get this party started. And then hopefully
in six more months, we'll have something to talk about when we do episode four together.
Awesome. Thanks again, Daniel.
