What up coordination on this podcast episode. I've got Daniel Schmackenberger. He's returning.
This is my third episode with Daniel Schmackenberger. And I think that I get a DM like once every
other week asking me when the next episode with Daniel is coming out. So I'm finally
really excited to have an answer to that question. He's back. We're talking about the Metacrisis
and how we could use Web 3 to address it, how we can map out the different vertical and
horizontal areas of the Metacrisis. And for those of you who are just tuning in, the Metacrisis is
basically this game theoretic idea of an underlying crisis driving a multitude of crises. So things
like climate change, biodiversity collapse, existential AI risk, existential risk in general.
And basically the idea is how can we use technology in order to help address or start to
address the catastrophes, which is coordination failures, things like climate change, biodiversity
collapse, but also the dystopias that result from using governance systems trying to solve for
coordination failure, creating authoritarian governments through regulation that try to
regulate coordination failures, how to create a third attractor that creates coordination,
but without the dystopia. That's kind of the idea of the Metacrisis or I guess one of the ideas
with the Metacrisis. So if you've listened to episodes one and two, you know that Daniel is
just this incredibly articulate, lucid thinker who cares so deeply about figuring out how to
address the Metacrisis because it's just so important and existential. And I really find
Daniel to be this inspiring thinker and catalyst for thinking about how to think about the
Metacrisis. And so in this episode, we kind of build on the work that was done in episodes one
and two. If you haven't listened to Daniel Schmacknerberger Green Pill episode one and two,
click the links in the show notes and listen to that first. I just give you a quick TLDR, but
the listening to those episodes will be time well spent and definitely advise listening
to episodes one and two before you listen to episode three. In episode three, we talk about
creating an attractor for Web three people to come together and start to build a taxonomy of the
Metacrisis. MetacrisisDAO.com is the launch that we're doing on this episode today. So basically
a discourse forum where people can come together and they can talk about the Metacrisis. Daniel
has given us five prompts at the end of the episode about things that the Web three community could
start doing in order to address the Metacrisis to map out the Metacrisis. And so MetacrisisDAO.com
is going to be this channel for people to come together and for the Web three community to
start supporting Daniel's work. And I'm just so excited to finally bring you this, bring you
this episode. Like I said, Daniel, having Daniel back was one of my most requested audience requests
over Twitter DMs. So I think I've said enough, let's get on to the episode. You are really gonna,
gonna love this one coordination. Without further ado, I give you Daniel Schmacknerberger.
The Glow Dollar is a new stablecoin with a very special property. As the market cap of Glow goes
up, extreme poverty goes down. Glow is a dollar backed non-profit stablecoin that creates basic
income for people living in extreme poverty. Glow is basically the same business model as USDC
with yield generating treasuries on one side and a stablecoin on Ethereum on the other. But instead
of being a for profit company, Glow is a non-profit that donates 100% of all yields from the Glow
Reserve to give directly's basic income program. Give directly is a charity that gives people
money, no strings attached to people living in poverty and is a charity that Vitalik has previously
donated to and supported in the past. With Glow, you can reduce poverty just by holding a stablecoin.
Glow is launching in early 2023 and you can join the waitlist at glowdollar.org slash greenpill.
That's glodollar.org slash greenpill.
Working in Web 3 is awesome, but working outside of the typical W2 employee structure is a deal
breaker for so many. Oplis is helping the self-solving worker focus on what they do best, their work.
Tax time is coming up. Oplis helps professionalize your business by helping you form an entity,
generate proof of employment through pay subs, and receive a W2 at the end of the tax year.
Are you self-employed and forced to spend money on expense of healthcare insurance with limited
coverage? Oplis leverages group buying power through a community employment co-op, helping you
save 20-50% on high-quality affordable healthcare options through SIGNA. And finally, Oplis' member
owners share in Oplis' success and profits based on their work token holdings. You must be authorized
to work inside the United States and select Canadian provinces to receive Oplis' benefits.
Book a 30-minute free consultation with Oplis' experts and join Oplis by March 31, 2023 to get
1,000 work and 1,000 bank tokens. Go to connect.opolis.co slash bankless to get started.
And if you're going to eThemver, make sure to stop by the Oplis booth or attend their
Future of Work Summit hosted by Oplis. Hey Daniel, what's up? Hey Kevin, happy to finally be back
for this episode three. Yeah, yeah, same. Glad to have you. Well, I guess we started off with
doing an episode about what is the metacrisis was episode one. And then episode two, we started
talking about criteria for addressing the metacrisis. We were planning on doing an episode
three and four, which were I think around how things like Web3 or technology in general could
address the metacrisis. And I think that that got a little bit side railed. So I'd be curious
kind of what you've been up to and how your thinking has evolved since we recorded episode two
with respect to addressing the metacrisis with technology.
Yeah. Yeah, so the reason I was excited to do this podcast series with you after we
met at the, you asked me to come to the Schilling Point conferences. There are so many people
in the Web3 community that are focused on things that are pretty core to metacrisis stuff. How do
we do better decentralized coordinations that can either de necessitate institutions or
actually enable institutions or fundamentally new kinds of institutions, deal with the information
singularity, deal with deep fakes, deal with corruption, deal with provenance, like really
important things. And there's a pretty stark contrast from the hopes in those areas to where
the space is at in terms of fulfillment on them and where most of the attention in the space has
actually gone. And I do think that decentralized computing, uncorruptible ledgers, the whole
field of kind of cryptographic tools that you'd call Web3 is extremely important to merging area
of tech. It's not a single technology, obviously, but a suite of technologies where the technologies
do portend really interesting solutions to some deep issues that are not like specific
topic issues, but generalized underlying issues. They also make possible new issues that didn't
exist before. And it's not that common that you get to be at the beginning of the emergence of
an entirely new field of tech, especially, you know, in this kind of post internet era where it
has the capability of having global auto poetic impact relatively quickly and being able to shape
such a space is a big deal. And specifically separating out all of the how can we inflate a
token value from how do we actually identify the meaningful regenerative crypto economics project?
I felt like you did an exceptional job of attracting the community of people who were
interested in the actually interesting things. So yeah, in our first podcast, it was, let's kind
of give this metacrisis frame what what is the whole set of global catastrophic risks and wicked
problems the world is facing and what are the underlying dynamics that give rise to them
to have some sense of what is actually needed, what is worth doing, what is a problem definition
that is deep and rich enough to actually start to think about how one would go about solving it.
And then in the second session, we actually mostly addressed the way that technologies can
affect human values individually, like have psychological effects on people and have cultural
effects. And because the fact that a technology can have unintended consequences physically to
the environment, like you make a pesticide that you intend to be a pesticide and you didn't intend
that it was going to cause cancer or things like that. There's physical externalities,
but there are also psychosocial externalities. And if you really want to ensure that the
development of technologies doesn't cause psychosocial externalities that are negative and
maybe ones that are positive and design it in, you got to kind of understand that. So that's where
we left. And we were going to, like you said months ago, go into part three and start saying, okay,
so what are novel problems that the blockchain space could cause? Because every new type of
technology makes new possibilities, new affordances, new capacities. And there are no such thing as new
types of technology that don't have some harmful applications. So let's think through that and
say, how do we ensure that the positive relative to the negative applications are more likely to
proliferate? How do we bind them as a regulation to put in mind? And whether we're talking about
hard to penetrate fucked up black markets, you know, or
auto poetic social processes that once put into place can never be changed.
You know, there are some kind of serious things to think about. There's also what are the most
important and interesting problems that blockchain could solve that whether or not they are the
flashiest from a token value or like the ones that people who really want to solve global
problems should think about. And we were going to address that. And but obviously, we don't know
all the answers to that. We don't even know close to all the answers to that. And so now I see why
you're asking the what's been new since there are some major global institutions that asked the org
that I work with to write addendums to or help them with their global risk report global catastrophic
risk reports. And we're in the process of doing that. And some of that work will come out later
this year. And being able to think through all of the emerging technology category areas from
synthetic biology to artificial intelligence to, you know, et cetera, and think through both what
are the risks associated and the problems that could be solved. And what is the combo of the
technology, the regulatory landscape, the incentives, etc. that could move it in the right
direction. I asked you if you thought there was a group of people in your extended community that
might want to do deeper research and has already been done on answering those questions regarding
Web three. And so we decided to do this podcast to not actually answer those questions, but to
kind of state what the questions are why they're important as a invitation for people to participate
who are interested in helping,
helping analyze how this emerging field of technology can should be guided in the kind
of biggest frameworks possible, which I think is extremely exciting. And I think it's really,
really rad that you took the initiative to start to put a format together where people could come
collaborate. So that's where we're at here. And I am excited to dive into the questions
today. Yeah, same. So, you know, one of the things that really stuck out from, I forgot if
it was episode one or episode two that we did together, but I think you said something to
the effect of a problem well understood is half addressed. And I think if I could summarize
what you said about where we've been over the last four to six months, you were kind of doing
these risk reports for institutions about the metacrisis and consulting on a one-off basis.
And this year, you've instead of doing these like one-off reports for these individual institutions,
it's about building a community or a resource that's kind of like live updating and can help
understand and address the metacrisis in a way that both respects its complexity and doesn't
reduce it down. And that sort of serves us becoming more, just understanding the metacrisis
a little bit more. And it's kind of like the resource that can back future reports or future
thinking that is with respect to the metacrisis. So, it feels like you're kind of like building
institutions under you or like resources under you that can help enable understanding of the
metacrisis and that'll enable other people to address it. Is that directionally how you think
about it? You know, we talked in the first session about what are some of the things that are
generator functions or underlying drivers of most of the issues. And we talked about things
like perverse incentive, that whether you're talking about climate change or species extinction
or overfishing or corruption of political parties, perverse incentives are underneath that. So,
any work that can do a deeper job of being able to identify where the incentive of any
company, country, department, individual, if is at odds with the well-being of others and
the well-being of the commons, and particularly where people are in important representative
positions and things like that, you can make improvements. So, there's all the vertical
areas, but then there's things that kind of cut across them. And perverse incentive was an example.
Externalities in decision-making processes are an example. There's something inherent to the
nature of the complexity of the world and the way we try to narrow it, right? As soon as we moved
to kind of beyond Dunbar little villages, the little tribes, division of labor specialization,
it was a huge part of how lots of beneficial things came about in coordination. But you also
end up getting a situation where because I'm not focused on the whole, I'm focused on a part,
I'm just making this kind of widget or I'm working in this domain, I can identify the
metrics of success for that domain, optimize them. My incentive and my institutional mandate is to do
that, but it affects other things and it can have harmful effects other places. And so,
you can have places where the solution to one problem is making other problems worse and vice
versa because some people know that they push back on it. And so, inherent to trying to narrow
the problem space is one of the drivers of the metacrisis and yet somebody can't think about
everything and work about on everything all the time. And so, there's a way to have kind of
metacrisis or holistically informed considerations while still focusing on a part, right? I'm working
on something that is not everything, but I am cognizant of the fact that it affects everything
and my goal is not just how do I make this cool tech that solves this problem, but how do I do
that in a way where the totality of the effects are as omnipositive as possible and not other
things. So, in this particular thing that you and I are engaging in here and inviting people into
the idea that people can work on research and development of addressing questions of how
Web3Tech can cause problems that we want to think through how to prevent and how it can help solve
problems that we want to help advance holistically across all the fields. It's still not saying
also then be thinking about that for AI and nuclear and SenseBio. It's still partitioning
into a subset of everything, but a subset that is more informed by how it interacts with everything
else. And so, I would say, yeah, in general, trying to take groups and institutions that are focused
on things and help them do it in ways that are more cognizant of what is outside of the space
of their traditional consideration to improve the consideration set is definitely something that
I'm trying to do. And I guess one other thing I'll say here is most of the time with new technology,
somebody develops and figures out new technology. It can be funded by government or by
non-profit research institutes or by the market, but the market funds a lot of it. And even if
university or whatever figured out the underlying tech, the market usually figures out how to
implement it at scale. And then it benefits something and harms some other things like
putting lead and gasoline or DDT or whatever. And the regulatory process is to say, oh, you can't
actually use that tech in that way. You got to get the lead out of the gasoline, got us up the DDT,
typically follow after the harm has happened by many decades. And so, they don't get to fix all
the harm that's happened. They just are supposed to try to stop it. When you're dealing with
lead and gasoline going in the air, you can do that, but you can't fix the fact that having
lowered the world's IQ by a billion points through the effects of the gasoline going,
the lead going into nervous systems made an indefinite number of really fucking terrible
choices that continue to affect the world forever. But as the speed of tech increases,
if you do the same thing with synthetic bio or the thing that you put out as reproducing,
and if you try to regulate it later, you can just never get it back, right? Or it's just
operating way the fuck faster, the world breaks, you have to actually do a better job of thinking
about the negative externalities and engaging the regulatory landscape ahead of time.
A lot of people here might be bothered by this because they're like fuck regulation,
governments are corrupt. So, okay, that's, but that's not an answer, right? The answer has to
be how does, how do we solve ensuring that people don't have a motive to do something that benefits
something at some short time frame, but harms lots of stuff over some long time scale? How do
we figure out how to do a better job with that? What's so interesting, every rare once in a while,
there's an opportunity where a developing space does regulation first, like there's been this
international treaty that nobody's allowed to mine Antarctica or mine the seabed. And now that
resource pressures are kind of probably going to force that to happen. Before it's allowed to
happen, there has to be this international regulatory process to say how could that happen
environmentally friendly way? It's actually very interesting. It seems like a pain in the ass from
a market capitalism point of view. But if you really think of it from an existential risk
point of view, like, well, of course, that's necessary. So with crypto and with web three,
