Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Eni Ashbrotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, and today
we have no Jace. Jace is feeling very sick and out of it, so we are going not solo. Duo?
Duo. Not COVID sick though. No, no, at least not as far as we know. I think it is said.
So I think we're okay. But yeah, you will have to be only having one-third the conspiracy
today, or one-third less, two-thirds the conspiracy. Math. We're already fucked. I mean,
Jace might be two-thirds of the conspiracy all by himself, so I hope you guys don't have a
terrible episode with just the two of us here. We're off to a great start. I know, right? Making
excuses about how terrible everything's going to be? Set expectations low, man. Life pro tip.
In Metropolitan, man, last episode or two ago, there was that Lowe was just complaining about how
Clark would set himself up to like, oh yeah, he acts like he can't do stuff but he can. And that's
as you compare him to Clever Hans, the horse. And it's like, the thing is, you're really good at
math. You don't need people to think you're a horse. So Brian and I are very familiar with the
phrase overpromise and overdeliver. Right, right, right. The same Scotty thing. I think
Brian even referenced the Scotty thing, didn't he, in the last episode? What's that? Scotty,
in one of the TNG episodes, they unfreeze Scotty from the original series. And when LaVar,
the card asks him how long this is going to take, LaVar gives him a decent estimate.
And after the comms are down, Scotty's like, what the hell did you tell him that for? Because
that's how long it's going to take. You never tell him how long it's going to take. You add on
two days. And then when you underdeliver or when you overdeliver, they think you're a miracle worker.
That's right. Scotty, not a very ethical person. I hear a rule of thumb for that. I got,
I know he must have been joking, but it was from an architect on my first job. And he's like,
whatever your estimate, double it and then increment the unit. If you think it's going to take two
days, it'll take four weeks. Right. But that's, I mean, but that's just good. What is the, what is
the term? Optimizing for planning fallacy? Yes. Yes. Right. Yeah. Whereas I, in Star Trek,
I don't think they have to optimize for the planning fallacy because they're so perfect at
everything. That's right. They've got a spot where you can get it down to the millisecond.
It's pretty awesome. Yep. Yeah. All right. So, oh, maybe that, maybe that's what it was. Scotty
was the only rationalist on the crew, so he was always optimizing for the planning fallacy.
All right. I'd like him more now. Good. Plus he was always just like jolly and fun. So,
that 70 series was weird, man. It was so 70s. Anyways, Steven, should we get into the less
wrong posts like we always do at the top of every episode? Let's do it. Okay. Our first less
wrong post is the meditation on curiosity. It starts out with what might seem like a tangent
at first, but it's something I really like because it, you know, speaks to the rider in me.
That's good to say. It starts out with saying Roger Zalazny wants to distinguish between wanting
to be an author versus wanting to write. Mark Twain said, a classic is something that everyone
wants to have read and no one wants to read, which first of all, very true, right? Yeah. I mean,
every now and then people do read a classic and they really like it. I, one of the co-hosts of
the Reason podcast is reading through Moby Dick right now, which from everything I've heard is
just a terrible idea. They've heard it's not a very good book as far as books go, but she's
really liking it. So, maybe there's something to be said for some of these classics.
I think there's a difference too between being forced to read something and being,
like, you know, pursuing it at your own interest. Yeah, that's true. And so much of the
quote classics I was forced to read in school and therefore never read. And although I do remember
an Amake chapter from Methods of Rationality, there was a two sentence summary of Moby Dick
that I really liked. Was it revenge on what? The whale? No, I think I'd rather just get on with
my life. Yeah. And I didn't realize until sometime later that the author, that was Inyash Brotsky.
Oh, cool. Yeah. Yeah, that was fun. That was your first published short story.
Was it? But no, I don't know. I think it also matters like who determines what the classics are.
Like a lot of the classics of the music canon are were just decided by
people who I don't have a great deal of respect for and same with the like the literature canon,
whereas like the classics of cinema are generally decided on sort of by popular,
well, I guess the Academy has some say in that, but a lot of the stuff when people
tells you this is a classic, they mean like this is a great movie and people would enjoy watching it.
It's just old. I mean, so it's a bit of a digression from the post, but my thoughts on that,
we watched Terminator 2. Yeah, it's definitely an action classic. This is a classic movie and I
don't know where the list of classics are if it's on it, but when my wife hears that from me,
she knows what to expect. I'm like, you know, 80s movies? This is the perfect 80s movie.
Buckleyn, we're gonna have a fun two hours. It doesn't mean that it's necessarily good.
Although in this case it is. Right. But like we watched,
I mean Predator actually was great too. I'm trying to think of like a bad classic that
well, it doesn't matter. Point is like that and as long as I'm gonna rant at the Academy,
I don't think Endgame got nominated for anything. And so that tells me that they're completely
disconnected from the populace because it made the most money of any movie ever. And so I'm like,
oh, so you guys aren't basing this on like what people actually like to watch and spend their
money on. So what are you guys spending it on? What you like? Fuck you guys.
Well, I know I've rented about this before, but Pulp Fiction lost the year that it went up.
And I think what was it? Forced Gump one, which is a fine movie, but like you compare the two
and one of them is groundbreaking. And the other one is just a schmaltzy feel good movie.
And that makes sense why one would get nominated, right? Because who's gonna stand up in front of
the crowd like, no, you know which one wins this one with, you know, a bunch of swear words and
murders and graphic. But the thing is, like they're supposed to recognize groundbreaking new
artistic achievements. No, they're all about just patting each other on the back for being warm
and fuzzy, man. Yeah. And a lot of it is like, you know, which movie is the best about showing that
we are good white people who aren't racist, but still love our country, but also really liberal.
I think that's why Forced Gump did so well. I haven't seen Forced Gump, but I know enough
of the plot. And then there's a subreddit I like called shitty movie details. And it's like,
I saw this yesterday. Forced named his boat Jenny because like Jenny, everybody be riding it.
God, that is so fucked up. I don't know enough about Jenny other than the fact that I guess
she has sex with lots of people in the movie or something. She was just a perfectly normal
60s chick who happened to be attractive. Fair enough. And then like she had to get punished
by it for by getting AIDS because it's that kind of movie. See, I haven't seen the movie. Yeah.
All I know is that he runs long enough to grow a beard. Yes. I mean, it's like I said, it's not
a bad movie at all, but it's not certainly not groundbreaking. Yeah. It's more like, you know,
if you are a good American, these are the values you believe in.
The other reference I know who is from Tropic Thunder, but we can't go into that.
So such a good movie. Okay. All right. Back to the post. Yes. Wanting to be an author versus
wanting to write, which are distinctly different things. I mean, and I can relate to this is
not digression. This is just another point from nonwriter. There are lots of things like
people want to be accomplished, but not to work to accomplish stuff, right? Like,
everyone wants to everyone wants to be respected and esteemed, but getting there seems hard. Yeah.
It'd be great just to fast track and be like, look, I've got the respect and esteem of all my
peers. Yeah. Well, and for those people, like the problem is like putting in the work, it's just
work. Whereas people who just want to write or people who just want to noodle around on their
guitar all day, they they already want the thing that is going to get them that esteem. So it's
sort of a byproduct. That's a good point. Yeah. Like most the great guitarists are people who
just love fucking around with the guitar for hours and hours every day. I wonder if there are
musicians who really hate music that got popular. No doubt like in the age where people are being
selected as children, you know, Britney Spears or something. Yeah. You know, that that probably
happens. But maybe not as far back as like, I'm not gonna say maybe not the 70s, but I don't know
if Michael Jackson would have gotten into music if his parents hadn't forced him. I mean, I think,
I mean, the boy bands are a good example. The lot of the 80s hair bands were, you know,
one or two members would be really into the music. But you could tell a bunch of them were just in it
for the girls and the money. And two good reasons to get into music. Right. But it's not going to
lead you to make really wonderful art. Yeah, the lack of passion. Yeah, it's gonna you're gonna
just make whatever you think is going to get the most radio plays. Anyways, long digression
continues on sing. So this this is comparing to curiosity, because that's what the topic's on.
Eliezer says, criticizing yourself from a sense of duty leaves you wanting to have
investigated so that you'll be able to say afterwards your faith is not blind,
but it's not the same as wanting to investigate. Which I guess is everything we're just saying.
Yeah, and it's a great distillation of it. I think that this should have been on the
like, the back cover blurb of rationality AI to zombies. But I think he summarized
Eliezer's writing perfectly when he said, has like, some of the best information to word count
ratio of anything I've ever read, that that sentence is a perfect blurb for everything in this,
right? Yeah. Yeah, you'll want to be able to say afterwards that your faith is not blind,
because you have wanting to have investigated. Yeah, look, I did the work. Yeah, I'm a good,
you know, rational believer in this. Yeah. And he says that as long as that is your main motivation,
then, you know, you'll consider an objection, and then a counter argument to the objection,
and then you'll stop. Or maybe you repeat with several object objections until you feel that
you have done your duty, and then you will stop. As opposed to when you're really curious,
you'll gravitate to inquiries that seem most promising of producing shifts and beliefs,
or inquiries that are least like the ones you've tried before. Like, you'll just
want to know what's actually the case, and you'll keep looking until you're satisfied that
you're as close as you can get. Yeah. And I mean, we were looking at COVID charts right before we
started recording. And like, the numbers in Colorado look great. I think even nationwide,
there's big dip in cases. You start vaccinating a bunch of people. It's amazing how that happens.
I know, right? And like the holidays are over and stuff too, which helps. But
yeah, it's so like, but if I was like, if I was motivated to want to see stuff like that,
so that I could go back out to restaurants, then like, I might stop looking, right?
Like, oh, great, look, numbers are down. We only had 1200 cases last week in Colorado that were
reported. Of course, that's not true curiosity. And I actually want to know what the real
state of the world is, right? So I can't just stop at the one bit of happy thing that I've seen.
And then when I encounter arguments, show them that graph and justify myself, right?
Yeah. Yeah. I will say that I know I've made this argument before in our podcast,
no less. But at this point, we're going on what, four years?
At least. Yeah, maybe longer. So it may have been a long time.
But we were once discussing religion. And it's, it's been my position for a long time that you
don't need to have any sort of necessarily anti religion, mimetic device. All you really need to
teach people to instill in people is a love of truth. Like if you really instill in someone a
love of truth, strong enough that they're going to pursue and try to find out what truth is,
they're eventually going to stumble up across the scientific method. They're going to
stumble across critical thinking, because these are the things you find when you want to know
what's actually true. And like you, you find your own way out of religion if you care about
what's true on a deep enough level, because you know, it's, it's, it's very easily demonstrably
false. So yeah, there's a lot of societal shit to get over. But once you get over that, if you
have a deep enough commitment to truth that you're willing to, you know, take the hits in whatever
social standing you need, you're like, I don't, I don't care if this will make me unpopular in
my church, like I really want to know the truth enough, you eventually get yourself out of religion.
Like that's all you really need. And it's one of the, one of the components of that is like,
you learn how to ask good questions. And part of that is being curious. And then you realize very
quickly there are no good answers. Like, and I have a religious deconversion story that is like,
apparently so seemingly sincere that I've been accused of it, of me making it up. Like the
short version is like, at some point when I was like 11, like in sixth grade, I learned something
about how, you know, the very pleasant history of the United States when Columbus, you know,
brought Christianity to the United States. And I'm like, wait, they weren't Christians before?
My understanding was that you had to be did not go to hell. And I asked my parents about that. And
my dad was like, yeah, that's where faith comes in. I'm like, what the hell does that mean?
And so then I ask around. And then I was talking, asking questions comes in.
Yeah. And so then I, as this went on over the years, I asked my friend, my friends and peers
of various religions, like, what are, what are your religions, what reasons for believing that
God exists? Because I was actually curious. I came from a position of wanting this to be real,
because that would be great. And I'm like 15, trying to figure this out. And then I found that,
like, I finally just like, I had asked a Mormon friend, and she was just stoked that someone
was asking her about it. And she got me a book of Mormon. And I'm like, well, no, I'm just more
curious, like, what, what the reasons are? Like, why does your religion think that this is true?
And she didn't, I don't think she'd ever been like, asked that question before.
And so then it sort of just comes out to, I think, Sam Harris is still this way, that there aren't
like 100 reasons for believing in religion. There are three. One, like, you think you're really,
there are 100 reasons for believing that, or for saying that God, long story short,
there aren't, there aren't a litany of great reasons for it, right? There's like a handful of
the same ones, some version of the creation argument, some version of we need this for morals,
or some version of meaning, right? Like, and I, those aren't the same three that he gave,
because he's answering a different question. But like, the, when you think about it, like,
those aren't good reasons to believe something. Like, the creation argument is the most compelling
of the three, until you look at other explanations for stuff. And like, the lack of meaning and the
lack of morals, that's not, that's not how the world works. Yeah, sure be nice if it did. But no,
I mean, you know, why, why did we evolve from like, apish, fuzzy ancestors? There's no moral
in that. There's, there's no meaning necessarily there. Like, that, that, that's not how truth is
uncovered. And so I, I came to the reluctant conclusion in my midteens that like, oh, I guess
this just isn't true. And I, I remained open to it for a while. And then it kind of switches to the
other kind of this, this post where then it's just fun to argue. Like, once I came down and like,
art God isn't real, then I had a couple fun years of the New Atheist stuff. This was right around
that boom and, you know, arguing with people and enjoying all that. So yes, that was actually a
really good time. Yeah. I'm kind of surprised like how that was really enjoyable, whereas
culture war stuff is just hell. I think discourse has gotten worse. I mean, I'm now old enough to
say that thing. There was a great spit on us now last night. During weekend update, they had two
people on who were like pro cancel culture. And they're like, it's not going far enough. We need
to start canceling children. And so they pull up like Twitter and like, the last one was this baby.
And it's like, this baby cried when they were delivered by an African American doctor, cancel
this baby. Maybe it's, yeah, maybe it's just that the stakes are higher. Like before, if you went
into a chat room and you argued for or against atheism, you wouldn't lose your job. You wouldn't
be outcast. No one knows who the fuck you are. Yeah. Right. And now it's like, yeah. Well,
I think even now like people will try to destroy your life for arguing these sorts of things.
And I maybe it happens, but I'm not, and I'm sure it happens in deep religious cultures,
but I've never heard of anyone being attacked like, you know, trying to get fired because they're
non religious, right? I mean, it would happen. It would happen in the 80s, 90s. Well, sure.
Even before them, like in the 50s, if you said, I meant since like 2000, during the new atheism
stuff. Okay. Yeah. Back in the day, they babies, don't you know? Like, I mean, that was the thing.
But like now, you know, you can make up allegations and say, yep, this person's
non religious. So I hear they're a child molester and go talk to their boss, but you can't get them
fired for not being non religious anymore, really, in most cases. Nowadays, no. Yeah.
