which is when you forget something and then you forgot that you've forgotten. So like, you can
have thought something and now you think something else. And he said single thing is when you,
when you notice that you're forgetting something, but then you remember it and you hold onto the
single non contradictory thought. I thought double think was the thing of like where, you know,
two plus two is five, because you know it's four, then you have to think again to give the right
answer. I, that I also agree. I think he is not correct about what double think is in this
essay because yeah, to me, I mean, yes, part of 1984 was the whole forgetting and then forgotten
that you've forgotten, but like you can't, right? That's that's part of what double think is, is
that you can think two things at once and not notice that they're different because you've
internalized this, this lie so, so deeply. Right. That's what I think about it. I mean,
it's definitely possible to forget something and then forget that you forgot it and then learn
an untrue fact after the fact like, Oh, I just learned this and not know that you're lying to
yourself, but that's, that doesn't sound like double think that just sounds like being forgetful.
Yeah. Whereas double think is like intentionally lying to yourself.
Yeah. And like reflexively lying to yourself. Yeah. So like your conscious mind never catches
onto it. Right. But at some point you, you know, because you have to like Draco, you have to know
what you have to excuse on some level. Yeah. This, this similar point is made in that essay that
I mentioned on the other podcast, you know, second iterations, what you can't say by, it doesn't say.
So in the description for the episode, if I clicked it, it would, but yeah. Anyway,
that's, that's sort of exactly what he comes up with. It's like, yeah, you think of all these
things. And then you think, Oh, no, I can't think those things. Yeah. Yeah. And the single
thing was, yeah, I can't think those things after all. And so it should, because it's true.
Single think was what? Just realizing that you would shove a truth into the corner of your head
to not look at. I think single think was like realizing that you had double thought and correcting
for it. Okay. Good way of putting it. All right. I can dig it. Cool. And yeah, you already said
a double think you forget and then forget you've forgotten and single think you notice you are
forgetting. And then you remember you hold only a single non contradictory thought in
your mind at once. Right on. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. That was a short one. Good. All right. So next
time we've got no one can exempt you from rationalities laws and a priori, or if you're
British a priori. Really? Or wait, maybe that's the English pronunciation. I don't know. I learned
philosophy from a British guy on an audio book when I was 15 named Colin McGinn. The audio series
was called Eternal Questions, Timeless Approaches, I think. And would say a priori?
I think he said a priori. A priori. But I remembered him saying or a priori, if you
say it wrong or something. I can't remember exactly how it came. But yeah, when I was 15,
that's what I wanted for Christmas was this philosophy lecture series from Barnes & Noble.
You won that? No, I wanted that. Oh, you wanted that? That's pretty cool. That makes
me sound way more ahead of the nerdy curve than I actually was. In other regards, I guess I was
perfectly average 15 year old, but I was really interested in that stuff at that time. Cool.
I was 15 or 16. I mean, you were 15 year old enough to get into a game of chicken with
weird people in a different car, right? There's nothing philosophical about that, man. I'm just
saying that's a very 15 year old thing to do. You know, I reflect on this every time I think
about my childhood and those random adventures. The fact that we never had to call our parents
from the hospital or the police station blows my fucking mind. None of us ever got really hurt.
Even if you fell off the car while car surfing, just light scratches. Oh my god, you car surfed?
Yeah. Holy crap. More often than it would be like we're instead of standing on it because that
turned out to be very easy to fall. You'd hold onto the back windshield like a terminator in the
movies. Okay, okay. And so you could get a grip around like a little rubber edges of the windows
on either side and then feel your feet swing trying to shake you off and none of us ever fell off.
Yeah. Yeah, we were dumb. Yeah, I didn't go that far. Maybe I was just boring.
You're probably better for it. Like I said, I think we beat the odds.
All right, so there's the post for next time. What are we talking about this week, Yash?
This week, we are talking about an article titled, Provocatively Hate is the New Sex.
And I think this is going to be an interesting discussion because of the way you described
it when you first showed up at my place. What was he said? I can't remember something about how
it's entirely wrong. And this is a piece of shit. I'm looking forward to destroying it.
Something like that. Yeah. I'm looking forward to ripping it apart. Yeah. Yeah.
So, Hate is the New Sex. I thought made a interesting argument and I don't know how I feel
about it, but I think it's interesting enough to talk about for an hour anyway.
It's interesting to talk about. Yeah. So... Even things I disagree with, I enjoy talking about.
Totally. And maybe I'll come around. Maybe it'll convince me to be a more hateful person.
No. No, you shouldn't be more hateful. What's the point of the post then? Is to not demonize hate?
It's not even to... Well, yes. To undemonize it. To not make it into these
things that is how you can tell the bad people from the good people. And, you know, we should get
into the post. But it's certainly not trying to encourage anyone to be more hateful.
Okay. Maybe I misread it. Okay. All right. So, it was written by John Michael Greer in 2017.
And it starts out by saying that there's this... There's this idea that seems to be pretty prevalent
in Western culture that it's an assumption that we make, which is a bad assumption. And he says,
there's a disconnect between one of the... This common assumption that we make about how to make
the world better. And then the results of that assumption when it's put into practice. And
we seem to never see these despite the fact that they're constantly coming into conflict.
It's almost like a selective blindness. So, what he's saying is that the assumption that
a lot of us make in the West about how to make the world better is that we have this conviction
that certain human emotions are evil and harmful and wrong. And the way to make the
better world is to get rid of them one way or another. And that belief has been taken for
granted throughout the industrial societies of the modern West. And it's been welded in place for
a very long time. All right. I'll let you get this out. Then I got to put a pin in just that first
thing. Go ahead. Go ahead. Do that. All right. So, once upon a time, I had a blog where I think I
wrote on it every day for at least a year, maybe two. Nice. And then didn't maintain it and deleted
eventually. Oh, you should have kept it back up. It might still be saved if I tried to log in again,
but I don't. I mean, it's, you know, 10 years ago, Stephen thought that probably weren't that
interesting. But this is the kind of thing that I would have read. And then taken basically
paragraph by paragraph and explained why I didn't like what this was. Okay. This is already setting
up to be like straw manning the fuck out of people. Okay. So, I will admit that these first
paragraphs are very strongly worded. And uncharitably so to the point where it's like,
you might, it almost sounds like somebody, you know, a nice new hotheaded 17 year old atheist
making fun of religious people. Yeah. This is not the way that you engage with people.
No, on the face of it, you know, it's obviously plain wrong. This is not literally the only problem
in the world and how things have always been done. But like, I think it is certainly an aspect of
things that we do and is an important aspect. Oh, that's not the part I was thinking about,
that it was the, what you just said, it was the, the common, that common human emotions are evil
and harmful and wrong. You don't think that people think that? Some people might, but I think that
he's engaging with us with the weak version of the argument. Like, I don't know, I think that's,
maybe this is where we agree or where we disagree, because I think that he's right when he says that
a lot of people have this conviction. Okay, so there's certain emotions that are evil and wrong.
I guess I'm the, you know, the equivocating, annoying religious person to argue with in this
case, if we're gonna run the, the duet theist analogy, like I, so the, the, as the title of the
post implies, he's talking about the emotion of hate. So like, and also about sexual desire.
Oh yeah. But, but as a, as an example that we kind of overcame a bit. Yeah. Historically,
that was the thing, which seems to imply that in the future, we'll be societally much more accepting
of hate. And that's a desirable outcome, like it was with, with the sexual revolution. Right.
And so like, I, I, my position on hate isn't that it's evil and harmful and wrong and that people,
you know, shouldn't, you know, good people don't feel this way. My, my conviction is that it's not
a beneficial way to feel about stuff that for virtually any problem that you have with the
world or any person you're having a problem with, that it is not the most productive way to solve
it and that you're better off not engaging with, with that impulse. So I mean, that's basically
what I would say about hate as well. And like this article is the first time I've had to challenge
that, but it, it has been my conviction that if the world existed exactly it is as it is now,
but the emotion of hate didn't exist, it would just be a better world. I think it's true. Okay.
So you do think there was an emotion that is harmful and evil, because the world would be
better off if it was completely scrubbed from existence. Doesn't have to be harmful and evil
for it to be. If it has some good things in the world wouldn't be better off without it, right?
Well, I guess harmful and evil are two different things. Evil, evil implies that it's this, you
know, the, I mean, like the, I don't know if mosquitoes play an important part to the world
ecology or not, but if they didn't, the world would be better if they weren't here. Yeah. But
it might not be, it might not be more or less evil. Like mosquitoes aren't evil. I guess evil
doesn't play in tent. Yeah. Yeah. And evil has this, this heavy connotation behind it. That's just,
you know, I, yeah, let's, let's keep rolling with it. Cause I'm curious, like if, if, if in a
world without hate, it's not that we'd all be lovey-dovey and accepting of everybody and,
you know, there'd still be ways to disagree, but you do so productively. You wouldn't, you wouldn't
hate, you wouldn't disagree with the enemy because they're the hated out group and fuck them. They're
all monsters. Right. Imagine how much further you could get with, with deliberations of the people
if you didn't immediately, uh, disown them and discount them as, as hateful monsters, right?
I mean, I agree with you 100%, which is why I like this article because this article keeps
making the point that, uh, I'm wrong about this, that, uh, I agree with you that hate is awful
and the world would be better without it. And the fact that we treat it like, that we treat hate in
that way, it leads to some serious dysfunction, I think is what it's saying. All right, let's keep
rolling. Okay. Um, so he says, yeah, these days, hate has roughly the same role in popular culture
that original sin had in traditional Christian theology. If you want to slap the worst imaginable
label on an organization, you call it a hate group. Is this correct? Yeah. I think so too.
Totally. Uh, if you want to, um, if you want to push a category of discourse straight into the realm
of utterly unacceptable, you call it hate speech. Check, check. Yeah. Like, I mean, seriously,
generally even people I know who are very much like pro free speech in every single way, they're
like, except hate speech, we need, you know, an exception for that. That should not be legal.
And so he's correct about that anyway. And it works from both sides too. I mean,
it's easy. The easiest way to, if everyone's mind isn't going to politics like mine is,
you know, um, I'm on the right, you know, people are trying to cancel, if you're, if you're on the
right, your perception is that people are trying to cancel Christianity and, and these, these people
just hate your, your, your, your spiritual convictions and your, your right to bear arms or
whatever it is, right? And they hate you for liking those things. They think the same things
about us, that we think about them, right? Yep. He says, if you're speaking public on,
be sure that everyone in the crowd will beam approve. Let you, all you have to do is denounce
hate. And, uh, so I think we are on board that all these things are true. And he asks, what
happens when people decide that some common human emotion is evil and harmful and wrong
and decide that the way to make the world, the way to make a better world is to get rid of it.
Again, I don't think he ever doesn't lump evil, harmful and wrong together when he talks about
it, which is part of what makes this hard to dissect, right? Cause then it's easy for him to
motton Bailey be like, Oh yeah, you know, when I say evil and wrong, um, you know, I don't know
those words mean, you know, like in the context of me hating somebody. Like I kind of get evil,
but like, what does it mean that it's, I mean, I, I get those, but if I just say it's harmful or,
or it's, or even wrong, like any one of those on their own is a different claim.
And so that's, that's sort of my thing.
Well, I mean, could we agree that hate is a common human emotion?
Sure. Yeah.
And I think we've both already agreed that the world would be better off if there was no hate in
it, right?
I think, I mean, like that is probably, that is something I've always held and, and like part
of my, my case for this, other than just my own personal level of how I live my life and how happy
I am, like compared to being a hate filled person. I don't, I, I don't remember a time
where I was really hate filled, like utterly, but I, you know, I know the emotion. I'm not like
some saint. Um, but like that this is the trend that has led the world to be a better place
is that we're, you know, we're, we're less about, uh, as a society rallying behind hate and hating
the enemy and you know, stamping out those horrible wrong religion people crusade style
or those horrible wrong politic people Vietnam style, right? Um, that seems to be just purely
a progressive move. And this seems like the way that we're going, right? And the world's a better
place for it.
Yeah. Yeah. I very deeply agree with you on an emotional level, but I think actually there
are some positive uses for hate, which we can get into later and which, why the world might not be
better off without it.
Those will be the crux of it. I think of the argument here.
I mean, that, that is one major crux for me.
Yeah. But I don't think for me, that's not the major crux because for me, the thing is, um,
even if we were to admit that the world would be better if hate was expunged from the human, uh,
psyche, like what happens when people decided that the way to make the world better is to get rid
of hate, uh, is the problem because you can't expunge it from the human psyche in the non-trans
human future. And so we have the problem of what are the effects of trying to expunge it in a
human animal?
So that seems like a different argument entirely because I'm not saying that the way to, to
towards this better future is to start expunging hate theoretically by expunging people who are
filled with hate. That sounds terrible.
Oh, I don't think that's how you do it.
So how do you do it?
Well, you do it the same way Victorians got rid of sex.
Well, all right. I was thinking more like you aspire yourself.
The same way Victorians aspired about sex.
But they also, they also, uh, aspired to make everyone else hate sex.
Yes.
Okay.
Just like we want to make everyone else not be hateful.
Okay. I've got my, I've got my ace in the hole, but I'm going to hold on to it until it comes
out. There'll be a better time to whip this out.
But all right.
Okay. Well, I mean, so, so that is, that what is what really got me is that like,
even if you do hate hate, well, even if you do disapprove of hate and then want it to be gone,
the, um, acting on that belief is, uh, net harmful.
And he says, he says, you know, we've made this, we've done this experiment many times
through human history, most recently during the, the whole Victorian, um, sex, not sex
craze, anti-sex craze, I guess you would call it.
He says, during its heyday, people in Britain and America loudly proclaimed exactly the
same attitudes towards sex that their great grandchildren now display towards hate.
If you wanted to define something as utterly beyond the pale.
