He killed the guy. No one's gonna. Right. The guy's dead now. Yeah. Anyone, anyone who dies,
that's an idiot. Or a conspiracy theorist or whatever. Or who's that congresswoman who
everyone's giving shit for? Because she's literally the worst. Don't remember her name.
But I know who you were talking about. And she represents Colorado.
Wait, isn't, well, one of the, one of these nut jobs does. Son of a bitch. Hold on. Let me,
let me double check. I got to make sure it's not the same person. I thought it was Wyoming.
Well, in any case, there's, there's one in Colorado. Okay. Who, she was one who was tweeting
Nancy Pelosi's location during the insurrection. Oh Jesus. Okay. She might not be the one that's
saying Jewish space lasers are turning the frogs gay or whatever it is they're worried about.
But that one, I think she did have some of her like board seats or something stripped from her
because that's insane. Anyway, why don't I bring that. Oh, because you'd have to be that level
of crazy to say that George Floyd didn't die, but she is the level of crazy, you know. Oh yeah,
those, those kids in that mass shooting were actors or whatever. Nobody really died in that.
Yeah. God damn. So what was I saying? Oh yes, that's a scissor statement, I guess. Okay.
I hear. So how did scissor statements come up again?
Oh, because I was just thinking that like we, we have a lot of outrage porn. We have the tax
toxoplasma of rage nowadays. We have scissor statements really popular. Like these are things
that drive media that drive clicks. This is how people make money. And maybe if we didn't have
all this suppressed hate in us, we wouldn't be so easily exploited by hate mongers, basically.
If, if we were more in touch with our hate, we would like, okay, so I know this is a fictional
example, but the Jedi strike me as a perfect example of an order that was absolutely out of
touch with the hate within them. Yeah. Like they were like, no, we have no hate. Hate is the dark
side. Like you're a human being, man. I mean, I guess they technically might not have been because
this happened in a galaxy far, far away. But we were presented with humans and the fact that
they pretended not to be hate is what led to all the dysfunction within the Jedi order. And why
and their failure to acknowledge anything like that. Yeah. Yeah. And why they ended up being
like these basically mercenaries going around killing people, trying to impose their own order on
the universe. Yeah. All right. So quick digression on Star Wars. There's another separate I like
called brand new sentences. And this was a screencap of a tweet. Star Wars facts, contrary
to popular belief, George Lucas said Jedi are allowed to have sex. You know, quoting George
Lucas, the Jedi Knights aren't celibate. The thing that is forbidden is attachments and possessive
relationships. So you can have sex with someone as long as you want attached to them. The reply
tweet was imagine being a Jedi just finished clapping cheeks, shoddy says I love you before
leaving and you turn around like, may the force be with you because I won't.
So yeah, I, if the Jedi, I can't torch the Jedi analogy too much because we can't generalize
from fictional evidence. But yeah, where would this help us? If you can, if you can help me find
an example in my life where I could be better off acknowledging my hate of stuff, then I'll,
then I'll give you a beige point. I mean, I think it's just a general acknowledgement of who you
are and how your psychology works. It's just not, not being in denial. I don't, I can't think of
anything personally. Well, because that was, we were talking about like hate mongering and stuff
like that and how it's easier to do to people who are, you know, closeted hatists rather than,
than brazen hatists. Well, I'm not sure you're a closeted hatist though. I think you're pretty
open about the few people you hate and that you are generally a very not hateful person.
So, and then I guess I'm also skeptical. I feel like it's harder to rally closeted hate people
than it is to rally openly hate people. Oh, I don't know. I think those closeted hate people
very quickly became openly hate people. Well, that's, and then at that point, it's,
I'm not saying I'm like convinced, but I'm skeptical if you told me that. Oh, I see. Well,
okay. So before that, they, they were rallied in the sort of snooty upper class way where you don't
acknowledge your hate, but you're still banding together against the, the evil people like back
in the day, the British people who just casually oppressed and genocideed the, the, the people,
the natives in the colonies that they conquered and didn't really remark on it at all because it,
it wasn't a thing. It is not spoken of. We will just stay in solidarity. And I think that was the
same kind of thing you would see in the, I guess nowadays they would call them the liberal elite
or whatever where they would just, you know, acknowledge that the people in middle America
are filthy beasts and we're better than them. And we don't really have to acknowledge them
or care about them. And if they happen to, you know, die of math in their trailers,
well, maybe they shouldn't have been such hate filled bigots. And would the situation there
granting the, you know, leaving aside the moment, the point where they're,
anyone's ever thought that string of thoughts before, but something like that, probably sure.
Would they, would, would the world be a better place if they were open about that or would it
be a worse place? So the argument in this article is that it would be a better place.
Yeah. That's what I'm hearing from it too. So then I'm wondering if, if, if I believe that
and I guess like, well, you know what, if I think about it in real time, which I'm great,
I'm sure it's just great listening. My thinking sounds really interesting.
If they, if they wore their, their, their true beliefs on their sleeves,
then you can engage them where they actually are rather than engage them where they pretend
to be so they can mott and bail away from you. Right. And I mean, part of it is I don't think
they're pretending necessarily, they're suppressing, like they don't think or they didn't think that
they had hate, they would have never thought those exact words because they're the loving people.
But we don't hate the sinners. We hate the sin. Exactly. Yeah. All right. And then when it comes
out, oh, you guys actually do hate the sinner, then you can at least engage them where like on the,
on a train closer to reality. Yeah. All right. Like now you, yeah, now you're engaging with
other people that you may hate these other people, but engaging with them as people and not as like
a beastly horrid things that are subhuman because they are hate filled yokels or whatever.
Right on. All right. So my takeaway on the article is that I think it could have been more
persuasively written. I think you made the case better than he did. Whenever I had questions
for stuff, but I enjoyed reading it and I certainly enjoyed talking about it. So yeah,
that was fun. Can I end with a thing that he said? Of course. Okay. He says it's one of the basic
presuppositions of our culture. Again, he's going to be over speaking here and you're going to
disagree with this and I'm not going to disagree with you on it, but that's just warning you.
All granted. Yeah. It's one of the basic presuppositions of our culture that we're supposed
to become perfect and the way to become perfect we're told is to amputate whatever part of ourselves
keeps us from being perfect. The quest for perfection by self mutilation doesn't work.
It's as simple as that. We've given it every possible test down through the centuries and
it's painfully clear that one more variation on the same misguided theme isn't going to change the
verdict. I wonder what it means by perfection. Like, you know, someone who doesn't hate people,
doesn't have sex. He's speaking more generally about perfection by self mutilation. Like,
is the Buddhist who seems to sincerely not have physical attachments to stuff,
are they mutilating a part of themselves because physical attachment to stuff is
super normal? I would argue yes. I think they might be mutilated in the context of the sentence.
They'd be mutilating themselves, but I feel like they might be actually bettering themselves.
Like, I mean, there's a level of, you know, to the extreme where, you know, if...
Are you ever going to see a Buddhist create a rocket and, you know, colonize another planet?
I don't know if we've had enough like hardcore Buddhists working in space technology to help
me think about that, but you're right. Okay. If they don't care about possessions,
why would they bother? Where's the want to go to Mars come from if you don't have wants?
Yeah, yeah. Huh. Yeah. So I guess, I mean, I don't know if that's necessarily tied to, you know,
like I had a car get totaled, I don't know, 10 years ago. I was, I wasn't in the car at the time.
I was hit in the middle of the night and I went out to go to work and like I hit the clicker
on my key thing. I look up down the street and I'm like, I parked there. Where's my, what's
going on here? And then I kind of just shrug and I head back inside and as my parents house and on
the door, there was like, you know, the little business car to the police officer saying,
we tried to wake you your cars with these people. And I know they didn't try to wake anybody
because they're, my parents had dogs that would have woken up, but so he clearly tipped
it up to the patio, delicately set that in the, in the door and ran off. But I called the,
the place and it was a solid yard and they're like, Oh yeah, sorry, Mr. Zero, your car was
hit last night. I was like, Oh, is the person okay? Like, Oh, I have no idea. And I was like,
well, I just put a CD player in literally yesterday. Can I go and get that out? And she's
like, you're taking this really well. And I'm like, well, what am I going to be mad at you
about it? Like you didn't do anything. And she's like, well, you'd be surprised people get mad
at me all the time. You know, the bear bad news, I guess. And so like, I didn't care about my car,
right? I wanted the CD player out of it. And because I was nice, they, what usually what
happens, the appraiser will come out, assess the car and then they get it, right? What this junk
adult me do was they let the appraiser come out, assess it, then let me strip the car bear
of everything I wanted out of it. Oh, nice. Floor mats, steering wheel cover, CD player,
et cetera. So I kept the floor mats, huh? I just I figured I'll take everything that I could lift
out of the car. Okay. But like, I feel like my non attachment to my car there had, you know,
perfect corollary to the story. My car, when it got hit, pinballed into my friend's car,
parked behind me, damaged his bumper. And he was furious. Granted, it was his was a car that
cost 10 times as much as mine. And he was making payments on my car was a cheap piece of crap,
maybe cost 20 times as much as my car. I think it was as a, you know, $30,000 new car, mine cost
14, 1500 bucks from somebody down the street. So he was understandably upset. And yet, all this
is for me was like, well, how am I going to get to work? You know, but I wasn't mad. And I feel
like that was a positive, right? So there's a level of, you know, having detachments from wants.
Maybe there's something, the reason I'm making this point, there was actually no reason when I
started, but I can drive at home and say that there, there might be a place to, you know, have
these, you know, the strong detesting hate filled emotion, but you can have it in a way that is
like in way smaller doses than people often have without eliminating it entirely.
Yeah. He makes the same argument. Yeah. Okay. There's a good medium.
And we're not there. And most people who, you know, you'd know as hate put has,
as hate people aren't, aren't there either. Yeah. Okay. All right. Author guy, we're getting
long better now. Let me find his name. So I'm not just, it was a Michael Michael, John Michael
Greer. John Michael Greer. I'm familiar. I know I've heard the name. I'll have to look into it
later. Okay. All right. Well, cool. Yeah. That was everything. I had fun. It was an interesting
conversation. Yeah. And, you know, if we get some feedback, and if Jace wants to talk about it,
or maybe we said everything he wanted to say, or maybe didn't find that this interesting or something,
we might revisit the topic. But before we go, we've got to think,
man, I'm sorry. Carol, William Acasson? Acasson? There's a, not a tilde, a little umla, no,
not umla was the two dots. What's the comma above a letter called? Oh, that accent mark?
Yeah. Maybe a accent mark? I'm sorry I butchered your name. I'll say it like three different
ways, and I'll probably be wrong each way, but hopefully one of them is close. Carol, William
Acasson, Carol, William Acasson, and Carol, William Acasson. Anyway, however you say your name,
I'm really sorry. You rock. You saved the day today. Yes. By none of us hate you here at the
No, we have immense respect for you, and all of our listeners also are happy that you are here
and donating to us because you have managed to bring this episode to everybody. Yes, you rock,
and I'm really sorry. I'm not a very practiced, like, I don't know, well-traveled reader to the
point where I can say things properly, so. Stephen really hates names, so he's never gotten good at
them. As a proud bigoted American, I only know English, so everything else that's not an obvious
American, I just completely can't get my head around, so that was ingest. You rock. Thank you so
much. You are awesome. Thank you. Thank you, everyone who helps support us. I mean, we do this
because you guys help make it possible. And it's fun. And it's fun. Yeah, that's true. But help
helps. Yes, it does. Saw the budget breakdown for this one. We got the new mic stands. It's,
yeah, you guys, it feels weird saying the same thing every time, so we should just find a good
script and stick to it that has all the sincerity laid out, so I don't have to, like, feel sheepish
about saying everything every time. But if it's a script, there's no, there's no actual, yeah,
no personality, no emotion. This way, we like, have to actually come up with something and...
They pay for the hymn and hove, me trying to say thank you very much for your gracious
support of the show. And anyway, it means a lot. You guys all rock. It really does. Okay,
this has gone on for a while, so we should cut it now. Sounds good. All right. Catch you back
here in a couple of weeks. Bye, everyone.
