It just, it didn't, it wasn't vocally enough trans-inclusive early on enough or something.
Yeah.
I think, I think that even like, you know, before all this had, you know,
before the people started walking, like while they're organizing it,
they've got this, this kickback.
And so they, they had changed their message a bit or rather not, not changed, you know,
like they suddenly decided they're going to include this, but they're like, oh yeah,
that, that is an important point.
But then of course, changing your mind is just, you know, the devil's trick and
really you're still a hate filled bigot.
And like, I mean, it's like, wait, I'm, I'm, I acknowledge that I was doing this incorrectly
and not sufficiently before.
Now I'm doing it more, but you're saying that that proves I'm being wrong here?
Like I don't quite get it.
And the thing is like, I don't even necessarily think, like I, ideally I do think a world
without hate is better, but I think hate, I've lately come to think that hate serves very
useful purposes and that in fact, it may be right to hate on incels that are just these,
when you read some of their, I can't describe it as anything other than evil
rantings, the misogynistic, crazy bile, like I am okay hating that and I think it's good
and right to hate that and people should hate that.
So I can't even say that like it's wrong to hate certain things.
I think hate does serve a useful function sometimes, but the, the suppression and the
being unable to, to, you know, say that hate is an okay emotion that sometimes people feel
and it's justified and right leads to these sorts of dysfunctions that we're seeing.
Same way that the Victorian dysfunctions around sex led to them becoming super fucking obsessed
with sex.
Just not willing to admit it.
And maybe, you know, this guy's obsessed with masturbation and shit.
Yeah.
And maybe the author of this is, you know, is, is tuned into parts of culture that I'm
not because I don't see a lot of people burning a lot of fuel,
are, you know, on hate is bad and okay, right?
Like that might be an implicit message in some things, but I don't see a lot of people,
you know, fighting on that hill.
Like, so maybe they're, maybe they're out there and I'm just missing it, but I don't see
anyone like making that point a lot.
I know I keep saying that, but I guess I'm just, who is he talking to?
Well, he's talking to the people who say that the best way to make a group and
outcast from society is to label them a hate group.
Yeah, for sure.
Or the best way to silence speech forever is to call it hate speech.
And, you know, maybe, maybe that, I guess I can think of examples when I picture.
Because then you can't even like, you can't even talk about what the actual
speech is or whether it's legitimate or what the group is or whether they have
legitimate complaints.
Now the conversation has to be, oh, no, we're not a hate group or oh, no, we're
not a, this is not hate speech.
And here's why.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
I can see that when I'm picturing like different online sections I've been on
where people act that way.
And like, you know, I haven't spent a lot of time ingesting the like incel memos.
I don't, I don't imagine I have the patience for it.
It's like, I, rather than hate the people, I feel more bad for them.
And not like in the condescending pity way, oh, you poor thing.
I'm so much smarter and wiser than you.
That's why I don't, you know, but it's more just like, man, I understand why
you're frustrated.
And this is not the way to feel that way.
Yeah.
And like there, there, this is not the way to resolve those feelings.
Like, and, and frankly, you know, so if you're arguing in favor of hate, the, the
argument stops at like, no, just hate them.
They suck.
Right.
Is that kind of the case?
Or am I, am I straw manning that?
No, I think that, that is kind of the case.
Just hate them except that hate is the thing people feel.
And that's all right sometimes.
So here's an example of, do you want to go?
Well, I was going to say like, we were talking about the Mandalorian, which I
just came across a couple of weeks ago and I finished all of season one.
It's delightful.
I don't know the actress's name.
She's the WW or is it the same thing?
If women's wrestling, whatever.
She plays Angel dust and Deadpool.
Oh, God, that is awesome.
Yeah.
Dude, I really wish they had more like female action stars like that because you
see some of the people like Scar Joe or just people who they look small.
And, and okay, I get they have superpowers and that might make sense.
But I really would like to see more actual built beefy women in those roles because
that looks just seems more realistic to me.
Just having mass makes a big difference in physical confrontations.
What's fun is on the digression there, like it's like Arya Stark versus Brienne of Tarth.
Yes.
Right.
And so if, if Arya tried to fight like Brienne, it would be kind of ridiculous.
But instead she plays to her strengths.
She's small and nimble and uses that as her, as her technique to win.
And it's very successful.
No one expects the eight year old scullery made.
And so, so, and just like, I mean, even her little fencing sword is, I think,
unique in the whole series.
The idea of just, you know, tons of pinpricks to armor rather than
cleaving them in twain like Brienne of Tarth can do.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I mean, there's a difference there.
But also, so I bring up, again, I'm going to call her Angel dust because I can't remember
the actress's name.
And I'm assuming this is semi-common because I've also heard this from other avenues that
in the fighting circuits of the, of parts of the world, there's disagreements on like
trans inclusivity.
And I mainly know this from having heard Joe Rogan complain about it once or twice.
And like, I think the argument is that, look, if you grew up with the bone density
and whatever musculature of a male and then transition at 35 to female,
you'll start dominating in your weight class.
Right.
You went through a male puberty.
And I actually don't know if that's true.
Anecdotally, it's true from Joe Rogan, but I'm not sure if there's what the,
if there's been actual investigations into this that aren't people complaining about it,
I'm not sure.
So I'm agnostic as to whether or not that's true.
But anyway, I think she bought into that.
And so she said some things that were like,
that the hate-filled group would say transphobic, she's evil and wrong,
that, and I don't know what these exact quotes were.
Maybe they were, you know, hateful and evil and wrong, or maybe they were just misguided.
Point is, is if you just missed her, I was like, fuck, hate her.
She sucks.
She would never, she never has an opportunity to get better.
And so what happened instead was apparently she had a nice long talk with Pedro Pascal,
the Mandalorian, and came around.
And like, and I only heard the cliff notes of this, so I'm not sure how much of this is all
accurate, but the moral is that if you throw out the person as a hated enemy who's beyond
redemption, you're never going to breach them.
And like, if you actually want the world to be a better place, that better aligns your goals
short of killing these people, the best way to talk with them.
Sam Harris had that episode with Christian Somebody, it was a few years ago, Neo-Nazi.
And like, the guy acknowledges, yeah, it was terrible.
I'm sure, I forget his whole autobiography of how he came to be that way.
For whatever reasons they were, I'm sure there were good reasons to him at the time to be a
Neo-Nazi. And yet something clicked in him and he had the opportunity to grow. And now he leads
groups in Neo-Nazi reform rather than in putting on hoods and punching Neo-Nazis, which probably
doesn't help them reform. And that's also that's definitely not what convinced him to change his
mind, right? Like, the way to reach people and to make the world a better place. And if even if
you want to mark a group as a hate group, the way to beat them is to teach, show them the way,
right? Like, my ace in the hole here is Fred Rogers, right? I don't think that he secretly hated
people. And I think that if more people acted like him, the world would be an unambiguously
better place. And you know, did Fred Rogers, Carl Sagan, and Bob the painter, Bob Ross, thank you.
I don't think that they had a hate bone in their body, right? I think, and if they did,
they did whatever. But like, yeah, I mean, I don't know them personally well enough to say,
but it's certainly given their public persona. It does not come through in their public persona.
You know, Sagan and some of his attitudes would come off as impatient with some religious nonsense,
but never anything less than engaging and understanding. Like the only time I saw him
be impatient was on like an interview on a radio show where the guy kept interrupting him. He's
like, look, I'm trying to answer what you're saying, but you keep interrupting me. And like,
that's his version of getting pissed, right? And so like,
So how do you feel about people who throw acid on girls' faces for going to school?
Not a fan or shoot them. Right. Like that's so the reason I ask is because this, this came up
just last week to me, IRL, someone, God, I think it was just a few days ago that Canada classified
the Proud Boys as a terrorist organization. And the headline from NPR was Canada classifies
Proud Boys as terrorist organization alongside ISIS and Al Qaeda. And since I know that NPR is,
you know, swinging pretty far left over the past few years, I get the feeling that they were trying
to say, look, these guys are as bad as ISIS and Al Qaeda. And, you know, the person who shared this
did so, you know, praising it and saying, what is taking the US so damn long? And my comment was
maybe the fact that ISIS and Al Qaeda, you know, murder people and try to destroy our civilization,
whereas Proud Boys are just, you know, more of a group of angry, possibly even hate-filled people.
And the conversation went back and forth for a little bit, but, you know, he said Proud Boys
are a hate group and like, yeah, yeah, they're a hate group. I can dig that. They may not be,
as far as I know, however they are, but that doesn't make them a terrorist organization.
Like a terrorist organization, the correct response to them is to send in the troops,
murder them in their sleep if you can, because then our soldiers won't be in danger,
like, end them because they have put reporters in cages and burned them to death. Like, they
rape young girls for going to school and then execute them. This is, this is disgusting and
that is how terrorist organizations should be treated. And if you aren't okay with sending the
troops into the houses of Proud Boys and murdering them in their sleep, probably don't classify them
as a terrorist organization, because there's a world of difference between the two. And I would
have pointed that out, except NPR already did it for me in the headline. How are they not seeing
this? I think that some people would happily chug that bullet of let's go into their houses and
kill them at night. Yeah. So how are those people possibly not hate filled if they're willing to
say that? Yeah, they're definitely right. Okay. Yeah, I mean, or they're, I mean,
you know, it's possible to think that the right thing to do is to sneak into the bedrooms of
everyone in Hamas and kill them or something, right? But not do that with hate in your heart.
I'm just saying it's possible. You said, how is it possible? Okay. Like, it might be like,
look, yeah, this sucks, but it's the best thing we can do, right? You know, if
when Harry wanted to guillotine all the blood purists, it probably wasn't from a place of hate.
It was like, you know, this would make the world a better place. And I'll bite that bullet if I
have to. Then it turns out that biting that bullet was not nearly as tasty as you thought it would
be. But the, so, yeah, I, this is like a definitions argument, right? Like with the
Proud Boys, I don't know if they fall into the group of terrorists or not, because I don't really,
like, I mean, we went back on this when we were talking about the insurrectionists,
like, were they terrorists? Like, in the sense that they politically inspired terror, sure. But
I almost don't give them the street cred of a terrorist, right? Like, I'm more scared of
terrorists than, or if I lived near them, than I am of the insurrectionists that live in my
home state, right? Like, these are, for the most part, a bunch of just, you know, in, you know,
impotent, weak willed and, and that's, that's, that's discharitable. I mean,
but for the most part, they are politically impotent and not scary. You know, who did,
who, I forget who it was, someone called it the
gravy seals, you know, watching these people just huff and puff walking up the stairs. Didn't
two of them die of, like, overexertion? Something like that. Yeah. And so I don't think the actual
causes were ever released, but that, yeah, is what it looks like. And, you know, I think at least
one fell and died climbing that thing. So, you know, they're not, they're not the kind of nimble,
and then again, you know, they're our most terrorists, they're not going to be the nimble
navy seal folks that I have to worry about jumping into my second story window from ground level,
