But wasn't the Victorian era like 1700s?
Yeah. I think he's not using the right term for Victorian era.
And he's not using enough greats, or he's not using enough greats.
Greats?
He's great grandchildren.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But I mean, that, it really did last for quite a while.
Like even in the early 1900s in America, we had like this.
It's still sort of a thing implicitly, you know, like the, that serial creator guy, you know,
campaign, yeah, the whole reason that, you know, my dick is mutilated is because he was,
not the whole reason, and not mutilated, but less than perfectly functional,
is because of giant, it's so, when I learned this, I thought it was some troll.
And it's on the guy's Wikipedia page.
So therefore it's got to be true.
Yeah. The, the same guy behind cornflakes was the same reason that is one of the leading
champions behind circumcision in the Western world.
Because he thought both cornflakes and circumcision would prevent people from masturbating.
How did cornflakes help?
It did not excite the senses.
It was just a bland food subject.
Oh yeah, you know, if my cereal is too sugary, I just, I need to sexually get off.
Right. Well, I mean, when you suppress sex that bad, any sort of maybe, you know,
stimulation might give you a boner.
When you're hyper religious, anything that supersedes the pleasure of prayer is wrong.
Yeah. So pretty much everything.
Exactly.
Prayer sucks so much as a thing meant to be fun.
Yeah.
So that, that, that was an issue.
But yeah, if you wanted to, to make something beyond the pale, you just made, made it, you know,
seem sexual and everyone was supposed to recoil in horror upon hearing that something is immoral.
Is there a good example of people decrying something as, oh, this is obviously sexual nonsense
that like we, we call things hate groups, right?
Where often it may be appropriate, often it may not be.
Are there examples of people not correctly calling something what a sex positive thing?
Like if someone was for something that the Victorians didn't like,
was it decried as a sexual positive, even though I had nothing to do whatsoever with sex?
Oh, I have no idea. I don't know the history that well.
I was trying to think if he brought anything up in the article and I can't quite remember.
I mean, I do know they encouraged circumcision because they thought it would stop people from
masturbating. So.
It slowed them down.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah. So.
I mean, life finds a way, you know, to, to, to get off on one's own when they get, you know,
feel like alone for long enough.
When the pussy is dry.
Wow. Okay. That came out really wrong. I didn't mean, I meant the well of the pussies
out there is tapped. You know what? I'm just going to keep going.
I was thinking more like if you had a foreskin, you don't need to like,
it's, I think it's easier to masturbate without lubrication or something, right?
Yeah. So, but, you know, you'll, you'll find something to do it with if you, if you want to,
like it's, again, it slows you down.
Humans are not unaware of oils.
Right.
Yeah.
He says the Victorians hate was an ordinary emotion that most people had under certain
circumstances, but sexual desire was beyond the pale. It was beastly, horrid, filthy, and so on.
But the problem was that insisting that sexual desire was beastly, horrid, filthy, etc. didn't
make it go away or deprived of its substantial role in motivating human behavior. It just
meant that people got hypocritical about it. They pretended they weren't getting sexually
aroused and acting on their arousal when in fact that's what they were doing.
And he makes the argument that hatred is the same way that no one can admit when they hate
something and they are being motivated by hatred. So they pretend that they aren't
hating a person or a thing or an idea or whatever, and they aren't motivated by that when in fact
they are, and that leads to all sorts of dysfunction.
Okay.
Much like the Victorians had.
It might be time to whip out my Trump card here.
All right.
I'm thinking about the Trump card.
My first, before that, I'm just thinking, I always hate this kind of my reading argument.
You know, like this is, this is the same thing the religion example keeps coming up.
You know, they would say, if you're arguing with a religious, a disingenuous religious
person, they'd say, oh, you're just, you just hate God. That's why you're not religious.
It's like, no, that's really not it.
All right.
And you pretending to know my mind is better than me kind of annoys me.
Yeah.
So that's what he's doing here.
You know, so someone who's actually out there espousing a life of positive emotion and love
over hate, he's saying, oh no, they're really motivated by hate.
Well, no, I mean, I'm sure there are people like that who really are like the, you know,
hippie-dippie Jesus types. And I mean, I've even met some of them.
But there's also a lot of people who I have also met who are like, you know,
love conquers all and love is love and, you know, all about inclusion and everything.
But really, really hate certain people.
Really, not just certain people, but like just entire large swaths of the culture.
Yeah. I know exactly what the kind of thing you're talking about.
Yeah.
And they're even the kind who can espouse truth and love in one sentence.
And then before they finish the breath, you immediately turn on some group that they,
you know, vociferously and passionately hate.
Yeah.
And yeah. So those people, we're not mind-reading, we're just watching them.
Right. Exactly.
Okay.
Like you can tell those people, often they're the people that say, you know,
this person slightly to the right of me on the political axis is a Nazi,
because first of all, it's okay to kill Nazis.
And so anyone who's the right of you that is a Nazi, now you are saying it's okay to
commit violence against them.
But no, no, we're all about love. We just can't tolerate intolerance.
Yeah.
Like you, you know the people I'm talking about.
Oh yeah. No, I absolutely do. I'm just thinking it's always brings to mind the question of like,
I wonder what form their intolerance will or their lack of tolerance will take.
Yeah.
I await a knock at the door.
Right.
Yes.
I think that's a line from the end of faith too.
All this religion talk, put all those books back in my head.
All right. Well, so now that he's not doing mind reading and he's just, you know,
reading what people are saying, all right, I can move past that, we'll keep going.
Okay.
Well, so yeah, like the culture is a pretense, right?
The hypocrisy, the evasion springs up to allow them to vent the unacceptable emotion on some
set of acceptable targets without admitting that they were doing so.
Yeah.
And that's exactly, yeah, that, I mean, I mean, imagine, and this is, the knowing part of this
too is like, and I'll never not, like, it seems like every time we talk about something fun
and engaging like this, I'm reminded of Dan Dennett's quote, there's nothing I just like
more than a bad argument for position I agree with.
Yeah.
And so like, or even like bad representation of an argument that I agree with.
And so like, I'm a big fan of all gender and trans inclusivity.
And I found that in many cultures where they're also big fans of that,
they're some of the most hate filled people I've ever met.
Yeah.
And so like, they apparently care about the same thing I care about.
And then they turn around in the next sentence and say,
we should stomp, we should curb stomp to death, the people who don't agree with us.
And I'm just like, holy shit.
And like, not even, I mean, yes, that too.
But okay, so this has been something that's been mentioned on the discord recently,
that the running joke is like, every group that ever exists needs some sexual minority to beat
up on.
And the current sexual minority that the left wing beats up on is incels.
And, you know, it's sort of a tongue in the cheek.
But on the other hand, yeah, there's a sexual minority, they're people who
either can't get laid or feel like they can't get laid.
And therefore I've stopped trying.
And they are just absolutely hated by the people, you know, a lot of people who consider
themselves liberal and, you know, full of love and anything like you bring up incels.
Like incels are their go to, this is the group we hate and they are the worst group in the world.
Like even worse than Proud Boys generally.
Everybody needs a sexual minority to hate on it.
I didn't think of it that way.
I guess I have, like, I don't know a lot about the incel community.
Like I think that there's the strong version of it and then the weak version.
Like there are people who are just textbook involuntarily sell of it.
Yes, I'd love to have a partner.
I don't have one.
Yeah.
Like that's textbook incelism, right?
I mean, part of the problem with the incel community is a lot of it is super misogynistic.
Well, so that's the definition 2A or 1B, right?
Yeah.
That's the second part is like, it's not merely that they can't get laid,
is that they're crazy pissed and then they've turned that into, oh, it's because women suck
or whatever, right?
Like that part's insane.
But like I, and some people, you know, I guess they find a culture to rally behind
that shares the similar frustration, right?
Right.
And so I guess all that's true.
But I mean, like I've recently managed to give up my hatred of the incels too,
just because I guess I'm committed to trying not to hate things,
which probably means I'm fucking something up really bad in my psyche.
If this guy's right.
Right.
If this guy's right.
But yeah, there's no better a group than if you want to see real hatred from someone
on the left wing than just mention incels and they will, but they won't say, you know.
Or transphobes or whatever, right?
Yeah.
Like I remember, I went to the women's march in 2016.
And even on the ground in throng of thousands of people,
I heard people complaining that it wasn't inclusive enough.
Really?
Because they didn't make it part of their first objective to include women of color
and transgender females and stuff.
Okay.
And it's like, I thought we were all just here, like as a group,
two night against like our dislike of the this misogynistic pig orangutan
that's got elected into the Oval Office.
Like, isn't that enough?
No, we have, we've not even done walking yet.
And we're going to rip, we're going to start eating our own tail about how we're not,
we're not doing it well enough or something.
Yeah.
So I mean, you always got to practice for the oppression Olympics.
They only come once every four years, but the training is nonstop.
That's just the thing that was like, there might be a case you made about that,
but like, isn't it okay that that wasn't the purpose of the women's march?
Yeah.
To like, you know, make it make its first priority being trans-inclusive.
And it was never trans-exclusive as far as I know.
