like a Spider-Man creature. But, all right, I realize that's the, that's a high bar, but
I mean, you could do it with an assist from someone. Yeah.
Yeah. Where was I going with this about, about the Proud Boys and what was the setup?
That hate groups and terrorist groups are kind of indistinguishable in people's heads. And
I don't think they necessarily should be. And maybe that is a symptom of hate is this horrible
thing which must be expunged. Yeah, maybe I can see that. Yeah. And also, like, I think,
I mean, I kind of wanted to get this later to this later, but I think hate does have a place,
it is motivating. Like, you're not likely to go down to, you know, Afghanistan or the places
where ISIS held territory, I think they've all been kicked out of them now, and fight against
them just because, you know, yes, the world would be better off if they weren't in power, but like,
hate will motivate you to go down there and get revenge for the things they've done.
Yeah. As I know, this was off the air, we were talking about this, but when you were saying about
if someone tried to sue you out of absolutely ridiculous grounds. I would fantasize about
violence. Not only would you fantasize violence, but even if you didn't resort to the violence,
the fact that the person I was talking about settled for, you know, a certain amount of money
because they were like, yes, this is a completely ridiculous lawsuit, and if I went all the way
to court, I could win, but we've already spent so much money that it would be cheaper for me just
to settle now than to keep going. Whereas if you are incensed and angry, you will pay extra costs
just to take them to court and make them lose because fuck those fuckers trying to,
trying to sue you for, for literally made up reasons. And that is, I mean, that's basically,
that's vengeance, that's hatred, right? Yeah, I mean, I don't want to equivocate,
like, a strong sense of justice with, with hate and vengeance, but it almost kind of is. Yeah. Maybe,
but that said, this guy actually lost, right? You're the guy you knew that settled. No, no,
he lost. He lost all the costs to settle to get this taken care of, because he didn't want to win.
But he won in monetary terms, because it would have cost him even more to keep fighting. I thought
that if you win, and maybe I'm not a lawyer, if I thought if you won in court, they, the loser
has to pay the costs. As far as I, not the loser, if the claimant makes an, if they make a claim
against you that you win, they have to pay your court costs. Like, as far as I could tell,
that was not going to be the case in this particular thing. Oh, then in that case,
it makes perfect sense. I was under the impression that he just was tired of fighting and didn't,
you know, was, so that's different. If I, if I thought I would lose more money by fighting it,
then I might just settle, right? But if I, if it was just a matter of me being worn out by it,
I feel like I would be right justly indignant enough to never be worn out to fight this, right?
But given the fact that you would lose more money by fighting it and winning,
then you would just by giving up and giving into their demands, would you keep fighting anyway?
Well, that, that, that was where I, that was where my misunderstanding came from. I thought
that he forsook making back his losses just to get this out of his life. Yeah, right. And so,
I mean, I mean, I was putting a lot of stress in your life as they cost as well. Yeah, exactly.
So that depends on like how much money, you know, if the difference was, then you were like,
what if they accidentally slip and fall on a sledgehammer? Yeah, I mean, I was being tongue
in cheek. I'm not a violently impulsed person, but the, you start fantasizing about that shit.
Well, I, I mean, somebody doing something so egregious and terrible out of, so like, I was
talking with a co-workers about this. Some years ago, my grandmother got scammed on the internet,
you know, some pop up, you got a virus call us, give us your credit card number. And they,
they took like 140 bucks from her, maybe 340, like not insignificant sum for her. And like,
that, that again, I'm not an angry or violent person. And yet I remember what I, I am capable
of feeling those things when somebody robs my dear old grandmother out of her, her, her money
that she needs to live, you know, she budgets to go to pay a doctor's copay, right? Like someone
stole fucking money from my grandmother. Are you kidding me? Love to spend an hour with you in a,
you know, in a basement with a baseball bat. Like those, those are the joking thoughts that come.
I don't know if I've beat this person to death. If I've met them, I'd probably tell them maybe
just halfway. I'll tell them that they suck, but they know that they're okay with it. So like,
this is the kind of person where like, but you know, then again, I've got to ask myself like,
what, what is the value of hating this person versus some other way of handling it? In the
abstract, there's no point in hating them because I have no idea who they are and they're unreachable.
You know, they're, they're half the, half a planet away, probably. So like,
I gain nothing by being angry or hateful about it.
Um, you know, and I certainly, you know, don't gain anything to prevent this from happening in
the future by being hateful or angry about it. I mean, maybe you do. Well, I, I didn't in this
case, I just explained to her like, you never click these, no one will ever ask for your information,
no one will ever ask for your password. And another thing to keep in mind, none of your
grandkids will ever call you asking for a wire transfer. So never do that. Um, like, you know,
so it doesn't take hate to motivate that. It's just like some incident that inspired the like,
like, oh yeah, you need, it's funny because like,
And if enough hate filled people went and found and got some sort of revenge,
it might discourage this sort of behavior.
It might. Yeah. I mean, you know, there, there,
I mean, there's, there's a reason hatred evolved.
Yeah. But I mean, uh, there, there's lots of negative things in this that evolve that we
don't want to keep around. So I, I, I think it's one of those things like, do you,
do you want to foster this? And, and that's not necessarily,
do you want to also accept in the transhuman future that a certain amount of people in
second and third world countries will just scam a certain amount of first world people out of
their money because the first world people have a lot more money and sometimes are gullible.
And we won't do anything about it because we no longer have the hatred motivation to stop that.
I mean, are we just willing to accept that cost and have that redistribution of wealth via fraud
in the transhuman future? Yeah. I mean, I feel like that's a pretty contrived example.
Right. Cause we wouldn't have scarcity in the transhuman future.
And we'll just, we'll have better internet security or something, right?
Like, but, but, but, but the point taken, like, you know, is,
is this an emotion we want to take with us to the stars as, as a species, right?
Like, well, yeah. I mean, probably not, but it has useful aspects.
If we came across a spaceship full of baby eating aliens, do we hate them
for what they do? Because they're terrible. Or do we just stop them?
I wouldn't because it's their own species they're eating. I might be disgusted.
Yeah. So I mean, I'm trying to think something in Star Trekian terms or something or whatever,
right? Like if I found out they were eating our babies, I might hate them.
Yeah. I don't know. I guess I, so, so the point of his essay, maybe this is part of my
issue with reading it was I was like, Oh, this is going to be juicy to tear apart.
Then maybe I missed some of the point. He's not arguing that we should all
like take a more laid back position to hate and, or is he that like, this is,
Hey, this is natural. Feel it. It's, it's totally normal. You know, don't, don't,
don't shut this emotion down. It's not that don't shut this emotion down because you shouldn't.
He even says at the very end, I don't want a more hate filled world, but repressing it
is leads to like one of the things he said is that the way people flocked to Trump and just,
you know, we're absolutely devouring everything he did was the same way that Victorians would
get in trains and travel for hours more days to see these crazy flagrant sexual expressions
and just be shocked by them. They're like, I'm so scandalized. This is happening.
And, or as Fox News would sometimes do, like these spring breakers are going wild and showing
all these gyrating hits. It's the same kind of thing. Like people would just flock to
watch the hate and denounce it, but you know, they were getting off on it, getting their,
their outrage porn was expensive and time consuming back then. Now you need to scroll
through Twitter. Yeah. Like, okay, so, I mean, outrage porn might not be nearly as big of a thing
if people did not suppress hate as much like is part of the problem with the culture wars,
the fact that people are trying to suppress their hate. And it's coming out in these culture war
ways where we tear the, the hated out group to shreds, even though we're not willing to say that
because we're trying to suppress all this hate as opposed to acknowledging that it is a thing.
And it's just the thing normal people feel and it doesn't make you bad to hate people or things.
I think most of the, most of the exposure I have to the, this, these kinds of people is from
like one place that I've, I've seen on the internet. So like, it's hard for me to
like know if they're a general example or if they're an edge example. But I think they wore
their hate proudly on their sleeves. And so I don't think that the fact that they, I don't think
their allergy to hate, if they had one was at all part of the problem. You don't think it was part
of the, they, they're constant. Like we are the people who love others and are accepting.
I think that was the side effect. I think the Senate proudly and say we hate all these out groups
and that they would, they would love to have badges that said that. Okay. And, and if they
didn't, I can easily imagine it, right? Like a lot of this, I mean, saying, you know, sending
up proudly and saying you hate the Proud Boys or you hate Al Qaeda, that doesn't lose you any political
capital. No, it gains you, gains you political capital. I guess it depends on which, which
side of the nation you're talking to. If you're talking the either side of the nation in 2001
or 2002 earned you points by saying we hate them, right? Yes. Yeah. So like, not the Proud Boys,
but Al Qaeda. And so like, it's, I mean, I do remember when Osama bin Laden was killed and
almost immediately a lot of people said we shouldn't celebrate his death because any human dying is
a tragedy. But like, if Trump had died in office, people would have been partying. People did party
when Scalia died. And you know, I don't think they were wrong. And I was also on the side of, you
know, hey, let's not, let's not celebrate the death of a human at that time. And now I'm thinking
back, I'm like, was I being a hypocritical son of a bitch? I mean, because I also like, to be fair,
I wasn't hypocritical because when Scalia died or when any right wing person I hate dies, I also
always say, you know, it's always a tragedy when a human dies and we shouldn't celebrate it. So at
least I'm not hypocritical outwardly like some people I saw. But on the other hand, I was kind
of happy on the inside. I remember when you told me that, what's his name? Mitch McConnell fell and
broke his shoulder. Right. And I was like, I hope it hurts. And, you know, then I immediately was
like, well, on the one hand, you know, I don't like this guy. The idea of him, you know, having to,
not getting a good night's sleep because his shoulder hurts, you know, puts a skip in my step.
But that's not a way I want to feel. Right. And so like, you know, again, I like the-
You don't think you might be more psychologically healthy to admit that I hate this person and
that is a natural way to feel? I think it's like, what do I do with that hate? And then maybe we
need to either taboo or define hate carefully. But like, I go back to my example with Angel Dust
and Pedro Pascal. Like, if he hated her, he would never talk to her and brought her to the light
side of the force. And like, that's my main hang up on this. It's like, I can acknowledge that,
yes, it's understandable and human to respond to this person with hate. But then I can also say,
and I should, you know, either allow myself to feel that move past it or even suppress it,
so I can do the right thing. And so like, I don't see that as a contradiction or even a bad thing.
There was, this is going to maybe sound like a slight tangent, but I forget which presidential
election it was, where the first Bush ran, God, who did he run against? Dukakis, maybe?
But I remember in one of the debates, the death penalty was a bigger deal at the time, I guess.
And the Bush asked his opponent, God, I swear, I think it was Dukakis, I don't know,
asked his opponent, would you be for the death penalty for someone who raped your wife?
And like... Man, that's a hard-hitting question. Yeah, that's a brutal question.
Leaving everything else I know about George Bush senior aside, that's kind of a baller
thing to ask during a debate. Yeah. And like, I found that question incredibly hard and I've had for
a long time, because how the hell do you answer that? Like, you're not supposed to be for the death
penalty for anyone. And you're definitely not supposed to say, no, the state shouldn't kill
them because I want to kill them. Yeah, yeah. But on the other hand, like, I mean, I think that was
one of the things that made him lose the election, because you look really weak. Like, either you
go back on your principles or you say, you know, no, I don't lie, I love my wife that much, I don't
think the guy who raped her should be executed. Like, ultimately, this, this, I think that was one
of the side effects of at the time, it hadn't spread to the right yet, but the left was already
feeling this like, we cannot abide any sort of hate. Like, maybe the right answer would have been
like, I would want to kill him, I would hate him, and I would hope he dies. But I don't think that
the state should have the same emotional drives that I as a person do. And like, as it's good
policy to not allow the state to execute people. So even though I would want to kill him, I'm still
not for a law that allows the state to do so. Maybe something like that. I think that's a
perfect answer and one that would have been quote mind and lost to the election. But what is the
right answer, right? But that is a part where, you know, it shows that either you have hatred,
or there's something wrong with you as a human, if you don't, like, how could you not hate someone
like that and want them to die? I mean, you would have to be who my mental picture of Fred Rogers
or any other saint is where it's like, you're somehow your first impulse is, gotta hope we
can help this person. I would think even Fred Rogers would be like, I could see maybe someone
like that saying, no, I hope we can help that person. But I would consider them a damaged human
if they didn't feel I hate this person, and I want them to suffer and die. Yeah, I can see where
you're coming from. And I mean, then it's kind of maybe damage is loaded there. Because, you know,
that might actually be the better way to feel may personally and be decidedly. Like, if humanities
take on on justice was reform rather than retribution, we'd be way better off. And
like the idea of you've done wrong, you need to you need to pay, you deserve what you know,
whatever happens to you in this dark, terrible pit we throw you in because you're a bad person
that that attitude doesn't help anybody doesn't help you doesn't help society doesn't help the
person. And so but maybe if we could acknowledge that and work through it as opposed to trying to
suppress it, Mike. Yeah, I mean, I don't know how much suppression is going on in the legal
system, but I'm not a legal person. So I wonder like, I mean, I guess I'm trying to think of where
where in my life should I have more hate, if any, like that's that's the thing is I, I see
hating people I felt hate, I can feel it like again, I'm not some some alien. But I'm never happy
when I'm feeling hate. And I, I, it's not because I feel guilty about it, like I've, you know,
I'm a Victorian who wanted to masturbate. It's because it's not a good place to be.
Well, I don't, I don't think that you should feel more hate. I don't, I don't think that's a good
thing at all. I just the acknowledging, like, I think what was it that he say? So good to go back
to the article, like he said that in the Victorian era, the privileged classes define themselves
as good. And part of that meant they didn't have sexual desire. And now that, you know,
the lower classes were beastly, horde, filthy and sexual beings. And nowadays, what defines the good
people is that the privileged people claim they don't have hate, and they define the social
inferiors as hate filled bigots. So class bigotry hasn't changed in this case. But like, that,
that's what you hear a lot is, you know, their bigots, they were, they're full of hate, they,
they hate us for our freedoms or whatever. Like, it's, hate is what defines the outgroup,
the bad people, the people that no one should want to be like, right?
Yeah. And, you know, it's, and that impulse just ruins conversation and any chance for
fruitful discourse or, like, personal reform of a person, you know, like, I think you made the
case on the mind killers that, you know, like, people, people disparage JK Rowling as this hate
filled bigot. And yes, while some of the things that she said are probably inaccurate and are
textbook transphobic, I don't see her as coming from a place of hate. And I didn't do a deep dive,
but on the quotes that I've heard, like, it struck me as somebody who is misguided and
