Anyway, the fable of science and politics showcases the reactions of different characters
to an astonishing discovery. Ferris, the last character, embodies the power of innocent curiosity,
which is lightness and an eager reaching forth for evidence. And this was one of the very early
posts. I remember we did cover it. And I think didn't I know we all read different parts from it,
didn't we? I want to go back and look that up. But yes, that was the one where living underground
culture, who has a big culture war over whether the sky is blue or green, and they've never seen
it, which is a pointless thing to care about when you live underground. But that's that's how cold,
that's how, you know, that shit happens, tribal politics happens. Yeah. Yeah. And then the ground
cracks open from this one really far expedition team, and they see the sky. And it's all about
their reactions to seeing what the actual color is. One covers up the hole and says, I can't tell
people this. And one freaks out. And then one's like, Oh, what else is out here? That's supposed
to be the nice, happy one. Yeah, you know, backtracking just a little bit about the religion
thing. I have some sympathy now for people who think like, religion might be necessary for social
cohesion to have like a society that functions. I don't think that's necessarily the case. But
like, I understand their point of view. But I think that's where like, if you care enough about
knowing the truth and saying the truth, you just don't care. You're like, if society can't handle
it, then that which can be destroyed by the truth should be right. Like, it's true. And I love truth
so much that fuck you and you're crazy, you know, this is what is needed for society to function.
But at that point, you know, if that's actually true, the people who stick to truth
opposed to lies are going to die out and the people who are okay with lies for social sake
will prosper. I'd be willing to draw the line somewhere at, you know, that is the
like, like you said, the conclusion of that. I don't I can't think of a truth that might
cause that. But like, if the widespread acceptance of this fact would, you know,
lead to the end of the world or the end of civilization, I think it'd be okay to like,
you know what, let's not turn over that rock until we're ready, right?
I think I mean, there are some rationalists who are religious, which I think is nuts.
But I believe their argument is something akin to these things that were invented were
done for the purpose of keeping civilization from falling apart. And we got to preserve that.
And I disagree with them. But like, because now there's evidence to the contrary.
Yeah. But that is that is the the one sympathetic argument I can think of for a reason.
It's so ingenious. I can't think of that. That's their actual reason.
Well, and also like, then you have to tell your children what you know is a lie. It's like living
in, you saw the Shyamalan movie, The Village? Yeah. Yeah, not a very good movie, but it would be like
living in the village and telling everyone things that you know are lies. Because you think it's
better for them and like, fuck that. I'm trying to think. I mean, I don't know. I've given time
and we wanted to spend the episode on this. I could generate examples, you know, like if
COVID works differently or something. And like, I'm trying to think of a plausible way that this
could work. But like lying to everybody and saying, yes, actually staying home is the only way to
stay safe. When in fact, wearing masks is plenty, but like, you just know that won't work. Then
like, all right, look, everybody, because we had this experiment in 2020, y'all won't wear masks.
So look, if you go outside, there's a 50% chance you'll die. Like if we just told everyone that
for a month, this would have been over, right? No, because people wouldn't have done it. And
then they would have seen that they didn't die. It'd be like dare, where they told all the kids,
drugs will kill you forever. And then some kids did drugs and they didn't die and the whole
program falls apart. All right, so you go full conspiracy with this and start spraying people
who go outside with drones, they get them sick and kill them. And now enough people walk outside
and die. Then you know, then the word catches on. Right. I mean, then you got to murder a lot of
people though. Yeah, you might have been better off just murdering them whether or not there was a
I mean, everyone knows that birds aren't real. They're just waiting to come by and spray you
with these germs. Anyways, if anyone's curious, birds aren't real.com. I discovered that on a
laptop sticker when I was walking by it at the office back when offices were a thing. And I was
like, I did a double take and I was like, what the fuck is this? And I spend a glorious hour
reading this website. Awesome. All right, so he has a cool quote here. If in your heart,
you believe you already know, or if in your heart you do not wish to know, then your questioning
will be purposeless and your skills without direction. Curiosity seeks to annihilate itself.
There is no curiosity that does not want an answer. Which is just a cool quote. But then
the rest of the post goes into, you know, what if you're stuck in a situation where you just aren't
curious about a thing, but you still feel like you have a duty to investigate like what do you do
there? I'm trying to think of an example of something that I really don't care about. So the
first example is I was thinking of came from a post that I read called the things you cannot say,
I think. I think it's like a 2004 internet post from back where things were posted on the internet
in 2004. And it's on the audio podcast. Shoot, it's on the tip of my brain. I'll find it. Anyway,
it's a great thing and it does like audio readings of lots of blog posts, not just from Less Wrong
or Slate Sarcotex, even though that was kind of the idea at first. But the podcast is called
Second Enumerations. And it's not in the story. You got to go find the website and click the
RSS feed to download it. And they stopped updating in 2017. But it did, I think, 16 episodes. And
one of them was on this post called The Things You Cannot Say or What You Can't Say. That's what
it was. And so it's written from the point of view of a very curmudgeony professor at Cambridge
or somewhere. So he gives all these examples of... Think of the things you can't say for
various reasons. They're heretical or they're... And he didn't use the word because it wasn't
popular in 2004, but problematic is the word I would use now. If someone says that's problematic,
then it's like, okay, that's a good lazy reason to... That's basically calling it heresy.
And so think of the problematic statements that you can think of. Those are things that
may or may not actually be true, especially the first things that come to mind. If there was
a violence discrepancy between men and women, or intelligence discrepancy between men and women,
or between races. If there's any discrepancy between races on anything, really.
And so there are some places where you'd be like, yeah, it's racist to say that some people are
taller than others. And so these are the things that... I bring all this up because I don't really
care if there's truth value to those things. So what ought I to do there? I guess just let
other people do the homework and when something comes out, believe it. I suppose. Let's see what
the post has to say, right? Yes, we can do that. The post says one of the things you can try is to
try to take an interest in your investigations, your dutyful investigations, and keep a close
eye out for any sparks of genuine intrigue or even genuine ignorance that you desire to resolve.
And if you can find one of those sparks of something that actually does interest you,
jump on it. Yeah. Like a random tidbit I heard some long time ago was like, tall people on average
make more money. Yeah. But like... Statistically. Statistically, yeah. But I haven't verified
that because I really don't care. I guess because I can't make myself taller, right? So like if there
was... We're like bigger heeled shoes. I go into an interview and I'm suddenly six feet tall and
as long as I'm not sitting down, they don't notice. Yes. And even when you are sitting down,
you can like have pads under your butt or something. You're just like, I just got a really
nice round butt, guys. That's right. Another thing you can do if you can investigate honestly
so that each new point really does have equal potential to shift your belief upwards or downwards,
this may help to keep you interested or even curious about the microprocess of inquiry.
Yeah. I guess for things I just genuinely don't care about, that's fine. As long as I do that for
things I do care about, maybe it was the point, right? It's really hard trying to find an interest
in things that don't really interest you. Yeah. And so like maybe if a surprising result came out,
that would be something that would spark my interest. If a result came out that said
Midwestern white guys born in the late 80s or early 90s have the highest violence,
genetic predisposition of any humans in history, I'd be like, wait, really? I don't feel very
violent. Let me research because now I'm curious. Yeah. And so but then the proper use of the
curiosity would not be to go try and refute it, be to say what's going on here. Yeah. I get the
feeling that like, obviously this isn't the case for most people, but do you get the feeling that
people get less curious as they get older? Yeah. I mean, I think that's almost tautologically true,
right? You get like, you get little kids banging pans together to see what sound it makes. Yeah.
I don't know, dropping things to see how high until they break. The kids are little scientists.
Until they make too much noise and you tell them to shut up and then the spirit of science is
stamped out of them. Well, I mean, I think part of that is as once you've banged enough pots and
dropped enough things, you know what sound they make. So you that's not a thing that sparks curiosity
anymore. You're like, yeah, I know what it's how it's going to sound like. Like just in general,
just general curiosity drives seems to wane as people get older, right?
Maybe. Yeah, that's probably true. Especially I know it's not true of all people. There's some
people are super curious right into old age, but it seems like as a general statistical thing.
Well, like then you kind of extrapolate out the making pan making noises with pans thing,
you know, if you're 75, you've made all the noises and, you know, looked at all the things.
And it's like, yeah, I don't really care to bang these two things together because I'm pretty sure
I know what it sounds like because I've done it 10 times before. And that's true for everything
they encounter and not not just making things and making noise, but maybe that's what scientists
retain their curiosity longer because they run into more and more things that they don't
know the answer to. So they keep wanting to know. Whereas like, you know, if you're an expert wood
carver by the time you're 70, there's not much more for you to learn about woods. You're just not
very curious anymore. Then again, if someone came along and told you like, oh my God, did you know
that, you know, Kamagong is the best thing to build a canoe out of or something. You'd be like,
wait a minute, no way. That was way too heavy. I could see that sparking interest.
Yeah. But maybe it maybe it varies. Like I'm trying to, I'm trying to,
right now I'm spitballing like, is it a bi, is it a biological thing? Where just your
hormones changes, you get older and we are more naturally, you know, inclined through the various
hormonal reasons to be more curious when you're younger. And as your hormone profile changes,
if that curiosity fades away, and if this is something we could fix in the
transhuman future by like, you know, I, I would like to be curious again for a number of years.
Let's amp, you know, alter my home run level so that I'm back to that sort of childlike wonder,
or if this is purely like a, a matter of what you already know and what you are encountering
your daily life, not being interesting anymore. Yeah. I don't know anything about hormones. I'm
guessing it's more the second thing, but I, you know, I'm open to believing whatever someone had
evidence. But like, I think it's more just like, yeah, I've seen a hundred of these, you know,
they're, they're probably like the other hundred I saw. I think it's probably mostly those things,
but that might be part of why, you know, there's such like this association with, you know,
giddiness and, uh, wonderment in general with, with taking a psychedelic drug,
because suddenly all your experiences are novel again. It's like being a child.
And it's like, I didn't know I could hear, I didn't know, I didn't know I could see,
see sounds and taste colors. And I've still never been able to do that. Have you been able to do that?
Not quite, no. But I mean, I get like, I've had visualizations in my head to noises that I'd
never had before. Okay. But it's, I've never seen color or seen, you know, color when sound goes off
or something. But even the two things are still weird enough that like it puts you in this light
curious mode or something, right? Right. So maybe, maybe something kind of like that,
just because that's a new novel thing, unless things are novel when you're a hundred years old.
So yeah, litany of Tarski again is brought up here. If the box contains a diamond, I
desire to believe that the box contains a diamond. If the box does not contain a diamond,
I desire to believe the box does not contain a diamond. Let me not become attached to beliefs I
may not want. That's a good one. Meditate upon the possibility that there is no diamond,
the subsequent advantage that will come to you if you believe that there's no diamond,
the subsequent disadvantage if you believe there is a diamond. There's a great tie-in here to
the New Atheist stuff. This was a good fun argument in one of Sam Harris' books, either The End of
Faith or Letter to a Christian Nation, where people talk about like the community building
aspect of religion. And he's like, you know, that's fine, but you don't need that for, for
community building. And imagine how absurd it would be if you just did it around a blatant lie
because of like the joy it brought to you. Like, oh yeah, every Sunday my family and I get together
in the backyard and dig because we believe, for the sake of our family community, that there's a
diamond in the backyard the size of a refrigerator. And so we get together every weekend and dutifully
dig in the backyard. And it's a great way to bring the family together. And like how insane is that,
right? So I like that there's also had into diamonds because yeah. Diamonds are tight.
It ends, I think this is near the end anyway. Not sure if it's the last sentence. If you can
find within yourself the slightest shred of true uncertainty, then guard it like a
Forrester nursing a campfire. If you can make it blaze up into a flame of curiosity, it will
make you light and eager and give you and give purpose to your questioning and direction to
your skills. I love it. And the opposite of meditating on curiosity is a single thing.
Basically, not quite, not opposites, but a way to not meditate properly on curiosity is a
single thing. Assuming I'm understanding this correctly. I don't think you are.
Okay. Then maybe I'm paraphrasing it poorly. Okay. To me, I'm thinking like, I've got my
rehearsed reason for this. Yeah. I'm no longer curious. Or like, I don't care about the true
explanation because I've got my explanation already. Okay. No, I mean, like that's definitely a
thing. I'm not sure that's what he meant by the word single thing though. All right. Then let's
actually get into it. Okay. Next post is single thing. And if you go way, way, way back in the
show, Eleazar told this story on the episode of the podcast he was on. Oh, really? Yeah. Oh, cool.
I know I'd heard it before, but then I thought I must have heard it before because I've read this
before. He talked about it, I think. Yeah, I definitely remember that, I think. Well, shoot,
we should. I'm saying we should link that. I think it was like episode six, though, and our audio
quality was off and we didn't have the good mics yet. And we're recording in a closet. Yeah. Yeah,
it was episode three or four. It was way early. All right, three or four. Our patrons have saved
us and made the audio quality much better. We will link the old episode if you want to hear
Eleazar speak. But yeah, it's bad quality. This was before we had all the good tech and good
money that you guys have brought to us. So thanks for that. And practice. And practice. Yeah,
that's made a big difference, too. All right, so he summarized it. Eleazar wouldn't go through the
spank machine. He thought it was out of principle to not hurt others. And then he realized it was
just because he didn't want to hurt, he didn't want to be hurt much later. The spank machine in
this case was like handing out Wiffle bats to everybody and like banging each other on the
head, wasn't it? No. It was legit a spank machine? Yeah, it was one of those, you know,
you have to crawl through the legs of all the other kids and they spank you as you go through.
Oh, I thought it was the, I thought it was the bad thing. No, not according to the post. Okay.
Either I'm misremembering what he said or he misremembered the story when he told it to us.
Okay. I'm going to give equal weight to either of those chances. I'm misremembering something.
Yeah. All right. So yeah, the thing was, was like, when he was a kid, he was like, oh, yeah,
I did it out of principle because I didn't like the idea of hurting other kids. And
I thought that was terrible. And then I realized when I was 15, looking, or ish, looking back,
be like, that wasn't why I just didn't want to get hit. It's like, obviously, that was it.
And then there's this moment of realizing, oh, I knew that the whole time. I was lying to myself
to give a noble reason. And that's what it feels like to like the subjective feeling of, oh, so
that's what it's like to shove an unwanted truth into the corner of my mind. Okay. Yeah. Now I'm
going to do this for every unwanted truth in my head, you know, all my corners. Yeah. It's one
thing to say that it's harder to do that. Yeah. And that was what he called when his teens single
think, because as opposed to Orwell's old double think George Orwell's old double thing thing,
