public. Let's push our food holes together. Yeah, right? That's what food holes are for.
But I was thinking more along the lines of like, you know, having a pent up calendar in your
cubicle at work, that, that is just, you know, like pretty girls off the side that you like to
see. There ain't nothing wrong with that, but it, you know, you don't want that at work. It brings a
sexually charged like atmosphere that you just, you don't want that there. It's not a place for
it. It's, it'll be distracting for lots of people. It might even be distracting for yourself. You know,
maybe that's half the point. You can't stand your jobs. You're trying to distract yourself with
pretty girls. But like the, that's the sort of thing where you don't want a pent up calendar
at work and people would have that back in the day. Okay. Yeah. All right. So I see the analogy. So
then what was the, the point you was making it said that, you know, acknowledging it, giving
its place. So where is its place? Hate's place that is. So we've acknowledged that sex's place
isn't in the cubicle at work in any form really. You know, maybe, you know, if I'm having a conversation
with my wife on the phone and being cute or something, that's different, but, you know,
I'm not going to have a salacious photo of somebody, you know, as my desktop wallpaper or whatever,
right? Well, I mean, I think keeping sex and politics out of the workplace is a good thing,
which is part of the, you know, hate is basically the politics part of that, right?
Politics is hate. Yes. Yeah. So that's, that's keeping politics out of the workplace. But,
you know, you can talk sexy shit jokes flirting with your friends. And maybe that would be also
an appropriate time for grousing about how the Jews are taking over the world or
as a joke, obviously not really. But like,
yeah, no, I wasn't not responding because of the joke. I was just trying to think of,
um, like, you know, if you're flirty and sexually free with your friends, I can see that as just
being, you know, more in true with yourself and everyone's happier. If I get together to have
a good hate session with my friends, do any of us have a good day after that? Maybe. I mean,
that's what trolling is, right? Are they happy? I don't know. I don't know, man. I'm not the kind
of person that likes that sort of thing. Just like there's people who don't like, you know,
getting together with friends and being flirty and salacious. That's not their jam.
When I put the question that way to myself, I can absolutely think of examples. I've gotten
together with friends and railed on something or some, some society thing or some group of people
or whatever. And it is a grand old time for an hour to be like, wasn't, don't these people suck?
Oh my God. Yeah. Let me tell you my story. Oh, no way. You hear this. It is a way to pass time
in an engaging way that I didn't come out of feeling worse off, right? So maybe that's what
he's saying is don't pretend that's not hate. I guess so. Yeah. Don't, don't think that you're
above hate, that you're not a hateful being just the way that the Victorians thought they weren't
sexual beings or not hateful because that makes you sound like all of it is hate, but you know.
A person capable of it. Yeah. A person not only capable of it, but sometimes motivated by it.
All right. I acknowledge that and accept it. We might have done this at the top or we might have,
we might have ought to have done this at the top of the episode. Does hate just mean exactly what
we think it means? The harsh negative emotion? I would think of hate as, I know, I know we talked
about this last episode too, but I think of hate as a combination of anger and loathing that makes
you want to see somebody suffer. Okay. So I haven't quite shared the makes people suffer part.
Like if I, if I had those, I mean, so I think it was at my bachelor party where we told him
about Mitch McConnell and we had that, that joking conversation in the hallway. And then
I think he felt bitter when you thought about him suffering, right? And you, I think were even
the one who was like, well, he shouldn't be in pain. Right. And, and so like don't go wrong,
you weren't wrong to say that, but like, I don't know if I'm not sure if that's the,
now I'm like, was I, was I in denial? No, you're fine. That's not what I was thinking. If I was
just thinking like, I imagine like, I've had, I've had conversations with people where it's like,
oh my God, aren't these people the worst? And, you know, whatever group it is, I mean, the,
we all sat and didn't quite make fun of, and I think we were quite charitable to the
insurrectionists and, you know, last month. But like, that was basically us having fun
petting each other on the back for like how dumb and wrong these people are, right? Yeah.
But it wasn't us saying, and I hope, man, you know, like the one who fell and broke his leg,
I don't know if anyone did, I'm so glad that he's going to limp for the rest of his life.
None of us said or thought that, right? Right. Or maybe, maybe some of us thought that, but I,
like, I kind of wish we had Wes on this episode, because he's my example of someone who like
acknowledges and embraces the fact that he hates some things and is okay with it,
and some people and is okay with it. Because I think he's pretty functional.
Yeah, I mean, I, I, and it's just willing to say, yeah, I hate these people and fuck them.
Well, I guess then my question to the hypothetical West is of the world is like,
does that, is that an avenue to making the world a better place? Are you going to reach the people
and, and, or maybe that's just not your job? Maybe you don't care to. But I mean, if you've
ever had a conversation with somebody and brought them around to the, the right side of, of an issue
as you, as you understand it, it's definitely better. Yes. And like, you know, I've, I've, I've
had conversations where I've talked people and I've never, I guess sat down with somebody of
proud boy level hatred or whatever, like that I had to talk with. I've talked to people who, you
know, were what hate filled people would call transphobes, but I would just say we're, we're
ignorant by the sort of thing. And, you know, to the point where they're even like annoyed about,
you know, some of the issues of trans rights activism and stuff. And I would, I would talk
with them. And then at the end, they, they, they're like, I hadn't thought of it that way.
You make a compelling point. And like, that's immensely rewarding. And you don't get there
if you just say, fuck you, I hate you. Well, I think there's a social advantage, a sort of
defensive advantage to being seen as spiky, that if you, you know, try to hurt me, you will be
hurt in return. And that's what hating will get you. Like, people will will say, you know,
that group hates me, I'm not going to go fuck with them. And of course, you would much rather,
like you said, have the conversions and, and, and have everyone be more Netsum working together
positive. But lacking that having some defensive air of, you know, don't fuck with us because
we hate you and we'll hit you if you come over here might be adaptive in situations.
Yeah. And, you know, like you and I will never get a chance to bring Donald Trump to the light
side of the force. So if you and I wanted to, you know, hang out and shoot the shit for an hour
about how much he sucks and how uncomfortable we hope his jumpsuit is when he's in prison,
like, you know, that's, that's more of the, like the appropriate place for hate that the
author's talking about then. And, and while that might not be a productive conversation,
because we're not getting anything done, we're having fun, right? I mean, I guess,
like lots of times, nothing has to be, not everything has to be productive.
Lots of times hate is reserved for people that you fear for some reason, because they've harmed
you or you're afraid they're going to harm you. Like you can hate Trump because he had a lot of
power. You can hate the people that were trying to sue you because they were trying to take things
from you and were, you know, showing a willingness and ability to at least try and impose costs on
you. Like lots of times hate is defensive, right? Isn't that why the, some of the homophobes that,
that really hated the gay people were hateful that way because they themselves were gay and
were trying to fight against it? Yeah. And maybe I'm reaching at this point. Well, no, there's
definitely something to that with the, I mean, it happens too often for it to be a coincidence,
right? I mean, you get a pastor who's just been anti-hate, pro-gay conversion therapy their whole
life and then you catch them doing blow off the, you know, erect penis of a male prostitute and like.
And like generally the people who hate Jews are people who are also scared that they're
taking over the world, right? So hate doesn't sound at all beneficial in those
contexts. Well, no, but in part that's because they're wrong.
So like it might make sense to like correctly hate the invading alien species who's trying
to wipe us out if they were real, right? Or Al-Qaeda. I think it's right to hate them.
They do terrible things. They hurt people. They want us to stop existing and impose
their values on us, which are important to us. I think it's entirely right to, to hate them.
Is it possible to hate like a set of ideas about hating the adherents of it?
Because I mean, there are reformed, there are people who left Al-Qaeda and so I can't believe
it. They were horrible. But all ideas reside inside people's brains. Yeah. I guess if like.
That's a deeper conversation that we would have to spend more time on.
Yeah. All right. So here's, here's my dictionary definitions of hate. Okay.
One of the examples is I hate Mexican food. So like that's not. That's very different.
You're right. We're not talking about that kind of hate. So we've got the verb hate slash to test
dislike intensely, feel antipathy or aversion towards. And then there's the noun,
the emotion of intense dislike, a feeling of dislike so strong that it demands action.
That I like, I like the second one there. Yeah.
Because like intense dislike, you know, that's, that's the verb. I hate onions, right?
Yeah. But that demands action. The action is I won't cook with them or whatever, right? But like.
No, the action is I will destroy all onions in the world. So yeah, it's, I guess, and I am not
going to the dictionary to define reality. I'm just trying to figure out if we're talking about
the same thing. I think we are. All right. So let's, let's, I want to go back to the,
what he was saying that we should do. Oh, you had a thing, quick digression into the,
into, to like the lightning. Oh yeah. Okay. So this is just a little note, but
um, mainly because on the discord, Wes has been pushing pitching to like the lightning
to be our next book club book, which is a great book by Ada Palmer. I did an interview with her
it was, wow, it's great. But one of the things it's set in the
distant ish future several hundred years in the future and society, you know, advanced in a lot
of ways, but they have gone back. They have readopted the idea that sex is not something that
should be really discussed in public to the point that they don't even acknowledge the
biological sex of humans. Everyone has, they, them pronouns, except of course for, for, from
a protagonist. He is first of all insane and also an outcast from society. So he genders
everyone that he runs across, but because he was raised in a society that doesn't have genders,
he's misgendering them constantly and doesn't know it. It's really cool. But anyways, in too
like the lightning, they have suppressed all their sex deeply, much like the Victorians did.
Do they like not acknowledge that's where people come from?
No, no, no. I mean, they acknowledge some realities of it. But that ends up being one of the
conflict points in the books is that when they run into someone who has acknowledged the fact
that sex is a human drive and that people are driven by it and no one is willing to admit this,
so she exploits the hell out of it to redirect powerful people to do things she wants to do
because she knows they're motivated by this thing and no one else is willing to acknowledge it.
And she, she knows a, you know, secret engine working within them that they can't acknowledge.
And so she has some way to change their actions that it's, it's, it's a really cool way to,
you know, show how denying reality and denying that we have certain drives can give other people
power. And I think, you know, that was part of Trump's thing. Like he knew people were motivated
by hate and he exploited the fuck out of that. Do you remember the, on both sides, the enormous
concern of the, the, the caravans marching towards the border of immigrants right up until
November of 2018 and then they vanished? Like this, this was, this was parroted nonstop. I do remember
that. This enormous concern. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh my god, they're coming. They're gonna, they're
gonna do whatever it is they do when they get here. Would everyone run in vote? November of 2018.
They stopped talking about it because they were never real. And the election was over. Oh, and
the election was over. Okay, okay. So this was all there for election fuel. And then the second
that the election was over, these, these caravans mysteriously vanished and were, were to never be
talked about again. It's like, it reminds me kind of like that, right? Oh yeah. And it's,
it's almost not a good analogy because they were allowed to openly acknowledge the hate.
But if this was 15 years ago, they might have been more closeted about the hate aspect of it
and just talked about the security and the, the American way or whatever, right? Yeah. But yeah,
I think the fact that we spent a lot of time not really talking about hate was, was a thing that
Trump was able to use. He's like, he knew everyone has some hate in them and that it motivates them.
And he used the fuck out of that and really got the left to go fucking nuts when he managed to,
you know, overcharge and explode their hate engines. And we've been seeing the effects of
that for a while. He was just like, I know you got that engine in you, let me keep pouring more
nitro in there. So like, should Biden be focusing more on a message of hate and, and like getting
people amped up to be angry and, and make that, you know, use that emotion to, to charge action?
No, not at all. But the fact that we were hiding it for so long meant that we had a secret lever
inside us that we was, someone was able to exploit. And so what's the, so the solution to that is to
just be open about the fact that you hate people and that weapon can't secretly be used against
you. Right. But then it can just be, you know, like it was in 2018, just affirmally used against
you. I think that would be better than the secret use against because you, you end up having much
worse, I don't want to use the word perversions, but much worse perversions and exploitations
when people can't acknowledge that this is a thing within them that is being exploited.
I, I can see that. Yeah. And certainly, I mean, there's, there's also just something
disingenuous, you know, arguing with somebody who pretends like their motivation isn't what it really
is. And I don't like, again, to play the mind reading games, but sometimes you don't have to
pretend, right? Like they're, or you're not reading minds, you're just reading what they're saying.
And so you say it's not hate, but you use the word would love if they died a lot. Can you,
can you explain that? Like, I think a lot of the fact that we have things like scissor statements
in the modern world and we have so much scissor statements. Oh, you don't remember that you
didn't read the scissor statements story? No. Oh, okay, great. It's a, it's a, you're going to love
the story, but it's basically a statement that is obviously true to anyone who sees the statement
sad. But depending on who you are, it is either obviously true one way or obviously true the
exact opposite way. And when you discover that someone exists who thinks it's obviously true
the exact opposite way, you want to destroy them forever because how could they be so wrong?
You know, is there a good example? Yes, many. I'm afraid to say any of them because just don't
say which side you come down on and you should be safe. Or if we want, we can save it for later.
I'm just, well, okay, so I don't sweat it. I've heard this one personally.
The cops involved in the George Floyd killing didn't necessarily do anything wrong.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So some people, wait,
some people would say that is obviously false and everyone knows that.
So the, the, the scissor statement is that's an obviously incorrect or correct statement
depending on how you say it to. Right, right. Gotcha. I think the, the, the, the sharper
scissor there for me would be like they, they didn't murder George Floyd. Right, right.
They were justified in some way. Well, like the, and don't get wrong, I, I'm not,
I'm not defending this argument, but this is one I've heard. Like they, because let's assume that
they're not complete fucking idiots. They're just, you know, regular people. They're being filmed.
And they knew they're being filmed. They were not about to just, you know, murder someone on film.
Right. They, the, the, the guy leaning on him probably just thought he was restraining him,
not that he was choking him out to death. That's my guess. I don't, I don't think that
it's entirely possible. He was brazen enough to say, watch me murder this fool.
And he was just, he was really that, that bad and dumb. I think it's more that he was just that
dumb and, and everything else around the situation was as pigheaded and fucked up as possible.
And it led to the death of this guy. It's, so like, like I said, I'm not necessarily
taking the, a side on that, but I can see how someone could, you know, some non-stupid person
could say, he didn't, you know, when you use the word murder, you know, you picture what we were
talking about sneaking in and doing to Al Qaeda people. Right. Like that, that's different.
