doesn't understand the situation. And so the correct response isn't to say that isn't a lie
and say that she's full of hate and that this is her real motivation. No, she's just wrong.
And there's a huge difference. You know, it,
Well, and the trump card was, you know, this is something that a hate filled bigot would say.
And maybe if that wasn't, you know, automatically saying, Oh, someone is hate filled, they're
automatically wrong and to be shunned, then you can say things that are just misguided that other
hate filled people say. And that doesn't automatically mean you have lost that you are also a social
pariah, because someone who did say something with hate said the same kind of thing.
That should definitely just be that people should just get that, right? Well, yeah,
they don't. Yeah, because that's the whole thing. It sounds like something someone with hate has
said. And therefore, it is evil. And you are evil for even entertaining a similar notion.
And those, those people are mistaken. Yeah. But I hear what you're saying, but it's, it's like
that the level of conversation should be beyond that. And so that, and that's where I can see
where this guy's coming from with like, if you just label everything that you hear,
again, so everyone who, again, Angel Dust, I'm not sure what she said. And I should just look
up her name and I'm not going to because I'm on the air and it's more fun calling her Angel Dust.
Like, you know, maybe she said the most transphobic thing someone can say while not being a hate
filled person. Maybe she even was filled with hate and it came around. But the point is, is like,
you should, you shouldn't hear that and be like, oh, she said she made the same
sounds as a hate filled person. Therefore, she must be full of hate because she could just be
stupid. And by stupid, I mean uneducated on the subject, right? And so like, then the solution
isn't to dismiss her as this hate filled monger. It's just like, oh, are you, you know, do you
know that this is actually the case here? And then be like, no, I didn't. Oh, thanks. I'm now, I've
now updated. Like, that's how these things go. And that's how they can go. So yeah,
so I kind of want to bring this back around to the people you said, you know, who wear their hate
on their sleeve, even though they're like, you know, liberal, whatever types, but just absolutely
full of hate. He this ties back to like near the end of the article, he said that Victorian sexual
repressiveness eventually gave rise to the sexual revolution, which so long to the opposite extreme
with an equal lack of balance, which first of all, I want to say I was kind of a big fan of the sexual
revolution. I really idealized the freed love hippie stuff. And like, I'm a slut at heart,
not in practice, sadly, because I guess my dick is just not okay having sex with people. I don't
know. But I wish it was because that is my psychology. Damn it. But given his disparaging
of the sexual revolution, let's put that to one side and not argue with how wrong he is on that.
Before we set it aside, might that indicate that he might be off base here?
It's actually not central to the point he's making.
Yeah, I don't know. Like, maybe I'm wrong about how awesome it is for everyone to be super slutty.
I haven't really looked into it. I think it's great. But like I said, I haven't actually
looked into it. That's just my feeling. I'm not sure what societal harms could come from people
having sex with over they want to have sex with, assuming they also want to have sex with them.
Well, I mean, nowadays, probably not very much, but maybe still some psychologically back before
we had birth control and contraceptives and ways to fight STDs would have been much worse.
But yeah, nowadays, probably not nearly as much. But you know, there's can be arguments made for
less meaningful life or harder to form long term relationships. I don't know, man. Like I said,
I don't get it. All right, we'll move past that. In the same way today's attempt to repress hate
could quite easily give rise to a revolution of hate in which people wallow in hatred the way
the libertines of the 60s and 70s wallowed in sex. Like sex, like wallowing in sex sounds bad.
So pretending that it does and, you know, his bad analogy aside.
I mean, I think, as you were saying, we're already there.
Yeah, we're on the way there.
And they see it as like a virtue. If they're not felt with hate all the time, they're not,
they're not fighting the man well enough. They're not fighting the patriarchy and
the oppressors and all that. Right. If you're not mad, you're not paying
enough attention. You're a bad person for not looking at the stuff that makes you mad.
And if you look at it and you're not made mad, then you must agree with it and you're a bad person.
Yeah. Like anyone who could say...
I think we're already in the revolution of hate that he was worried about four years ago.
100%. And it's interesting because, you know, this has been the longest four years of,
I bet anyone we know knows life, right? I can't believe it's been four years. I, you know, I remember
November 8th or 9th, 2016, like it was yesterday. And it, like every day you think, well, you know,
this will be over soon. And then it just dragged on for 50,000 years.
And kept getting worse.
Yeah. And so, like, no doubt that this will have been and demonstrated itself to be.
There was enough time for all of this, during all of this, to have all these huge cultural shifts.
And so, I mean, you know, before, I can't imagine even being introduced to people who would say,
I want to dance on their grave, right? And certainly, depending on whose grave it is,
you're like, that's your version of disagreeing with somebody. Like, okay, you don't like the
blog posts they wrote, but holy shit.
Yeah. Like it's not even someone who's murdered people and raped people and stuff.
It's just someone who wrote a blog post that you disagreed with.
And so, like, I could, I could imagine breaking bread five years ago with somebody who would
say, I would, you know, love to dance on, at that time, it would have been, you know, whatever,
who was the vice, you know, Dick Cheney's grave or something, right?
Where I get the feeling that Bush is kind of just more, I mean, no, no doubt they're
sinisterness and stuff. He definitely succeeded at his error of like, I don't know what the
fuck I'm doing. And so, it makes him like, seem less culpable.
Right. Like the doofus that was taken advantage of.
Right. But Cheney has none of that, right?
Right.
And so, like, I could imagine breaking bread with somebody in 2008,
who had said, I can't wait to dance on Cheney's grave.
I can't imagine someone saying that, what else was I doing in 2008?
Who would say that about, you know, whether it was Richard Dawkins or Dinesh D'Souza, right?
Those are just, you know, Dinesh turned out obviously to be the worst person.
Did he?
Yeah, he's a felon of fraudster and stuff.
I think he got a pardon.
I'll double check. I wouldn't be surprised.
A Trump pardon?
Probably.
Don't quote me on that, I'll have to look it up.
But I feel like I saw his name when I was reading through the list.
I just, just for my Daily Dose of Outrage porn on Inauguration Day,
I skimmed through the list of 100 pardons that 100 and something pardons Trump gave.
And it's amazing how we were...
You were acknowledging your hate kink?
I get, well, I was also just kind of curious what the damage would be.
Indulging the hate kink, I guess.
It may be a bit, but I was also, like I said, large part of it was just legit curiosity.
And like I'm wondering, because I wanted to see, you know,
is Ivanka's name going to be on here?
Is he going to pardon himself?
And I'm sure that would have been the top of the article, you know, Trump pardons himself.
But I was just curious, you know, did he pardon Giuliani?
No. So a lot of it was curiosity there.
He didn't even pay him.
He didn't even pay him.
But I mean, like he pardoned people that, you know, so the rumor, I don't know what you call it,
I guess not substantial enough to bring him to court yet about it, but
he was alleged to have been soliciting money for pardons at two million pop,
which would explain how like, you know, the guy that did millions of dollars worth of insurance
fraud and on giving people medicine they didn't need, which caused deaths and blindness and
fucked a lot of lives up, that guy got a pardon.
Like why on, you know, it's one thing to pardon Snowden, you know, whether or not you agree with
him, you know, but like that, that you could get, like that's the kind of pardon I imagine
existing that if there's any excuse for the pardon power to be a thing, it would be for cases like
that. Like, oh yeah, well this, this whistleblower or fucking, you know, Martin Luther King Jr.
broke the law by, you know, not getting a permit for this rally, but I'm giving him a pardon because
he did the right thing. Like that, that sounds like a good use of the pardon power to pardon
a guy who didn't do any good for society and just harm people. That blows my fucking mind.
And so why did I bring all that up? We were talking about about the, the hate revolution.
Yeah, something about that. I don't know how this came up. I'm clearly sucked up in the hate.
I, I bet her realisms to it. I could, I could get there, but I'm not a good way to do that
while recording. So what were you gonna say? Sorry.
Oh, I was just gonna say one, just one of the reasons I love Scott Alexander and what is used
to be SSC, but is now Astral Code X10 is that like he never, ever gets swept away in that. And I
don't know if he just like doesn't hate things or if he has a really healthy support system of people
that he can like hate next to, and they can all have hate parties together or whatever it is they
do or I don't know, but he, he never, ever does that. He's always reasonable and, and measured and
calm. And there's, there's never like a seething loathing that, that gets through like just a
vilifying of the outgroup in his public writings. I get, I get the impression that he doesn't feel
a lot of vilification of the hated outgroup in his life, but that could just because he does have to
do a convincing job of it in his writing, you know, it could just be that he has decided,
or he decided early on, like I'm not going to let that be part of my writing.
Maybe he's just that good of a person. It could be. But at the very least he, when he has the time
to carefully lay out his thoughts, he leaves that aside, right? Yeah. But it doesn't even,
it doesn't even sneak in the way you would imagine that if it was, you know, if it was there,
and you know, it doesn't even sneak in like if he was trying to hide it. Yeah. But the, you know,
again, what we're talking about people, you know, are we in the middle of a hate revolution?
Probably. I don't know that people have been suppressing it for so long that it's just
bursting out now. I wonder if it's suppression or if it's just like my impressions that these
people feel like they've just, they've, they've had enough, you know, and maybe they saw we're
being nice, got them, it got them four years of Trump. And so like, I mean, four years of Trump
was a backlash against their constant bigotry and hating on like what you said about, they didn't hate
hard enough. Well, no, I mean, what you said about the people on, in the, you know, on the right
that they hate our, our Christian values, they hate that we love our guns and our Jesus and all
that, I think that's entirely true. I think all the people did hate that they just pretended not
to. They would, you know, call them the flyover states and, and make fun of gun ownership.
They would call them a basket of deplorables, I guess they would pretend that they were full
of love and everything, but they hated them and you could tell and they could tell and I think
that's why that's one of the reasons Trump got elected. And that is when things kind of started
falling apart and people stopped suppressing the hate so much and we got into the new hate revolution.
Yeah, I'd be curious to read if this guy wrote a follow up four years later,
just to now analyzing what we've seen since, because like we, I don't see people suppressing
their hate, I see people, if you're not hating, you're not, you're not caring enough.
I see some people still trying.
And again, I'm not out there very much. So what I see is very limited.
I think that's, yeah, I don't know, maybe that's part of what has driven me away from the left,
is that I'm still pretending I don't hate things and they aren't anymore and we couldn't
abide each other. Well, but then I mean, would you be a better person if you were screaming right
alongside them? No. So that's, that's where I get tied up with this is like, but I mean, I've never,
I've also, I don't know. That's why I feel like maybe this article almost hit the point pretty
well, but I feel like it set itself up too high to try and equate these two and like the sex
revolution or the sex positivity and hate positivity. Like, so that's where I was like,
oh, I ripped it a new one. Because the points that I think it was trying to make it could have made
more clearly. And like the whole thing about just, I don't know. So I guess what would my takeaway
be then? All right, so I'm convinced, you know, if you wrote the article 300 years ago,
I'd be like, okay, you're right. My whole obsession with sex is ridiculous. People
should just be allowed to do whatever they want. I feel, I feel, you know, I've come around.
That's the update I made from this. What update am I supposed to take away from this?
I mean, it can't, it certainly can't be analogous to how I should feel about sex
if I'd come around 300 years ago, right? The, the, what he says at the end is that
there's actions that deserve to be condemned and individuals and ideas for whom the
hot fury of flame or hate is appropriate. And then he says hate is like sex. There are certain
times places in context where it's appropriate. There are many, many others where it's not.
You can recognize its place in life without having to act it out on every occasion. And in fact,
the more conscious you are of its place in life, the more completely you acknowledge it and give
it its due, the less likely you are to get blindsided by it. That's true of sex and it's true of
hate. And maybe- How was that true of sex? Like other than people not having sex with each other
in front of, in front of me in line at the bank. Yeah. Like what, what is he talking about?
The weakness of analogy is, is tripping me up. Well, I think, no, I think he's right. There's a
lot of times places in context where sex is not appropriate, like in the workplace. Sure. Even
just like flirting is probably a bad idea in the workplace. I mean, I mean, is, was anybody even
in the midst while they were wallowing in the horrors of the sexual revolution in the 1960s
and 70s was anyone saying we should be allowed to have sex at work? I mean, there was a lot of
sexual, I guess you would call it harassment now, but they're like,
it wasn't viewed as harassment then. And a lot of times, sometimes it wasn't even,
like it was considered okay to be sexual and flirty at work, depending on your workplace.
Okay. Yeah. I guess I'm picturing sex as like literally just sex. Okay. And so like, but, but
yeah, the, the foreplay, the, the, the enticement, all that stuff. Okay. Yeah. The, the stoking,
the flames, whatever. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I have no issue with people flirting with them,
flirting with each other in front of the line or in front of me in line at the, at
fucking Chipotle, right? Yeah. I mean, I don't either. Yeah. And it, it would be weirdly prudish
of me to, I mean, so maybe it is weirdly prudish of me. I don't like watching people make out.
Like if I am standing behind them in line at Chipotle and kind of stood in the line at a
place in the wild, but back in the day, um, people are making out and I can, you know, and it's like,
you know, I, I'm not, maybe I'm old, maybe I'm prudent. It's like, you know,
I, I, I just don't think I like watching. And when I'm trying to look at the menu and they're
right here and I'm pointing like just my line of sight, they're like, I can't miss it. And it's
like, I don't want to, I don't want to watch you guys make out. See, I don't mind them making
out so much. I always think that's, it's kind of sweet to have those expressions of love in
