So it really makes the Eagles mascot ashamed
because we've got gritty for the Flyers
and we've got the Philly Fanatic for the Phillies, which
are both great mascots.
And then the Eagles just have this dumb Eagle guy
and he's terrible.
Isn't it just a dude with an Eagle head?
Yeah, it's just like a football player with an Eagle head.
They got up 13, man.
Yeah, I know.
I really, I really want to help you.
Is that more or less on par?
Yeah.
All right, low functioning sociopaths left and right.
Yeah, he's so sad.
I only got through like most of season two, I think,
before they took it off Netflix.
It's on Hulu.
I know, but I'm not dating anyone who's got Hulu right now.
I can give you some Hulu.
All right, I'm dating Steve.
It's on BitTorrent.
Yeah, yeah, that's true.
Don't be a lumpy-mush.
Just probably commit to stealing it.
Man, I feel so bad about parting things.
Like, I use QB, which is a friend of ours, a Plex server.
And I don't know.
I don't feel as bad about that because that's
more like sharing a book between friends.
There's only like a dozen of us on there, right?
It's like he stole all the books.
Damn it, you're right.
I just befriended a thief.
Somebody just posted a gift of pretty, like, spinning around
and staring with its cold dead eyes,
and I just can't stop looking at it.
Nice.
Oh, there's no way to.
And see, I don't know why Slack and Discord both exist.
In Slack, you can minimize gifts that they already have.
Well, this one's going to just scroll off in a second here.
Torrenting is not sharing with the world.
So you have a brand new kid, which is like, what, three months now?
She is one month.
One month.
OK, time is real.
And yeah, she just came home.
She's looking at home for a week.
OK.
And you are going to be doing the whole unschooling thing.
Hopefully.
Awesome.
That's the plan for right now.
I'm a divorce attorney.
I work from home.
So the plan is just I'm going to be like the stay-at-home dad.
So hopefully that'll work out.
We won't need the free daycare aspect of school.
And if that's the case, my plan is
to leave it up to her whether she wants to go.
Yeah, that's reasonable.
I have a co-worker who does something.
They don't do unschooling, but they
have their daughter enrolled in some sort of program
where the kid picks whatever they want to learn.
Is it a free school?
I don't know.
I would think it would have to be because they, up until like five
months ago, were desperately poor.
Oh, no.
I don't mean like a free of God.
There's a certain kind of.
Who do I have to pick out of here?
David, that's your last gift.
You have been warned.
Oh, it's a dog.
Thank you, Ovaldiven.
You're saving us from the worst of the two orange monsters.
Oh, God.
Oh, man, whose pills is it?
A dog.
Whose pictures are your dog?
Yeah, everyone posts spam spam some pictures.
Anyway, so yeah, I'm not sure how that works.
The kids five, so they don't want to learn much yet.
But I'm wondering what that looked like in five or six years
where I see.
I don't think that's true.
I think five year olds want to learn the most.
Let me rephrase.
I don't know how they're going to get a like.
I'm assuming they have to have some sort of disciplined like
core education, but I haven't talked to them much about it.
Yeah, so if you want to homeschool,
there's a certain curriculum you have to cover,
but you could cover it in like two weeks.
It's not rigorous.
Once you're able to read and write, that's like the problem.
Yeah, and like the important things for a kid to know
are reading, writing, and doing math.
But there's so many ways to learn those.
I just want the most interesting thing.
I read them just a few days ago, I think.
The most interesting, not really studies,
pseudo randomized observational study, I guess,
of people who were delayed one year going to school.
And overall, the people who started school one year later
did better in life than those who started earlier.
They not only had better overall GPA when they graduated
and better life outcomes, they even had less jail time.
Was it you that I was talking to about this or what we hear
about this?
Because this was when the schools closed,
when they like when people were forcibly withdrawn
because they were resisting segregation, right?
Was that a desegregation?
I don't remember the details.
Yeah, so that I just remembered,
someone would be able to point me to where I just heard
about this, where, let's see, I guess in the 60s
when they desegregated schools, there were families
who had forced their kids not to go to school for a year
in protest, or maybe even schools who shut down.
And those people got the, sorry, distracted by the chat.
I love, hold on.
Oh my God.
This guy, Nathan Pyle, does these comics,
Little Aliens, and they're all my favorite.
Yeah, the chat is trying to destroy our live episode,
distracting us with gifts and dogs.
Yeah, oh, it's definitely working.
I think it was something along the lines of children
just are naturally, like play is how hunter-gatherers
evolved to learn the initial skills they need.
And with that being suppressed and forced into
more rigid learning stuff early in life,
it damages, I guess.
Yeah, school is like anti-play.
Yeah.
Like I hated school, and I loved learning.
I never hated school, but for me, the school was the play.
Like when I was, when I was in Chicago,
there was apparently a gifted talent program
that my mom got me into in, I was in kindergarten at the time,
but they had us doing like these,
we had one digit math problems, like eight plus four, right?
It was a 10 by 10 grid of them,
and we had five minutes to do all 100.
And I rarely got all 100 done, but when I did,
it was amazing.
And I just, it was, it was a game,
like learning was my player, right?
And like seeing how good I could do on those.
And then when I did get all 100 done,
how many of them I got right?
It was, so I think I was unique in that my games
was trying to seek the approval of my adults,
and the way I did that was by brainy stuff, you know?
Yeah, well, there's some good,
there's some good programs out there
that let kids learn at their own pace.
Like I did that when I was in third grade,
they had us do math to just gave us books.
And when you would finish one book,
you would start the other one.
And, you know, the kids all competed
to see who could finish them faster.
Yeah, you would start out with math,
or you started with addition,
and then when you finished addition,
they give you some traction book,
you finish that, you go to multiplication,
division, and then fractions.
And it was like, it was fun to see, you know,
how fast you could get through it.
But that was pretty aberrant in my education experience.
Most of it was like, here, learn this,
or just sit there and shut up and don't do anything.
Lorak asks, was the other hypothesis
that the older kids were favored
above their less developed peers?
And I don't think, I mean,
I believe that was taken into consideration,
but this is like after 20 years sort of thing
where everyone's gotten through high school already
and what the overall life outcomes were,
as opposed to just, you know,
is this kid one year more developed
than the other kid in the same grade?
It was like rates of being put in prison.
Yeah, anecdotally, I'm, my birthday's in September,
so I was, you know, almost a year old living
with many of my peers,
and I didn't do any better than any of them,
but that doesn't obviously count for anything.
Yeah, no, I don't, and I don't favor on schooling.
I'm also born a month later.
Because, I don't know, I'm kidding.
But yeah, I don't favor on schooling
