What are you hearing?
I'm hearing nothing.
I'm hearing nothing.
I'll figure it out.
Hi, Jess is working on making her thing work again.
But yeah, so how often do you guys meet?
We meet every Tuesday evening.
And yeah, we provide free food to everyone.
And we meet it for a couple of hours.
And our current format is more of a life workshop
kind of thing where we all bring our skills
to bear on each other's problems.
It's really, really interesting.
And I have a lot of really interesting stories
about how that has worked out.
It has been a very positive experience.
I'd love to share more details.
I would love to hear more details.
That sounds awesome.
Yeah, we gotta have a whole episode about this.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
I think one of our problems is that we only meet once a month,
which is, it's hard to meet more than that
because we're all busy and half of us
are in Colorado Springs and shit.
Yeah, we have people coming from like an hour north
and an hour south.
And so they're gonna be on a Tuesday night at seven,
which means usually we leave by 10
so we go to work the next day.
We tried weekends earlier on.
Then of course, I keep telling people
we can do as many as we want
and just people show up, show up.
And the thing is, if we were meeting every week,
it wouldn't have to be as long.
I always feel like I really gotta get a lot in.
So I'm always there until 10
because it's only once a month.
Yeah, but then the people,
it was only an hour long
if we were meeting from Boulder, Colorado Springs.
So it would be worth it to meet them.
And also, I forget the carry runs
that they have up over here.
Yeah, yeah.
I forget if it's plus or minus
or if it's good, but whatever.
I think it started as a slick circle mix.
So it's probably a good identifies ass.
I mean, yeah.
And the thing with once a month,
like if you meet, maybe if you miss a meeting
because you're sick
or something comes up, whatever.
It's like three in a row at one point.
Yeah.
And I didn't see anybody go three or four months.
And then it's hard to like get back into it.
You've lost touch with people, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah, that was the exact same problem we had
is not only do you have those practical barriers,
those practical failure modes when you miss a meeting.
I'm a very extroverted person
and I really need to be around people,
especially sane people.
Yeah.
But so when I miss a meeting
and I go two months without interacting
with another sane person,
I feel really bad and just emotionally drained.
It's a positive experience talking to the rationalists.
It's not always a positive experience interacting
with the non-rationalist.
Yeah.
You know what I mean, Sam?
I'm trying to think of it as an extroverted.
But yeah, I completely agree.
And if I'm more of an introverted person
and basically before every meetup,
I'm tired and worn out and don't feel like doing it,
but I've dragged myself there within two minutes.
I'm excited to be there.
It's just, I think I mentioned something like that before,
but yeah, it's just a matter of training myself
to recognize like you enjoy doing this,
get out there and do it.
And then I always do.
So, I would-
I had to look to-
Right.
I looked to hear anybody has about getting over that.
I had that same issue with, for example, martial arts
where I love it when I was doing it,
but it's so hard to get the motivation
to do it.
I don't know.
Motivation has always been a mystery to me.
It's actually something we've talked about at the dojo
is the concept of motivation and what it really is.
And the short, the tentative conclusion
that we've come to is that motivation
is a bunch of constituent things,
especially the most important part of motivation
is that it is the alignment of your behaviors
with your stated values.
And when you reframe it like that,
it's a little easier to think of ways
that techniques you might use to figure that out.
You might just need to reexamine your values
and repeat, dig deep into why those values mean so much to you.
And then I don't have a whole lot of actionable advice
on that, I'm afraid.
I haven't solved it crazy yet,
but when you think of it as an introspection issue,
there are some, it's a lot easier to make headway on.
I find motivation much easier
when I'm in a really optimistic mood.
It seems to me a lot of motivation
is expected consequences.
When I think I'm terrible at everything
and nobody likes anything, I don't wanna do anything.
It's just gonna be a failure, why even bother me now?
And then when I'm all excited about something,
this is gonna be awesome, everyone's gonna love it,
and like, oh my God, my listeners went from seven to 17
in just one week, that was the coolest feeling.
And the other motivation is just like,
when I don't care if I'm gonna be successful or not,
but I want someone to suffer for what they've done to me,
that's the other one that works very well.
What, is it a revenge?
Yeah, it's just sort of a revenge, you guys.
I don't think of it as a revenge,
I think of it as burning down the system
and building up something better,
but really when it comes down to it,
it's just I'm going to kill myself and destroy everything
so that this one asshole gets his.
I'm not going to play anymore,
which is why I don't have much motivation anymore.
This was more of a teens 20s meeting.
One hack I've tried is whenever I'm feeling low on motivation
or just feeling bad in general,
I have a pre-made list of all the things
that typically make me happy or make me motivated
or give me more energy.
And I just list them in descending order
from easiest, from most accessible to least accessible,
and I just work my way down that list.
And my results can sometimes be mixed,
but I have a couple success stories with that
where it has given me the motivation necessary
to continue working on whatever it was I was working on.
Nice, yeah, I don't have much to offer here,
otherwise I'd do more stuff, I guess.
The only thing that works for me is
like publicly committing to something,
so like making plans.
Sell them, break plans.
And so if someone's like, oh, we should get together,
I'll try and pin down a time,
because then I can't like put it off.
I mean, teaching is helping with your reputation
to really help.
Commitment and consistency, chapter two, right?
Or wait, no, what chapter was that of Sheldini's book?
In any case, commitment and consistency was one of the things
and it's something that you can use to like huxter people
or to huxter yourself when they're doing things.
Yeah, this is the book of influence.
Oh yeah, influence, science and practice.
It's mentioned in methods of rationality.
Did I tell you guys about how the military
seems to build people up
and make one a better life course?
If they need, yeah, I think for some predispositions
or I think you talked about once, yeah.
That a lot of people who join the military
are not from the greatest backgrounds,
you know, it's trying to escape from a shittier life.
Yeah, if shit's going for me, you don't want to go,
you look at it five in the morning
and being told when you can take a shit.
Yeah, yeah, but they don't have a lot of wins
under their belt and the military will like
give them specific jobs to do and tell them how to do it.
And after, you know, seeing themselves complete goals
and be successful months in a row,
it starts, you start to get over that helplessness
and start getting some more motivation to do things in life.
I don't know, it's weird.
I just wish it didn't come with the destruction
of countries and the murdering of people.
I really actually was interested in what was it,
the dragon army house,
the dragon army house in Berkeley
where there's an experimental sort of camp style household.
