I'm trying to think of the way they're going to explain it.
I think I'm a bit different from most people in that.
I actually, I find it easier to listen to audio
and like generate the scene and be immersed in it
when I'm listening, because for some reason,
it requires more of my mental brain power
to like convert words through looking at them on a page
versus just listening to someone speak.
Listening to someone speak just frees up my brain
so much more to just imagine things.
And especially I just close my eyes as well,
which makes it a bit easier.
Yeah, I don't think that's unusual in manual.
I think a lot of people experience that.
So much so, I actually, sorry,
I actually, one of the reasons I got into HP more so much
is because my friend recommended it to me.
I got up to Alex.
I got up to Alex.
I'm hearing a bit of that echo.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
I think it goes on your end.
Okay, you didn't touch anything, you didn't touch anything.
Oh, I think, I think it's something
from what the recent clinical case was.
I needed it.
I needed it.
There we go.
What was the thing?
I lost my trigger though.
You're talking about listening to audio and visualizing.
Oh yes, so yeah, I want to thank you specifically
because I was putting off reading HP more
and I probably wasn't ever going to get around to it.
You're going to get by.
I noticed that there was an audio version of it.
And then I just finished the whole of HP more
as much as I could until I caught up
and then just listened to every episode.
People in the chat are saying that the audio is messed up.
Is it still bad?
It's fine for me now.
Okay.
It's okay, yeah.
I think that was a crazy echo thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, my smart, I need to remove my headsets.
Just you're right.
This is happening.
I'll switch back in.
No, I don't mind at all.
Yeah, my experience, like I have a hard time
sitting down and reading stuff and not getting distracted
or even just kind of translating what my eyes
are glazing across to like processing my brain.
That said, listening to stuff is easy to get distracted too.
So I find my optimal way, which unfortunately
is like the least time efficient is to force myself
to read something and then listen to it the next time.
Then I'm able to really retain stuff,
but I haven't been able to almost really retain
fully audio stuff before.
I think it really depends too on the quality.
Like a good quality audio book is like watching a movie
basically, you know, to just painting the pictures yourself.
But I struggle to like listen to essays.
That said, I guess it just depends.
What really sucks is the text to speech,
like trying to do that.
Oh, yeah.
But anything that people have read out loud,
I think I do just more or less fine with.
I really can't wait until, I think it was good,
it was experimenting with the new text to speech program
that sounds really good.
It sounds like a human talking.
And yeah, Chloe is saying it too.
Can't wait for that human like text to speech.
I'm not going to have AI models.
Sorry.
Now that I'm not doing.
Oh, go ahead, go ahead.
Sorry.
Give me a little bit of delay.
They even have neural network models right now
that can take like five seconds of your voice
and replicate your voice fairly accurately.
So it's pretty much hard to tell the difference just
from like a five second clip of you speaking.
Oh man, I want to be able to.
Well, send you guys a link to that too afterwards.
Please send a link.
That sounds like something.
I love playing that kind of thing.
Because I actually work in AI and I don't do that.
He said it worked like, was it the past tense
or do you currently work in AI?
I'll undo my PhD at the moment.
Ah, OK.
What is the subject?
I remember seeing a news story about that thing
where you could record like those back when I heard it.
This was like four or five years ago.
It took a lot of hours of audio in order
to get someone's voice perfectly.
The fact that they can do it now with five seconds is amazing.
It's pretty disinteresting.
They can even replicate, like you can say something
and then they transfer it on to a video of a politician,
for example.
So you could have a, you say something
and it gets transferred into Trump's voice
with Trump saying something and it actually looks really
natural to the human eye.
Yeah, he's not that far from being able to claim
that all the shit that he said was all fake.
Basically.
Well, I thought you were going to say he's not that far
from being incomprehensible anyway.
Well, no, I mean, people point to things like,
hey, here you are on video saying this.
Oh, that's fake news.
That's what I was going to get at.
In two or three years.
Yeah, people have been able to say, oh, that is fake news.
But not to be all doom and gloom.
There are ways of detecting if things have been edited
like that, just like this is the REM models
that can create that sort of thing.
There's AI models that can detect
if AI models have created it.
So it's not totally.
The downside is there's a layer between like the person
who sees the video clip or whatever
and then someone having to like go through the analysis.
So like, if you're just getting your stuff from the news,
you know, just take their word for it
that it was auto generated or not.
And people are able to lie about that.
Let's say that all shakes out.
But yeah, at least it will be possible
for intelligent people to figure out
if it was real or not.
So I backtracked in just a little bit.
I had my Luddite moment a few years ago
when I was still doing the audio fiction.
And, you know, people were talking about the whole,
I wish there was a Texas Beach sort of robot thing.
I was like, no, this is the one thing in the world
that makes me special.
Don't replace me with a machine, damn it.
Honestly, I felt that way when they started coming up
with art, art thoughts.
Mm-hmm.
Like they have,
Now I won't be special to anyone.
You're special to me.
Oh, thank you.
I don't know.
I actually like, I feel like robots being able to do stuff
doesn't mean that humans doing stuff is less valuable.
As long as, you know, maybe the robot has good ideas
for art, but like I could also have good ideas for art.
No, not only that.
I was just gonna come to the world.
Yeah, ultimately, I know it's a good thing for the world.
Like it's a better world now that we have photography.
It's a friendly idea.
Well, yes, okay.
But technological progress, good.
Even if I personally, yeah.
Quasas, don't worry any more.
When the robot voice era comes,
we'll use your voice to read everything we,
everything we want.
Cool.
All right.
I'm gonna use your voice to guess.
So let's, I will say.
Where you go.
I was curious to know what your PhD is in.
Oh, my PhD.
It's in helping to explain artificial intelligence models
like deep networks by creating visualizations.
So for a lay person, for example,
one of the data sets I work with is student water usage
in a campus.
And I trained a neural network model
to sort of predict what's gonna happen
or what's changed over time.
But the problem is the people that normally work with
water data, the statisticians,
the people in the water data company,
they don't understand how these models work.
Cause they're just a whole bunch of neural network nodes
doing some linear algebra and coming out with an answer.
So I create visualizations which are how people like that
who don't necessarily know about machine learning
to sort of understand is the machine learning model,
does the machine learning model think something is wrong?
