Hey, this is Inyash. For our 100th episode, we did a live show with people typing in the chatroom and also talking with us live online.
We were releasing the recording of that for our 100th episode. And actually, because it was really long and because we were going to skip an episode anyway for Christmas,
we're breaking it up into two episodes. The first half airing now and the second half airing in two weeks.
We had some technical difficulties at the start, which you'll hear, but due to these technical difficulties,
we ended up losing all of the audio we recorded.
Fortunately, we were saved by our awesome listener, April.
She was recording the whole thing on her end and sent it over to us afterwards, so anyone who wasn't there for the live chat can still hear it.
April, thank you so much. You have saved the podcast for December.
We used a single omnidirectional microphone for this episode,
so the quality is a little lower. And since it was recorded on the other end of Discord, rather than right at the source, the quality is even lower still.
So, the audio on this one is going to sound pretty rough, but it is what it is.
We'll probably do this every year because it was a hell of a lot of fun.
Enjoy.
So, we're just having headphone madness here.
Yay.
You know, it's just Bluetooth or Venmo or web apps on the phones.
I hate Bluetooth because it's supposed to work at the speed of light, but due to all the bullshit they have with their translation, there's always like a what?
Quarter-second to half-second delay on everything?
I can't even watch TV shows over my Bluetooth speaker because the audio doesn't seem to be the video.
It's just slightly off enough to really annoy the hell out of me.
Can you hear Stephen?
I can hear.
Can you hear?
Yeah, I can hear.
Alright, we're finally good.
Yay, Phoenix agrees with me. Bluetooth is a horrible protocol and should not be used for things like audio.
I've been talking about this.
While speaking to video.
I mean, yes, it makes sounds worse, but I like being able to walk around wirelessly on the train and all that shit.
I mean, anything where actual the speed of the connection is important.
Can't use Bluetooth.
Broadcasting is hard and defies logic.
Yeah, I'm sorry that it took us so long.
I was told by someone who's not here, Zeke Aran, who he mentioned that he doesn't listen to.
He's the only podcast he doesn't listen to sped up because I'm incomprehensible.
I like a lot of people saying it's so weird to hear voices in one speed.
We sound like we're drunk or something.
Yeah, there's no way we can speed up ourselves in real life.
I guess they'd have to come back.
I can talk really fast if that helps.
No.
Oh, okay.
So now that we're actually here, welcome to a very special live Bayesian conspiracy.
Very special multiple meanings of the term where we speak with people who are online and we are starting with Bayes.
Bayes, do you have anything you want to ask or say?
Hey guys.
Yeah.
Well, you can call me Alex.
That's my name.
And it's I suppose the real most important thing I'd like to just tell you guys is that I very much appreciate this podcast and all for your view.
I was when I when I finished methods of rationality a little over a year ago, and then shortly after the sequences, I was the only one in Kansas City that I knew of who was into the rationality community.
So you guys were my only source of actually listening to another rationalist speak for a very long time until I managed to find a few others in Kansas City.
But thanks to your efforts and the support you guys unknowingly gave me, we were able to not only form a weekly meetup but also a dojo meetup and an effective altruism meetup.
And you guys, you guys deserve a portion of that credit.
And I appreciate you very much.
That's fucking awesome.
That's awesome.
You're crushing it harder than we are here.
Yeah.
Thank you for telling me because that really helps.
It makes the whole project feel cooler knowing that people are getting shit out of it.
How many people you got there now?
There's about seven core members and then a couple, two or three others who show up.
We have a couple who actually aren't even from the rationality community originally.
They just saw our events on meetup and thought we were cool people and started hanging out with us.
So we have, yes, we're recruiting, I guess.
Slowly we will get the whole world in our collections.
Yeah, yeah.
Raise that sanity waterline.
Yeah.
Sorry, go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks for sharing.
That's awesome.
And I also love your username.
Yes.
For anyone who doesn't know Bayes Theorem is called like BAE, apostrophe S.
Like Bay.
Yeah.
Which apparently I just recently found out, I think you told me it stands for best of
better than all everything.
What does it stand for?
I've never heard what it did.
Before all others?
Before all else.
Before all else, yeah.
Okay.
Which I, until just recently, I thought that it was like a shortening of babe.
Me too.
Yeah.
Well, that was cute.
But then everyone thinks that it's short for babes or babes.
So now I still can't use it.
Oh, you can't use it?
Well, because everyone has the wrong idea, short for babe.
And that sounds stupid.
So I thought it was kind of cute.
But Bayes, I don't know.
It sounds great.
I love it.
Yeah.
Especially at Bayes Theorem because it's a pun.
Right.
And I'll get up better for a pun any day.
So.
See, the atta is with me.
Also thought it was just babe, shorted.
Yeah, me too.
I've also got the chat here.
Oh, cool.
Yeah.
So.
Cool.
Yeah.
I'm also hoping to visit Denver here within the next six to eight months or so.
Awesome.
Or whenever you guys feel like you'd be available to hang out and talk about stuff.
I could always use.
I'm wanting to kind of do little short vacations to all the biggest rationality hubs and see
how other groups do things.
Yeah.
And you guys are definitely number one on my list.
Oh, wow.
We should not be number one on that list.
Yeah.
Just by sending annual pilgrimage to rationalist Mecca.
So next time you look one of those, you can just put an asset out.
As important and as prolific as the rationality community in the Bay area is.
It's, it's very close to the last on my list because I, I don't really care for the Bay
area that much.
Yeah.
My car got jacked.
Last time I was like.
Like that's a whole car.
Just all the day.
I'll go step inside it.
Right.
Oh yeah.
That's us.
But yeah, no, the, so I'm kind of almost embarrassed when we talk about the Denver
rationalist area because we have like this podcast and we have the group of us that meet
together, but we don't have like any of these cool dojo shit that you have in Kansas.
City.
Yeah.
And the Bay area has like their own community center, which is amazing.
But anyone that wants to visit at any time, I'll let me know.
I can't always like drop everything and meet, but if it's at all possible, I'd love to
meet people.
Yeah.
If anyone's in town for more than two days, I can probably make it happen.
So.
Yeah.
Just let us know and we will absolutely meet up when Ray was here at GSB.
We had a great time.
Yeah.
At least I did.
And I was also introduced to a beat saber.
Oh yeah.
Fantastic game.
See that right there?
That is entirely your fault.
He's pointing to the VR headset.
With the Santa hat on it.
Well, okay.
The Santa hat is not your fault, but the VR headset is.
I was, is there a way to download other songs for the PS?
Because I saw someone doing like a Gungham style with beat saber, but it.
Oh, I don't think so.
I was wondering that too.
Maybe we'll try our Google food on it.
Yeah.
Because PS is basically just a computer.
You can maybe jailbreak it if you're feeling that.
Maybe.
Yeah.
That is exciting about it.
Anyways, yes.
Someone said they're in Texas and what's happening in Texas?
Someone asked if there was a rationalist communities outside of the US.
And Sonarman 720 says they're in Texas, which is basically outside of the US.
Yeah, there's so many.
There's some of Russia.
Yeah.
There's a small one.
I think they're, I think they're around.
Russia has its own like rationalist coffee house thing, which I'm currently supporting
on Patreon because just looks like they're doing good stuff.
Conchirka, I think it was.
I don't know if that's the right pronunciation.
I'll take your word for it.
What kind of format is the coffee house?
Like is it actually?
It's a go in and pay per minute just to be in the house thing.
Nice.
That's a good one.
Is the rationalist movement start in California?
It arguably started either wherever Eleazar was when he was writing his blog posts or
at George Mason University.
Right?
Yeah.
