because I think it creates better outcomes,
like in terms of anything measurable.
I think everyone's who's looked at it
has found that it's not,
it doesn't really make much of a difference.
The unschooled kids do fine,
but so do the kids that go to school.
You know, I just favor it
because that sounds like a better childhood to me.
And if it's not gonna,
if there's not really compelling evidence
that putting kids through this pretty miserable experience
really helps them out, then I don't wanna do it.
Yeah, totally agree.
Yeah, I did, I just liked most of school,
probably for the first, I don't know,
right up until high school.
So however many years that was of primary education.
And, I mean, I had nice parts,
but for the most part, I was unhappy there.
And I totally, this is kind of fun.
This comes up in the next,
We Want More episode that comes out tomorrow.
Like my co-host Brian wrote software in the 90s
for a prison that was in the Netherlands.
Is that where they just learned?
And that prison's name was high school.
Well, that's where it gets funny,
is they actually ended up transitioning
that software to managed schools.
And I thought that was relentlessly entertaining.
And he was like, oh, well, you know,
tracking people is important.
I'm like, yeah, but it's really funny
that prison software transitioned so smoothly
into high school.
Yeah, not surprising.
So I don't necessarily agree,
but I don't disagree either.
Cause the thing is, I think there's some things
that it's super important for children to be taught,
even if it has to be forced taught
in order for society to keep running.
And I don't mind if there's a little bit of suffering
to get that done.
But on the other hand, you know,
Wes's kid is just one kid
and I am more than happy for him to experiment with that kid.
And it turns out better, we can adopt it
because it works whatever it's one kid.
Well, I think the important things
that kids have to learn are math, reading and writing.
But I think that kids, you know,
most kids will learn those things without,
you know, I couldn't play the video games I play
without doing math and reading and writing.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
I just kids, kids learn best through play
and there's a lot of play that teaches those skills.
Ooh, the Bayesian says that he or she,
they is in high school right now
and learns more on breaks than during school.
That is not surprising.
Keeps into dogs sooner or later.
Yeah, the instruction said as many dogs as you want.
An amazing log in said anecdotally,
I've always needed school to find friends.
Might be something that can be better optimized for.
And April said that high school isn't ruining their mental
health or anything,
but they could be doing better things with their time.
And I completely agree.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Why would Kerr said asked if I could say again,
what I was doing with my kids' education,
which I don't actually remember if I said,
it's called unschooling.
It's basically you just, you don't do anything.
You keep the kid home from school
and let them do whatever they want.
And it's very self-directed learning.
And the idea is to have a lot of educational materials
around that they can use if they want to,
but you don't force them to do anything.
I really want to get West back on the podcast
and I've been looking five years
and hear how the unschooling thing is going.
Cause that would be super interesting.
Remind me, five years.
All right.
There's people who have gone through unschooling
and we could probably like been unschooled themselves.
Yeah. This is not a new thing.
People have done it.
I mean, it's, it's not a mainstream thing,
but it's definitely been done before.
And that's where I get the information from
that it doesn't seem like it has much of an effect
on anything.
I think the main outcome for me,
if I had to guess from like a foreign chair
or psychoanalyzing is that the main outcome
for the children involved would be like
how much do the parents care?
And if you care enough to like look into education
to unschool your kid or private school
or whatever it is you're doing,
the kids probably gonna turn out pretty good.
Yeah. Most of them.
Just like run with the flow and I don't know,
just do whatever, or, you know,
obviously the ones who don't care
and are detached that cause troubled kids.
But the ones who actually, like my, my sister,
let's see, my niece would be like a year and a half now.
And she called me a few months ago asking if she,
if I was aware of anything like huge judgments
involved with having her daughter go to a daycare
that she is worried that the kids just plop down
in front of the TV for six hours a day.
And she's like, I think that TV is bad for kids,
but you know, it's like literally half the price
of the one that I know doesn't do that
and times that by five years.
And I was like, yeah, that pays for a lot of therapy
if there is any damage involved.
But the other thing is that like my sister's concerned
enough to care about screen time for her kid,
which I think bodes well for the kid's outcome.
I also think most kids are not going to be happy
six hours for the TV, they're going to get up
and do other things.
Well, the kids like, at this time was like a year old,
I'm not sure how mobile she was, right?
How did a year old do the pay that much attention to the screen?
I have no idea.
Yeah, right, a year old.
But my thing was just like, the fact that you care
is put to a head and shoulders above,
not every parent, most parents care,
but like the fact that they're willing to look
into like research and beyond whatever Facebook stuff
most people do.
I don't know, I'm not a parent.
So I don't have the temperament for parenthood.
I'm way too neurotic.
I'd be so nervous among other things.
You'd have to ask her what the situation is,
but imagine there's other kids there
that the kid would just end up playing with.
Several, yeah.
So I guess I'm not really sure how it works.
I've never seen, I've only seen one daycare
and it was one that was called the unlicensed home daycare.
And it's kind of like a living room, your size,
they just put it like a doggie gate on either side.
My mom, I'm one of those actually.
Yeah, and it is, I'm sure there's worse places
bigger kids during the day, and better places.
I mean, like if you're, well, what am I trying to say?
Like, it seems like a pretty good situation.
Like you're socializing with other kids, right?
So to the extent that you can socialize,
I'm not sure if they're not talking yet,
whatever the counselor, but they're around them
and looking at the same things.
You learn a lot before you learn to talk.
I mean, like they need to just follow
the learning issues that they're interested in.
Yeah, it's pretty much all they're doing.
Yeah, it's the most plastic difference
will be in their lives.
I got it for a month.
But yeah.
There's like a whole separate conversation going on
in the chat that's really interesting too.
Yeah.
Oh, about boot camp?
I tried to divide my attention.
Is that, do you want to be our chat person?
No, okay, it's fine.
I'm reading through the chat, yeah.
Sure, I guess.
Yeah, but so the thing about unschooling
is that all the data that people have collected on it
is all survey data.
Does no one's done any longitudinal studies
or anything?
Oh, so there are self reports?
Yeah, so all the self reports are good.
I think it was like, I saw a survey of like 300 students
and only three of them said they had
a negative experience with it.
And those were from like either super religious families
or like one family that it was just totally checked out.
And like the, you know, 250 or 300 other people
had said it was great.
They learned plenty and felt no disadvantages in life.
A lot of unschooled kids end up going to college.
