I was gonna say there's a, I can't remember what it's called.
There's a newsletter.
If the rationalist and newsletter,
they kind of call it what things have been posted
and various like rationalist, like, you know,
unless you're on Slate Sarcotics on people's side blogs.
So that's one way to kind of stay caught up.
I've found that to be helpful,
but also I agree with you.
There's a, it's, I have like a bunch of these,
these lawyers that I just didn't even read
because I was too busy and I'm just like, oh my God,
there's like 40 like book length things this week.
So I don't know.
One of the things I really like about Scott's posts anyway,
Slate Sarcotics and a bunch of Eliezer's
original Sron post is that they have some extra words
to make it interesting and to draw me in
and to make it fun.
Like for me, getting the information just born style,
I can't do because all it is is data and facts.
And I need some Sky Alexander in there
with his sarcasm and his joking to keep me going
or, you know, Eliezer with his popular references.
But I think on the whole, they're much less verbose
than what I read in the rest of media.
Like just someone just linked on Facebook.
Apparently there's some kind of 37 year old mom
that pretended to be a 11 year old on,
what is it, put some new Tumblr, TikTok I think.
Snapchat maybe and yeah.
Anyways, and there was apparently some whole horrific thing.
And I read down like 400 words
and still hadn't gotten past the part
where she was like putting on clothes
and talking about her own life and stuff.
And I'm like, fuck this, I'm out.
At some point, you got to get to the point.
I don't care about your,
I know everybody needs their own personal life struggle
and this narrative to be woven into the news story.
I'm like, it's too much.
The worst is cooking when you're trying to find a recipe.
That's what I was going to say.
There's my grandmother's recipe for potatoes.
Yeah, I was first taught this recipe
when we lived in the Mediterranean
but I still remember the smell.
I'm just like, where's the recipe?
Yeah, scroll down 80%
till you find the bullet points at the numbered list.
Yeah, it's, I think that's a tough,
I don't have a lot of strong thoughts on that in the annual.
I think the hard part is like,
information dissemination will be tough,
like a weak contingent on groups
or at least correlate with group size, right?
If there's a lot of people,
then there's a lot of information going around
and getting a chat with buddies pretty hard.
If your group is six people,
it's not hard to keep everyone fully in the loop,
like a text, you know, group text chat or something, right?
Well, at the same time,
I know you guys have mentioned this before,
that if Elias is writing,
it's not an example of writing,
the amount of like insights to work is ridiculously high.
And so it's not necessarily verbose
in the sense that they're just waffling an ad
and all this extra stuff to make it a bit more interesting
and adding some carousel cousin,
which makes it less dry per stay.
But it's more about,
like there's just a lot of content.
Yeah, so like some of the posts
I've read on LessWrong recently,
or like I say recently, like over the past couple of months,
I've gotten really good insights out of,
but at the same time,
I only read like one post every other month
because it's just, it didn't read any one post.
It just takes such a time commitment.
And it's sort of hard.
I agree.
BaseTheirImponentPost says basically the same thing,
that most LessWrongers are cute for both.
And it's, writing these posts is a skill.
It's something that takes a lot of practice to get right
or maybe inherent to natural genius, I don't know,
but I assume it's a lot of practice.
And it's just, it's not a skill most people have.
So their posts usually tend to be too high
of a word count to information ratio.
April said, I have an idea about writing something
that's sort of halfway between rationality
of written sequences,
which I was going to suggest something like that too,
or say that I wish something like that existed.
Like somebody, it would be great
if there was somebody or like a group of people
who are really good at picking out the like,
best quality essays about a variety of topics
and then summarizing them.
I haven't heard of that.
Go ahead.
We need more like, I really love rationality of Bridge
because I still haven't finished all the sequences.
I've only done about half of them, if even that,
after like my, how long have I been part of?
I think I came across a few more in 2011.
So that's about when I got into the last strong community
in the rationalist community,
and I still haven't finished,
even as much as I'd like to and would have the desire to.
But I came across rationality of Bridge
and that suddenly sped up
how much I was going through the actual posts themselves,
and not even just the Bridge versions,
because I can see the Bridge version,
I say, oh, this post is useful.
Can you read my email in your phone to discord?
I tried to do some science,
I forgot that I was trying to do this.
Stephen's just having a technical issue.
Well, that's not what we're gonna...
I, you know, I hadn't even heard of Hammer Time,
which now apparently I'm regretting
because it sounds like it's really good.
But one of the reasons was because, like you say,
the posts are, they can be a lot to read,
and it sometimes doesn't feel like it's quite worth it
when I have other things competing for my time.
But I mean, like, I'm glad I read about the Dragon Army stuff.
That was really interesting.
It wasn't quite as tight as like, you know,
the people who've been doing this for years,
but it was still good.
So I try to get on less wrong every now and then.
Yeah, another one of my main concerns with this
is that we're trying to raise a soundly borderline,
as you say, so get more people into the rationalist community
and reading about these ideas
and staying a part of the community.
But if I'm someone who's like really believes
in the community and really gets a great value
out of the things I read and the people I encounter,
it's still hard for me to come in and read specific things,
post that people say,
oh, this is a really good post you should read.
And I'm like, yes, I will get on that.
And then I get on it like a year later.
Yeah.
How do you expect people to get into this?
You don't even like reading as much as I do.
I'd probably say I'm in the minority in terms of people
who actually like reading that sort of stuff
and still find it high, like a challenge.
Yeah, I don't know, I read pretty fast.
And I have to read a lot for my job.
I'd really like to, I'd actually be down to collaborate
with a group of people if anyone's interested
in trying to launch a certain project like that.
Yeah, I'd be happy to contribute
to something like that as well.
That's honestly, that's part of my vision
for why the podcast exists
because there is so much information out there
and it's hard to get through it all.
And I like the podcast is just a way
of putting some of these things out there in an audio format,
which hopefully is also entertaining.
It was so useful for me, honestly.
You had not just recorded methods of rationality,
but a bunch of other rap thick and some sequences
and I was able to listen to a lot of that
while doing other things, like multitasking.
Like honestly, if I could just read all day,
like that would be great, but it's hard to get time sometimes.
And audio books are one way that you can kind of read
something while doing something else.
It's really weird.
I didn't do audio books really for a long time,
aside from what I could get for podcasts,
but recently I got an audible subscription
because I was starting to fall behind with my book club,
that sci-fi science book club that meets twice a month.
And like I recently, for the first time,
was reading a book and listening to it just interspersed
because it'll sync up to whatever page you're on.
Oh yeah, I like that feature.
Yeah, it's really cool, but I noticed
that how I experienced the story reading is different.
It's very different actually.
Yeah, and I don't, I prefer the reading experience.
It feels much more like I'm in the world
and I just, I feel like I'm part of the story more,
but I just don't have the time to read everything.
Yeah, I don't prefer one over the other.
I think that they're both different.
