But typically they go to community college
around age 16 or so and then transfer after that.
I know I've heard of, I was reading a blog for a while
where the, I think it was called Raising Three Thinkers
where I think they were doing radical unschooling
and they would take their kids to college courses.
Like, when they were pretty young.
I got a question.
So I don't remember now who it was that said
that they went to school to meet other three friends,
three kids.
How did you guys meet other kids
and make friends when you were young?
I didn't have friends until I was in the 20s.
Like, oh, when I was like, I had like one friend at a time
I was really introverted when I was a kid.
And mostly I was like by myself though.
And I just read books.
Yeah, I tend to say I didn't, but I had friends.
It's paradoxically I met them all through other friends
which kind of has like a first mover problem.
I'm not sure who the first person was,
but I would connect with my friends
through like my friend or friend group already, but.
The first mover was obviously God
as per the ontological record.
Of course.
Yeah, I had a lot of bad role model friends.
Oh, that's how you make friends, God.
Yeah, of course.
I, yeah, that scene where her mind was on the train
and the morning that adults wouldn't just say
YouTube will be friends.
I think that's actually what happened to me.
You know, my parents did that.
They were like, just, we want you to get it like off
the computer and go over to the house costs.
Like it was like in a different neighborhood.
But like, what do you call it?
Like blocks, I guess?
Blocks?
Development?
They were like one development over it.
And there was a kid my age there.
My parents were like, you need the house
and like don't come back until you've like gone
over this kid's house and hung out with them.
It's just the most awkward, bad thing.
They knocked on the door and they're like,
do the hell are you?
And I was like, I'm from over there
and I'm your kid's age.
And apparently I got to hang out with your kid.
I know.
Yeah.
I mean, they were like, we were definitely
different types of people.
Like I think it was Morgan.
She was perfectly nice.
But like, I was like a little town boy
and I liked to climb trees and stuff.
And she was a girl, a girl.
And it was just a bit of nothing in common.
My parents, they always like, I don't know,
found a friend for me in church.
Cause you know, they'd go to the Jehovah's Witness church.
They call it King of Halls, the church basically.
And they'd meet another parent with a kid around my age.
And they're like, kid doesn't have any friends.
Your kid should have be friends with our kid.
And so like his parents would go to him.
My parents would go to me and they're like,
be friends with that person now.
And it surprisingly worked out for the most part.
I suspect that like with arranged marriages,
arranged friendships could work if the people actually
have like their kids' best interests in mind.
Like, okay, my kid is this type of kid.
They like to do these things.
Let's actually be mindful and search for like
somebody who seems compatible.
It didn't ever work for very long.
I like you, I only ever had like one friend at a time.
Really, it was a good friend.
And always after a year or two,
they would move or disappear or something would happen.
Spend a while friendless and then have one friend
and then they would move.
And it was kind of like that.
It was like the constant life of abandonment almost, right?
And he or military grads could do the same thing.
Yeah.
And the parents move every year or two.
No, a few people were military grads
and said that it was just really rough trying to,
I guess make new friends every year and uproot yourself.
Although some people did say that they've learned
how to make friends better and like how to do social skills
better by constantly having to do that.
So, yeah.
I never got through that.
I mean, I guess I eventually when I became an adult
got better at that.
But yeah, in high school,
the things I did was just find the nerdy kids.
It's so embarrassing now looking back on it.
This one time, I was like talking D&D
with a kid a year older than me.
I'm like, they didn't believe that I was a nerd
and that I was into D&D, right?
So they started quizzing me.
They're like, what's FACCO?
I'm like, to hit armor class zero.
And then, you know.
I said to the like, dude, I don't even know.
Yes, right.
And I went through that for like 15 minutes.
And I was so proud that like I passed the test
and I was loud in and everything.
But looking back on it, I'm like, oh my God.
I should have been like, fuck you.
I don't got to put anything to you.
No, that's the most nerd thing ever.
I was literally kind of shaking by the end of it.
Trenton, not let them see that I was shaking.
That's how nerds bond.
No, what, sorry?
I said, that's how nerds bond.
Yes.
Sometimes.
And now no one knows what FACCO is anymore
because they don't use that.
I know it's FACCO is just now.
To hit armor class zero.
Come on, guys.
Yeah, they, they faced that out with a third edition.
It's probably smart.
Yeah.
I made friends.
I just made friends with the kids in my neighborhood
because I grew up in a, in a rural town.
And there were only like five other kids within a mile.
Oh wow.
We just, that those were the kids I hung out with.
Yeah.
What did you say last choice?
Switching headsets.
Westland had a kids within,
five kids within a mile group in a very rural place.
So that's his forced friend group.
Yeah.
Now, thankfully, I met my, my, my long, my, uh,
lifetime best friend.
Uh, I met, he was in my neighborhood.
We just got along really great.
So that was awesome.
But yeah, we did not have a lot of choice.
That's weird because I don't know,
you know who your friend group is then.
And it's kind of like solid and steady.
Whereas in a city, there's just too many people
in a five mile radius.
And so people who tend to splinter and isolate,
we do get people who are completely left out
of social circles like you never would in a rural area
because everything, everyone within five miles
is your friend because there's only 10 of them.
Yeah.
And the culture there is different too.
Like you can't, if you tried to exclude anyone,
your parents would yell at you.
Cause it'd be like, no, you have to,
you can't just like not hang out with that person.
Yeah.
Or like you can't, you can't, you know, isolate them.
Which I guess.
I don't know, it seems like a lot of these structures
that we're talking about, there's gotta be person cons.
Yeah.
As far as I know, as far as.
But also you'd have to be like, friendships.
You'd probably have to be from an established family.
Like if it was a new immigrant family moving into town,
they probably wouldn't be forced into friendships
the same way that a kid of a family
that's been there for generations would.
I mean, the new families were, I don't know.
We didn't, we never really, it was, it was pretty white.
How was it?
What was that?
The new, new families, that, that's what happened to them.
Like my best friend moved when I was in,
right before first grade.
But we were pretty, it was a pretty white area.
So there were no immigrant families.
So I don't know what would happen there.
Yeah.
Where do you live now?
Philadelphia, that's right.
Jersey, right outside Philly.
