And then he like contrasts this with an agent which is a part of the video game trying to understand how the video game works, how thinking works when, or what it means to take actions when their actions can change their own brain and change how they think.
What it means to have other agents inside of them to be built up of some other sub agents.
And I think that some parts of the like formalism that we use of Bayesian probability doesn't make some assumptions about these that you are more like the agent that is playing the video game than you are the agent that is part of the video game.
And so they're like sort of wandering through the space and picking up little interesting curiosities and tools and trying to like adapt the formalism to better match the actual situation we find ourselves in.
But yeah, I think I, yeah, it still seems pretty, but it's totally pretty Bayesian. It's just, it does have some interesting changes to the formalism, or hopefully well, when we figure it out.
And all this is still ongoing on Lester on 2.0 right now.
Yeah, just very recently, like Scott Garibrand released this giant sequence around Cartesian frames that was in trying to think a lot about like how to be an embedded agent and how they can think.
And I do, I myself still have a variety of hours over the next few months set aside to like engage with it deeply. But it's really, it seems like a pretty exciting full formalism that has been presented within the last like two months that is making some really, really
interesting prophecy like we had a very cutting edge of like really philosophy of all time.
So I have two questions for people who are pressed on time. The first being, I'm assuming these are included in the, is it weekly emails you send out that have the best of them?
Yeah, usually sending out free emails and the emails are literally just the post like we take the full post, and we will just send it to you in the email. And there's no advertisement, usually no announcement, it's just the post.
And surprisingly, we've gotten even our latte to render. Okay, in Gmail.
So, so that's really, you can, you can press the subscribe button, when you sign up for an account, and then you get free posts per week in your email. And you don't even have to go to us wrong if you want to read all of them.
And the follow up question is, if you want to like read the back conversation here, but you don't want to, you know, go through everything you just want to highlight is there some place to find just those posts that have been sent out in email as like the best of read these.
Yes. So if you go to the front page, you will see at the very top of the post list, a set of posts that have a small star right next to you, you'll probably see three of them because we show three of them at any given time.
If you click on the star, you will be taken to a full list of all the curated posts over the last three and a half years that we've compiled. And that really is the first place I would send anyone if they are interested in seeing what like has happened.
What interesting things have happened on less wrong 2.0.
Although my first place is now this book set, which is pretty good.
I actually realized I didn't say, I think I talked about the book set from the perspective of like rewarding the authors.
But I think from the perspective of the reader, the book set is just a place to really sit with the ideas and engage with them that is not plugged into your distraction machines and the internet where you're not like 17 tabs open every second you're reading it.
You're going, is this better than clicking on the next tab?
Okay, I'll continue reading the next sentence. You know, this is not a comfortable reading experience.
There's a book that you can just, you know, walk to a park and you can not have your laptop or phone and you can open it and you can sit with the ideas and sort of take them in the more in your own pace and think through them at your own speed.
So that's one of the things I hope that people, I hope there's a lot of people that have not followed for whatever reason they don't have time to check it every week.
They do not like read every email that we might send them, but it does want to read the very best stuff that we like, I think has been written to us wrong in the last year in 2018.
And I think you can take this and you can sit and I hope to see people like go, huh, I now feel like I actually am up to date with what happened in the year and some of the best ideas.
And here's a bunch of ideas I've had based up of those.
That's awesome.
And I'll, I'll note too that if you have an existing account that you made before the newsletter or the weekly email was an option, you just go to your account settings and you can click a box to sign up for it.
So yeah, yeah.
And those are the ways of you if you're an RSS person, there's RSS feeds, etc, etc.
So how can we get this because we haven't heard the details on that yet.
Oh, great.
Good. Thank you.
The current way to get it is to go to less wrong. So we're currently in the pre-order stage. We're still, we're just printing, they're printing as we speak.
You go to less wrong front page and you can see the books at the top. If you're on desktop, you'll need to hover over and you can see the pre-order button there.
They're $29, which is what we've determined is the amount of money we need to make this thing not negative, hopefully.
And then, yeah, if you want to see more details about them, there's a learn more, there's an FAQ. You can see totally some of the images inside.
We've redesigned basically every image in the book to fit the aesthetics of the books.
You know, I think the images, especially in some of like Scott's essays are like crucial for understanding it.
And so yeah, we've redesigned all of those and you can have a look inside and hopefully you'll find those attractive.
I know you're going to get this question a lot and I assume you're going to hate getting it a lot, but is this available on Amazon?
The answer is it will be available on Amazon as soon. Amazon only allows you to sell things. So Amazon doesn't take pre-orders unless you give them 50% of your profits, which we didn't want to do.
Sorry, not 55% of your profits would be totally fine. I would be willing to give Amazon 55% of my profits, but they want 55% of your listing price, which really isn't the amount of money that I currently wanted to give Amazon,
given that we're barely breaking, given with the price as is. So they will go live on Amazon. My guess is in something between two and three weeks, hopefully.
Right on. And do you get all five books for the pre-order price or do you just get the map? Sorry, what?
All five.
All five. All right. Well, that's good because I just pre-ordered while you were talking about how to do it.
The countries we are delivering to are North America, says the US, Canada, Mexico, every country in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, and Israel.
Coming out to $6 a book, that's pretty damn good. Like, you guys really could have bumped up the price a little bit and made it some profit.
Yeah, but I really, I don't know. I just, first of all, I feel a bit bad about making profit on this book because I really feel like I would want to pass it on to the office,
but I don't, that would be a lot of difficulty. And second of all, I just really think of this as like a good introduction to Les wrong and the value that these books provide does not really come by the money,
but really via the people I hope it inspires to work on the problems that I care about and that like I'm working on this wrong for.
Yeah. I mean, the goal I've set myself is to try and make it like net profitable. If it's net profitable, then I feel very comfortable doing further projects like this.
But beyond that, I mean, I maybe don't need to tell you, it's quite hard to get profits in books and I don't think it would, I don't think it's a reasonable goal for it to cover the staff time that went into this.
But I did want to, you know, as most of the value is in people actually reading it. And so we've tried to hit like net profitability and we'll go from there.
I mean, obviously, with this book set, this is the first time we did it, we were willing to take some amount of risk that it's like, you know, to learn as we're learning at the first time we're willing to take some risk that it maybe doesn't turn out to be fully net profitable,
but we can do it next time or something. But I think we'll, I don't know, we'll ask us in a month.
Some people bump it up to $30 because then we know when I leverage in psychological pricing. And I find that pretty compelling to be like, we bumped it up from $29 to $30 because it costs $30 all along, we just told you $29 because it sounds slightly cheaper.
I like that. I think that the other, man, I had something and it just slipped my mind. Well, oh, yeah, as far as profitability, I mean, you know, it's probably too late to be thinking about it, but like, if your guys' pre-orders were, you know, a fraction of what you were expecting, and that was the price you were okay with, it seems like you guys are already doing pretty okay.
And, you know, if it works out to our next year, it's not going to happen unless you get X dollars. I'm sure people would help make it happen. So.
Yeah, yeah, it definitely, definitely the level of demand has made the, made it much more likely we'll be able to do this sort of thing again. I really appreciate every person who has brought us that so far.
The next thing I just want is the, is a beautiful, beautiful version of the sequences. That's, that's the thing I want to create, just all of them in print, finally.
Yeah, I also, hey, I have dreams of there are other writings on this run by single authors that I would like to maybe turn into books at some point.
I can see, yeah, I don't know exactly what we'll do next, but suddenly the demand on this and waiting for the feedback as well when people actually get the product and also, I guess the obvious other thing I would like hope is that people realize that we do this.
We're planning to do this annually, which means, if you would like to be in a set of books like this, you can just write stuff to less wrong. And if you write stuff, the less wrong community likes, it's a good chance I will put you in a book.
And I'll like make your images beautiful or whatever. So I hope people like back to in that somewhat as well from this book.
That's a compelling argument.
Yeah, I remember one of the authors, as I was telling them, you get to be in the book, they were like, huh, this makes me want to write on less wrong like considerably more. And I was like, Mission accomplished. And they're like, Oh, yeah, I see.
That was a good plan.
All right, well, we have been going for over two hours now. I should wrap it up, but I wanted to thank you guys so much, like not just for coming on here, but for all the work you've done for the rashless community over the years.
And of course, thank you for all the work you've done this podcast. And also, of course, thank you. And yes, in particular for all the amazing work you've done on the HP more podcast, which has very positively affected my life and many other people I know.
Yeah, many hours of, I remember cleaning the dishes as a teenager and the fruit coming on.
I mean, yes, Brodsky, and just you being the voice of all the Harry Potter characters, methods characters has been brilliant.
All right, thanks. That's awesome to hear.
Well, I can take both of those praises for you guys and for you as well. So, but you know, I already said it more, more articulately than I was going to so.
I did get recently to do sort of any ashes job to my close friends and not read methods. And we just read it aloud to each other, partly in person, partly of a Skype, and I got to do most of it.
And I really loved doing all the voices I got to like, I got to do, you know, Professor McGonagall's up high and Dumbledore's down low and Snape is like, we need to be and like, I did.
I'm not trying to say too much, but I did like Harry's is my normal voice. And then like, I also did curl is like my normal voice, but like a bit more refined. Anyway, it was really fun doing all of the character voice.
I remember seeing that.
Oh, it is, it is a total blast, especially if you really get into a character.
Mm hmm. But yeah.
All right, well, thank you guys for being here. We are going to take care of a few things at the end of the show. So we'll probably let you go here. Is there any final things you wanted to say or that we didn't touch on?
That's a good question.
Apparently not.
Okay.
Well, you know what to find us anything you want to add to the show notes that hasn't been included in our email chain yet. Send it on over this episode will go up in on Wednesday.
So, but I mean, even after the fact we can add stuff to the show notes and stuff.
This was great. I am, you know, like, like you know, I said, I think that you guys have done a lot for the rationalist community and this project in particular.
I mean, it's one thing to send somebody a URL link to be like, Hey, read this long essay. And they're like, Yeah, sure, I'll put it in my 60 tabs.
If you say, Hey, you know, hand them a book and say, send this, you know, hand this back when you're done. It's, it's a another way to, I think really engage people. And what the other thing I'm enjoying about just skimming over the page previews is that, like,
they're, they're pleasant to look at, but also it's not merely the sequences and, you know, some Slate Sarcotics posts. This is the community. And so it's, it's not it, it's, it's bigger than just the big names.
And I really enjoy that.
Yeah, 23 others and 44 posts.
Fantastic.
There's a lot really great. Let's run guys and rationalists.
Nice thing is you can have them to five people at the same time.
That's right. Yeah.
I definitely have some dream of walking up to some, I don't know, new people and be like, you guys need a better epistemology and waving at him.
We heard the good news of Lester.
Just hang around outside of churches.
But yeah, I love this podcast. Thanks very much for inviting us on it. It's the first podcast we've done. And if there are like this, this is going to be just basically fun.
Yeah, you should be on again and help us with the sequences.
Right.
You know what, we have to stop recording before you guys can leave. Do you guys want to just hang out for the, we've got just two bits of feedback to do.
Yeah, that we're totally down to say.
Well, it seems like the easiest way to do it without me kicking you from the call and I don't know what that would do to the recording. So perfect.
I know our hostages.
Well, we'll let you out here soon. What was the, we had two short pieces of feedback writing. Yeah.
So the first piece of feedback is from Richard J Acton at the subreddit to the base and conspiracy.
This was back when we were talking about the, the anti encryption laws that were being proposed in Congress.
Richard says making encryption effectively illegal is so practical I have no idea how people would respond to a law like that.
Most people would just carry on how they were with a few big players making nominal concessions and it would just become another three families a day thing that government can use to arbitrarily squash you.
And I also see that as a potential outcome because, you know, the government isn't, I guess they are going to impose backdoors on all major players if this comes in, but regular people aren't going to change their things too much and yeah, it'll just be another thing like,
you sent an email yesterday, we can put you in jail for that unless you, you know, confess to whatever.
Yeah, I, I find that interesting. I mean, like, you're right, for most people, let's go about doing our day. Like most people are on Facebook or privacy doesn't mean anything.
So like, I don't think that that'll like slow down the average person. And yet, like, there's, and, you know, I don't get up to anything illicit.
And, you know, my phone isn't a crime scene. And yet, knowing that it's secure is reassuring. I guess I would operate more or less identically to how I do now with the knowledge that, you know, anyone with a permit or the warrant could get in.
It's just, I don't know, it feels like the beginning of a very plausibly slippery slope.
Yeah, or just the marginal cost of making things a little bit shittier is, I don't know, like, it kind of sounds like, oh, it's just going to be another one of those things that suck.
And it's like, do we need another one of those things? I, I'd rather not.
I like that framing too. It's like, do we need things to be even more shitty? Come on. Oliver, Ben, any, any thoughts on that?
Well, champion from given that I work in web development all day, the big thing that definitely everyone is interfacing with every day is just that your browser uses HTTPS to talk to, like, basically any website you're on.
And that is just a type of encryption pretty straightforwardly. And that being outlaw definitely has really, really wide ranging effects because the thing that's like preventing that does is not only that like the government can access your data, but it means just that
well, you also know on a much more adversarial environment of people being able to read your passwords and various other things, if you're sending non encrypted data.
So that kind of is really, even if you were just talking to websites, you're actually talking primarily encrypted these days.
And if something has a backdoor that the government can access in theory it has a backdoor anyone with enough skills can access.
Alrighty, moving on to the second piece of feedback. This is from our last episode on career hacking. I found this one amusing, but also troublesome.
Wes over on the discord said, you guys left out the number one career hack, lying on your resume. If you tell you have degree, most of them won't check. And if you do in a clever way, almost none of them will check.
I thought I had mentioned that and I guess I didn't or maybe I was talking to somebody else about it. But like, when I got my library job, I did manage to backdoor in the way that I described in the episode but like Wes was like, hey, there's this
that you could get a masters in library science from the school that no longer exists, but it would have existed when you went to school and you could put it on at your resume.
And then like, no one will be able to even like fact check that because it doesn't exist anymore and then like even more like ways that I could be sneaky about it is just like I'm just not going to do it.
I don't like lying. Like, it makes me uncomfortable. But like, yeah, I think they could work and probably like, it probably would have been fine.
I basically really dislike lying. Not only because I feel it's like a way of deforming other people's maps and that is an inherently hostile act but just the repercussions it has on me like, then I have to think up of what I was doing during those four years and the people that I met and what college clubs I was going to like probably
none of that will ever come up. But it could somehow slip that you know I mentioned the last place I worked and someone be like, weren't you in school during that time I'm like oh yeah yeah I was a full time student and a full time accountant at the same time, which it's a level of headache I don't want
together together just the the hostility of lying and and the practicalities of it seemed terrible to me.
It is an outside the box solution. It's not one I would endorse for the exact same reasons like I don't like lying I'm uncomfortable with it for the reasons you described. And like, like he said the burden of having to keep track of your lies like the best thing about just being honest all the time is that you
don't have to remember what story you gave one person versus another. Like, yeah, it saves you all those headaches.
MPQ replied on the on the discord that maybe an example closer to the mark is life hack. If you see your neighbor's Amazon packages outside the apartment, just take them.
You'll have it for free.
Life hack if you go to an airport, they're just all of these suitcases that are just nobody is paying attention to and you can just take and leave with.
Yeah. Yeah, what was at the counter that it's most school doesn't teach any important career skills, especially depending on some of these degrees, and are there mostly for signaling, which is a, you know, a destructive game anyway.
So you get the benefits without having to go through the value destroying process of getting the degree.
Yeah, it's kind of, I feel like I personally don't want to do it, but I don't find it to be that morally egregious considering that we're in a system that wants you to pay like 15k to go get a piece of paper that says, you know, things that you
already know. Like in my case, my library director told me that like, oh, you could go get your master's but it'll be really easy for you. You already know all the stuff they're going to teach and I was just like, am I really going to have
$15,000 in so many hours of my life. Yeah.
I don't know if you guys are thinking you guys can get a slip of paper from a school for $15,000. You can get a semester for $15,000.
Not a master's degree. And it was an online program.
Oh, okay. Yeah, fair enough.
I still might be misremembering the price. It might have been more than that. But yeah.
I know that trying to get a, I don't know, lying about my degree would not have quite helped. The primary reason I stayed through the last half of my degree was so that I could get a visa to the US to work here.
And unfortunately, I got the literal, I think, worst grade you can get while still getting a degree because I didn't want to stick around for any other reasons.
That is an excellent motivation to go to school.
Yeah.
Half-asset with all you got was, I think, the chapter title of one of the Replacing Guilt.
Yeah.
Which reminds me, I want to plug that audio book again. John Luca has been doing a podcast that's been reading the Replacing Guilt series.
Oh, it's great. You can just search Replacing Guilt on any pod catcher.
We had an episode about it, I don't know, several months ago, and I was like, yep, I need to read that.
And kind of like with these books, I imagine, just getting it in a format that will actually entice me to get to it.
I'm now waiting for them every week. I've listened to all 30-something episodes.
And the best thing is people who I know don't read less wrong have told me that once I recommended this, they've listened to all of them and enjoyed it.
So just the virtue of getting things out there in multiple formats.
Yeah, that seems great.
I did. Is that, that's the word, right?
I have never heard, that's a very good, a legitimate, I remember the word, but yeah, it catches podcasts.
I didn't, I don't know where I got it from. I did not create it though.
I feel like I've heard it before. Like people who do podcasts use that word.
See, this is why they need to be fed to the dentist. They can be in on all the hip slang.
All right, we'll move to the other one.
You guys do need to look at the Denver, get in touch with the Jays. They've got a housing idea.
Nice. Oh my gosh.
Yeah, I want a group house, but there's the COVID hack and recommend.
Yeah, COVID makes everything really hard. Also makes group houses kind of more valuable.
I would have probably turned insane if I didn't have all my housemates providing basic connection.
I have a handful of coworkers to live alone and I, I try to do my best to like hang out with them while we're working together,
even if it's just being on a call, like while we're both doing our separate jobs.
Because I'm fortunate enough to live with somebody I love spending time with and that's enormous privilege right now.
So yeah.
I've just been slowly going insane. So it's been working.
Yeah, yeah, it's weird to miss humans. Like I'm such an introvert and it's just super weird to like,
I think I was actually texting Charlie about this. I was just like, do you miss people?
I'm starting to, I'm starting to miss people like going out and the other humans and talking to them.
It's weird. I never thought I would feel this way.
This is how extroverts feel all the time.
I mean, maybe we could ask them, but I don't know if we want to get that close to one.
We've identified extrovert and we've had like sort of joking, but not joking.
There's kinds of conversations like really you like that? So weird.
What's that like?
I think rather than asking them, I'd rather just make an M tuck.
So like, so I don't actually have to interact with anyone.
I love it.
All right.
I believe that's it.
So shall we just think?
Of course.
And then eat it for nutrients.
So, oh, is it my turn this time?
I think so.
Okay.
