He just never arrived him and it's been four years and then a recently got an email saying some posters right here.
His paper on the speed prayer was the slowest piece of mail that he has ever received.
Order it from.
I do not. I mean, I guess maybe we should make updates about academia's speed.
So I have a question about this.
Like I didn't find it controversial that laws of physics are are easier to to model on a computer than a human mind.
And so like I found that part relatively like a skim past it.
I was much more had a much harder time figuring out the the last part of this post, which seems to be the opposite for you guys.
It says near the end here that if someone says the lady down the street is a witch, she made the sequence come out 01010101.
Your excuse your accusation of witchcraft wouldn't let you shorten the rest of the message.
You would still have to describe in full detail the data that the witch recalls.
So even after you say which since you start to describe the detail and fill data you have not compressed the total length of the message describing your observations by transmitting the message about witchcraft.
You've simply added a useless prologue increasing increasing the total length.
The real sneakiness was concealed in the word it a which did it a which did what my question is like what what does this mean exactly?
Why is the compression of the total length important?
So I like going back to the so we had a question of like, okay, I show you free images and you're trying to derive what the laws of physics are.
And there's like a question of and he said this thing of like, okay, you need 27 bits of evidence in order to like hone it down from a set of 100 million million candidates.
But what does it mean for an image to have 27 bits of evidence?
It like obviously has many more like an image like usually if it's like 1000 by 1000 will have like at least 100.
Well, I know at least 1 million and probably at least 3 million because of like color information and various stuff like this, and probably also gradients and stuff like this.
So the way I would imagine it is like, when you look at the first 10 pixels of the image, how good are you at like, how much better are you at predicting like the rest of the image or more concretely like the world like the laws of physics that you're trying to predict.
And you can check.
And that then after looking at the first 10 bits, you can ask yourself what message what information content did that have how many hypothesis did those rule out.
So similar for the which one you can ask is you can look at the first four words and say the lady down the streets as a which she did it.
And you can ask yourself, okay, after I heard those sentences, how good am I as a perfect vision predictor at determining what the correct sequences that like I'm trying to predict.
And you hear those words and you're like, well, none.
Yeah, not actually know this has given me indeed zero information about it.
And but if you and if you if you change it and say the sequence was X, the lady down the street is a which she did it.
And you ask yourself, okay, I first read the first, the first, like the first 10 characters of this of the sentence, how good am I at predicting sequence.
And you're like, well, I have the sequence.
I that's it.
I, I mean, I'm there.
And then I give you more words and you're like, well, okay, that clearly means that those words must be duplicates.
They can't give me more information about the hypothesis earlier.
And if someone gave you just the sequence, you couldn't derive the lady down the street as a which and she did it from that sequence.
Yeah, even though that's not another necessary requirement, you might have it like you did this, the party hypothesis don't necessarily need to be like correlated to each other.
You could.
But it's also like, I do think that if it is usually the case that for good explanations, part of them will allow you to explain other parts of the explanations, but I think there's more to do with explanations than perfectly predicted.
I guess I think that maybe speak a little bit more practically to my experience or something.
I think often a good explanation helps me.
Often I think what I implicitly mean by a good explanation is something I can think about.
I can use to think about a phenomenon without using up all of my working memory slots or something.
This is a very human answer or something, but I can imagine trying to get through a maze and you could be like, you need to go left, left, right, right, left, left, right.
And I'm like, okay, I'm not thinking about anything else for the next 10 minutes while I follow those sequence of instructions.
But then if you give me just always use the left hand rule and you'll be able to get out, which admittedly I think would be left, left, left.
I'm not quite sure what it looks like, but I think that could help me think of it in a much simpler way, whilst then being able to think about other things at the same time.
I think that's an example.
Yeah, I guess, thanks.
I guess it's not a, sorry, go for it.
No, I was just saying, I might steal that example at some point.
Yeah, I think often good math research often looks like this where they're like, oh yeah, we had this real complex model, but I've just turned it into a, like,
yeah, I think, yeah, when like,
first time you try and understand something in linear algebra or something, you're like, if I wrote it down in words or something, it would take me pages and pages and pages.
And then you can just get it down to a point when you, if you have the right concepts, you just write like three lines or something.
And you're like, oh yeah, I roughly get how the system works.
And I can like manipulate these sort of symbols and these sorts of ideas with some others.
I don't know, Ali, do you have a practical example?
I feel like mine were either too abstract.
That kind of explains the programming language thing too.
Yeah, yeah.
Where if you were to like write out in English, what this program was doing, or I go levels down deeper if you're using Python, like, yeah.
Yeah, I agree.
I was like, starting to understand bits of it.
I still feel like there's stuff going over my head, but I'm glad that we had you guys on for these sequences.
Oh, yeah.
And he actually said a text the other day that was just like, I'm serious.
He wanted his hired help.
And I like, it's like, how could it be?
I remember reading this and I like opened it and I was just like, oh yeah, that one.
I feel like I sort of missed the point on this post because I have a, I think a good working intuitive version of Occam's razor, which is just like, I mean, if I give you an explanation for how the engine in my car works,
and then someone else gave the engine, the description about the engine for my car works, and it was the same except they said, and also little invisible fairies push the pistons.
In addition to the, you know, the, the combusting gasoline, like Occam's razor told me no, I'm going to take the one without the fairies because it has an additional stuff on top of it that I don't need to explain this.
And that even leaves aside the point that like the fairy thing is really complicated, right?
Yeah.
And I think, and it's, and there's like another, the kind of close by intuition is it just didn't even help me think about the thing throughout the fairies.
Never mind that I know that fairies are kind of magical.
It just like didn't, I already understood the engine and I already understood how to interact with it fully or as well as I could.
And you like didn't help me by adding this extra thing to what I had to think about.
Yeah.
But I think the key thing that I think this post us is it gives you the, it allows you to handle the situations where, well, but like, it's not impossible that they are fairies, like not literally absolutely impossible.
But now you have to answer the question of, well, how impossible.
Like, and that's actually a really hard question that like philosophy for like, I mean, in some argument, like some could argue still not, but like philosophy hadn't had an answer for for like thousands of years.
We like post outcomes razor and we were basically like, well, the simplest one seems like the best one.
But we didn't have the language of probability theory.
So we couldn't tell you how much is the simplest one, the better one.
And the thing that he says in this post is, well, he has come very concretely.
If the thing adds this many bits of information, then it's in larger complexity class and therefore each additional bit of information must cut the probability that you assigned the hypothesis into two.
And it's a very precise answer.
That's very nice.
And because fairies is a very complicated additional piece of data that makes the probability much, much, much lower.
But if somebody were to give just give you a very slightly different explanation of it, of an engine that maybe only is one or two bits longer, then you still have to assign substantial probability mass to that being right.
If it fits all the facts as well.
Okay, yeah, fair enough.
I like that because you're right.
I think I chose to out there example the fairies, but I could imagine it's really satisfying to combine those two things where like, I think of great explanations.
It's usually being like two separate phenomena.
And now we have this thing where like, oh, I have this example that makes it so like if I if I pass it to fairy thing, it seems like that's really that's that sounds really dumb.
But if I pass it a thing where somebody gives a separate explanation, that's just a bit more complicated.
It doesn't sound that dumb.
And now we have a single formalism that explains why the slightly different explanation still has some probability mass, whereas the fairies has basically no probability mass.
Basically kind of know that there is a exponential relationship between a number of additional bits and the probability penalty it needs to get.
And that's like a really powerful intuition that we like because it takes these kind of two phenomena that didn't exactly know how they were related and combines them into one really elegant explanation.
I love it.
Yeah.
No, that's a really nice way of putting it.
Yeah.
I was, I was going to segue us straight into that's kind of like for me Occam's razor 2.0 speaking of 2.0 is let's talk about that's wrong 2.0.
We do have to quickly say what postword reading next time though. Exactly.
That's why it wasn't a good time to drop it.
We've got to say what we're reading next.
Real quick.
Did anyone have last words before we move on?
I'm good.
Okay.
Then for next time, the post we're going to be reading is how to convince me that two plus two equals three and the bottom line.
That's such a great like setup for next week because anyone who's not read that is going to feel a bit shocked.
It reminds me of this is a bit of a tangent, but Nick Bostrom once went on the Sam Harris podcast and Sam Harris went through Nick Bostrom.
They went through three papers by him.
And there's such bizarre concept and ideas in his papers.
And I remember the first paper was it wasn't the great filter.
The first paper was about the vulnerable world hypothesis where he talked about the need, the potential need for certain amounts of global coordination.
And it got Sam Harris to say the sentence, you know, if China or North Korea or a global dictatorship came down the next day, it's interesting now that amongst all the terror and horror, I would now after reading your paper see a silver lining to this Nick Bostrom,
I was just imagining Sam Harris's readers going, what the heck did he just say?
And then his next paper was on the simulation argument, which was had Sam Harris like assigning like actual probabilities or something to the possibility that we're in a simulation with an external power that's like playing the game or something.
And I just, and then he finally turned to Bostrom's third paper, which is a great filter paper.
And he said, and so your next paper is about aliens.
I just imagined the audience going, I don't think I'm ready to hear what Sam Harris is about to say about aliens.
So thoroughly, I just had the same feeling when you were like, next week, we're asking how you can convince me that two plus two equals three.
I was like, I don't want to know.
Brain damage.
Well, now there's a much better case than brain damage.
We should use Steven Segway now to talk about more less wrong posts, but of a different variety.
That's right.
So we talked a little bit earlier about less wrong 2.0.
And I remember getting the email and checking out the site when it first came out.
I guess at the top level, what separates less wrong?
Or is it separate?
What is the difference between less wrong 2.0 and 1.0?
And yeah, start there.
Yeah, I mean, the big thing is really just kind of when you look at a history of less wrong.
I think, I mean, kind of Eleazar started writing an overcoming bias.
He then moved to less wrong.
He increased like created kind of a whole community on there.
But then sometime around 2012, 2013, he kind of disengaged and a bunch of other people kind of started interfacing essentially less of less wrong.
And I think like pretty visibly over the years like 2014, 15 and 16, things kind of declined, even just like in very boring and obvious ways, like we just had a lot of spammers.
At some point, we had to turn off down voting because we had someone who like was down voting everyone, but we couldn't ban them because Reddit, like the thing was forked off of Reddit and the moderation tools weren't good enough.
And so it kind of had all of these problems.
And at some point, me and me and Matthew Graves Vannevar on less wrong kind of sat down and were like, well, we should fix this.
And he was officially declared benevolent dictator of less wrong for life by Eleazar and other people.
So he kind of felt like it was his job to fix it.
So we sat down together and decided on a plan.
And I had run a small web design and web development company in Germany before and had studied computer science at UC Berkeley.
And so I seemed like I hadn't that much experience with like building things like less wrong, but I also was like another horrible programmer.
And so we just decided to kind of restart everything from scratch in terms of code and in terms of the underlying architecture and really build it into a site that fell to me like,
would both enable to revive less wrong in terms of activity and trust in the system and the people being active here.
And technologically just make it so that, you know, it didn't completely break on mobile devices, which was a bit sad for a few years because the whole website was built on mobile was even a thing.
It looks so much more sleek and modern.
I had that nice minimalist design.
I got really excited when I saw it.
Even before anything was really working and it was just sort of the landing page with some text and I was just like, yes.
Yeah, the UX on it is nice.
It's pleasant to navigate, pleasant to look at, which shouldn't be a huge filter to keep people away, but when it doesn't hurt to use, that's a big perk.
It makes it pleasant to use.
I feel like you kind of breathe this like a sigh of fresh air coming off of, I don't know, BuzzFeed or wherever else.
It's just clean and minimalist and you can see where all the things are and what they do and it's like, ah, I want to hang out here.
So this is just completely random, but where did you get that picture for the new less wrong and what is it exactly?
Yeah, so I think I discovered it probably Huckabee News like many years earlier.
It's a map of the Mississippi River that was created in the 1930s by Harold Fisker.
And he was just like a purveyor, like he was like survey to land for the US military at the time.
But a really interesting thing about it that I like about it is that it's not just a map of the Mississippi River,
it's a map of the Mississippi River at different points in time.
So it's like a map that like changes with the territory or reflects the changing territory in this really interesting way.
Where actually each one of the lines is the Mississippi River at different points in time.
And I kind of really liked it as kind of a central metaphor for, you know, the whole map and territory metaphor was always really cool or too less wrong.
But also really liked it as like a map that goes beyond just like being this static thing that tries to capture the territory at one point.
It tries to display how the territory changed at other points.
And I felt like it really highlighted some additional dimension to like the whole metaphor of the map and territory to less wrong.
That like made it more excited, made me more excited, more excited to include it as like one of the central branding elements.
And it captures the metaphor of less wrong itself changing and becoming a new territory.
Yep, I like that one.
Yeah, the rivers are changing between 1765 and 1944, which is quite a lot of time for a river.
The parts that we've used are parts where it's like overlapping and looks kind of somewhat artistic.
I will warn you, the map is much, much longer and gets very Lovecraftian.
I just like to unravel where we cannot use it.
That seems fair actually.
Will it damage my sanity to look at the full map?
Well, it does kind of attack the impermanent like the concept of the permanence of rivers.
It changes them to these things that can just change and sometimes go in circles.
It's very confusing.
So this has been going on for like just like four years now and it's been growing over time, it looks like?
Yeah, it's been great.
We currently have like pretty substantial growth.
It depends a lot on which exact metrics you're looking at.
Like in terms of page views, it's been something like 30, maybe 40% year of year growth in terms of comments.
It's been more like 80%, 70% like kind of almost doubling every year, a bit less than that.
And then also in terms of votes and various things like that.
We're in terms of comments and posts.
We're pretty close to what like the highest peak was Deadless Wrong ever had in 2011 kind of during the time when all the HP will our discussion threats were going on.
Yeah, I think 2011 had about I think 2800 posts on this one.
And I think 2020 is at 3000.
