So this is the first year that's like crossed over.
So kind of in terms of like restoring less wrong, I feel like we've done a pretty good job there.
And then voting wise, we're still quite a bit quite a bit below kind of all time historical peaks, which I mostly kind of set as a target is like I know that we can get less wrong to that kind of that kind of engagement and traffic pretty easily.
Well, pretty easily means we had a time needed to make it a laser full time project, which maybe isn't that easy seems at least humanly achievable.
And so I think we've been making a lot of good progress and this year has been great because well everyone has been stuck at home.
And so they couldn't they just started reading less wrong a lot more.
And so that's one of the small civil learnings that I have for for this year.
So it sounds a lot of the draw of the new less wrong is the awesome curation that you guys are doing.
And so I wanted to ask you about like some of your favorite posts.
Well, one of the things we've done in the terms of curation as we're going to chat about I guess a bunch is the fact that we've turned some of the best stuff on the new less wrong into a book set.
Which we, yeah, as I said, it seems one part of us love trying to reward some of the best stuff.
I can happily tell you some of my best posts favorite posts from the book.
Absolutely please do that.
Sure.
Actually wait before you do that tell us what since we the reason we got you on here was because of the book but I don't think we've actually talked about what the book is on the podcast yet.
Preach media technology.
I'm happy to look at it.
Yeah we interviewed a bunch of like users and like what would make them feel motivated about like writing was motivated them to write the great stuff what would motivate them further.
And several people were like, I'd love it if I was in a book, like a physical book that was like published and stuff.
And so this has been a project I've like wanted to do for quite a while.
We also wanted some sort of longer term feedback loops on the site, you know, I think when you post the social media, all of your sort of engagement happens in the next sort of like one to three days and then that thing sort of falls into the sort of
very whole history.
Whereas hopefully in science, this is not how the best papers work or something the best papers grow in like how much readership they get over time and like, like are picked up and like read by the entire next generation.
And so, unless wrong, it's still the case that we do better than that, but it's still the case that, you know, a lot of the engagement have the post happens in the sort of week where it gets published.
And so readership happens then as well.
It's not funny to actually I think a lot of old stuff like certainly the sequences and legacy content gets quite a lot of reading.
But so what we've instigated is an annual review process, which we're currently in the midst of the second one.
And so in the end of review, we have a two week period for nominations where you go through the post of the year that we're reviewing, and you say you click nominate and you try to show explanation of why you're nominating it to potentially be in the book.
Then we have a month long review period where people are encouraged to write reviews of stuff.
People have written pretty great reviews last year.
But the nominations are especially a section I really love because we just got to read people.
I just we don't get to see these comments very often, but we get to see these comments where people say this totally changed my perspective on this issue or this reading this post changed like my relationship with my father for the better or this post.
I just thought about it consistently and I've linked to it like dozens of times.
And I think that's not only like great to hear about how the site's working, but I think it's also really great feedback for the writers to go oh wow that's something that's happening is when I write on this room.
So we have a review and then we have a vote and we use quadratic voting which is a cool setup popularized by Vitalik Buterin and Glenn Vile.
And then this is the first year I've tried it and I tried to make something that's very distinctive and like has a coherent vision behind it.
So I took basically roughly the top 44 posts from that vote.
I think there were about 100 posts that got voted and I took the top 44 and we've turned them into this set of books sort of built around some key themes and we tried to make them very beautiful and we tried to like make them something you'd be proud to be written published in.
The five themes of the book are epistemology is the first one.
It all starts with epistemology agency the sort of notion of rational agency and being an agent in the world coordination of having groups of agents.
Curiosity, which is the first virtue of rationality and alignment, which is about being able to align other agents with your own cognition and value function, which we kind of care a bunch about because AIs are an issue and we're trying to build them.
Is there one book per theme?
Yeah, it's five books.
They're all pocket sized because empirically this was the size of book that our beta testers actually found they've read.
We'd like we printed them in a bunch of different sizes and I took them to parties and such and people would look at the big hardbacks that were kind of nicely formatted nicely edited and they'd go, oh, that makes sense that that exists.
And then they'd look at these four by six tiny books that were not well formatted and the text was a bit gray and the line height was awful.
Which should be clear we fixed it's not a selling point.
But at the time that's what we had and people just kept coming back to them in the party and just reading a couple chapters as really kind of surprised by that.
Even though the internals of it were not at the time we just not very well designed.
And so, yeah, this was like assigned.
This was a sort of book that, you know, many books are meant to look good on bookshelves and we've tried to make books that look good on bookshelves, but we also wanted them to actually be read.
And my own experience with many books is I buy very beautiful books that I intend to read and I don't often.
And so we tried to make them very unimposing was nonetheless kind of beautiful.
And so I ended up splitting into five little books.
Each one fits in my pocket or in Elizabeth's purse is a housemate of mine.
And yeah, that's roughly what the books are.
I could say more about them.
I'm curious if you have as parts of it you'd be interested in hearing about how many thousands of words per book on average would you say and how many posts per book.
Oh, I spent 10 posts a book.
Okay.
And each post generally several thousand words right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I think a little different five books add up to something like 600 normal pages.
I think that's roughly what I 700 750.
750 of the slightly smaller pages, which I think so I think it adds up to about 600 pages in total.
So something that I've mentioned.
Okay.
Yeah.
And pulling it back to bets earlier on.
I had a bet with a teammate of mine about how many would sell because I know we've not the lesser community has not sold books of this type before.
I think only as assaults and books and marry assaults and books.
But these have tended to be shorter and often kindle or print on demand that Amazon offers.
And these are selling at like $5 or less or something or somewhere in $1 to $10.
This is like, you know, it's got a lot of color in it.
It's been printed by like professional press.
And these are more expensive.
So this you have an actual print run from these.
Yeah, we did an actual print run, which of course costs lots of anxiety because we're constantly we have really uncertain about how many we were supposed to print.
Yeah.
How many did you print?
So we initially asked them to print.
We went to print 500 books because we were like, I'm not sure how many are going to sell.
And as I say, my teammate bet that we would not sell 200 by the end of the year.
I had a one on one bet with him.
There's only for $10, but you know that we not sell too much by the end of the year.
We announced them for pre-order, I think last Tuesday.
No, not the most recent Tuesday, but the one before.
And on the first day, I think we sold 300.
And so far we've sold 1800.
Nice.
Great.
So now we're asking for a print run that is an order of magnitude larger than the initial print run that we had asked for.
That being 4,000.
Yeah, which is quite surprising.
And outside several of my teammates, 90% confidence intervals.
Yeah, that is a damn good feeling.
Holy crap.
How many years do these posts span?
Is it like the since less wrong 2.0 started?
So the full first full year of content from less wrong 2.0 is 2018.
And these are the best posts of 2018 in that year's review.
So we haven't even reached the 2019 posts yet.
Oh, no, we're reviewing them right now.
As we speak, I hate to confess it, but I briefly looked at less wrong and people are nominated stuff since we started the podcast.
But yeah, so we've sold 1800.
And I think the rule of a rule of thumb we saw on the internet was your first week of sales is probably half your first quarter sales.
So like maybe that's we sold the first week.
I think about 1400 or so 15.
1500.
So something between 3000 in the first quarter and kind of hopefully like as I'm toting around 4,000.
But we have to do another print run, you know, there are worse problems to have in life.
But yeah, the press was quite shocked by our sales.
They're like, you want an order of magnitude more books.
All right.
They had to be pretty happy about that too.
I do. I'm assuming you got a price discount for volume.
Yeah.
Printing is really horrible.
Like the unit price for us went from $20 per print cost to $7 per print cost.
Last 500 marginal books cost us like $4.
And the first 500 marginal books would have cost us like $45 per piece or something like that.
Yeah.
It's all about volume and publishing because once you have it set up, you can just run the presses as much as you want.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Until it just gets to the price of like raw materials.
Yeah.
Then you're stuck with a warehouse of thousands of books, which you will never sell.
Unless you're you guys, in which case you sell them all.
Yeah.
So of course, no one's actually got the books yet because this is only just, you know, this is the last two weeks.
And so I'm very excited.
We promised everyone who bought them by, I think it was in the first week that we get them to them by Christmas.
And so I'm very much looking forward to everyone getting the books and hearing feedback on them.
I'm sure people will be like, these are actually small.
Where did you say this?
I guess the first sentence of every bit of marketing about it.
But I don't know what people will say.
I'm really sort of looking forward to it.
I think they will love it.
Yeah.
I tried to make something people would love and I didn't know whether people would want it or not.
But I've been pleased to find out that many do.
Yeah.
I've also just been really happy about our printer.
There's this, I don't know what you know about this.
There's StripePress.
So there's Stripe to people who like, who build payment infrastructure.
And for some reason, they build a publisher, a book publisher, StripePress, where they just publish books about topics that they feel are particularly important.
And their books are absolutely amazing in terms of print quality and just like unit cost and all kinds of stuff.
They recently published Richard Hammings, The Art and Science of Engineering.
And that book is absolutely beautiful.
So we were like, man, we would like to make beautiful books that are as good as those.
Wait, what printer did they use?
What are their supply lines?
Luckily, one of our friends just knew someone who worked there.
So we just called them up, asked them about their supply lines and their printers.
And then we just stole their supply lines and printers.
Now we're using exactly the same things as they do, which I'm very glad to StripePress for saving us all the work of finding and selecting all the right people here.
Yeah, I think often in the nonprofit space, it is often rare to find someone who has attempted to solve similar problems to you.
And it's always like, in the for-profit space, like people like, oh, I don't want competitors often.
But I feel like in the nonprofit space, I'm often like, there are occasionally other people that like build web forums or something.
Or in fact, there's people who don't like our version of Lesserung and they have built their own UI of Lesserung.
And I think often you'd be like, oh, competitors.
But I'm just like, wow, you put in hours of effort to try and solve the same problem as me.
I am fascinated to see the way you've solved this problem and I learned from it.
And similarly, I'm very appreciative that StripePress has done a lot of the parts of building a publisher in this present day era.
The primarily works online and like tries to make very beautiful books that you primarily buy online.
You don't see in books to us.
And there's a lot of different design problems that they have faced.
So yeah, I really appreciate all of this.
They have done this.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, go ahead, Stephen.
Oh, that was it.
Oh, okay.
So I was wondering, could each of you give us one or two of your favorite posts from the books?
Yeah.
I think my favorite essay from the book is probably Naming the Nameless.
It's a very weird essay written by Sarah Constantine that I don't know whether she really knows what to do with it.
It's an essay that's primarily about like what aesthetics are and how they work and what kind of influence they have on our thinking.
And it's really sparked when I read it two years ago.
It kind of had this very, very large effect on me because it helped me navigate something that I now consider something like the tyranny of system two or something like that is a common phrase I use in my internal monologue kind of where in many environments,
I feel like I'm being pushed towards type of reasoning that are very, very verbal and very explicit.
And I actually noticed how large fractions of my thinking actually don't really go through that and how in particular large fractions of like what I historically thought of as the rationalist aesthetic have fallen into this mistake of just like not having good art,
not having good intuitive handles for concept and instead often relying on things like relatively dense mathematics that is useful for verifying things but not actually very useful for explaining things.
And the post really goes into a bunch of analysis of society and a bunch of common cultural trends that try to point towards the effect of aesthetics on different parts of society.
And I think it's less to specific arguments that it made but more that it kind of like made it so that I could have the handle of aesthetics and its effect on thinking and its effect on culture as like a really specific element that I could think about and reason about and analyze its effects on my life.
But is that in the epistemology book then?
I could have imagined also putting it in coordination but I think it fits slightly better in epistemology.
Yeah, she has the phrase.
Yeah, well, I was going to say we'll be sure to put links to all these.
Sorry, go ahead.
I'm sorry.
Well, I guess neither of us is going to speak.
She has the phrase in it.
I don't know if you know the phrase double crux, which is a technique Seafar developed for helping disagreements work, which is about not merely finding things you disagree on, but finding cruxes of your disagreements.
So finding a thing that if you change your mind on, it would change your mind on the overall argument and trying to find issues that are cruxes for both of us.
