Hello, my name is Mark Vernon and I wanted to see whether I could offer something to
the conversation that's going on between figures like Jordan Peterson, Ken Wilber,
John Viveke, the people at Rebel Wisdom and others are trying to put this conversation
together. And what I wanted to see if I could do was inject the perspective of a figure
who I feel and kind of hope will become seminal in this debate and discussion, which is the
figure of Owen Barfield. He was one of the Inklings, friend of Alan Watts, and he always
thought his time would come. And I feel with this conversation that's going on now, maybe
his time is coming and I'm going to try and make his case. So I thought I'd try in this
half hour or so just to see whether I could put together some sense of what he has got
to offer, how he's in the conversation, but also offering something different and see
whether that can make any sense. And I've structured it around three sort of broad
areas that pick up on things that repeatedly come up when people discuss Peterson, Wilber,
Viveke and others and see whether Barfield does have something different to say. So the
first one I wanted to talk about was what you might call the problems with the kind
of mountaintop view. I feel often what the approach, often from cognitive science, in
fact, tries to do is kind of take a mountaintop view and come out with a kind of theory of
everything, a map of meaning, maybe a cognitive schema, sort of developmental schema, and
integrate everything that's empirically observed about people's development into that map in
order that where people are at can be charted. Now, there's clearly something very valuable
in this. I'm a psychotherapist and developmental psychology is very influential and important
in trying to help someone. But it does lead to problems as well. And it's actually quite
often commented that people can get kind of lost in the maps by which I think they mean
that they kind of lose touch with realities. It is a trying to chart whether they're on
the map or there's endless debate about the maps themselves, rather than the reality of
what's going on, that they're the maps are trying to open up. And Barfield has a very
different approach, which I feel can complement that and maybe help reconnect with reality
when the maps approach tends to disconnect. And that's because he took a narrative approach
to these questions. And in particular, he took a narrative approach that stressed a kind of
imaginative participation with oneself and with life. Now, let me just try and explain what I mean
by that is that he was a philologist. And he looked at how words change meaning across different
periods of cultural time. So the way that ancient Greeks use words, late antiquity, the medieval
period, the early modern, even differences between the early modern and modernity as we know it
now. Words have very dramatically changed meaning. And because words are, we participate in life by
the use of words, you know, words aren't just signs that we use to point. And the words themselves
carry a life for kind of vitality. You wouldn't be able to make any sense of what I'm trying to
say, unless those words directly are not just conveyed, but we're immersed in the meaning of
what we're talking about, what I'm trying to say. They are in a way life themselves. Barfield put it
on this way, he said that words have soul, they have a kind of animating quality. And so the
advantage of looking at approaching things from a philological perspective is that you always stay
in touch with that vitality with that life. And what Barfield did was tell a story about how
words change meaning, which was based on the idea that consciousness itself changes, that it evolves,
that it shifts. And the experience of life that someone in the ancient world, for example, would
have had is therefore very different from the experience of life which we have now. But it's
always about the experience of life. And it tells, say, the stories of the ancient myths to open up
that older experience, and see what's being lost, what's being gained from the kind of myths which
we tell ourselves now, the kind of heuristics that we use now. It's imaginative to because language
is this intermediate form which we humans use. It's part of what Plato called our in between
status, as a world where we're not just like other animals. So far as we can tell, who as we're just
get on with life, we do reflect on life. And we have this capacity to step back to some degree. And
that forms part of our our life as well, whether it be out of wonder or out of anxiety. But neither
we like the gods who don't use language, all the kind of visions of heaven and so on, interestingly
show paradises a place where language isn't used. But instead, the kind of direct communication goes
on a kind of telepathy. This is almost the experience there can be tolerated and known in all
its fullness. We aren't there yet. But language is this intermediate kind of zone. Put it another way,
you know, it's both sound, a physical thing, and its meaning, what you might call a spiritual
thing, something that's immaterial. And so we human beings, our life as it were, is very connected to
our use of language, not because language determines everything that we can know and experience, but
because language is of the domain that we're predominantly in this in between status, kind of
aware, but not fully transparent to being itself. And so this philological approach, this use of
words that have soul meant that he could track how meanings changed. And so words can also become
sort of fossils of consciousness. They can tell this story of how things change. I was thinking
about word this morning, which captures something of this, the word emotion. And until really took
quite recently until the 19th century, the word emotion was still very connected to motion.
Emotion and motion were sort of one on the same thing. Emotion just meant a kind of agitation
that led to motion. So for example, romantic poets could talk about the sweet emotion of the wind.
That that basically the South wind was felt to carry a kind of sweetness. And that was part of its
motion. The emotion of the wind was in the world, you might say. And it was only in the 19th century
when the disenchantment of the world really set in that emotion was taken into ourselves and is now
experienced predominantly, if not only as an kind of inner state. So emotion, the word is both a
fossil of an older consciousness, which you can pick up in poets, like say, Shelly, that talk about
the emotion of the wind, as well as carrying something about our inner state. Now, if I say
emotion, now you experience something of what it is to have that inner state, which I also have.
So it's a kind of narrative, a sort of philological approach that keeps you in touch with with
reality and experience, rather than a schema, which for all its uses inevitably has to kind of
detach you somewhat from the from the experience. And so people often talk about getting lost in the
maps or having any debates about the maps and losing touch with reality itself. So that was one
thing that's an advantage, I think, with this kind of narrative approach. Another advantage of the
narrative approach is that it extends the sort of epistemological range of things. So for example,
it's often remarked at T.S. Eliot, the poet remarked this, that science is very good at gathering
information. But you need a kind of knowledge in order to know how to join that information up.
You need to kind of wisdom in order to be wise about the different kinds of knowledge approaches
and you might take to that pure information. And so you need as well to join the dots, then there's
also a question of how you join the dots. That's wisdom. And but this participative approach
which Barfield advocates and takes it further than that actually. And because wisdom is also
connected to meaning and purpose. As it were, there is lots of different kinds of wisdom in the
world. And there's the wisdom of the moment. And there's the wisdom of different spiritual
traditions, different wisdom traditions that sometimes called. And you can sort as it were
between those different wisdoms by asking this question of meaning and purpose. That is a felt
sense of what draws you in life and makes life feel fuller. And that itself can discern the
wisdom. But it doesn't stop there. And with meaning and purpose, there's needed for a kind of vision
as well. It's not just the individual meaning and purpose that counts. And but the vision which
can be shared in a collective sense to that, as it were, discerns the meaning and purpose, what
vision you have. And then vision itself, as it were, nest sits within being the way the world
actually is reality itself. So reality, you might say, gives rise to different kinds of vision,
which gives rise to different kinds of meaning and purpose, which gives rise to multiple
wisdoms, different takes on on the world, which can join the dots of knowledge, which itself
can understand and see the different knots of pure information. So you go move from not just as
what information to knowledge to wisdom, as the sciences, particularly the cognitive sciences
tried to do, but extend that even further. So you join that into meaning and purpose, vision,
and then being itself. So it links up the whole of reality, this approach, I think, and through
these different levels of being. That sounds a bit complicated, perhaps, but you know, it's in a
story when you read a story, and when you read a myth, actually, all these levels are operative. And
again, this is kind of narrative approach. You know, you read a modern novel, and you realize
that it's not just as well the information of what's going on in the plot, the knowledge and the
wisdom of the characters concerned, the meaning and vision of their life. But what their life itself
conveys, being itself is operative. It happens at all these different levels when you when you
try and deploy a narrative or a myth to navigate your way through life, and not just a schema. So
to put it another way, this is about sort of participating, participating all the way in
life. And it's about your love of life, your zest of life. It brings in desire, as well as
cognition and awareness. I think it's also quite one with the age. For all the faults of our age,
if there is one powerful force operative, it is desire, you know, we want more out of life. I
think that the genius of capitalism is that it takes that more, it completely understands it, but
drives it into pure desire for material gain, for what you might call the material more, and tends
to occlude or to conceal spiritual goods, which operate according to different laws for the
material world. But nonetheless, and you know, our age is threaded through and through with this
desire for more. And I think that you always get into problems if you try to be too ascetic about
that, if you're seen to be resisting the age. Because what happens then is that life in all its
fullness reduces to a kind of set of moral demands. It starts to feel heavy and oppressive. But again,
all the great spiritual teachers have talked about how life actually feels like it's expansive, it
lightens, it grows, and your desire is satisfied when you're following the right way. I think we
get a sort of clue to that from Barfield's sense that participation is what counts. You can ask
yourself, you know, is this approach inviting me to participate in life more fully in all the
ways that I have. It certainly is about discipline and training and focus. But ultimately, it's about
opening up. And so I very much like this alternative approach as well, for that reason. And then
finally a sort of comment in this first section about narrative rather than map. I think what it
also does is it joins up what's known with the Noah. It no longer leaves you a sort of stranger in
the world. But because it operates at this level of soul, cultivates a sense of participating in
life. And again, the more cognitive approaches, they inevitably separate what's known with the Noah,
you from what you're studying, in order to do the study. They obviously want to return you to life
and reality itself. But that comes about quite spontaneously. When you are, for example, engaged
in poetry, Barfield was very interested in poetry. And because a poetic utterance doesn't just tell
you something about the world, gives you a feeling for that about the world as well. You know, when
Shakespeare compares the beloved to a summer's day, he's not just saying, this is my beloved, but
he's conveying something of the felt experience of being with that beloved. So what's known and the
Noah join up in this soulful way. And I think that this is the reason why soul is such an important
word in this debate as well. Ask yourself, you know, is what I'm thinking about reading about,
talking about the conversation, does it feel it has this quality of soul? And because the point
about soul is that with soul, you don't feel a stranger in the world, you feel you belong,
and you feel you're being carried along by the kind of flow of life, which wants you. But as it
were, wants you to be part of this bigger flow as well. I think, you know, there's no coincidence
that jazz is often called soul music. And because jazz requires both the participants to know
something about the music, whether they're a listener, and certainly if they're a player. But
they can't do jazz. And yes, that unless they're also completely immersed in the music, that what
they know, and what they're knowing must be completely connected. And soul is the natural
words that brings those side of things together. So that's the first sort of take on these things,
which I think Barfield has. It's a participative approach that uses a kind of narrative of who
we are as human beings, very interested in language, very interested in soul. And so can both be a
kind of understanding, but an understanding that constantly invites you to keep a main focus on
reality itself, and not get lost in the abstractions from reality. First point. Yeah, the second area
I wanted to pick up was how Barfield talks, not so much about developmental stages, as if there's a
kind of linear or cyclical spiral sort of progression through our psychology. But instead,
his biggest story is one of return. He sees our task as being a return to a kind of spiritual
fullness, which was our Aboriginal state. But it's a return with a key difference. So he actually
sees it as a kind of you, rather than say an upwards slope or as a spiral upwards, his preferred
shape is a you. And what he argues is that, individually, in life, maybe even through the
course of a day, we are both descending down one side of the you, but also have the potential to
re-ascend up the other side of the you. And he thinks that if that happens to us as individuals,
it also happens to cultures, and indeed the unfolding of history over periods of time. There's a
descent and then an ascent. And what that descent and ascent signifies is the descent from the
kind of Aboriginal whole, the one to use the neoprotonic scheme, a word, maybe Brahman, the
divine God, a kind of spiritual connection and integration, perhaps that you see in Aboriginal
cultures, where there's not really a distinctive sense difference between, say, the me and the
not me, the mortal and the immortal, the self and the other, the creature and other creatures.
There's a kind of continual flow and negotiation of that sense of life. But human beings seem to
descend. And this leads to both kind of alienation. On the one hand, a sense of disconnect and
struggle, but also a defining of the individual, the creation of inner life that makes us who we
are as people, as persons. It gives us self awareness. It gives us a sort of sense of awakening
up to who we are for all that that is painful. Ourself, you might say, is born out of a kind
of ontological gap that opens up between us and the rest of the world. And then the task is
to return to that sense of union. But without loss of the individual, without loss of self,
to use it in neoprotonic terms, it's the idea that the many can join back into the one, but with
their particularity, completely participating in the one, rather than say that their individuality
being kind of lost in order to return to the one. It's the vision you get, say, in Dante, when
Dante goes into paradise. And he constantly remarks how all the souls in paradise are distinct
souls. He still meets individuals he knew back on earth. But those souls are all moving in their
own place, in their own way, in a kind of marvellous harmony that is the music of paradise.
They're the many individuals now differentiated, but also fully participating and enjoying the life
of the one, the life of God. So this U-shape is Barfield's preferred sort of metaphor for trying
to capture how he sees our movement through life, both as individuals and as cultures.
And I think it has certain kind of advantages. I partly hinted at one there already, which is that
the ego, rather than being seen as a kind of problem, is actually seen, well, to use a Buddhist
phrase as the obstacle that's also the way, that when the ego, first of all, differentiates, it steps
back, as it were, from life. It can become inflated, it can become vainglorious, the risks that we
know with ego. But the way to deal with that is not to try and smash the ego. It is to see that
the ego can become the vehicle by which you can return to the one. To use Jung's phrase, it must
become the servant and not the master. The ego must realise that it's just the tip of the iceberg
of the bigger self, of the divine self, ultimately. But the advantages it has, as it can reflect, it
can discern, and it can know that of which it's participating in. And so this reorientation,
this realignment of the ego is, in fact, the return back to the one. It's a constant sort of
struggle, constant process, pride, vainglory, all these kind of things which have been identified
in the wisdom traditions constantly come up. And yet it's working through that, that you return
to the one. And a second advantage, I think, that the Barfield approach has, is it's both a process
of emanation and a process of emergence. Sometimes in these debates and this conversation,
there's a kind of a discussion about whether it's about emanation or about emergence. So
emanation broadly is a sense of descent. It's the sense that maybe from the one, the many creation,
evolution emerged, and it were a distance itself from the one, that sort of movement
outwards of the emanation. And then the alternative is emergence, which is from something very simple,
say the Big Bang, came a gradual complexification of creation. And it passes through a series of
thresholds. And as a threshold is moved through, something new emerges that couldn't really have
been anticipated before. The most obvious case is the emergence of life out of non-life. Now,
