they both have their kind of advantage, but I think that they can be joined together with this
sense of descent and return. Because, say, on the up movement, something new is experienced,
as it were, from the individual's point of view, something new does seem to emerge,
but also at the same time, it seemed to be actually a kind of return from what originally
emanated if a return with difference. So the way in which these two sides of the discussion could
be brought together, I think, with this new experience that Balfield articulated.
I think we're beginning to see this take even in new Darwinian evolution, new accounts of
Darwinian evolution, even in the science itself. I'm thinking here of the work of individuals like
Dennis Noble or Simon Conway Morris. And what they're beginning to realize and put the case
together for is that an evolutionary story, which is seen as just pure randomness,
can't really account for the way that we see things are. Because it does seem that there's
direction, if I say the word purpose, I mean maybe sort of goal-endedness in science. Science
is very nervous about purpose, strictly speaking. So I don't want you just to sort of load purpose
and teleology back into science. But certainly someone like Dennis Noble is starting to see how
the mutations that occur in organisms at various levels of the organism, from the DNA right up to
the whole organism, they often seem to have, they cut short just what would have been a purely
random process to rather simplify. You might say there's not enough time in the history of the
universe for all that evolutionary unfolding if it was just purely random. There does seem to be
some sense of rule. Or to use Simon Conway Morris's term, there's a kind of convergence in evolution.
That evolution, what Simon Conway Morris suggests is that evolution searches out niches. And niches
are part of the environments that are pre-existing to the organism. And that the organism through
its evolution fills those niches. And so evolution seems to converge into the same answers. So an
obvious, an often cited example of that is the eye, that we have binocular eyes, like octopuses
have binocular eyes. And yet our eyes and octopus eyes have evolved by completely different evolutionary
pathways, but they occupy the same niche of binocular sight in the environment in the cosmos.
Now, this debate amongst evolutionists about whether niches are created or whether they're
discovered, Simon Conway Morris is on the side of discovery. But if that plays out, if that wins
out that idea about niches, much also like Dennis Noble's ideas about there being seeming to be
a direction, but all sorts of different levels of reality too, then I think that's going to start
to fit with evolution used in the more spiritual sense, where levels of emergence are actually
seen as a return to the one, because the emergence fills niches that are actually contained within
the whole. You might put it in that way. That would be a kind of spiritual way of trying to
knit Darwinian evolution with spiritual evolution. So that's another value, I think, of this idea
of a kind of return rather than a developmental process. Another advantage it has, I think that
the return notion really values older kind of consciousnesses, earlier stages of what
developmentalism would call developmental stages, developmental phases. And it's because
older stages are seen to have a clue, a kind of imaginative sense of where the return must go,
if it's a return, even though it's a return with kind of self-awareness. So for example,
you know, an older phase of consciousness would have been what Barfield calls original
participation. It was this sense when there wasn't a clear difference between me and not me,
mortal, immortal, self, other, gods, humans, and this older sense of flow that I was describing
earlier. But rather than seeing that as sort of primitive, or somehow to be as it were moved on
from, it's actually got a completely vital clue to us about how we might live again,
because we too want to know that sense of connection. We too want to know and see not just
ourselves, but others, not just mortal life, but immortal life, to know as it were, the life of
nature and the world around us, to feel it, to participate in it, as our ancestors had,
according to this story. But we want to do it with this difference of self-awareness. We want to do
it with this sense of individuality that's porous once more to the world around us. So
older consciousnesses are not seen as stages to move on from. They're seen as actually vital to
study and get to know, even to preserve, because they have completely important clues, imaginative
nudges, which we must learn about in order to ourselves be on this path of return. You know,
you get this when someone like Jung, for example, or move recently in anthropology, they study these
other forms of life, these other consciousnesses. It's even now happening in the study of plants,
trees and fungi under the ground and so on. And what you get from these studies is not just a
kind of objective stepping back of this is how it works, but it evokes wonder and awe in you.
There's this sense that there's a different consciousness as well, just beneath your feet.
And that itself, because it carries this quality of soul, can awaken a kind of consciousness in
you over time too. So science becomes a spiritual practice. Anthropology becomes a spiritual awakening.
What was old needs to be taken into what's going to be new. So there's not a division,
not again, this sort of linear sense of moving on, not a sense of superiority,
but of a gathering and a return, which this U shaped model of participation can offer.
But just a final thought on this second phase, which I think the second aspect that perhaps
Barfield can offer, it changes the language around our times. So rather than seeing our times as a
kind of meta crisis, as a kind of complexification of things that's never been seen before,
what it sees it as is a kind of fall as a crisis. But within that crisis, there's good and there's
bad. Again, Barfield's philology would know that the crisis wasn't just the bad notion
originally, but it was also a turning point. And so to our crisis now can be a turning point.
And it's the turning point that's at the bottom of the U. That's where this fits into the second
observation of Barfield's contribution to the conversation. The crisis is a turning point.
And much like, say, the fall in Judeo-Christian mythology, well, certainly in Christian mythology,
the fall is as it was where Adam and Eve kind of wake up and realize their alienation. Nonetheless,
it's also the moment when salvation becomes possible to use the Christian term, that that's
also the beginning of their return. And so Jesus, for example, in the story is called the second Adam.
The original fall is seen as also the moment of possible awakening. Sometimes it's said,
actually, in psychotherapy that our sense of ontological gap, our sense of crisis, our sense
of anxiety is also actually the moment when our sense of selfhood can start to form. That'd be a
psychotherapeutic way of putting it. Anyway, so it's not as it were that we're just looking over
the edge and sort of hoping that somehow we might pull out of it, maybe through better technology,
through becoming smarter, somehow sort of bootstrapping ourselves out of this crisis.
And this more spiritual use story which Barfield has to offer sees the seeds of a new emergence
within the crisis, because the crisis is also a turning point. It's not to downplay the seriousness
of what we face, but it is perhaps also to see that hope in the despair, if only we as a world
can see it a right, can have the right vision, the right way of shaping this story, telling a
different narrative, which is one of participation and return. I think Barfield can offer us something
that could become very important in that way too. So I've talked about how he doesn't have a kind of
mountain view, map view, but a narrative participating view. And I've talked also about
how he doesn't have a kind of developmental stages view, but has a you or return point of view
and tried to outline how that can be of use and benefit. A third way, which I think Barfield's
different, and in a way this is the sort of most key of all, is that Barfield is utterly
ontologically committed about reality. Again, in some of the conversation that goes on,
you hear a kind of ontological weariness or an ontological sort of reserve holding back,
hedging your bets. It particularly comes up in questions about God and the divine. Do you believe
in God? Someone might be asked. And someone like Jordan Peterson will in a way quite rightly say,
well, it depends what you mean. And that is very much a good response. It's called apophatic theology
in the tradition, the awareness that you can't say anything positively about God. So it's hard
to affirm anything positively about God. But nonetheless, within apophaticism, there's no
doubt that there's being itself is the basis of reality, that the divine is the basis of reality.
And from that, and that's important, not just sort of theologically. It's important because
that also is the soil of a kind of spiritual ecology, a kind of consciousness that's not
just inside our own heads. But there is, as Barfield put it, the inside of the whole world.
It's talked about in terms of beings like angels and spirits. Sometimes it's remarked that, you
know, if the cosmos seems to have a kind of intelligence, then maybe there are intelligences
operative in the cosmos. You know, if I said I had intelligence, you'd assumed there was a kind of
intelligence in me. I was an intelligent person, not just a kind of abstract intelligence like a
mathematical formula. And so Barfield would say, within this spiritual ecology, and we can start
to wake up to the inside of the whole world, which will include the sense of other beings,
other intelligences that are operative. And this is so important because not just to make a kind
of theological statement, but because it's when we're reconnected, our pit, our pits are participating
with those other intelligences, and with the consciousness that's not just locked inside
our skulls, but we realize what's going on inside our skulls, it puts an echo of the
consciousness of the whole cosmos, that the meaning crisis will be over. That we'll be able to have
the real basis for forming right relationships with the world around us, whether that be the
environment or nature, whether it be spiritual reality too. So ontological commitment is not
just a sort of wise hedging of your bets, whether that be for reasons of skepticism or awareness
that epistemologically it's very hard to say anything about the divine positively.
Actually, at the end of the day, it does matter because it's a whether you have
a growing awareness that this spiritual reality more broadly is out there and that participating
with it is actually the path to return. So let me put that in a slightly different way.
In terms of the feel of the discussion, it makes a difference too because, well, let me use another
metaphor that Barfield used. He talked about how modern consciousness has a bit of a camera feel,
and what he meant by that was that it can feel a bit like taking a picture with a camera as a
word. There's a kind of black box that reaches out and then tries to grab a bit of reality,
but where as a word, the black box actually is in relation to reality is left sort of in suspense.
And science is broadly quite like that, and that it as a word tries to take the view from
nowhere, as Thomas Nagel famously put it, to grab a bit of reality and study it. It's a kind of camera
consciousness, but it leaves you with this sense of alienation. So you know something, but you're
not quite sure how you as the knower participate with it. And Barfield said that a return consciousness
is a different instrument, and the instrument that he returned to was the Aeolian harp. Now,
the Aeolian harp is a bit like a sort of violin box that has strings tuned over a
soundboard, and then it's left in the wind, in say a doorway or in a window, so that the wind,
the spirit of the earth, Barfield would remember that the word for wind and spirit,
is the same in all the old languages like Greek and Hebrew. So the idea is that the wind blows
over the soundboard and the strings to make the music. It's an instrument that completely
participates in the world around it. And he would argue that rather than being cameras,
we must start to think of ourselves as Aeolian harps as a word tuning ourselves, so definitely
doing something ourselves, but in order to participate once more with the world around us.
And so ask yourself, what's the feel of the conversation? Does the conversation that you're
involved with have more of this camera feel, this sense of sort of slight
part, a stepping back? Or does it have the more Aeolian harp feel that as you talk, the music
you make is filled with sort of love and passion and participating with life as a whole, with the
inside of the whole world? That's quite another, a good little indicator of what kind of stance
you're taking towards life and what journey you're engaged with. Another area where I think this
ontological commitment makes sense is to do with discussions about the shadow.
Jung is becoming more important again in this conversation and his remarks about the shadow
are part of that. And working on the shadow, working on the side of yourself that you have
constructed a personality around to try and avoid, which we all do. But to use the Freudian
expression, the repressed always returns. And so the shadow, although we've tried to
write out of our lives can often be ruling and running our lives. That was the observation
which Jung made. But it was just the first observation that Jung made, because Jung also
said that through the shadow, you can discover the self. And this is again the sort of the
spiritual side and ultimately the divine side. And so it's through the shadow, the shadow work
you might say is not an end in itself, it's a means to a greater end. And that end is a
reconnection with the divine. And the reason why the shadow is so important here is because
if the shadow is that which you don't want to engage with, it also then becomes a barrier
from that which you might engage with more fully. And so I like this idea of ontological commitment
that it doesn't just see our task in life to sort of try and wrestle with ourselves to be less
monstrous, less concerned with our own self and so on, struggling with that. It actually sees the
shadow as the roots the way forward into the divine life, into the life of the many that we
might share and then ultimately the many returning to the one. But of course you can only have that
sense of the shadow work if you also have that wider ontological sense, that wider ontological
commitment too. So there's a second way in which ontological commitments do actually matter.
Relatedly, I think you also begin to see that this is not about sort of trying to bootstrap
yourself into awakening, to sort of design the right technologies that might lead to the
next stage of human evolution, which has this very kind of camera internal, slightly trapped,
caught up anxious feel. It's about relating. It's about opening up and relating to the world around
you. You know, if you have the commitment, the ontological commitment that the world around
you is alive with a kind of vitality and a consciousness of its own, whether it be the
natural world or whether it be the spiritual world, whether it be the divine world, then you
can relate to it. You can speak to it as it were, you can try and study it, reach out to it, speak
to it, but you also begin to expect it to speak back to you. And again, you know, this is actually
quite a common experience that many people have, but perhaps the language of relationality can
open it up and bring it into this conversation. You know, people talk about synchronicities.
They talk about experiences gathered together under parapsychology. They talk about the universe
wanting me to do this or didn't want me to do this, even if they're not theists. And of course,
if you're theistic, you'll talk about the spirit or about the divine, about Brahman, about the
emptiness that's actually a fullness. So what you're trying to do there is we learn to relate
to these wider aspects of reality, to open up to them. And I think that that has a kind of expansive
soulful feel, which the bootstrapping technology designing our way out of this mess can lack,
something else that the Barfieldan perspective has to offer. And maybe to bring all this together,
I think at the end of the day, what the participative narrative, the you return, the many returning to
the one, and the ontological commitment that consciousness is the basis of all things, and
that we're trying to see how our consciousness is but a mirror, a reflection, an echo of the wider
consciousness that we can relate to. These three aspects of Barfield I've been trying to unpack.
The advantage of bringing them all together is that enables us to be engaged in this conversation
as whole people. And by that, I mean that we can bring our will to it. We want this return,
we want this emergence, we want this sense of evolving and reconnecting, solving the problems
that face us, the willful side to us. But it also brings together the desiring part of ourselves,
the passion, the love, that sort of energy which can propel us upon the way. It knits it together
with will, will as it were if you like, discerns the passion and directs the passion. And then
thirdly, you can also bring in the knowledge part of ourselves, the part of us which does actually
know things, which is discerned, which is worked out, which can understand the next step at least
and that we're taking along the way. And so the will, the desire and the knowledge can be knitted
together. And that's what it is to be a whole person. Those three things gather together in our
soulfulness that, as it were, it's not just something lost inside ourselves, but it's engaged
with a full flow of life, a full shaping of life. So the conversation between lots of people now
and trying to bring in Barfield's take on it, he was a philologist and rather than a cognitive
scientist, he thought about language and words and how they carry this soulfulness, that both
means we experience life as well as study life in our words when we use words, we as it were feel
the meaning as well as hear the meaning, whether the in-between creature, as he put it, awakening
and returning to the divine. But with that word, he also then developed, with the study of words,
