that you like, like bitterness, like maybe lemonade has like a tang to it.
OK, I like whiskey or something to figure out what you like.
Yeah, whiskey.
Yeah, OK, I've managed to I didn't like alcohol when I first had some as a kid.
I'm like, this is gross.
But then like I got drunk as an adult.
I'm like, this is wonderful.
Yeah.
So like there are things that spicy foods you can pick that up as a
kid by watching adults and copying the adults around you and you get a positive
reinforcement from copying adults.
And then with things like alcohol, obviously you get like a little dopamine
surge from the like other positive effects that it has.
And eventually you associate that with the flavor.
That's so cool.
The capsaicin is really good at keeping it keeping molds and bacterias off the food.
Yeah.
And you can anti develop tastes by having negative associations with them.
Like some people who get really bad stomach flu can't eat a kind of food that
they used to like anymore when it made them sick.
Oh, yeah.
My dad doesn't drink whiskey for like the last 35 years because he got crazy,
just like alcohol poisoning from it at some point.
So quick plug, super relevant for the YouTube channel, Hot Ones.
OK, if you guys are you are familiar?
I saw one of those.
I think it was with Weird Al.
Yeah, probably.
Yes, he has the gimmick is he has celebrities on and they eat increasingly
ridiculously hot hot wings and then he'll grill them with random questions.
And it's a fun little interview show.
But try one with any celebrity you've heard of that's fun.
And then watch the one with Alton Brown, the TV chef from, you know,
Good Eats and Cutthroat Kitchen.
And first, like people react differently because they get insanely hot.
People get sick.
People, you know, sweat, they cry.
Alton, just when it gets to the really hot ones, he's just like, you can't even
taste this. This is just this is just pain.
Like this one sucks.
It's not like then you'll get like to a hotter one even.
It's like, at least you can taste this one.
I can get, I'm getting some of the flavor in that.
So there's, there's something there to where you can enjoy as his thing is
mainly like, I'm not going to eat it just for the pain, but as long as there's
some flavor to it, but he also handed it really well.
Like he, I'm not sure if he completely shaves his head or if he's just bald
now, but he, I don't think he's sweated a bead the whole time.
He was crushing it.
So.
Well, maybe you just rubbed a bunch of aluminum into a skin before he went on.
The other trick for surviving hot foods apparently is tequila or like super
strong alcohol, but tequila is Alden's go-to.
And what does it do?
It helps neutralize it in your mouth.
So it burns less, but I don't think they were going to let him drink a bottle
of tequila on the show.
So he had a cup of half and half.
Yeah.
Milk is pretty good with that.
The fats I hear.
Yeah.
But I mean, so he went, he went over, he went overloaded with it and got half and
half.
Right.
So, um, yeah, anyway, hot stuff.
Yeah.
Um, we're getting close to the food part, which is, uh, like the plant part related
to that, so I'm, we're almost there.
Okay.
Um, yeah, then I've got an anecdote.
All right.
The next part was about how culture gets passed down.
So obviously, you know, you don't just inherit it the way you do with genes.
Scott pulled out this graph from the book that showed how infant humans compared
to apes on various IQ types tests.
So the apes and the babies scored almost exactly the same on a bunch of other measures,
except in social learning or like the ability to learn, uh, from another human or in
the case of an ape from another ape where human babies quote unquote, wipe the floor
with the apes.
Can I interject real quick?
Have you guys seen the video of the ape IQ test where the chimpanzee has to hit the
numbers and order on a screen after they are flashed really briefly on a screen?
I haven't, but I've heard the chimpanzees are better at certain kinds of math than
humans.
Uh, I don't know if it was math or just memorization.
Like they knew the numbers one through 14.
I think what order they come in anyway.
I don't know if they actually knew what they're supposed to represent, but
they knew the shapes and the order they're supposed to be in really quickly.
Like split second was flash on the screen and the disappear and the numbers just
randomly over the screen and the chimpanzee would go and touch on the screen in
order exactly when each where, where each one was.
Like there's no fucking way I could have done that.
I don't know any human who could have done that just with a split second flash on
the screen and the chimpanzees got it 100% of the time.
You seen something like that.
I can't remember it was the same thing or not.
That's, that's really interesting.
Like the real fast memorization of a visual thing was astounding.
I didn't get a chance to dig into that chart because I was reading this on my
phone on the train, but like it said, it was not, it was, it was toddlers and
that surprised me because I didn't know that toddlers had any sort of culture,
but I also don't know what the age range is for toddlers.
Oh, well, this was even talking about babies.
I mean, like we learn a ton from age zero to whatever age they're going to cut
it off for toddlers.
It's just a, you don't often see very much of the output of that learning.
Pretty much the first thing babies do is start imitating the humans.
In the womb, apparently they're still listening.
They were pruning phonemes from the native language.
Yeah.
So that surprised me.
We were talking about trying to document surprises earlier.
So I made a note of that.
I guess I just wouldn't have figured that they're even aware.
I mean, I guess not on reflection, they're obviously aware of each other,
but I guess I just didn't notice, I didn't consider babies.
I mean, I just didn't think that they could look around and like see what
another baby is doing and think about what they should do themselves.
I don't think they mimic other babies so much.
They mimic the adults around them.
They mimic each other too.
It's easier to teach a kid to swim if another kid teaches them.
Because even, I think, talked about that in the book.
You learn from people who are the most similar to you.
Yes, they did say that.
Anyway, that was interesting.
Scott brought up a couple of examples of about how infants are
obsessed with learning things, which we're kind of just talking about.
They even mentioned humans seem to have these built in slots in their brain
that they're compelled to fill with, specifically language, animals,
gender roles, and which plants are edible.
The language thing I've known about for a long time, I think it has been
known for a long time that humans are most susceptible to learning
languages in the early years of life.
And if you try to learn one after that period, it's always harder.
And often, especially once you get out of your teens, the accent will be
impossible to get rid of unless you have like some extreme coaching and practice
at it.
Sometimes just literally impossible to get rid of the accent no matter what.
And I mean, you got to think too, learning to talk is even harder than like
as an additional problem on top of learning a language, right?
Like how to make different sounds when you move your mouth.
Like that's not something that we're aware of and we're talking right now,
right?
So they've got to figure all that stuff out too, on top of learning how to
actually make the sounds they want to make.
I was really, I mean, I am really curious about the accent thing, though,
because apparently I could speak Polish early in my life with no accent,
just like fluent Polish.
And when I see video tape of me as a kid talking, oh my God, it's, I have a
bad Polish accent and I'm really annoying and I'm not surprised other kids
didn't want to hang out with me.
But now when I speak Polish with my parents, they say, you speak with a
heavy American accent.
And, you know, it's just, it's so weird that someone who can be taken out of
their home country, like Schwarzenegger, perhaps, right, lived his entire life
here since the twenties in America, probably doesn't speak his native
language all that much.
And yet he has this thick accent, which will never go away.
He probably couldn't even, I don't think he could even fake an American
accent with a lot of coaching.
You probably can.
You see a lot of British actors who have perfect American accents and vice versa.
Yeah.
But I met Schwarzenegger in particular.
I mean, if maybe he just never tried, because his accent is part of his brand.
But there was an interesting thing there about plants, which makes a lot of
sense, you know, observing what your parents, if you're a toddler, are eating
and stuff, but apparently babies have a huge aversion to plants.
And there was this long snippet in there about, um, like putting babies in a room
with like two unusual, two plants that never seen, in this case, it was like
partially in basal and like two objects that never seen, like a wooden spoon and
a lamp.
And they would like always go for the spoon and lamp, even though in the
traditional environment, those aren't things they saw, but they have then the
version to plants.
And so I sent this long wall of text to my sister, whose baby just turned one
a couple months ago and she said, uh, um, scrolling.
She says, that's interesting.
It explains her first reaction with basal screams and tears, but she'll eat it now.
Um, and I was like, Hey, that's so cool.
Not cool that she was crying, but now cool that we have an evolutionary
psych context for it.
Right.
And she's like, Yeah, exactly.
Apparently they wouldn't even, uh, they looked to the adults to see which ones
they would touch and then which ones they would eat.
And I think they did the experiment where they would pick the, they would pick
some fruit and then they would put it behind their ear versus eating it.
So those babies would touch the fruit.
And I think they wouldn't eat it unless the person had clearly just put it in
their mouth.
That's so cool.
I think like somebody else in the comments was questioning whether that's
real though, and they're like, my kid will shove anything in its mouth.
So.
Yeah.
I do think Scott mentioned later also in the comments that he asked the person
