Like it doesn't exist in the kidneys.
It exists in the brain.
It is part of intelligence.
So whatever like we're talking about with intelligence, it's encompassed into this.
It's not what people mean when like, when we typically think of it, like, yes, our ability
to think things through and make tools and stuff.
But this is, if it's a thing that like, quote, intelligent things do, it's part of the smartness
that made us rise to power, right?
But it's a hive mind smartness.
It's not an individual person who's like the smartest man on earth could not use his brains
to figure these things out and even keep living, whereas opposed a hive collective of humans
could.
I know.
I just, I can imagine a little pedantry there, but yeah, I mean, it's still the humans that
took over the world as opposed to the monkeys because yeah, and it's kind of jumping ahead
a bit.
But Henry did actually point out in one of the chapters, or at least it was in one of
the sections of scouts review that part of it was not in the brain, part of it was in
the gut.
Yes.
But I guess we can try to stay in order.
Yeah.
Jumping around.
Henry describes how difficult it actually is to find and kill, for example, a seal in
the Arctic, or to make well-crafted arrows from scratch.
And Scott broke it down to I'm not going to do it, but they're very complex, multi-step
and unintuitive practices.
Scott said it's no surprise that Stranded Explorers couldn't figure all this out.
It's much more surprising that the various native groups did.
It's definitely something that you couldn't have figured out just by being like, I'm going
to build an arrow.
Like I look at it and like, oh, grab a straight piece of stick, sharpen the end and put something
on the back to keep it flying straight.
And like it sounds super intuitive, but the steps that the author lays out is like 17
things long.
It was first to like find the most knurled stick, apparently there was this one type
of stick that made the ideal arrow that you had to actually just straighten with your
teeth.
Yeah.
Like you heat it and straighten it with your teeth.
Like, so it's way more involved than it sounds to me.
I would fail to make an arrow and fail to shoot my prey with it for sure.
I would like to think I could sharpen a stick though.
You could make a substandard arrow and it might get the job done, but on the other
hand, it also might not.
And oftentimes survival is the difference between those small things.
Oh, totally.
Yeah.
There's only so many arrows you can make before you run out of calories to do things
with and you still need some for the actual hunting.
And that might not work so well if you don't have great arrows and so on.
Yeah.
His explanation for how people figured out this like incredibly multi-step complex process
was cultural evolution, which I guess it's based on the idea of biological evolution.
I don't remember if this was covered in the post or if it was in the book itself, but
the way he explained it was basically some families institute certain practices almost
randomly in effect, much like evolution and random genetic mutations.
But those families whose practices end up being useful in some way that they almost
surely aren't sure why they will do better.
If they were their children will be more healthy, they will have more calories, they will in
fact even have more children because calories was very much tied to how many children you
make back in the day.
And how many survive.
Exactly.
And other families would either die out or much more often see what that family is doing
and then be like, Hey, we should do that.
And there was a cool example about like a tribe, well, an area with a whole bunch of different
tribes in it.
And one tribe was really good at how they like were succeeding.
And they were all various pig farmers, I think.
And all the other tribes were like, what are they doing right?
Why, why aren't we having the success?
So they decided to implement a lot of their policies.
And one of them was like that in the morning you go and you sing to your pig for 10 minutes,
which is I guess what that other tribe did.
And maybe that does something or maybe it doesn't.
But it just kind of shows that there was just this bunch of things that tribe did and the
other tribe was like, well, okay, let's take them and try them.
Something here is working.
It's very much a cultural evolution where you don't know what's happening.
If it works, it works.
I wonder how you settle on 10 minutes and not eight or 12.
Oh, I don't think it was exactly.
Oh, I know.
But like, I imagine somebody experimented, you know, like if they're watching people
do it, they're wondering, like, maybe more singing means better pigs or something.
Stop, Jeffery, you're singing to the pigs too long.
Right.
But who gives them all sorts?
I've heard people make arguments about like this is sort of like the, this might be a
Jordan Peterson-esque argument about like the utility of religion for Medan religious
context.
Yes.
I think it's around like eating certain things, you know, like pigs carry whatever that cool
disease does that gives you lock jar or something.
Some back, I need to know what I'm talking about before I can go further.
I think it's, I think it starts with a T. It doesn't matter, but
It's not Ted in a shirt.
No.
Yes.
Okay.
They can carry that bacteria that can cause lock jar or something or whatever it is.
So like, oh, that's why then the Jews didn't need it because they got sick.
So now, and my main thing is like, you can do all that without believing that a bearded
man in the sky made the earth or something.
Right.
So as, you know, all that goes, but it is sort of that example, like these things become
part of the culture.
And when they're codified, whether through cultural selection, rather maybe the natural
selection or through like someone saying God told us not to do this, then it becomes,
you know, if it's successful and it sticks that way, then a lot of the rents repeat
and it's popular, right?
That was the big theme of the book or the review of the book.
And that's why I said earlier, I hate it.
There were also a lot of other cultures that did have pigs in them at the same time the
Jews were around that didn't have massive health issues, could have very well been a
sort of thing where they tried to introduce pigs like those other cultures had.
And they didn't have the cultural evolution to not pick up the Trichonomous.
They're like, fuck this.
God says no pigs, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Two different strategies.
Yeah.
I guess the thing I do like about cultural evolution versus biological is you can't just be like,
that individual has a good mutation.
I'm just going to adopt it myself.
Right.
You just kind of are like stuck with the ones you're born with.
Yeah.
That is nice.
Like because you can pick up tricks and culture, but you can't get taller or whatever, you
know.
So those sorts of things.
Alrighty.
So we just covered that part.
Should I go ahead and read this little thing that I pulled?
Read the thing.
Okay.
This is again pulled directly from Scott's post.
Everything that separates us from the apes is part of an evolutionary package designed
to help us maintain this kind of culture.
Create this kind of culture or adjust to the new abilities that this kind of culture gave
us.
But it's not just, and this was about, you know, what cultural evolution does.
He speaks a little bit about how our guts have shortened significantly and how we just
can't process food anymore that hasn't been cooked or something first.
It'll make us sick.
He then says, but it's not just about chopping things up or roasting them.
Traditional foods, traditional food processing techniques can get arbitrarily complicated.
I don't know if I'm going to pronounce it right.
Nyxtamalization of corn necessary to prevent vitamin deficiencies involves soaking the
corn in a solution containing ground up burnt seashells.
The ancient Mexicans discovered this and lived off corn for just fine for millennia.
When the conquistadors took over, they ignored it and ate corn straight.
For 400 years, Europeans and Americans ate unnyxtamalized corn.
By official statistics, 3 million Americans came down with corn related vitamin deficiencies
during this time and up to 100,000 died.
But I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
I was just going to say I'd never heard of this before.
And apparently the only reason we're now still able to eat corn is that we have a synthetic
version of this process that is done to corn.
They don't teach you that in school.
Yay, GMOs.
But it's like it blows my mind that at some point somebody was like this, you know, maybe
it'll taste better with some ground up burnt seashells on it and their family happens to
not starve with that winter or something, right?
Like that to me, that that's like the really tight parallel with natural selection where
it's like, let's throw this random thing in and see what happens.
I don't know.
I mean, did they try burning other random shit and throwing it on corn?
I wouldn't have actually.
They must have, right?
Yeah.
I mean, humans are always trying to do anything for flavor.
I was also pointed out, I think this one was in the book because I don't remember
reading in Scott's thing that people develop tastes, tastes for spices when they're young
and they're the spices that their culture uses.
And those spices are generally the ones that are best adapted to making the food not
spoil in the climate that their culture exists in.
That was not in the review.
And that's really cool.
I was actually trying to look up what causes people to develop tastes for different things
versus others, because I know that there's certain evolutionary reasons why we think
that bitter things taste nasty and sweet things taste good.
And that makes a lot of sense.
But then I'm like, so why do people like fermented things?
And I was kind of just looking that up on my own.
And it's because fermented things can are more resistant against bacteria and good for,
you know, your microbiome.
Yeah, I never just develop the taste for capsaicin.
So I really hate all spicy things.
But like when people ask me why I don't like it, I tell them that I don't think my food
should hurt me and I stand by that.
But there's people who like love the flavor of it, even though it is painful and you see
them like churning red and sweating and sometimes crying, but they're like, so delicious.
I like the pain.
It's not even the flavor of it.
It's like, you know, when you drink, I don't I don't know if there's other things
