1920.
Okay.
I was closer.
Yes, you were.
Gold star to, gold star to me.
Yeah, yeah, good job.
But I mean, the point being that should we also enforce this, uh,
equality between the sexes less, since it's still sort of a new thing that's
being developed, like if, if subcultures within the U S people living in rural
Alabama or people in strong Catholic areas want to keep their sexism, should,
should we bludgeon them with joining our society as, as much as we would like.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
Or like mandating, desegregating of schools.
Right.
Like I think desegregating is a great idea.
I'm not sure how I feel about forcing people to be bussed to different schools.
That is much more controversial.
I mean, that's, that's almost like a, that's a whole other side thing.
But the, the, I think the short version is that like that, that has other
effects, like it's that, that's a consequence of like making that happen
rather than just like making the idea necessary.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, the anti, I don't know.
I guess women's suffrage isn't that new.
So I guess I don't know how old does something have to be before we're like,
all right, cool.
This works.
Let's, let's keep going.
Well, I mean, desegregation is only the last few decades, at least 70s.
Voting rights were given to racial minorities in 65.
And so there's still plenty of people alive.
Even there might even still be people in 1965.
Yeah.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
I mean, so if there's anyone who's 11, 19, 20, how old would you be?
There are people who are barely, yeah, not very many 99 at this point.
If you were born in 1920.
If you like, actually remember the 1920s.
Yeah, then you'd be real old.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
I mean, the, what am I trying to say?
Or what was I going to say?
I think the, um, I mean, on the plus side, if it turned out like, so we, let's say we,
we haven't been doing this in a scientifically controlled manner, but we can look at the
areas that are like more desegregated or less sexist now than they were a hundred years
ago and see which areas are doing better.
And like, that's our experimental results.
Right.
Now we can't run the clock for another hundred years and see maybe the desegregated,
desegregated, less sexist areas are going to be worse off in another century.
But it seems like we're on the right track.
And that's, that's all we can do, right?
Unless we're, unless we somehow discover some new hidden variable.
I think the policy of enforcing it less strongly would have advised against forced
busing, but that's in the past now.
So I don't know what to do in a case where the traditional way is causing people harm.
Like that, the reason that, you know, you would want to give women the right to vote
and to desegregate schools is that this is, that seems to be causing people to
suffer and fewer people will suffer.
And, but it seems like you can't, you can't really do a system, which I think would
be ideal of let the individuals decide whether they want to live in segregation
land or desegregation land.
Some people don't have the money to move across the country and, you know, like
families splitting up and.
I think desegregation, or I think segregation land though, would over the
course of a few decades suffer a serious brain drain where the people who are
smart enough to do have the ability to move, will move, and eventually they'll
just collapse under the fact that all the talent has left.
I mean, the kind is happening to various parts anyway.
Yeah.
And I think Jesse, you made a really good point.
Like, like forcing legislating changes and mandating them when they're
solving a suffering problem makes more sense than like, like it would be, it
might be weird to say pass a law where everybody has to eat exclusively GMO food.
So like that's, like right now the status quo is like, you can eat whatever you
can buy at the store.
And if you want to buy the non GMOs, go for it.
So like, but if, but if you're solving a suffering problem, then it makes more
sense to say, look, now we need to actually, we're going to, we're going to put
the hammer down.
We need to fix this.
I don't know that there's various things that come up with that.
Like we wouldn't actually be able to feed the world without GMO food techniques
and, you know, factory farming.
Arguably there'd be much less suffering if we did force everyone to be vegan.
That's true.
So I guess kind of by extension, what if I'm saying that sounds like that, that
would be a move that would piss off a lot of people, but it might not be
necessarily a bad move unless, you know, I think, and I know vegans will correct
me, but I think living on a vegan diet is more challenging to, it's more
challenging to maintain a nutritionally balanced life as a vegan than it is
as an omnivore.
One vitamin is specific.
I forget which one, but it's one of the bees is extremely hard to get in a
vegan diet.
And like, I have a, I have a coworker.
He's, he's, I would love to talk about how he's raising his daughter for half
an hour because he's, it's amazing.
It's really cool.
Like I can't get into all this stuff, but one short thing is that he and his
wife are both quasi vegans and they, they try to be as not just vegan friendly,
but as like environmentally friendly with all their food purchases and like
clothing purchases and stuff.
Um, and so I was talking with them, yes, on Monday when we went out to lunch and
I was like, so how did you raise your daughter?
And I like Sam Harris put it this way.
Like he's, he's like vegetarianism is the ethically correct choice.
And he says like for him, for, for Harris himself, that he tried a couple of
times and both times he's gotten anemic and he just can't find the balance.
And so he has two young daughters that he doesn't want to like raise on the
science experiment of, I think this is the way to do it.
Right.
Um, so like, but if we knew the way to do it, he already knows it doesn't
work for him and they share his genes.
Right.
Um, yeah, the veganism, that is a tough one.
I wonder, I mean, hmm.
And then like the maniac, what if, uh, if you were to look at that society and
say, these people are wasting so much time doing this complex processing
technique, we should mandate that everybody just chops it and cooks it.
Right.
Then you end up killing off the society.
The idea of suffering is definitely a reason to change a system from the top
down if you have the ability, but not always a good idea.
Damn.
Thought I'd found the solution and I haven't.
No, that's a good point.
I'm kind of wondering about maybe just popularity.
Like it seems like making everyone go vegan just wouldn't work now because
it's too unpopular.
People would rebel.
It would never fly, but I didn't literally have a war.
People try the United States.
They're coming for our bacon.
I think popularity is a good metric.
Like electric cars used to be the things that the, the busy bodies, the
prudes that would like always scold you for using plastic bags or something.
They would drive it and you'd be like, God, those people again.
And, uh, and I mean, I bought a hybrid as soon as I could, but, uh, I didn't
mind being associated with those people, but then Elon Musk came around and he
made the Tesla fucking cool.
And like now a zero emissions vehicle is like a huge status symbol that people chase.
Put one in, orbiting, orbiting the earth.
Like, I literally can't think of a cooler thing he could do with one.
And I mean, people could and probably did complain.
Look, he's making a high end luxury vehicle that only the richest people can buy.
What the fuck good does this do for the planet at all?
This is a waste of time.
And yet he managed to make electric cars move into the popular imagination as
something that you, everyone can drive and many people aspire to drive.
You know,
that's the whole prestige thing again.
Yeah.
I think he did more by making that luxury high end electric car than all the
previous electrics and hybrids did combine.
The downsiders, they're still like three times the price.
Right.
I mean, I would, I would get, well, I don't know.
I think over time, they're going to become more readily available.
Totally.
And also now if you just buy straight electric car, people don't look at you
like you're some kind of, you know, snot.
That's true.
If anything, I mean, I don't know how, I mean, I live in a not well, like a not
very nice area, not a bad area of Denver, but not like the posh area.
And I see five Teslas a week.
And I don't even drive that much.
There's a lot of Teslas here.
There's also like two or three Tesla dealerships all over here.
So maybe that's why maybe five is high, but I definitely see several a month.
I definitely see a lot more of them than I did in the East coast.
It might just be, you know, someone with a Tesla lives near you.
So you drive past them a lot.
I have, I was at a stoplight not more than two weeks ago where I saw two Teslas.
So there's at least two.
Cool.
Oh, before we go on with user comments, there was something that I wanted to add,
which I'm pretty sure was in the book and not in Scott's post.
So I wanted to bring that up now as well.
Um, an interesting, um, consequence of this sort of cultural evolution and cultural
intelligence thing is that larger cultures, well, there's two interesting consequences.
One of them is that larger cultures are better because you can only one individual
human can only do so much and can only learn so much and can only become so
specialized.
Uh, once you have a group of a hundred thousand humans, you can specialize a lot
more, you can learn and implement a lot more refined interesting techniques.
And this just keeps scaling up at a population of the US is like, what,
over 300 million right now.
There's a lot of things you can do to the point where, I mean, there's
sometimes disaster scenarios of, of zombie movies, like what would happen if, if
90% of the people died due to the zombie ism or whatever.
I mean, the first thing that would happen is that our entire society would collapse
because at this point, literally, I know this is a common thing from econ, what
econ 101 classrooms, there is no person in the world that knows or has the
capability of making a pencil.
The various parts come from so many different areas and the knowledge to get
