unless you invested out of country?
No, not, not necessarily.
Cause I mean a dollar at this point is worth whatever people think it's worth.
It's just people would think it's worth less once the treasury defaults on, on its
debt, but it's not necessarily entirely worthless right away.
Okay.
Like if I was still willing to give you a cup of coffee for five bucks, then it's
still worth a cup of, a cup of coffee or one fifth of a cup of coffee.
Right on.
Um, Eleazar references than the same Talib book, Black Swan.
I brought that up a little bit earlier, which is about the impact of unknown unknowns.
Specifically, this book warns against the dangers of induction, the ludic fallacy,
hindsight, and survivorship bias.
Um, he pulled out this Talib quote, instead of putting your money in medium risk
investments, you need to put a portion, say 85 to 90% in extremely safe investments
like treasury bills, as a safe class of instruments, as you can manage to find on
the planet, the remaining 10 to 15% you put in extremely speculative bets as
leveraged as possible, preferably venture capital style portfolios.
That way you don't depend on the errors of risk management.
No black swan can hurt you at all beyond your floor, the nest egg that you have in
a maximally safe investment.
And then after this, he wonders, did Talib forget to apply his own principles?
And he says, I think if you advise your readers to invest 90% of their money in
extremely safe instruments, you should certainly also warn that it better not all
go into the same instrument.
There was a line there, um, like maybe Talib knows something that I don't, but
it seems like he forgot to apply his own tools, the point that he's making to this
thing.
And I wrote something, but I guess it didn't save when I was doing it late
earlier, but, um, I couldn't find the exact passage in methods of rationality, but
where Harry's thinking, it's sadly when we most need our tools that we forget them.
And it's, you know, this isn't exactly like when you most need it, but it, the,
the tone of his response to Talib's quote there felt so resonant that it, it
immediately brought that to mind.
But yeah, yeah, the end was, uh,
Can I jump in with a,
Oh, go ahead.
Uh, he said, um, Eliezer said, I anticipate particular black swans, such as AI
and nanotech biotech, that I see us having a high chance of striking over the lifetime
of a 30 year treasury bond.
But even if you don't share those particular assumptions, do you expect the
United States to still be around in 300 years?
If not, do you know exactly when it will go bust?
Then why isn't the risk of losing your capital on a 30 year treasury bond at
least 10% and, uh, you know, I thought that was both interesting and again, an
insight on his particular worries and the time scale that he's thinking in.
I get to avoid a lot of problems by just not having an investment portfolio.
Actually, I do have a small one, um, with, uh, well, small with Kansas city life.
Um, and they are, uh, Rudy Hoffman, again, the cryonics guy that I mentioned before.
Um, he sold me just on how awesome Kansas city life is as an insurance company.
They apparently debt free.
They own all of their properties, even though their office is in stuff.
And he's like, so even barring like a zombie apocalypse, like they're
going to be like the last one to go under because they're not going to default on
loans.
Um, so my, my investment is now I pay a higher insurance premium.
But when I get to be a certain age, there's like a cash bonus that I get on top.
Like not, it doesn't increase my death payout, but it's money that I just
can just take whenever I want.
So, um, it's very little right up until like, I get into my 80s, but if I look
to be like in my 90s, it's in the hundreds of thousands.
Yeah.
And he says, and I think one of the near the end, he says, the safest
instruments you can find on this planet aren't very safe, which is just, you
know, a thing that I consider in my life often.
I wonder where he has to invest his money.
Like if it is, they're safer things than bonds.
Like I get like to call them risk free.
He made the very good point that they're not, but like the Vanguard stock index
fund is pretty good too.
That's another very solid one and is also tied to the US economy.
But again, that has the problem that it's kind of tied to it's not just the US
economy, but much of it is based in the US economy.
I mean, part of the problem here is if the US economy goes down, the whole
world is going to be seriously fucked.
That quote that you just said, um, started with, there's always risk
management and you're always exposed to error and both of those always is where
it links to previous sequences.
One was the proper use of humility and then the other was Suyoku Nari Tai.
So yeah, he's saying we need to get better at and be braver about applying
our rationalist principles to real life scenarios like investing.
And, um, a couple of the comments had, there's some caveats.
TC doesn't think investors literally mean risk free.
It's just an expression of high confidence.
Um, Peter McCluskey says, his descriptions of treasury bills as extremely
safe seems accurate enough for practical purposes.
He also doesn't think that typical investors should follow Talib's advice,
but it seems plausible that some should.
And also good investing is mostly about avoiding big mistakes, not about
perfectly avoiding all errors, which I think are good points.
Yeah.
Um, Michael Sullivan said, Talib's advice is extremely faulty, at least
for long run investing.
The black swan event that makes you, that makes a more fully diversified
debt equity portfolio fail disastrously in the long term, uh, 20 plus years.
This has a fairly high likelihood of taking out a short term US treasury
portfolio as well.
So I've got nothing to add since I don't know anything about investing.
Never even heard of the Vanguard thing you mentioned.
It's basically just a distributed, um, diversified mutual that buys the
500, uh, biggest companies in the stock market and keeps all their money in them.
I definitely like probably seen the logo, but yeah, the main difference is
that most investment funds are quote unquote managed by someone, which means
that there's someone like looking at stocks and reading companies histories
and what they're planning to do.
And he's like, okay, we should invest in East Asia now.
Okay.
Now we should pull out of East Asia and invest in gold.
And now, you know, we should pull up our money out of gold and invest in
stocks instead.
So they have, uh, and I mean, sometimes they do really well when they
guess correctly, but it's basically guessing.
Uh, and they have high management fees because you know, you're paying
someone to actually do this thinking and managing of the money.
Yeah, you're paying some expert.
Yeah, paying some divination expert.
Whereas the index fund is literally just trying to get, um, a representative
sample of the entire stock market.
And so if over the course of set of 30 years, the stock market increases
2% per year, every year, the funds should do more or less the same.
It has rock bottom management fees because you're literally doing nothing
except for trying to get, you know, one of each of the 500 biggest eight.
I think it's, that's why they call the Vanguard 500.
I could be wrong about that, but it's basically trying to get a representative
sample of the entire stock market.
And, uh, you know, you're never going to beat the market.
You're never going to manage to invest in like a ton of money in Google
before it goes big or Walmart before it goes big and get these 10,000 percent
returns, but you will steadily follow the market.
And over the long run, uh, no one does better than the market on average.
Except for those people that investors in crypto.
That's exactly what I was going to say on average was, was your nice caveat
that cut me off there.
But yeah, um, some people scored big, which was dope.
Bitcoin is was up to 12,000 recently.
I think it's up over 10,000 again right now.
God damn it.
I sold all my stuff like two months ago because I got sick of looking at it.
It was coming back up finally.
And I was like, all right, now I'm only down 600 bucks.
Like, because I've been down like 1800 bucks for like a year and a half.
I'm sick of looking at this five times a day.
I'm going to just, I'm going to just cut my losses.
I'm not going to look at what my, what, what my losses or what my potential
gains would have been if you're investing in something, even Bitcoin, you
should never look at it more than like once a month.
If you look at it five times a day, you're just setting yourself up for this
kind of thing.
This was in, uh, not shitty movie details.
The subreddit in movie details, um, there's a headline banner coming in.
Like there's a big TV in time square and like a little like news feed along
the bottom of news shows.
One of like little spikes was Bitcoin, Bitcoin at all time high.
And the very next one was Bitcoin at all time low.
So if you're investing in Bitcoin, you should be checking it five times a day.
What good will that help you?
Because then you'll see the five hours or, you know, the five minute window
where it's up, uh, where it's at 12,000 instead of 8,000.
Only if you've pre-committed to sell it when it gets to 12,000.
Well, right.
Most people when it gets to 12,000 over the course of an hour will be like,
it's going to keep going.
I'm going to hold on.
That's the mistake I made.
What I should have done is listen, I asked my investor, my financial planner friend
what I should do.
And he's like, here's what you do.
Commit to a number when it hits that sell.
And when, and if it goes below that sell, and I didn't do that and I lost money.
So Justin, you were right in the past couple of days.
It's now down to 9,700, which, you know, like literally, uh, a week and a half ago,
it was at over 12,000.
Yeah.
So, I mean, but, you know, it, it crypto's weird as that's not, that's not, I feel
like there's, I'm sure there is a special word for that kind of investing.
Volatile.
Volatile.
Oh, well, that kind of investing.
Well, risky gambling.
Yeah.
It's straight up gambling.
Yeah.
All right.
That's what you put 10% of your money to.
Oh, good.
I'm actually, so I had Litecoin in Ethereum and those are actually down
because substantially from when I sold.
So if I held on, I probably would watch them go up for that week and then like,
oh, my, my number's finally coming in and then I would have lost it all again.
So I'm, I'm, I can rest easy.
All right.
Next post.
Yes.
We got correspondence bias, which starts with this quote.
The correspondence bias is the tendency to draw inferences about a person's unique
and enduring disposition from behaviors that can be entirely explained by the
situations in which they occur, which was a Gilbert Malone.
When I learned about this phenomenon was, it was in the context of psychotic
it was in the context of psychology where they call it the fundamental attribution error.
Yeah, what I pulled out was pretty much right after that when you yourself
