So to your point, we've, for the past few hundred years, been demolishing
traditions and replacing them with new things.
And we've got a pretty good track record doing that.
So we shouldn't fuck around with demolishing traditions if it's a good tradition.
That's where I respect my tradition of destroying traditions.
Exactly.
That's a great, uh, oh, that wasn't the username.
They defined a new, uh, a new term there.
I see reason there was their name.
So let's break down some of the terminology there.
Cause, um, there's a lot of, of jargon in there.
So, um,
It's a good idea to remember to do that.
Yeah.
Um,
So for starters, Chesterton's fence is the idea that, uh, first started by, I
forget his first name, but his last name is Chesterton, obviously.
Uh, he said that if you see a fence in the middle of a field and you are like,
this fence is stupid, it's just blocking traffic.
I'm going to take it down.
His principle is you never take down the fence unless you know why that fence was
put there in the first place.
Cause maybe it's stopping the barbarians from the other side coming over or,
you know, the monster that doesn't know how to jump fences or something.
Right.
The, uh, person was GK Chesterton, who also wrote books that talk about this same
kind of topic, which makes sense because it's named after him.
And that is often used by traditionalists and, uh, more conservative
leaning people to say, stop fucking with our traditions.
They might be here for a damn good reason.
Well, and that, that actually relates really well to the point I was trying to
articulate in my head that like the point, you don't tear down a, you don't
tear down a fence unless you know why it's there.
And in the days of listening to crows and doing what was written on ancient
tablets and whatever, um, you, you didn't know why these were rules.
So tearing down those fences could kill you.
Now we know why the fences are there.
Like we know why kings liked being kings and like why they claimed, you know,
that it was a divine thing.
It's cause being a king was fun and I'm not sure if it was fun very often.
Yeah, I watched back on that official to your, yeah.
I think I would not have wanted to be medieval king.
I seem to like die a lot.
That's the point out.
That's what I was going to say is they have like being, like being a dictator.
Literally half the emperors of Rome were assassinated.
Yeah.
So like being an emperor sounds like a very, like dangerous job.
Or let me rephrase that.
Vita died a violent death.
It wasn't always assassination.
Sometimes it was just on a battlefield.
And so sometimes they just mysteriously die.
Yeah.
So, um, yeah.
So Chesterton's meta-fence is that we currently have a tradition of
during breaking down traditions.
So don't try to take down that tradition until you know why it's a good tradition.
Oh, it's got reply to that one.
I don't know.
I don't think so.
You just pulled it out.
That would have been nice.
Yeah.
So I think the, the lesson that I'm taking from that is that, you know,
like it might, a good tradition might have been like, you know, don't, um, in
fact, this is, you know, this is in true parts of the world now.
Like don't stick yourself with it.
Don't, don't let someone stick you with a needle and inject stuff into you.
Like that.
Hey.
This went really bad for us 50 years ago.
Let's, and you know, being stabbed historically for our, for our species sucked.
So let's avoid that.
Now we know all the reasons why that was bad, or we know enough of them.
Maybe there's some mysterious magic reason still unknown to us about why
being stuck with a needle is bad.
But we know enough about the, all the variables involved about why getting
like a vaccine is a really good idea, right?
Yeah.
Even when we mess up, uh, we can generally figure out why we messed up and fix it.
Yeah.
A lot of this nonsense, it was pre science.
Like science is the solution to these, to this, this horror hellscape of doing
things for weird tradition reasons, right?
I mean, not always science sometimes fucks things up as much as it helps.
Like when, uh, it was scientifically a great idea to give your baby's formula
instead of breast milk, because it gives you the baby everything it needs.
And it turns out that is not the case at all.
In fact, it's the opposite of the case.
Science is, and I'm, I'm going to double down as an enterprise.
We learned from that and we've got better formula, right?
I have a much lower infant death rate than we ever had in the history of our
species.
Like, so we, you know, I think science has a really good track record.
Yeah.
In general, it does.
Compared to tradition, like we have like control groups, you know, we can look
at, I don't want to say the Amish because apparently they're more technologically
savvy than we give them credit for, but we can look at, um, modern day hunter
gatherer societies and compare how we're doing in modern societies versus these,
uh, basically ancestral environments.
Spoiler alert, lots better.
But we still can't do double blind studies on whether or not getting a
blood transfusion kills your soul or not.
So damn it.
Yeah.
Souls are so resistant to study.
Uh, citizen coke cane, citizen co cane, like citizen cane, but with a co in
there, uh, says adhering to ancient traditions when the context is rapidly
changing is a recipe for disaster.
No point in mastering seal hunting.
If there ain't no more seals, no point in mastering the manners of being a court
year, if there ain't no more royal court, et cetera.
Problem is that in the modern world, we can't simply all mutually agree to stop
changing our context so that our traditions will continue to function as
before because it is no longer our under our control.
Enlightenment ideas would not have been nearly so persuasive if they hadn't had
the prestige of giving countries like the Netherlands, England, France and
America and edge.
So yeah, uh, cause this was also in the context of a, uh, conversation about
how enlightenment ideals like do often break with tradition.
Like a big part of the enlightenment is have reasons for what you're doing,
apply reason and logic to these things invented, you know, the process of
science and, uh, yeah, since our, our environment is changing so rapidly, the
traditions don't help anymore.
It'd be like having a tradition of people that grew up in a very arid, uh,
area that didn't have a lot of water, couldn't really support, uh, farming and
then being transported to modern day New York or something.
It's like those traditions don't help you in any way anymore.
You need new ones and our society is changing so fast that there's not that
much to be lost in abandoning those old traditions and grabbing onto new ones.
Yeah.
I still think there's something to be said for examining them and trying to
figure out what purpose they were serving.
And he does point out that the enlightenment values really helped out the
countries that adopted them early, like made them take over the globe basically.
Yeah.
And I mean, you know, if there's a food taboo or something that, you know, one
successful group had for a thousand years, figuring out, you know, what was
wrong with that food and then like, Oh, you need to do this to it to make it safe
to eat.
Then it's like, cool, problem solved.
We need that now.
He did point out that, uh, at the time of the enlightenment, uh, China, their
Qing dynasty, I think that's what it was, uh, was in, you know, in a huge
empire, controlled half the world, really advanced civilization, whereas
opposed to these tiny little startup countries in Europe weren't jack shit.
And, uh, they stuck with their old traditions.
They did not adopt this new enlightenment stuff.
And, uh, they were in the process of a few hundred years, like basically
destroyed and taken over by the British and, uh, those other European countries.
So, you know, sometimes holding onto traditions can be just as bad, especially
when the environment is changing.
Yeah.
This, for some reason, I just, this popped into my head.
I was thinking about the revolutionary war and how American soldiers won because
they were disorganized.
The British would wear these bright red uniforms and they would line up and
shoot and then another one would line up and shoot.
And then the Americans would just shoot at random and they didn't have
uniforms, so they blended in.
Hey, yes, army.
Basically a guerrilla warfare.
Kind of cultural evolution there.
Yeah.
Uh, first lid, uh, continued this line of thinking, saying, this means we should
be more accepting of people tweaking the new culture.
We should also enforce it less strongly.
Enforce what?
The culture?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Feel free to tweak around, do whatever, but also don't, don't really enforce
it on people because you don't know if it's good yet, right?
That's a good articulation.
I was talking with Jess about this after we saw, uh, Spider-Man far from home.
That that's sort of been my, like approach to, I guess, my, my
modern cultural evolution for like the last five years, which is like, you know,
if I come across something that's unusual to me, like, I don't really get it,
but you do you, but then I guess it does make sense to like say, all right, cool,
because we don't really, you know, this is a new thing.
We don't know the factors.
Let's not like legislate this just yet, whatever, or, you know, mandate this in
the public sphere or something, right?
Well, I mean, you were just talking about sexism and that's a pretty new thing too,
right?
Yeah.
Sexism was invented in 2016.
No, no, no.
Well, I mean, the whole pushback against sexism and giving, like women only got
the right to vote in what, the 1940s?
No, it's 1910s, I think.
1910s.
In any case, too recent to be.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's, it's like maybe a century now.
So this is still a fairly new thing.
1920.
