Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy. I'm Manny Ashbrottson. I'm Stephen Zuber. I'm Jess Dickey.
And today we are talking about Baselista Codex Post, which we sometimes do on here because
the posts are always very interesting.
And we don't have a David with us this episode.
Darn it, no David.
If your name is David and you want to be on this podcast.
My dad's name is David.
You've got him on the podcast.
He's got a thick accent though.
Yeah, he'd be hard to understand.
Accents are great.
Plus, I don't know, you know, if he'd have much to say about these sorts of things.
I mean, as long as we're on the topic, maybe he'd want to talk about lying about being a Jehovah's Witness for 50 years.
That could be a thing.
Oh my gosh, that would actually be really interesting to hear about.
I don't think he wants to talk about it. I brought it up with him once and he was like, yeah.
Yep, that's the thing that happened. Let's keep going in this conversation.
Great, thanks dad. All right, cool.
Yeah, exactly.
Oh well, so the post we're talking about now is his review of the book, The Secret of Our Success.
Which, to my disappointment upon reading the first paragraph, isn't a strategy for how to win at life.
Well, I mean, kind of?
It's how humans are successful on Earth.
Yeah, yeah.
So less of like, I can use this to my immediate win.
You could go join a really cool culture.
Yeah, there should be one of those around.
I don't know what they'd call it though.
They might call them the Bayesian Ration List or something.
Yeah, that has a ring to it.
Yeah.
I like that culture.
This is a really cool book.
I have this thing where every now and then friends of mine who are into like, cool, smart Ration List stuff,
but aren't specifically Ration List or Ration List adjacent will recommend things to me, right?
And I'll go out and buy the thing and then I'll like, read a little bit into it and get distracted and put it aside.
And then a few months later, I see Scott Alexander write a post on it, right?
I'm like, damn it, I should have read it and wrote about it first, which I would never do anyway.
But at least if I'd have read it, I'd know what's going on here, right?
So this happened with Red Plenty.
It's up there on my shelf in my room with my other unread books.
No, I was never able to finish that one.
Okay.
What's Red Plenty?
It's about the early communist success sort of in Russia.
They actually did a really good job of bringing a, you know, pre-industrial society right roaring to the industrial age.
By taking all the excess that they produced and putting it right back into capital production.
Can I make two quick side notes about communist Russia?
Sure.
All right.
So one, there's a fun movie that came out a couple of years ago called The Death of Stalin.
I've heard it's, yeah, really good.
It was amazing.
Super dark and funny.
Yeah.
I mean, amazing is like, I usually say that from her like Avengers movies.
This was, if you've ever seen the show Veep, it's exactly like that.
Okay.
Except it's, so like it's that level of humor, but it's realistic and it's Stalin.
And like there's, there's a partner at the beginning where like he gets a call that he's like a conductor for this gigantic orchestra.
And he gets a call like, hey, you know,
Was it Stalin?
No, Stalin's guy.
Oh, no, I'm sorry.
This random guy runs this orchestra.
Okay.
And he gets a call and it's like, yeah, Stalin like a recording of tonight's show.
And he's like, oh, okay.
And like it's like done.
They're wrapping up.
People are leaving.
So he runs out there and he's like, everyone back to your seats.
Everyone, you know, I know you guys are just here.
We're doing this again because he didn't record it.
Cause why would he?
So then they record.
So like it's, and then it's late because they came by to pick it up at, you know, what the time the show is supposed to end.
He's like, well, you know, Stalin will be hearing about why this was late.
So like there's, there's like the palpable horror of living there too.
But it's also truncated with a lot of funniness.
Like how when he died, like everyone was afraid to move his body, you know, so like that sort of stuff.
And well, he literally just randomly terrorized people.
So they, I don't know, for whatever reason, just keep the fear of him around so they wouldn't bother him.
Like if someone came to him with a request or something, he'd often have them killed just because like, don't fucking bug me.
He reminds me of Lord Voldemort.
Yeah.
And the other one was from a comic.
He doesn't do a lot of stand up.
He apparently does a lot of freestyle rap whose name I can't remember, but I'll put.
I thought you were still talking about Stalin for a second.
Nope.
Talking about a comedian now.
And he's a British guy.
I think he's like 21.
I'll find the video of his like five minutes stand up thing.
But he does just like two line jokes, kind of like Demetri Martin and stuff.
And he's got one.
And I wish I'd known this because like the icebreaker at my new job is like, what superpower would you choose?
And so he's like, if when people ask me what superpower would I choose, my answer is always Cold War Russia.
Exactly right.
It takes a second, but that would have gotten me such a laugh.
I would have made it in so good at that crowd.
And but I think what I chose, I described contests as path to victory from Worm.
I said, I'd want that.
So I don't, I don't think I would want any of the powers from Worm because all of them are these double edged swords.
Yeah, that's true.
But I mean, I guess being to throw metal around or read minds would be a thing.
But yeah, I don't think I'd want.
Well, I don't know.
I'm not sure the powers themselves are double edged swords.
Most of them are just the way that people use them.
But like the whole thing is this is how people would really use these powers.
Well, this is how, you know, optimizing processes that are concerned only about one thing would use those powers.
I'm not sure all people would do that.
In the context of Worm, it's the whole thing.
But yeah, basically, anyway, they're fun to read.
Yeah.
So we were talking about a Slate Star codex post.
Yes, we were.
Sorry.
So you did that with red plenty and then a Seth Dickinson, who is an amazing author and he's actually included in the Red Fick online anthology.
I've done one of his shorts before on the other podcast.
He recommended Secret to Our Success to me.
He was like, this is like everything that's important to know right now.
Not everything, obviously, but you know, he was really excited about it.
So I picked it up.
I read a little bit, got distracted, and then this came out and I was like, oh, damn it.
So I read all of Scott's thing and then I read a little more.
But anyways, really good book, good in the inside porn sort of way.
When you read it, you're like, oh my God, I never knew.
And now I've realized that, holy shit, my brain is blown now.
Yeah.
And I've always been an evolutionary psych enthusiast.
I think that's a good word for it.
Like I'm for someone who's like interested in things, but not like knowledgeable.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Enthusiast.
I like it.
So this is all that stuff.
Exactly.
Yeah, I have an interesting relationship with it where it's like, this is very interesting and I hate it.
Oh, that is an interesting relationship.
I don't hate the book.
I hate the concept behind it.
We should get deeper into it.
Okay.
All right.
In that case, we should jump on in.
Let's do it.
All right.
The book is Secretaric Success and we should say who wrote it.
It was Joseph Henrich.
Thank you.
Which is a book about, well, the quote that I pulled is, Henrich wants to debunk or at
least clarify a popular view where humans succeeded because of our raw intelligence.
In this view, we are smart enough to invent neat tools and help us survive and adapt to
unfamiliar environments.
Again, such theories, we cannot actually do this.
And then he provides a bunch of examples from the book of how we cannot actually do this
in, did you want to, I saw you pulled that.
Yeah.
So his alternate hypothesis is obviously that our success is due to our ability to transmit
culture down through generations.
His counter example for the, we succeeded through intelligence hypothesis.
He pulls up a whole bunch of examples of Victorian era explorers just absolutely failing to use
their wits and toll inventing skills to survive in hostile environments, which weren't really
hostile.
These are places where other human civilizations were actually thriving at the time.
So even though these were explorers who had these huge advantages over our early hominid
ancestors, and they mentioned they were highly educated, they were young men in the prime
of their health.
They were selected for their experience with wilderness craft and survival.
He also points out that they were not weighed down by having to support women, children
and old people at the same time.
Yeah.
And I think the women thing is kind of like women help out with the survival thing, but
children and old people can sometimes be a burden.
Well, in the context of 1700s or whatever, you know.
Yeah.
The women probably wouldn't have been helping as much because they weren't allowed to.
Because it's hard to breathe in a corset.
Yeah.
And like a 90 pound petticoat.
But anyway, these very seemingly like skilled and adept people usually just starved to
death because they either failed to recognize any edible food, or they failed to effectively
hunt any edible animals, or they failed to cook this food in ways that unlocked its nutrients.
And these were all things that the indigenous populations had learned how to do through
cultural evolution, according to Henry.
And in a lot of cases, they were in areas that were just full of natural abundance, lots
of food, lots of plants.
Like these are places like Alabama and the jungle, right?
Like.
And the Arctic, which I would argue was not full of abundance, but there was a culture
living there.
Yeah.
Henrik makes that point, though, that like the Arctic, or I think it was Alexander that
made the point, like this place is already hostile, but because of cultural knowledge,
people figured out how to live there.
I want to, I can imagine Elias Yudkowski saying cultural knowledge doesn't exist.
