the consequence of that isn't starving to death, right?
So, like, if we, if we live in a post sexism, you know, country in 50 years,
if it goes wrong, it won't go wrong from us starving to death.
I mean, I would say so.
And I think sexism is such a bad thing anyway, that I very strongly want to pursue it,
even knowing that maybe it will result in half the country starving to death
because I don't think it will.
But now I have to have this constant fear for the rest of my life
that this is a thing I care deeply about and am pursuing.
But, you know, unintended consequences, maybe we're all fucked because of this.
But that's what I'm asking, like, so then unintended consequences
of not cooking your tubers right back in the day with cyanide poison.
The and so like then hence like personal death or death of your family and tribe.
Yeah, I can't think of any mechanism by which like, all right,
our family is going to go to trade school instead of college.
That that's not going to lead to starving to death.
Yeah, you're much less likely to suffer really extreme consequences
like that in the non ancestral environment.
So we have more of a safety net to experiment now, which is cool.
Yeah, so didn't know that cyanide existed.
Something might exist that we don't know of that has, you know,
long term build up 30 year consequences that's only pumped in the air
conditioning units of universities or something like the whole point is I don't know,
which is why you I mean, you have to pursue what you're going to pursue anyway.
This is something I think is important and I will work on it.
It's just that now I can no longer do it with the unalloyed belief
that I am doing everything perfectly right.
There's always this, well, you might be wrong, which is actually like a good
thing to always have in mind, right?
It is.
I think that I mean, I'm sure if you'd asked me a minute ago, I would probably
would have said, I'm sure I'm doing some things like the best way that I can or
something.
But now I mean, my answer is like, and now I feel like it's always been this way
because I just had this thought for the first time is like, I'm doing it in this
context, I'm doing it to the best that I can with the information I have.
And so like, if it turns out that, you know, the first country to solve sexism
and by 21, by the year 2100, it's this nightmarish hellscape where some crazy
thing happened.
I, they did, they made an honest mistake by doing what seems to be the best thing
to do, which was fix this problem, right?
Yeah.
I, I'm not so concerned that any of like the ambitions that I have, because I'm
not trying to, you know, do large world scale changing things.
I'm not, I'm not concerned that anything I'm going to do is going to help
bring down society.
And I, I, I'm still, I'm like trying to hold back like a grin of just like
the amusement of what could possibly go wrong.
And I realized that's what someone might have said.
It's like, all right, I'm hungry now.
I'm not going to wait for this to cook or sit in the water for another day.
And yet this is, our situation now is not like that.
Or is it?
Am I missing something?
The, or is it is the thing that you're missing?
How can I be sure it's not?
Yeah.
Hmm.
I like, like Jess said, we have a safety net.
We have more freedom to experiment because if whatever, I mean, we should just
pick an example and stick to it.
But like if desegregating schools is a bad idea, I think we would have known by now.
Well, Hey, yeah, we would have known by now.
So maybe pick, you know, I don't know.
Um, no, I think that's a good example.
Yeah.
But I mean, like something that we're trying to aim for now then, right?
Like getting more women in programming.
Sure.
Yeah.
Maybe that ruins the tech industry in a hundred years for some crazy
reason, right?
I can't imagine how the women get all their cooties all over here.
Yeah, code base.
Damn it.
Those, those cooties are like bugs.
And yeah.
Si actually exists and female Si makes computers not work so good.
Right.
Well, hey, if we prove the existence of, of that, oh wait, they don't do the
million dollar challenge anymore.
Do they?
Didn't they retire that?
Yeah, I think so.
I don't know.
Somebody needs to pick that back up at one point.
They retired it and then reinstated it, but now I think I'm ever tired
it for good.
Oh, I'll have to double check.
I did just check a few weeks ago and Randy is still alive, which is great.
Cool.
Yeah.
The million dollar paranormal challenge is sort of what I was referring to,
which is if you can demonstrate supernatural paranormal or occult abilities
under controlled test conditions, which is basically just doing it in front
of somebody who's like a trained magician.
You can get a million dollars, you could get a million dollars from James Randy.
So, and discovering Si, you know, so the first person to do that, at least, you
know, while their startup might have failed, they can get a million dollars.
Um, I, I don't know.
Are we completely hopeless in the age of science and rationality to think of
ways where completely hopeless at all?
No, no, to, to, to, to think of like, okay, how could this go wrong?
Are we, are we unable to answer those questions?
You know, because we've always been done it this way.
Cause they've always done it that way for reasons that they didn't know about.
Now we know those reasons and we know a lot more about the world than we did before.
So like fucking with things is different now than it was like before it was just
pure fuckery and like, you know, we'll throw the dice and see what happens.
Now it's like, all right, we're going to, we, yes, we're, we're
spicing genes into our food, but we know, as to why things happen and we know
exactly what we're doing when we're doing it, right?
We test the shit out of things too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, like there's, you're still going to get some unknown unknowns, which
uh, ties into our sequences, but FDA is pretty good at picking out which drugs
are just going to kill you.
Not perfect.
They're much better.
Yeah.
And I mean, I guess what we haven't done is like run the three generation
experiment of living on GMO food, um, or at least like in lab GMO food, you
know, scientific pedants like me will argue that from the second we started
domesticating plant life, we've been GMOing our food for thousands of years.
Yeah.
Um, but that's a natural dude that reminded me.
They're the most recent, very bad wizards episode that came out today was on
the big Lebowski.
Oh sweet.
So if the dude, yeah, I have not yet heard the, and well, I think
it's a, it was a two parter because the one that just came up before was on pulp.
They were going to compare Pulp Fiction and, uh, the big Lebowski.
They finally, the Pulp Fiction episode.
And so it was going to be, it was going to be a comparison.
And then they did, well, they were going to just talk about the two different
movies and how they, you know, how they relate, if they have anything in common.
I'm not sure the theme of the show is seem like very different movies.
They are.
They, they, I mean, it was fun there.
So there's two episodes is what I was getting at the two most recent, very
bad wizards episodes was on Pulp Fiction and the big Lebowski.
I think they both kind of, they both touch on nihilism.
Don't they?
How you can't make that much of a difference in, I should just listen to
the episode and just remembering the line, those fucking nihilists.
I just listened to the episode.
They probably already thought about this much more than I have and are more eloquent.
They just talked about it in their favorite scenes.
And I, I don't give it my full attention.
It's usually my commute podcast.
So like I, you know, I'm not, well, one of the big themes of the big Lebowski was
that like they didn't really change anything.
Nothing they did really mattered in that movie.
And in Pulp Fiction, like I just keep remembering that scene where
a Vincent Vega, he's just hanging out in the apartment.
And because he chose that time to go and take a shit.
And because Bruce Willis left his stupid watch behind managed to get Vega killed.
And then they talk a bit about, too, about how, um, how am I
blanking on his name?
Uh, the, the big guy who's like, why don't I want to give us a shit about
the goddamn rules?
Yeah, John Goodman.
Yeah, Walter.
How he's not quite a deontologist, but he's very much a rule-based
ethicist where it's like, they're bowling.
You don't need to whip out your fucking gun.
But, but he cares about the rules.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I have the rules of no one's going to follow them.
I found that Giff and posted it in Slack today at work, the one where
he's whipping is going to have my, the one he gives a damn up.
I got the goddamn rules.
Yeah.
So I will say that based on what you've been saying, um, I,
cheated a little by reading the, I don't know, it's cheating.
I, because I read all states are codex posts, but, uh, soon after this,
often after his really big in-depth posts, he'll have a best of comments
on my post posts, which is great because sometimes there's a lot of comments.
Yeah.
I, well, I just have a rule of not reading comments in general because in
most places they're bad toxic.
I usually do the ones on Slate Start codex are a bit better than average.
Yes, they are.
Most of the time, but I also don't have time to read 400 comments.
I'll be honest, the only comments I read reliably are the ones that you put
on, or that, that our listeners put on the BayesianConspiracy.com because
they, I get emails when they come in, the only reason I read them.
Well, to me, it's cause it matters to me.
It's my thing, you know, that's probably why Scott also reads his comments
cause it's his thing and it matters to him.
Yeah, totally.
And so I love that he pulls out the best ones.
Yeah.
So, um, one of them was a reasoner, uh, on Chester, Chesterton's meta-fence who
says, dammit, we come up with the nerdiest names in our current system of
democratic, democratic market economies with large governments.
The common practice of taking down Chester 10 fences is a process which seems
well-established and has a decent track record and should not be unduly
interfered with unless you fully understand it.
