And he fucking crushed him.
So I'm looking forward to seeing him do more, uh, MCU stuff.
The first Thor movie, like it was, I was like, how are they going to make Thor cool?
They made it a comedy.
I was like, perfect.
He's a ridiculous character.
And then like, oh, now we'll do Dark World and we'll try to make this a serious
thing. God, it was bad.
And never saw it based on everyone's recommendations to not see it.
Except mine, which was, it was fine.
So it was fine is not high praise for Steven.
It was fine as like Steven saying that was a two out of 10.
For a more, I mean,
you're, you're excited about things often, especially MCU things.
Yeah, yeah, it's so great.
I liked it.
Like hearing it was fine is like, oh, I mean, I, I liked it.
I, I, I've never, I've never made the point of ranking them in my head, but I
mean, like Thor one was about like Thor self actualizing as a hero.
Thor two is like what badass hero stuff does Thor do when he's got, you know,
on his, in his free time.
And, and Ragnarok was like, let's go balls to the wall.
And, uh, you know, have a, basically, I think Taika Waititi knew that Chris
Hemsworth was a really funny person and said, let's, let's utilize that more.
So yeah.
Excellent.
All right.
MCU stuff is happening.
Yeah.
Oh, all right.
Last thing.
My stuff.
I saw Stuber, which was the movie with, uh, Camilla Nonjani and, uh, uh, Dave
Batista, who we saw in that wrestling thing that we went to a few months ago.
Um, it had a lot of fun hype.
I love both those people.
They both seem very wholesome.
I've liked, uh, Batista was, um, Drax and Guardians of the Galaxy and Camilla
Nonjani's, I've listened to his podcast back when he did one.
He's been a comedian for ages.
He's really fun.
The movie was like kind of fine.
It was a bummer.
Like I was looking forward to it being amazing and it was a solid like six out of 10.
The look on Steven's face right now says that he's being very generous by saying
six and his, his face is saying three.
It wasn't bad.
I don't regret seeing it.
Okay.
So, yeah.
I like that the Steven scale of movies goes from kind of fine to like fucking awesome.
It's like fine is like a two and kind of fine.
Maybe he's a one.
Next time I see a really shitty movie, I'll reel about it for two minutes.
Okay.
All right.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
See you later.
Thanks.
