these things, transport them and combine them is so diffuse among the human
species, there's literally no human alive that could make a pencil by
themselves.
They don't have the knowledge.
They don't have the ability.
That's so cool.
Yeah.
Right.
And like a pencil is super simple.
Right.
Yeah.
And that's our entire society.
Yeah.
So, I mean, one of those things is, how do we feel about the more people we have,
the better the culture is, the smarter it is.
Can I interject with one quick joke?
Sure.
Oh, wait, it's a, it's a end game spoiler.
So, I don't, it's, it's not on Blu-ray yet.
I'm going to hold off on that.
Well, actually, no, it's, it's fine.
There's a point where, because if you saw Infinity War Thanos killed.
And half the population goes away.
Right.
Instant chaos across the entire world.
I mean, like, power plants, you know, we go, the lights are on in your, in your
house right now, we go to the faucet, the water comes out.
Like that's just shit that happens, right?
It's not just that we would revert to the world as it was when the population
was half what it is.
We would fall so much far.
Right.
There's a subreddit that I really like.
So I follow two subreddits that are related in title and one's called movie
details where it's like these cool little like, Oh, did you notice this little
thing?
How fun.
And that one's called shitty movie details where it's like made up jokes
about, you know, like this little thing.
So there's, there's a scene in Endgame where our Natasha is eating a peanut
butter sandwich and in the shitty movie details, it's like, Oh, that symbolizes
because then I was knocked half the things out of existence.
There's no jelly and jelly sandwich.
But the, the actual point I was going to make was I am actually a huge fan of that
specialization, like in, in a hunter gatherer society, we would be spending 14
hours a day tracking down lunch and dinner, right?
Like we'd be chasing and killing our food.
Like that sounds, that's exhausting.
Now that I don't have to do that.
And my, my closest grocery store is a five minute walk away.
And I was just talking with somebody today.
And I mean, I've said this before, maybe on the show, but like, we all do this.
I offload a lot of my cognition onto my phone.
And so I'm, I'm, I'm even like specializing myself away from having
to remember to remember, remember to do things.
I have a calendar that sets like reminding me to come to the podcast today.
Being, being able to offload as many things as possible leaves you free to
do more things that you want to do.
It makes us more vulnerable.
If I dropped my phone, I'd forget what date I'm doing stuff.
Sure.
But I'm less happy about specialization because it's kind of soul numbing.
Um, in the fact that we take a lot of the meaning in our lives by what we do,
right?
Like how we can be useful to those around us, those we love, uh, and society at
large.
And when you're spending 40 hours a week doing a super specialized task, like
before you would make a shirt and you made a shirt with your hands.
You wear the shirt you made, or you give it to someone you love.
Now you, one person spends eight hours a day sewing the right hem on a shirt.
Someone else spends eight hours a day sewing the sleeve hams on a shirt.
Someone else like wove the cotton together by manning this giant machine for
eight hours a day.
It's yeah, it makes everything so much better, but it is soulless and deadening.
And you feel like this tiny, cognitive, huge machine and nothing matters.
And like, no one cares that you sewed the hem on the right side of their shirt.
You know, they would, if you didn't, is he sure, but it no longer feels
meaningful to have a life.
Jess tiebreaker.
Oh, I don't know.
I was just, uh, when you were talking earlier, Stephen, I was going to make a
joke about how now you can be a brand ambassador for a shirt company as a viable
career that there's like niches of specialization that just weren't possible
before. And I see all these funny articles now about like, here's the job titles
that Gen Z is going to have.
And they're these ridiculous specialized things.
Like, uh, oh, I'm a advisor to tour guides to, you know, like, I can't even
think of some of the funny ones right now, but hyper hyper specialized.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But like, um, I went camping a little while ago and I felt really satisfied
doing like kind of a hunter-gatherer lifestyle type thing, like cooking over a
fire.
And it's like, this is like, you know, what we humans kind of evolved to do.
And you can really feel it when you're out there doing it.
It's like, this feels so satisfying versus, yeah, if you're sitting there for eight
hours a day, sewing a left hand, it's like, this is not what I evolved to do.
This does not feel quite like as fulfilling as being out in nature and hunting
for food and gathering water, not to say that I was doing those things.
I was doing like a vague approximation of those things.
We're simulating it enough to make your a brain happy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like sure you brought the food with you.
You didn't have to like, you know, catch a rabbit and skin it and cook it.
But like, you know, you, yeah, cooking over, I mean, I've, the most, I mean, I've
never done anything like that in a way that would simulate the intentional
environment.
That sounds like it could be fun.
I mean, have you played Breath of the Wild?
Oh, never, never heard of it.
The entire appeal of that game is just that you get to like simulate being a hunter-gatherer.
It's great.
So the other implication that also is a bit worrisome, like first of all, the whole
needing more population just leads to the repugnant conclusion, in my opinion.
More is better, but more is also more meaningless and et cetera.
The, and you matter much less as one out of 300 million than one out of 150.
But also the, the idea that transmission of culture is very key to have a
high fidelity cultural transmission.
And that is usually easiest done by people who are similar to each other and who
don't have communication barriers, like having different accents or different languages.
It seems to almost argue in favor of homogenization of culture because that
makes the culture easier to pass down.
It makes the culture easier to pass down, but harder to evolve or slower to evolve.
That's true.
And fast evolution is important nowadays.
I feel like I'm less pessimistic about these ideas.
As far as like homogenization and things losing meaning, the more people you get,
like I'm against the population expanding past the point where it can support itself.
But assuming that we reach the grand transhumanist future and we're generating
solar energy and there's enough food for everybody.
Yeah, I think it would be great, you know, if culture got larger.
I also kind of am in favor of cultural homogenization to a point.
It's already happening.
A lot of cultures are quote unquote westernized.
I've been saying quote unquote too much.
I hate when I do that.
And it seems to be working out.
I mean, like there's some sadness and I see a lot of people of it's so sad that
people are losing their traditional cultures and they're thinking of the really
cool things about those cultures, like elaborate garments and like exotic
seeming traditions.
And it's like, yeah, but then like you're missing out on like foot binding and
wearing like very uncomfortable garments instead of like t-shirts and jeans.
Like there's a reason that culture gets passed down and propagates.
And some of it is that this is a better thing.
T-shirts and jeans are pretty superior clothing to most other types of clothing
throughout history.
And that's a nice like, although I think it was Matt Freeman.
I haven't heard his actual like thesis on this, but he says that pants are like
some of the worst, like is like the worst garments.
I'm not sure why.
Oh, maybe I should we'll have to ask him as opposed to shorts.
I'm not really sure.
I can't remember.
I mean, skirts have like the advantage of being cooler, but they're just much
more impractical.
I think this was a throwaway line on the doof cast or something that I'm
a desk about and I forgot to.
But so, I mean, you picked a nice example with like clothing and stuff.
But I mean, you look at some of the, the awesome things that we're doing away
with, with Westernizing countries or with Westernizing cultures, like getting
rid of slavery and female dental mediation and, I don't know, stoning gay
people to death, like, you know, all these things that, yes, when you Westernize,
you lose those things, but it's like, do we miss them?
I mean, will we miss them when they're, when they're all, when it's just history?
I certainly don't think so.
It's hard.
I mean, again, it's hard to think of an unintended bad consequence that, you know,
if we, if the world stops stoning gay people to death, what, what terrible fate
could befall humanity after that?
I'm not worried about tearing down that shelling fence.
Yeah.
And like, I'm also not convinced that we're going to become completely
homogenized ever because people form their own subcultures within cultures.
Like this one.
This one.
I mean, even, even when we get to the fun transhumanist future, I mean, if you're
a 10 year flight from the nearest human, uh, or from the nearest other culture of
humans, they're gonna be doing their own stuff.
Yeah.
You know, there'll still be.
And then I think this will, this will continue to be a thing going forward.
I haven't had a fun, like transhumanism inspiring thought, like feeling like this
and a long time.
That was nice.
It's pat, it's passing, but that was a good feeling.
All right.
Cool.
So I want to end with some pushback against this book, which again, comes from
the best of comments section.
Uh, first of all, there was the, the wish we already mentioned checking in with a
few people with two year olds and, uh, they said that they put random plants in
their mouths all the time.
Uh, I'm going to have to ask my sister, but Steven, apparently you had that
basal thing, which was interesting.
And that, that baby is being raised near two dogs.
So that doesn't validate my public or that is, that is unlikely that people
would evolve to mimic dogs as well as other humans.
Well, but I, I, that, that, that's definitely probably true.
