bike ride home.
Cause he says, I realized like a few, a couple, I don't know, when some time
ago that if I just didn't eat like from lunch to like when I got home, I'd come
home hangry and I wouldn't notice like, and eventually noticed like, I, I'm just
pissed until I sat down and had something to eat.
So he's like, now I just take care of it before I leave for work or leave,
leave for home.
And so it is a super mundane explanation.
Um, and it's, you know, could have been a fine day or whatever.
So, um, I like that.
Yeah.
You could be painting some elaborate backstory, but that's a really good
way to think about it.
It's like, are they, are they hungry?
You know, maybe a headache, like just, you know, some, some super mundane
thing.
I like that a lot.
And it kind of helps as a strategy to try to knock out some of the low
hanging fruit too.
Um, in the comments, Robin Hansen said, the less you know about someone's
personality, the more you shouldn't fear about their personality from their
behavior.
So it's reasonable to infer more from their behavior, from the behavior of
others than yourself.
The problem instead seems to be overconfidence.
We infer far more than is reasonable, given only a small behavior sample.
And then the rest of the comments section devolves into pro singularity
versus anti-singularitarian arguments because of the, I would you push the
button thing, which I don't want to get into.
No.
So that's there.
If you want to read that.
So, so Hansen's point is that, I mean, yeah, it's Bayesian evidence of their
personality, but it's weak Bayesian evidence.
Yeah, that's fine.
And that's a good, that's not a, so much of a disagreement as it is.
Yeah.
Like you said, caveat, technically the point.
Yeah.
I mean, if someone's doing Dick things, it is more likely that they're a Dick
than they're, than that they're not assuming you know, nothing else about them.
Right.
Right.
But remember that it's weak evidence because you only have this one
data point.
Exactly.
Neat.
Leave to Robin Hansen always.
Yeah.
Add some, add some subtlety.
I was, I mean, this is not, this is sort of related just to personality stuff.
I never watched, uh, Mr.
Rogers as a kid, somehow I missed it.
I was aware that it existed, but I watched pointless TV and not wholesome television.
And I, over the last couple of weeks, I've just been like, maybe I should watch
that movie that, uh, Tom Hanks did, um, no, I'm sure it'd make me cry and be amazing.
I won't try to be my neighbor.
Yeah.
Is that what it's called?
I think so.
Okay.
Um, but the person of Mr.
Rogers from my model of him is, and like I've read anecdotes on Reddit and, you
know, short, short snippets, he just seemed like the embodiment of wholesomeness.
And it's, it's like knowing that a person like that existed means that it's
possible to be that kind of, that it's possible to be that kind of person.
And I find that really attractive, like just in a, in an inspiring sort of way.
And I'm not, I'm currently in the process of working out, like how to integrate
not going full Rogers, cause I don't know how I would do that.
But you need a sweater vest.
And then I'll never make it.
It's, it's 90 something degrees out today.
But I don't know.
I, I think in, this is totally unrelated to the podcast in general, but just for me,
I'm trying to find ways in my life to be like just more genuinely wholesome.
Like when I interact with other people and like, you know, unless it's like good
natured counter signaling, like with friends or something, like jokes like that.
Like just little things, like never giving people a hard time or making them feel bad
or like being, I don't know, like bizarrely compassionate.
There was like an anecdote I read where somebody came, like they were on the show
and their little sister came with, but they were like too young to go on stage or something.
And she was like on the stage, like on the side of the lines, like crying.
And not because she was sad, like cause she wasn't on the show.
She was just overwhelmed.
She was a big fan and stuff.
And apparently this person's recollection was like, he like knelt down, put his
hand on her shoulder and he's like, what's wrong?
Like, let's talk.
You know, why are you feeling this way?
And like that level of approach is just so inspiring.
I mean, I, I can imagine I'm looking forward to being around my niece when she's
throwing a tantrum and it'd be much easier for me to do the Roger's thing
because she's not constantly doing it to me.
And you want to sleep deprived.
Yeah.
So I mean, when you're, when you're the parents and they're exhausting you all
the time, it's different, but I'm, I'm looking, I'm going to try something like
that when this, when this happens in my life and see how it works.
Like, you know, again, they're probably just hungry or something, right?
It's probably some bullshit thing where, you know, the kid doesn't know that
they're, they're upset because they, you know, they miss lunch or something, right?
That's why cool uncles increase the survival odds of a tribe.
Parents wouldn't murder their own children out of frustration as much.
Really good.
Evo's like theory, actually.
There we go.
I love it.
And that means I'm still contributing to the gene, to the, to the, to the
success of my species, even if I don't have kids.
Absolutely.
Just be nice to kids.
Yeah.
All right.
So.
So for next time.
Yep.
For next time, we will be reading the posts.
Are your enemies innately evil?
Question mark.
And also two more things to unlearn from school.
So we'll have those.
And, um, we've been going at this for a while.
Do we want to skip the side topics and the, uh, listener feedback and get to those later?
There's no time for feedback for sure.
Yeah.
I was actually thinking since we've skipped feedback twice now and someone's been piling
up, do you want to make our next episode, one of those get through the back lock feedback
episodes?
We could catch this in feedback.
Yeah.
I'm flexible.
We'll get, we'll get into them.
You know, either piece by piece or wholesale.
We'll, we'll do feedback sections.
Maybe we'll just do a shorter episode at some point.
Like we'll, we'll, we'll time block a short topic.
Yeah.
All right.
We'll figure it out.
Um, that said, we are never out of time to think our
awesome patrons who make the show possible and allow us to, you know, buy
equipment, keep the lights on, pay the hosting bills and all that stuff.
So this week's, uh, patron that we're over eager to think is Matthew Cutler.
Thank you so much, Matthew.
This is, uh, all thanks to you.
No, no, no other patrons this week.
It's, you're the one today, keeping the show alive.
So thank you.
And can I just say how happy I am that at one point we were getting close to the
bottom of our list of patrons.
I was like, man, what's going to happen when, did I mention this before?
I think so, but it keeps happening.
It, yeah.
And like, and then more people jump in and it just, it makes me feel so good to
like see that we have a, a nice comfortable buffer of people to think still that like
people like us and, and we are doing something of value for our society and
helping our culture, fiddlesly transmit its cultural thingies.
That's right.
That said, that doesn't mean that we don't want, you know, if you feel like
supporting the show, you can find us at, you know, on Patreon, um, you can rate
and review and iTunes, all the podcast, all the podcast things.
I always feel weird saying those because everyone knows all that stuff.
Yeah.
This isn't, this isn't your first rodeo.
If you're listening to this podcast, you've heard other podcasts.
And just sharing it like with your friends and family can also help too.
If you think they would be receptive to this kind of thing, obviously don't
share it to people who you don't think would be a good match.
Like, like don't force things on them because the culture is still new and
being experimented with, right?
To tie it back to what we were saying or do, because what could go wrong?
It's not like they'll develop cyanide poisoning.
I didn't mention it to my doctor and I think she's listening to it now.
Really?
So.
But, uh, yeah.
Yeah.
So thank you again, Matthew Cutler.
That's awesome.
And, uh, thank all of you guys for listening and for being such awesome listeners.
Yeah.
Thanks for doing what you do.
We super appreciate you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think, uh, oh, last thing, because we usually have the last few seconds for
out for music, so this will all be drowned out.
Uh, Taika Wattiti is directing Thor 4.
So there's two, two bits of good news there.
One, Thor 4 is happening.
And two, Taika Wattiti who directed Thor Ragnarok.
And, uh, it's like, I mentioned what we do in the shadows.
Have you seen that in Yash?
Uh, I haven't seen it.
I've heard many things about it.
I think you'd like it.
It's a vampire mockumentary.
It's a complete joke of a movie, it's hilarious.
And this is the guy that they said, Hey, here's, you know, hundreds of
millions of dollars, go make a Thor movie.
