something, or something, but there was, that was some little cultural evolution.
Plus capuchin monkeys are among my favorite.
They're like nine pounds.
They're really cute.
They got their little hands in the little closet video of them using rocks.
Like the ones that have like the mains, right?
Those are, they have some.
There's, I think we're thinking of different ones.
Cause maybe I think I'm thinking of a tamarin.
I think maybe.
Yeah.
I don't know a lot about monkeys, but I'm someone, these aren't monkeys.
Someone's going to correct me, whatever these little primates, but the
little video, like he's hefting what's like, you know, about the size of like a
coffee cup, but it looks like he's heaving this huge boulder and then throwing it
down onto the, onto the thing.
And they, they sit there and try it over and over until they hit the thing.
But it was, in addition to being informative and related to this article,
also super cute.
So cool.
I, I get your hatred and I kind of feel it too.
On the other hand, I also have this sort of morbid fascination, which I hear a lot
of people get like with a thing about zombie apocalypses.
They're like objectively, I know it would be horrible.
I would probably die.
And even if I didn't die, I'd live a few years in a horrible wasteland where
everyone I love dies and then I die of like a bad infection or something.
But man, a zombie apocalypse would be so fun to be in, right?
Zombie land makes it look like a lot of fun.
Right.
Right.
And I know a lot of people who have that kind of fantasy.
And I kind of feel the same way about what we just read about human civilization.
Scott says, says it this way, one of the most important parts of any culture,
more important than the techniques for hunting seals, more important than the
techniques for processing tubers is techniques to make sure nobody ever
questions tradition.
Humans evolved to, to transmit culture with high fidelity.
And one of the biggest threats to transmitting culture with high fidelity
was reason with a capital R.
Our ancestors lived in epistemic hell where they had to constantly rely on
causally opaque processes with justifications that couldn't possibly be true.
And if they ever questioned them, they might die.
Historically, reason has been the villain of the human narrative.
Which, holy shit, guys, that's fucked up.
And it makes so much sense to why there's so many stories about
there's so many early civilizations that have this kind of myth where a woman
comes out of the forest and she's like, I will bring you great prosperity,
but you just can't eat a squirrel.
And then, of course, the dumbass always like eats a squirrel after, you know,
however many years of following the instructions and his kingdom prospers.
And then like something horrible happens and there's like the same kind of myth
just over and over the structure of do not question, you know,
strange women throwing swords at you from lakes.
Forget what the quote was.
But like, I mean, it's even common to the fairy to today.
Like a lot of sci-fi is cautionary tales.
Right. I mean, I guess 1984 is the first one that jumps to mind.
But there's a lot of to the point where one of my favorite comics is Caveman
sci-fi where there's this caveman who has invented fire and he's like, look,
me make fire. And the other caveman goes, no, you go too far.
You employ God. He says, no, now my food better.
And then the next panel is the entire world caught fire.
And it's the caveman saying me and play God.
And one is another one with like a shot, a sharp rock.
I'll be cavemen have like dull rocks on the ends of their axis.
And this one was like, look, me make sharper rock.
And the other one goes, says, you go too far.
You employ God. He goes, no, me hunt better now.
And then he takes the rock and hits the ground and the entire earth breaks open.
You know, flat little island of land and space that's now broken in half.
And he goes, me, I'm go too far.
But there's a lot of sci-fi like that, you know,
like don't play around with jeans like Gattaca because you'll make terrible
things happen and don't implement this other technology
because then all of society will crumble.
That's actually as distinctly different than like not doing things for no
for known impossible reasons.
These aren't known reasons as the thing.
This was an old person saying this bird is lucky.
Right. Yeah, exactly.
But like, why shouldn't you tamper with jeans?
Well, because we're pretty sure we're not sure of, you know,
the things that might happen, you know, the cascading effects from that.
And like, there's there's a reasonable process behind that, right?
It's not because some witch told us not to.
But the science fiction stories generally tell you, show you, you know,
future scenarios that are kind of ridiculous, like humanoid robots
walking around shooting people and when they want to infiltrate them,
they put on hyperalistic human skin, you know.
And yeah, OK, the the lesson that AI can't be trusted is actually a very good one.
But the scenario that they play out is kind of ridiculous and hokey.
And yet that is the sci-fi that is forever with us.
Yeah, like there's a lot of this taboo against playing God in general,
which playing God can be doing anything new.
And specifically, I guess there's probably certain areas that are
especially bad to tamper with, like anything that involves creating life
or messing with life, cloning, people were all about, no, cloning is going to create super sheep or.
Yeah. Or yeah, I mean, there's there's movies where all that stuff happens.
But I guess I'm just thinking like there was horrible things about both organ
transplantation and in vitro fertilization for a while.
Like the Catholic Church literally wasn't sure if these people would have souls
if you put in someone else's liver into your body.
Like what happens then?
Do you have like 10% of somebody else's soul inside you now?
It was a huge thing until it actually like was done and someone's life was saved.
And the people were like, yeah, fuck that, I would like a new liver.
Some people still don't accept organ transplants.
Jehovah's Witnesses still don't accept blood.
So we're talking about the parables of like science fiction, not like the lessons that.
Right. I mean.
But I mean, like the ancient parables of don't eat shark meat or your children
will have shark skin is the same kind of ridiculous story that yet
somehow, you know, was for a good reason.
And well, what about people that don't eat GMOs because it's franken food?
Right. Yeah. But but they're doing it that that that's that's kind of the
example I'm thinking of. That doesn't make any sense.
No, it doesn't. And so like, but you can kind of see where they're coming from
when all of cultural evolution has been pushing people to not try new things
because sticking to old things is what made you not die.
I guess I'm like, I'm lucky, more sympathetic towards those people.
It's it's fun in the sense of understand.
It's to me, this is I get like, kind of the like, oh, man, this sucks.
That you guys have.
But it's for me, it's more just like, oh, cool.
I found where this bug lives.
And now, now we know how to address it is saying it's not a bug, though.
Well, it it's a bug in so far as if because now we know how to make
corn properly or something.
Now we've now we fix the bug.
We don't do it the hard, weird way with, you know, burnt seashells.
Stephen, did you go to a university?
I went to I got a psychology degree.
Oh, shit. OK, well, I didn't.
I feel that college, especially nowadays, is wasteful and stupid.
It wastes people's lives.
It wastes a ton of money, which is not necessarily needed.
That's still true. OK, yes.
That's more true than ever.
All right. I kind of consider it like the ivory tower magical thing, where
if you go to this special magical tower, now you become special.
If you spend four years of your life there and people want to hire you more,
there's a whole cool post with your link.
But the thing is, as Scott Alexander pointed out,
most most people in the rational sphere now kind of think of university
as sort of like this passe old institution, which has outlived its usefulness.
But what if that's one of those things that works in ways we don't entirely
understand, that makes our entire culture possible?
And sure, it's extremely expensive, but maybe it's a good reason.
Maybe it's a good thing we haven't gotten rid of it, because all of a sudden,
30 years from now, we all develop not having college poisoning and die.
You know, I wonder, like so the.
Again, I'm thinking this from like a Hansonian lens, where like the point
of going to college now is that you can get credentialed and put that on your
resume and people will be like, oh, they can tolerate going to school.
They can tolerate sitting in a cubicle for eight hours a day. Right.
But the solution to that now, like so again, I got a useless degree
that I never used and instead went to a boot camp trade school and now do that.
So like the I it could be that there's some secret benefit of, you know,
exactly. That's the horror part. Yeah.
We hate the two-party system. What if there's some secret benefit?
I mean, like one that is a little bit more near to my heart is what about monogamy?
Yeah. Yeah.
What about other like traditions that I hate?
Yeah. Or what about sexism?
Oh, God.
But in that way lies madness, right?
If we start saying, no, we can't change these things because they might be secretly
useful. Yeah.
How can we possibly better ourselves?
That's literally where the hatred for this post comes from.
We might be living in a horror world where everything we're doing to better
the world is secretly making it deadly.
Well, that's part of cultural evolution and we'll figure it out.
Like, you know, if tribe, you know, groups of people starved to death,
but humanity didn't, right?
Yeah. See, I'm not so big on the starving to death part.
Yeah. Like, communist Russia had this great idea and it worked for a few
decades when they rocketed them into the industrial age.
But it ended up with millions of people starving to death.
So in Venezuela right now is like, what?
I just can't even begin to like out of water.
Well, the average wage is not enough to buy enough calories to live for,
like, if you work for an average wage and spend all your money on food,
you will die of starvation.
So, I mean, that obviously we can see the failure mode there, right?
But I guess we're turning into a lawless sort of Mad Max world.
I had something that was, I thought, really engaging and I just dropped it.
Or were we a second?
We were saying that they tried out a cool new idea that everyone
thought in theory should absolutely work.
Right. So, like, if we, if we dive into that a little bit,
like the cost of getting that wrong before in the ancestral environment
where the ancestral environment of 200 years ago was starving to death
or getting sick and dying 30 years later.
But is there anything that we can possibly think of?
And maybe we can't, the three of us in five minutes, but we're like, all right, cool.
Let's think if we got rid of factor X, we can say sexism, we could say college,
we could say segregation or something.
If we were to change what we're trying to do to any of those variables,
