kicked the vending machine, it's because the bus was late, train was early,
reports overdue.
Now the damned vending machine ate your lunch money for the second day in a row.
We attribute our own actions to our situations, seeing our behaviors as
perfectly normal responses to experiences.
But when someone else kicks a vending machine, we don't see their past history
trailing behind them in the air.
We just see the kick for no reason we know about.
And we must think that they're a naturally angry person.
Since they lashed out without provocation.
And I think that was almost verbatim rewritten in methods of rationality.
So hence it's doubly stuck in my head.
Yeah, they called it the fundamental attribution error in methods of rationality.
Good.
So that's how I remember it, even though it's a much longer title.
Right on.
Yeah.
And I mean, it's one of those things that like, I think makes it really easy to in a
moment, if you have a second to, you know, be reflective and mindful to like not judge
people, if you can, if you see consistent bad behavior, then fine.
And like there are some things where like it's hard not to assume they're an asshole.
Like if I see somebody throw like a cup of like, you know, like a soda can out the
window while driving, it's hard for me to paint a backstory for them.
That doesn't make them a jerk.
But, you know, you see somebody, I don't know, whatever, be grumpy or something.
Where was this very recently?
It might have been, oh, it was on Sam Harris's most recent podcast with Ricky
Gervais, which was a lot of fun.
But he had talked about, I can't remember the specifics, but I had the same thing
like 10 years ago, I was getting glasses and the woman helping us was being a
complete jerk.
I can't remember what the specifics were, but she was being so bad that my mom was
there helping me buy glasses.
This one might have been 15 years ago as a teenager.
And she was like, then when that woman left, my mom was telling like the other
person that was helping us, how much the other person was being so unhelpful and
mean.
And when my mom was telling me that she was going to go tell, like what,
that she was going to talk about this with the manager or whoever we were
talking to next, I was like, you really don't have to.
We don't know if they're having like a really bad day or something.
And I use the example, like maybe their dad just died or something.
Like we don't know.
And my mom, I think I didn't do a good job of explaining where I was coming from,
but it was more just like, I wasn't prepared enough to like give this person a
hard time because like, I'm never going to see them again.
So like whatever.
But, you know, if someone's being a dick or, you know, being rude or being short
or blunt or not responding, you know, to a text or something, like, you don't
know what's going on.
And it doesn't, it's not, it's not necessarily indicative of their
underlying personality and hence not a reason to judge them as a person.
Yeah.
As the quote says, there's more late buses in the world than mutants born with
unnaturally high anger levels.
Yeah.
And most people's dispositions aren't going to be that far from average.
Yeah.
Um, so why do we, why do we do this thing?
Eleazar says it seems quite intuitive to explain rain by water spirits, explain
fire by fire stuff like floggestone, explain the soporific effect of medication
by saying it contains a dormant of potency.
Or in other words, people seem to assume that things have these innate
traits as another kind of mental shortcut.
Reality usually involves more complicated mechanisms and evaporation and
condensation cycle underlying rain, but mechanisms sound more complicated than
essences they are harder to think of and less available.
That reminds me of what Dan Dennett talked about in breaking the spell.
It was the hyperactive agency attribution error or something.
Or no, it was hyperactive agency attribution, something.
So is that like just assuming people have more agency than they might?
So he was talking about it in the context of like assuming agency behind
random stuff, like, you know, Thor making rain or like when snow falls, the
example I remember from the book was like when snow falls off the roof during
the winter and the dog gets up and like, who's that barking?
Well, and it's like, it's nobody.
It's, it's no, maybe we also attribute too much agency to people from seeing
the actions of it.
Right.
Um, he didn't, he didn't use it that way in the book.
And I don't know, uh, not going to speculate on whether or not he would
agree with that assessment, but that seems like the kind of same kind of
mistake, right?
Yeah, that matches like my anecdotal experience where you'll like see
somebody do something and they're like, Oh, they deliberately did that in
order to make me feel like that.
And like the person didn't even know you were in the room or.
He also brings up the false consensus effect where people think that others
are more likely to respond the same way that they do to things.
For example, uh, at a university drinking students considerably overestimated
the fraction of fellow students who drink, but non-drinkers considerably
underestimated the fraction.
So, uh, yeah, most people thought that everyone else was like them, which, uh,
I think explains a lot with the people who say, I do not understand how we, I
know we've talked about this before.
I do not understand how opposite group could possibly think X, you know,
that everyone thinks, you know, most people are much like them, which is not
the case.
Yeah, that's, I'm just randomly thinking now, I didn't drink in high
school in college, uh, at least not until later in college, but I, all my
friends did, so I don't know what my estimate would have been.
I probably would have overestimated because my sample size was, you know,
mostly drinkers.
Yeah.
Eleazar at the end says, suppose I gave you control with two buttons, a red
button and a green button, the red button destroys the world and the green
button stops the red button from being pressed.
Which button would you press?
The green one.
Anyone who gives a different answer is probably over complicating the question.
And yet people sometimes ask me why I want to save the world.
And I just thought that was interesting because when you see someone trying
to save the world, that is often the thing you think of first, right?
Well, apparently he's run into that.
Like, why are you trying to save the world?
What's the thing that we think of first?
Why is someone trying to save the world?
Yeah.
I mean, I guess to me that's like kind of a no-brainer, but I mean, one of our
first 10 episodes was with somebody who wanted to destroy the world.
So, uh, I don't know what to do about, I mean, I almost said I don't know what
he's, or I don't know how he thinks or how he thinks that, but, um,
we did talk about it for an hour and a half and I get where they're
coming from, but I just completely disagree on all accounts.
So.
But you do understand why he thinks it.
So.
I understand why he says he thinks it.
Right.
I'm not convinced.
I mean, and I think, I can't remember if I said this back then or not.
I'm not convinced that if they were put in front of this button that they'd
press it, cause like, assuming they have friends and loved ones, they would all
die too.
Like this isn't just like an altruistic good I'm doing for the universe.
It's like you're killing everyone you know and love.
It, it's for, it's for the best.
In college, I was in that same mind space and I, at least I said I would do the
same thing.
I now I don't want to stick to that.
Maybe I would have at the moment, like back down and been like, no, I can't do
this, but I often wonder about like the trolley problem.
Like, would I be able to push the fat man to like save the three people?
Like you want to say the correct utilitarian answer, which is yes, one life for
three, but like, I, I don't know.
Like Stephen, what if you see someone like was just fatally injured is in
horrible, crippling agony on the street.
You know, they're going to bleed out in about an hour and a half and it is
impossible to save their lives.
Like literally impossible, they're going to die.
Is it a better thing to just end them quickly and mercifully now so they don't
have that hour and a half of agony first?
I still wouldn't post the red button.
No, no, no, but would you, with that one person, would you do that?
I know, but I'm, I'm, I'm challenging the analogy you're making.
Well, no, it's, it's a very simple analogy when you think that everyone in
the world is in that position and that, that position is inevitable consequence
of being alive and conscious, but most of us are enjoying the ride most of the
time, right?
But, but, but, you don't understand that when you're in that nine space.
But yes, there's a run at the point totally, you know, if I was in the
battlefield and my, my comrade had just been shot and, you know, or baynetted
and like, yep, we're never going to be able to get you, you know, I would like
to think I could mercy kill them.
Um, so, or at least I would think it's the right thing to do.
I wouldn't stop somebody else from doing it.
Let's put it that way.
Yeah.
So.
Um, I like to focus on the part of that question about the button, which was
saying that, uh, you're just oversimplifying the problem or the question.
I forget over complicating, over complicating.
Yeah.
Um, I think this is probably true of a lot of these cases where we are kind of
looking at someone and trying to figure out what's going through their mind, why
they did that thing.
And, um, I'm thinking about a landed proton who is, uh, he's got like some books
and Ted talks and he's the founder of something called the school of life,
which is this cool, uh, school designed to teach people like the stuff they
don't teach you in school.
One of the things that he had talked about on a interview that I was
listening to with him was the idea that often like somebody's in a really bad
mood and we're like, oh, they, maybe they have clinical depression and they need
anti-depressants or, oh, it might be because this thing happened earlier that
day or, and then like, it's like, but like, did you ask him if they're hungry?
Like, and he says, when you think of a child who's having a tantrum, like you
wouldn't be like, did something really bad happen to this child early this day?
And it's still on his mind.
And then also this other thing.
And then maybe as clinical to felt like you'd be like, is this kid hungry?
Does he need a nap?
Kind of interesting that we don't do that with adults, even though very often
like the reason that someone's in a bad mood might be because they need a
nap or because it's like usually maybe he's just a much more simple explanation.
I like that.
And, and this actually relates to the same coworker who's raising his daughter
in that really cool way.
He mentioned that like, so usually if we go out to like the, the office
caters lunch on Wednesdays and so, or pays for it, we go get it ourselves.
But he'll usually save a portion to eat right before he's like his train slash
