lot more than just what they told you because they probably did.
And that's, that was my experience too.
Talking with really like senior devs who'd been in this forever.
So the 26 year old guy is just a savant.
I mean, so he knew stuff that he'd been able to pick up in his time doing this,
but he, it wasn't the same kind of seniority experience.
Different kinds of prestige.
Totally.
Yeah.
The, uh, important events only happening once a generation.
Um, the example that they used in the book was elephants and elephants live a
very long time and they're one of the species, like us, uh, long live mammals
who do keep elders around, uh, post, uh, menopause.
And for pretty good reason, they talked about a couple of instances where
there were these droughts and because of poaching a lot of these elder elephants
don't exist anymore, but the elephant tribes that had a matriarch were able
to find the last resort water holes while the others weren't.
Cause the, the older ones had, you know, found water in hard times before.
They remembered the, the really hard to get to water holes that you normally
don't get to that they were brought to once when they were a kid, when there
was a horrible drought.
They also had better survival rates, um, because they knew which lines were
the most dangerous, I guess some other things too.
So keeping your elders around apparently does directly affect the success
of the younger generations.
All right.
I guess I will try to respect my elders a little more.
Well, apparently our elders are behind the times.
That's true.
Well, so you won't consult them about your, you know, 21st century problems,
but, but I mean, like a life issue, like, you know, grandma, what happened,
you know, did you ever have a situation like this?
Like, oh yeah, I had 10.
It's your first time having this and they can talk to you all about it and
give you all the wisdom they had from that.
So grandma might be able to remember what happened the last time a populist,
you know, blowhole was elected.
Yeah.
Not, sorry, I shouldn't bring it back there.
Why, why did I do that?
Let's go forward.
Cause everything's been totally foobar lately and we can't even go there.
And we know this shit's happened in the past.
Yep.
Onward.
Yeah.
So at the end of the essay, Scott talks about examples of cultural evolution
that he found the most interesting in the book, which, uh, I think we talked
a little bit about these, but they were Maniac, uh, divination and shark taboos.
Uh, Maniac, I'm not sure if that's how it's pronounced, but it's a type of
tuber that is only edible if you use this complex processing technique to get
rid of the cyanide, which, uh, I believe you had to chop it and then soak it
and then boil it since let it soak for like three days, right?
Something like that, but not four or five.
Cause if it's soaked too long, I don't, something happened.
It was like exactly three days.
And if you pull it out too early, it would still have some cyanide.
And if you pull it out too late, there's probably steps that we're missing there too.
I'm sure it's very precise.
Yeah.
So, and then like since I'm so glad I can just buy food at the supermarket.
Oh yeah, guaranteed to not have too much cyanide, just the right amount.
Uh, since cyanide poisoning would take a while to become evident, uh, the only
reason that people would keep using the more complex technique is tradition.
And by a while, it was like decades before you started noticing the bad effects.
It would be a good 20, 25 years before it started really affecting you.
So this is really like modest doses of cyanide.
Trace amounts, yeah, but not enough that it builds up over time.
Gotcha.
Yeah.
And then there's like divination.
Um, apparently acts as a crude type of randomization tool, uh, which would be
useful in war when you're deciding whether to attack your enemies, left or right
flank, or for deciding where to hunt or where to plant your crops.
These are all, um, techniques that require real randomization.
And Scott went on about how humans are very, very bad randomizers to the point
where somebody could write a very easy AI program that could like with 76% accuracy
or something like that predict whether you're going to click one side or the
other when you're trying to be random, or I forget what it was.
Yeah.
What number you were going to pick.
Yeah.
It could out predict you.
It was, uh, also, they went into some examples of why these sorts of things
would be useful.
Like it doesn't, it's not intuitive to me why it would be useful to randomize
where you're hunting or where you're going to plant crops, but it turns out
that going back to the same place that you had a great catch last time is
actually probably counterproductive because the animals also remember where
they were killed last time or well, where their family members and kin were
killed last time.
And so they start staying away from those places.
And you killed a lot of the ones that were there.
That too.
Yeah.
And, uh, there was something similar with the, the planting that if you over
plant one area, you start pulling the nutrients out of the soil.
And so just having a truly randomized process actually is a little bit, uh,
beneficial, more than a little bit beneficial.
It's actually beneficial.
I read about this at one point a long time ago about precise order of crop rotation
to keep your soil good.
And there, there is, you can keep using, I'm sure you have to add
whatever fertilizers and stuff, but you can, if you rotate crops, not randomly,
but in the right kind of order, different kinds.
I don't remember the specifics.
Um, the soil stayed good for longer.
And that's definitely this kind of like trial and error thing.
It's like, well, we had a great soybean harvest last year.
Let's do that again.
It's like, no, no, no, because it's written on the stone tablet that you guys
can't look at, or because grandma said so, we're doing it this way.
Apparently it was weird birds.
Oh, for the Romans, it was weird.
Well, I think it was for planting too.
Okay.
If you see a, um, fortuitous bird doing a particular thing in this particular
spot, there was a whole complex process behind what the bird was doing.
But like that's generating random numbers was not the reason why the users
of these techniques thought that it worked.
Right.
They thought that we burned this bone and it creates these cracks and that
creates a map that will guide us to the hunting grounds and the spirits are helping.
They didn't know why it worked.
Yeah, but they knew it did work.
I also liked someone in the best of comments later on pointed out that, uh,
divination processes that are long and complex and difficult are much better
than simple, easy ones, because then you can't just redo them until you get the
result you would like, and, uh, making it be long and complex is like, uh, once
you get to the end, you're like, fine, we'll fucking take this result.
Less room for humans to un-randomize it.
That's a good point.
Yeah.
If you're just flipping a coin or dropping a stick to see which way it
points, you can be like, I'm going to try again.
Yeah, that's two out of three.
But, but if exactly, but if you're, if you've got this hard to find, you know,
substance, then you destroy it in the process of your divination.
Then it's like, well, we've got to just do that now.
We don't have all the time and effort to go do this all over again.
There was also a cool, I didn't, I don't, I didn't pull it, which I kind of regret
now, but there was a, uh, cool anecdote about how in the fifties when, or maybe
it was the seventies when computing got, uh, much cheaper, uh, people started
redoing calculations, uh, especially on data from, from experiments to get
results they liked better.
So, uh, that kind of had a negative impact, the, the introduction of the
computer into the science process, at least for a while.
Womp.
Got to have some kind of divination process.
That's, that's what I'll say next in our right bug.
You know, there's 20,000 people across seven years.
We just can't afford to do this twice.
I'll explain the value of a good divination process next time.
Like my stuff only works like one out of 20 times, or why, why, why it fails
one out of 20 times.
Like, you guys have no idea how valuable this is to cultural evolution.
And then the last, uh, tradition was Fijian women who refused to eat shark
when they're pregnant.
And when asked why they said, because their babies will be born with shark
skin, uh, but the actual reason's more likely that shark meat causes birth defects.
Which sounds like a better reason because being born with shark skin sounds
kind of cool.
I know, right?
Like, wouldn't that be awesome?
I imagine they're harder to cut and pierced than squishy human skin.
It's probably in a society where being like a mutant is considered bad.
Yeah, being a shark person probably wouldn't have been good for you.
Now people aren't sure you have souls anymore.
And yeah, it might be hard to give you a hug to be all scratchy.
Uh, yeah.
So each of these cultures accidentally discovered a true fact about the universe,
but they have no idea why it's true.
So they developed a tradition around it and were motivated to stick to that
traditional way of doing things, even if the traditional explanation actually
makes no sense.
Uh, and other methods might seem faster and easier and more tempting to try.
Instead of cutting up the maniac and then soaking it for three days and grinding
it and boiling it, it's like, well.
Process was ridiculous.
Why don't I just do this faster thing?
It literally sounds like a ridiculous magic ritual over a number of days for no reason at all.
Yeah.
And, uh, they pointed out, or I guess it was probably Scott making this a point,
not the original author, but if some person was like, Hey, I want to spend more time
with my kids, uh, I'm going to cook this stuff faster.
And, you know, maybe they ate it themselves and they're like, Hey, it's fine.
Cause it would take, you know, maybe 20, 30 years for the sign.
I poisoning to really start building up to where, uh, you start getting sick and you
can't even point to the maniac necessarily as why, why there are these people getting
sick, um, could be a number of things.
So the fact that they developed this tradition around it kind of fail safe.
The correct technique, um, Scott says that this might explain why we as a species tend
to be a versed to logic and reason, doing what seemed like quote unquote logical and
reasonable and the ancestral environment could get you and your whole tribe killed.
I, I'm thinking about the food preparation.
I think this was on one of the like first series of planet earth documentary series.
Um, it was these capuchin monkeys, they would get these nuts and then they would set them
out in the sun for like a day or two and then they would smash them with rocks.
And then they were good to eat after that.
Maybe it was because they're easier to smash after a couple days of drying or
