I'm just thinking that like my sister probably treats the dogs because
they're about baby sized, like she treats the baby.
And if like the baby sees like, Oh, they're doing that.
It's okay.
I also think that it would probably be much more common knowledge.
Like everyone knows that babies like to put everything in their mouths and that
like they have a suckling instinct, but like no one mentions the whole thing.
But yeah, babies are weird around plants, right?
Like everyone knows that cats are weird around pickles and cucumbers that they
freak the fuck out cause they think they're snakes.
There'd be hilarious YouTube videos if this were a thing.
Yeah.
I think, I think that would be more well known.
Um, but more to the point.
Well, then we'll have to do, well, everyone who can do their part for
science and scare or don't scare a toddler with plants and report back.
There's a huge untapped market of hilarious baby videos on YouTube.
I'm straight.
Um, more to the point though, and Kurz says, let's concentrate on the
seal hunting description.
It's clear that Heinrich's goal is to make the process sound as difficult as
to achieve as possible, which yeah, obviously.
The Explorer isn't going to be using caribou antler probes or polar bear harpoon
tips.
They're going to use some modern wood or metal that they stripped from their
ice bound ship.
Then we hit, now you have a seal, but you have to cook it.
What?
The Inuit, the Inuit didn't cook their seal meat using a soapstone lamp
fueled with whale oil.
They ate it raw.
I'm surprised that many people seem to have the instinct to continue to
trust the parts of a story that they cannot confirm even after they
discover some parts are false.
Which, uh, yeah.
Roy Stinger adds, Wikipedia seems to suggest that they ate freshly killed
meat raw, but cooked some of the meat brought back to camp using a
cuddlic, a so, a soapstone lamp fueled with seal oil or whale blubber.
Is that not correct?
That would still flatly contradict, but you have to cook it, but it's close
enough that the mistake doesn't reach making it up as he goes along levels
of falsehood.
Um, I personally do consider that sort of error a, uh, a lie.
Like I grew up in the Jehovah's Witness society where they like to prove
that the religion is the right one.
Cause they actually were really big on enlightenment values.
That's part of their downfall with, you know, training me on their religion.
Cause I absorbed the enlightenment values part and then applied them to the
religion itself.
But yeah, they, they often try to convince people with things, but they
would leave out things that were inconvenient.
Like he just left out the fact that the meat is often eaten raw to make it
sound as difficult as possible to exist in the, in the Arctic.
And that strikes me as like just inherently dishonest.
And once someone's being dishonest like that.
I kind of, like I said, maybe, maybe don't trust the rest that how do I know
that everything else he wrote wasn't also tilted and slightly dishonest in that way.
There's a lesser on post about mistra like once you've learned that a, an
authority, whether it be a book or a person has been dishonest, then it
throws everything else into doubt.
And then of course the obvious example is the Bible being wrong about
pie or, you know, whatever, um, the number, not the delicious dessert.
Um, no one could be wrong about that.
Um, that's, I mean, and I'm assuming that how they consumed, like if, if, uh,
if, uh, God, Royce, I don't know how to say their name, Royce, Dar, but with
a G instead of an A.
Um, and another letter, forget it.
Um, if, if they found that thing about dragging it back and cooking it with,
with, uh, you know, whatever oil, fire, like he said, if, but if they found that
on Wikipedia, I'm assuming the part of eating them raw was also on Wikipedia,
which suggests that the author of this book didn't do due diligence or was
deliberately misrepresenting stuff.
He absolutely had to know that.
Yeah.
There's no way he could have missed that considering how much else he knew.
That sucks.
And it totally points out, uh, the quote on quadruped running seems
inaccurate in several important ways compared to the primary references.
Henrik Sitz, which are short and very interesting in their own.
In particular, humans still typically lock their breathing rate with their strides.
It's just that animals nearly always lock them one to one while humans are
able to switch to other ratios.
So yeah, for that reason, humans are a lot better at, uh, at long persistence
hunting, but, uh, because we can regulate our breathing much easier.
Yeah, we can do it with different ratios, ratios based on different running
speeds, whereas animals are, I guess it's always nearly one to one.
One to one, what?
Sorry.
One to one, uh, a gate to breath.
Every time you get one stride, you take one breath.
Oh, that would be exhausting.
If you were sprinting, like panting, yeah, the humans managed to make them
often have to go at a speed where it's not quite, you know, they can't quite
do it right and they, uh, they run a diet of exhaustion or at least lie down
due to unable ability to keep running.
And then humans just walk up and hack their heads off.
Can I jump in there really quick with like just, eh, how much would
suck to be that animal that's being chased?
And that reminds me, it was another planet earth thing where it was some sort
of wild dogs, dingos or coyotes or something had cornered an antelope.
And like they set up like a, like a, a pincer move where they, they, they
lured it into a trap and then had some come in from this way and come in
from that way.
Like they coordinated this attack and this gazelle or antelope or whatever
it was, ran into a lake and it was just out there swimming and they're
just pacing the edge of the lake, waiting for it to like either like give up
and drown, which it's not going to do.
It's going to walk back to shore, get killed.
And it was like the saddest thing to watch.
And I'm just, I remember that was less cute than the monkey.
Yeah.
But yeah, that's, I mean, I considered that less of a sin because saying
that it's completely adaptable and that they can switch to a lot of ratios
isn't as big of a misconstruction, in my opinion, but it's again, indicative
of a, this book has some worries, some things about it.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think I forget if this was one of the comments that was pulled out.
Somebody had mentioned though that this book wasn't supposed to be like a
scientifically rigorous journal.
This is supposed to be persuasive writing.
So I don't think that any of these were lies.
These are actual stuff that this guy pulled out, maybe the plants thing.
I don't know about that one, but like it seems more like he was just picking
the most extreme examples to make a point, which isn't, I don't think a sin.
But I do think like, yeah, like I'm squinting at some of this stuff.
Yeah, that's a good point.
Like this, this wasn't a scientific treatise on like, here's how things went down.
This was, this was examples of extreme scenarios where most of it's more or less
accurate, where it's like, you know, it is a fact that, you know, the conquistadors
died of mountain nutrition while consuming all the corn they could eat.
Right.
So it, like parts of that are true enough for the point, for the thrust of the
book to make sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just, I am much less worried about the horror epistemic hellscape now that I am
less convinced of the book.
Now that you can reason, now that you can reason to yourself that maybe the book's
bullshit, now you can be less worried.
Or maybe the book is like 20% bullshit, so I can be 20% less worried.
There you go.
Yeah.
Alrighty, so we've been at this for a while and we should move on, but this was
a fun post, like many of Scott's posts are and really interesting book.
Yeah, I, I really enjoyed the conversation about it.
So shall we move on to the less wrong posts?
Yes.
Okay.
Yeah.
Let's do this fast ish because we've been at this for a while already.
Yes.
Cool.
All right.
Um, the first one is risk-free bonds aren't this whole thing is about hell.
Eleazar's annoyed by the phrase risk-free bonds.
Um, he says America's a young country.
Um, he compares it to the lifespan of the Ottoman empire, Austria, Hungary.
And.
Be, before we get to this, uh, the thing he was particularly annoyed about is that
the, I think this is actually true.
The most secure bonds in the world or what's considered the most secure bonds
in the world are us treasury bonds that those are the least likely to default.
Uh, the least likely to lose value.
If you want to put your money in some place, that's safe.
The very best you can do is buy us treasury bonds.
And for that reason, people sometimes refer to them as risk-free because the
US has never defaulted on its detonates it.
Yeah.
And like, we don't have very long history until I remember presidential candidate,
like three years ago was saying, what if we just defaulted on our debt and
try to get a better deal?
Right.
Yeah.
Not realizing the massive impacts that would have on the world.
Well, it's worked so well for him so far.
Yeah.
So examples of things that could make these bonds risky.
Um, the US is a democracy quote, if enough people vote for representatives who
decide not to pay off their bonds, they won't get paid.
Um, Eleazar mentions a scenario where a populist leader could get voted in who
could destroy the economy and cause China to stop buying our bonds.
And then also there could be terrorists and then a global pandemic could hit.
And yeah.
He also points out that citing the good track record of the US alone and not all
governments across government histories, the histories of governments existing, uh,
is, uh, pure survivorship bias, even not even pointing out the, the, um, lifespan
of all governments that have existed since the US government started, right?
Just in those 300 years should at least compare it to other governments that have
come and gone in that time period.
So you're looking at the one that has survived this whole time and saying, you
know, look, that's sort of soldier survived the war.
Obviously surviving wars is easy.
It's the same kind of thing.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't know enough about economies or money or investing to answer this,
but like if the, if the US defaulted on, if, if treasury bonds defaulted and
they were suddenly worth nothing, would a dollar still be worth anything?
Like at that, at that stage, isn't all your money Fox, basically, no matter what,
