with a two year old in their house and they said, yeah, our two year old puts
everything that's mouth, no matter what.
So don't know.
Maybe it's only when you're younger, maybe it's not quite a solid.
Maybe if they grow up with a dog, see the dog eating everything.
Well, I mean, cause the dog also manipulates everything with its mouth.
Right.
So like the mouth, like its mouth is its hand.
How old is your, uh, your, your sister's kid?
14 months.
Okay.
I have my sister as a kid now too.
It was like five months.
I should ask her the same thing.
Or better yet, just bring a plant next time you see the baby and see if it freaks out.
Yeah, I was just going to say, like one of my sisters needs to have kids.
I got to do some experiments on them.
Do some science.
Uh, I pulled another quote out of Scott's post here.
In the cultural intelligence hypothesis, humans live in obligate symbiosis with a
culture, a brain without an associated culture is incomplete and not very useful.
So the infant brain is adapted to seek out the important aspects of its local
culture, almost from birth and fill them in through the appropriate slots in
order to become whole.
Yeah.
And that was like, uh, kind of in reference to these four slots, one of them was
gender roles and Scott pointed out that gender roles vary across cultures.
So not necessarily always like blue equals boy and pink equals girl.
Apparently that changed at some point.
Oh yeah.
It used to be the other way around the kind of dress changed, you know,
but it still kind of fits with that.
You learn from those that you're most similar to.
Yeah.
So if other little boys are playing, whatever, but you got to figure out what they are.
Exactly.
Although I heard that, um, this, like even with chimpanzees, the female, uh,
infants are much more likely to go for toys that are like of a baby looking toys,
like, uh, dolls and things like that.
Whereas boys were far more likely to go for objects, sticks, balls, that sort of
thing.
Yeah.
That's the kind of thing has been proven over and over again.
There's a, obviously there's overlap.
It's a big Venn diagram, but young female assigned people do go for like
nurturing type toys and young male assigned people will go for more like,
uh, measurement type toys.
Uh, Scott, actually, I thought this was funny, uh, said maybe the reason that
little boys like trucks so much is that like that's filling in the slot for animals
because trucks are the only megafauna that kids are going to see nowadays.
Oh, I liked that, like that point too.
I think, um, you know, it, this is me now, armchair, uh, evolutionary
psychologizing.
So, uh, but I mean, if you, especially in the context of like doing these
studies in the seventies, you know, the, the dad's out winning bread and the mom's
home taking care of stuff.
So the, the babies will internalize, oh, you know, women caregiver, I want, you
know, and if you're, if you're a little girl, I want to play with dolls then
cause that's what the people like me that I've observed to do.
Um, but I mean, I, I, I maybe I'm stretching that whole learning from
things that you learning from people that you're similar to, right?
That seems to be a bit more innate too, though.
Like they have done the, let's raise a child in a genderless environment and
they still have those preferences.
Interesting.
Except for, um, some kids like me, but then again, I'm trans now.
So I do remember that the boys, uh, uh, or at least one of the boys raised
genderless, uh, didn't have any problem to using like a baby stroller, uh, but
would use it more for moving things around rather than like as a baby
stroller, you know, but he didn't have any of the association of like, oh,
that's a girly thing.
I can't touch it.
And there was like the stories of the little girls that would like wrap
up the train in a blanket and be like, my baby train is sleeping now.
Yeah.
Hmm.
I do like the idea of, uh, of, of cars and trucks is mega fauna though.
Me too.
Yeah.
Makes you feel, makes me slightly more able to understand people who
would like name their cars really attached to them.
Oh, I named all my cars.
Oh, I'm on my fifth car and I haven't named anything.
I've never named a car either and I don't care about my car.
I'm like, if it gets wrecked and I get the payout, that's fine.
Anyway, yeah, the next part of the book is about post childhood learning and
it's mostly focused on prestige, which, uh, we talked about a little bit
already and it's that whole idea that it's hard to figure out how skilled
somebody is just from judging one technique against another.
If you're an outsider or new, someone who's trying to learn this skill and
you're just watching, you have no idea what components of that skill contribute
to how effective it is.
Um, Scott was talking about a basketball player and I forget what the
five things that he had were, but he said, if you were watching this
basketball players, like pregame routine, you have no idea which of these
things matters.
Was it like how many times he practiced layups or was it how he tied his
shoes or was it his pregame prayer or was it the fact that he ate carrots?
So we have no idea how to know which ones are good.
So instead we seem to have developed this mental shortcut where we equate
prestige with skill.
And then of course, unfortunately, this has led to celebrities in modern
culture having more influence than maybe arguably they should.
The prestige thing is really cool and reminded me of an old after hours
video that I saw where they were basically deconstructing like the turtles
and other common archetypes, right?
And pointed out that everyone kind of hates Leonardo and everyone kind of
hates Cyclops and the X-Men and like whoever the leader role in these made
up groups is people always tend to kind of hate them.
And really the main reason for that is because they're not a natural leader.
They're like someone that someone in authority, like Professor X or Splinter
pointed to and said, this is your leader now, take his orders.
And so all the audience kind of hates that.
Whereas in real life, the real leaders are usually people who are really fucking
good at something like it would be the best ninja that just kind of becomes
the leader because everyone else wants to be like him.
It would be the most capable X-Men that would kind of become the leader
because everyone was like, yeah, let's do what he's doing.
Or at least the most charismatic.
Or that, yeah.
I mean, like, arguably somebody who's good at managing people might be better
at being the leader than the best ninja.
Yes.
Yeah.
I mean, like everyone likes Splinter and Professor X, but they're not the
de facto leaders of like the combat squad, I guess, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But both Splinter and Professor X are good at what they do.
So things that I pulled out is also from this section.
Hunter gatherers really want to learn the essentials of their hunter gatherer
lifestyle and learning it is really hard.
Their heuristics are one, learned from people who are good at the things.
If you haven't already read about the difference between dominance and prestige
hierarchies, check out Kevin Simmler's blog post on the topic, which by the way,
I would also really recommend.
I wanted to do a show about this at some point and I've been wanting that for
years and maybe someday we'll get to it.
But yeah, it's really good.
I think it's, it's either melting asphalt or meaning this.
I always get those two blogs mixed up, but he has a great, great post about how
humans are very much a sort of hive mind creature.
And the way the reason this works is because prestige and admiration are how
we coordinate ourselves.
And yeah, it's a great post.
And Hanson talks a lot about prestige and all of his stuff, but most recently
in the elephant in the brain, I mean, the, I think it's, it's, you don't even
have to understand like why they're prestigious to, I guess, admire them or
like want, like if you're wanting to get into it, to like mimic that.
You just see that everyone else appreciates it.
Right.
And it's, I think it's just one of those.
I think Scott called it prestige cascades or like the concern being that
somebody just becomes famous by being famous or for being famous.
Yeah.
But yeah, it says people will fear and obey authority figures like kings and
chieftains, but they give it, but they give a different kind of respect,
prestige to people who seem good at.
Two is learn from people who are like you.
If you are a man, it is probably a bad idea to learn fashion by observing woman.
If you are a servant, it is probably a bad idea to learn the rules of etiquette
by observing how the king behaves.
And vice versa.
Yeah.
People are naturally inclined to learn from people more similar to themselves.
Heinrich ties this into various studies showing that black students learn better
from a black teacher, female students from a female teacher, et cetera.
And three, learn from old people.
Old people have already learned the local culture and can teach it to others.
Heinrich asks us to throw out any personal experience we have of elders.
We live in a rapidly changing world where an old person is probably behind the
times, but for most of history, change happened glacially slowly and old people
would have spent their entire lives accumulating relevant knowledge.
Imagine a Silicon Valley programmer stumped by a particularly tough bug in
his code, calling up his grandfather and also the note that sometimes important
events only happen once in a generation.
And Stephen, you as a programmer, um, said once that you knew a guy who was
like the guy who knew everything and like had mad prestige and everyone went to
him and you want it to be like someday just be like half as cool as he is.
Right.
He's 26.
Yeah.
So he's, he's exceptional and that gives them kind of bonus prestige.
Right.
Um, but I mean, on my last team, on my last job, uh, the other senior that I
worked with, he was in his sixties and he was that guy.
He'd been doing this since they were, you know, programming with punch cards.
Exactly.
I mean, he talked about that.
Yeah.
So he knew all the ins and outs down to the, you know, top and bottom of, of what
he was doing with everything.
So that was another kind of like getting, getting a lesson from him was also really
gratifying.
Knows the shit.
Yeah.
And there's always the impression, I imagine, you know, just like asking an elder, you
know, how, why am I crafting my arrows with the right wing feathers of a bird
rather than the left wing feathers?
And they could give you an answer, but you got the impression that they knew a
