suck for everyone, or we can not make money. And the answer's easy for a company who's sole
purpose to make money.
Yeah. Are you guys familiar with Kory Doctorow?
No.
Indeed.
Yes.
Okay. He is... I mean, he used to... I know he was one of the high-level people at the EFF
chairperson. He's also a sci-fi writer, which is what I first knew him as. He wrote Down and
Out in the Magical Kingdom, which got either a Hugo nod or a Hugo win, I don't remember.
But he's written a lot of great sci-fi stuff. Anyway, he's written about this going back years.
I don't even know how long ago. It was at least five years ago that I read it,
which he calls the war on general computing, which is just that people, well, specifically
people in power, don't want you to have general computing devices that can just do calculations.
They want you to have only specific single-use items. And since you can't, that is not a
natural category. All you really have are computers that have been handicapped and
locked down and restricted. That is the purpose of these laws, to make all computing devices
handicapped, locked down and restricted by the government so that they can only be used for
approved purposes. Right. And that's one installment's big things too. And both Corey
Doctor and Stallman, personally, are pretty weird nowadays, but a lot of their older stuff is
extremely relevant. Yeah. I'm trying to see how long ago did he write about this? 2011. So nine
years ago, Doctor, he was already talking about the coming... He calls it the coming war on general
purpose computing. And here we are. Well, that was... I mean, they've been trying to create laws
like this for a pretty long time. I remember, actually, the fanfic community always freaks out
about it and does a lot of activism around trying to encourage people to vote against these or to
write their representatives. Yeah. How would this impact securely stored or hashed data?
It would no longer be securely stored. Exactly. So we can't salt and hash passwords anymore.
That's the thing where it might not be a big deal when I call my representative at the bank
to say, hey, what's wrong with my card? They have to validate my identity through my social
security number and all that. Whatever. The government knows my social security number.
It's easy enough to find if you're a nefarious person anyway. But now my password can't even
be encrypted, so they can just get on there and get on my Venmo account and start sending
themselves money. It has to be in some way that law enforcement can get to it. Yeah. I mean,
that's what I'm saying. I am really legit shocked that they actually had the balls to go and propose
this. And I don't think it'll pass. But the fact that they felt they had the political ability to
propose it and do it itself is kind of worrisome. That's why I've got to think that this before,
but technologically illiterate morons because they don't realize that this also impacts your
cell phone, dipshit. Yeah, but it still passed the law no matter how illiterate they are.
That's true. Yeah. I'm just thinking like there's no way that tech savvy people,
I mean, there might be a way. But maybe my worldview is too rosy. It could very well be
perfectly literate people doing this to themselves and the country intentionally.
Economically illiterate people made the laws in Soviet Russia and 10 million people starved to
death because thems were the laws. Yeah, but they hadn't done a wide scale test of that economic
system yet. Yeah, here I could say we have done a wide scale test because it's all of China.
I mean, depending on your political views, you can view that as having worked out really well
for the Chinese people or not. Depends on if by the Chinese people you mean the government
or the actual humans. Yeah, no, don't worry about those. Those are secondary.
Sort of want to just read the end of this paragraph, the one where they were talking
about the government accountability office. They should ask the government accountability office
to evaluate it where it's what should Congress do. Congress should also invest in enforcement
measures and protections for child victims that have been chronically underfunded.
Any new standards applicable to internet providers in combating online sexual,
child sexual exploitation material should be explicitly legislated based on evidence
and with special consideration given to their human rights implications.
Congress should also invite meaningful participation by an engagement with children.
His voices and opinions are central to these policies.
I just, I find it crazy that I hadn't heard about this at all.
Yeah, kind of makes me wonder what else is playing under in radar.
I mean, journalism is real important.
All right, I'm bummed. Someone fix it.
Sorry, I wish I would have prepared something in advance.
Oh, you're good. I mean, I think on a positive note, like you said, there's probably very little
chance that this, that this Idoi encryption will, or whatever blanket ban will fall through.
At some point, someone's gonna have to explain like, no, this is actually a really bad idea
for you people who are actually invested in trying to make this pass too.
They're, they're not, no, they're not going to care. They're like, I am a person in power.
I will never be that affected by it.
Will all of them be that stupid about it? Or like then thing too, if it's unless they're
going to carve out exceptions for like police precincts or something too, then like,
then the, then the hacker savvy citizens will, you know, start hacking police data.
I don't think they're necessarily wrong. Like Lindsey Graham personally will probably never
have a bad effect in his life from this. You will be insulated by the power and the privilege
that he has. If there's a backdoor to his iPhone, someone's going to share his dick pics that he's
taking, right? I hope that's the first thing that happens. It's just, it's just instantly.
Should call this episode, everyone wants to see Lindsey Graham's dick.
We should not be that.
If we do that, it'll get demonetized now.
Fortunately, we don't require you to patronage. We have our own patrons.
I'm wondering too, then they'll have to have either like whatever host for podcasts you have,
just accept the legal liability of having your content on there.
Or they'll have to find some way to screen all of the audio as well.
Right. I mean, we're hosted online through our WordPress site. What is it?
Bluehost is, or Dreamhost.
God, Dreamhost.
Dreamhost, yeah. Dreamhost is our host, our website, and they would have to go through
every single one of our episodes and make sure we aren't saying, you know, I don't know,
what's the audio version of child porn? Whatever. The audio version of child porn.
Make sure that that's not in our podcasts. And eventually, yeah, make sure that the
things we're saying is okay with the government. Here's the weird thing. We've talked about sex
once or twice before. Would we have to find some way to limit our podcast to only listeners who
are over the age of 17? Because maybe, because we might be providing sexual content to minors.
I mean, like the Savage Lovecast, would that have to be behind a age verification check?
Isn't this marked as explicit on iTunes?
No, I don't think so. Is it?
I don't know.
You're looking at me. I don't know.
I guess we could just check.
I'm pretty sure it's not because explicit generally means things like,
are actually about like sex and stuff.
Or like we swear.
Yeah, but definitely swear.
I don't think swearing counts as explicit. There's tons of podcasts that swear that don't have the
explicit tag.
Fair enough. Well, in any case, I think, yeah, I don't see an explicit tag on our stuff.
It's like when Amazon, when you publish something on Amazon and they ask you,
does this contain adult content? They don't mean, is this like people wrestling with death?
And is there people kissing and making love? The question is, are you putting out porn?
But they can't say that. So they say adult content and it's just understood that you only click yes
if you're putting out porn.
Yeah. I mean, like right now, you just click, yes, I'm 17 or older on the website, right?
So like, is that our fault if someone lies about that?
I don't see how it's your my fault.
There's actually been a negligently and recklessly not verifying their age.
How could you and I possibly be verifying?
We would have to employ some sort of age of verification service.
Would we have to or would Dreamcast Dreamhost have to?
I don't know.
It can't be us.
Why do you say that?
Because it would be impossible.
Literally impossible.
That doesn't stop anything.
That's kind of the point. We might be off the air if it was literally impossible for us to do it.
I think literally everybody would be off the air.
I don't think that, you know, the largest podcast in the world, the Joe Rogan Experience,
has the power to check who's listening to it.
I mean, they might, but also part of this is why we're saying this would,
this would change the internet as we know it.
Yeah.
It would stop being a public forum.
Well, is there any law against making another internet?
Yeah. If you ban encryption, they're banning math.
There's not much you can do to get around it.
Yeah. Great.
I mean, this is not a specific set of wires that this applies to.
This is to any communication done within the US.
That's illegal math you're doing over there, sir.
Stop that.
You could make another internet and the laws would apply to it just the same.
Even if you were just to build the servers like in some rapture like underground server farm,
you would still have to find a way to get the data from here to there and then back.
Right.
So that the getting there and back part would still apply to this law.
At that point, you're effectively breaking the law intentionally.
Yeah.
I'm just thinking about like internet speakeasies.
I mean, you go on modern crypto check clients and that's some of them that,
you know, there's discussion about simple things that shouldn't be hard to discuss
and are in no way illegal, but they're easier to have there.
Yeah. Hmm.
It on the plus side would make for a great cyberpunk setting
with internet speakeasies and then like raid them.
And that's where the story starts out.
It's just imagining sort of a cyberpunk like 1920s
mashup aesthetic.
It's good aesthetic, not a fantastic legal precedent.
No, it's a terrible world to live in.
Just a fun world to read about.
Yeah.
All right.
So yeah, I think that's what we got on this.
Great.
This would be terrible and we should try to stop it.
I mean, is there literally any actionable thing that we can do,
given that this isn't even going to vote?
Well, no, it's going to go to vote at some point.
Not to us.
Well, no, to our senators.
Right.
So like your representatives and yeah, let's write them.
They'll read everything and take it to heart like they did with the,
you know, the FCC bullshit in 2016 or 17.
Right.
And the net neutrality.
Yeah.
They really paid attention to us when we yelled at them about foster sesta
because, you know, the children, don't you know, honestly, any single time in the past,
my lifetime that I have a law that is about protecting the children,
it's always been bullshit to use as an excuse to, to fuck people over.
Like I just have this, you know, you know how there's the Dan Savage has this rule of thumb
that whenever you see a politician speaking out against gay sex,
there's a pretty good chance he's having a lot of gay sex.
I now have the same heuristic where any time a law is about protecting children or
sex workers or something, it's actually about something completely different
that's just trying to fuck people over and probably will make things worse
for the children or sex workers.
You're going to say that they're probably looking at child porn.
Oh, God, no.
Oh, I wouldn't go that far.
But it would be funny if we just made that a meme, though,
make people stop doing this.
Well, I mean, that'll be really easy too.
Again, if we can get on Lindsey Graham's phone,
then someone just put child porn on it.
Like, I mean, it's not clear to me how they don't realize that adding backdoors
to things is self-destructive, not merely destructive to those,
you know, dirt-grubbing plebs out there like you and me, right?
I mean, if you build an entire huge governmental system around it, like China, it can work.
They don't have significant backdoor problems.
They have, they just have backdoors and everything.
And in time, you know, the massive censorship that is inherently connected to that.
