just ask how long similar projects have taken in the past, without considering any of the
special properties of this project. Better yet, ask an experienced outsider how long similar
projects have taken. You'll get back an answer that sounds hideously long and clearly reflects no
understanding of the special reasons why this particular task will take less time. This answer
is true, deal with it. Yeah, or like, I'm just dating Phoenix who has the kind of common autistic
thing of getting very upset about when things are planned a certain way and then they're not going
that way. So like, I'll be like, I'll be home in 15 minutes and they'll just like text back and
I'll catch planning fallacy and I'll be like, I'll be home in 30 minutes. Nice. I think the other
one other way is to run your plan by a group of experienced people. Like project managers.
Well, no, I was going to say explicitly not project managers or product owners at a tech
job, but your team. You want to leave the bureaucrats out of it. And when your team
sits down to plan stuff, you say, okay, well, this doesn't sound so bad. They're like, no,
no, I've been there takes for fucking ever double that your estimate on how long you think it will
take. Like that, that I find pretty valuable to like roughly predicting the, I don't know,
time complexity of accomplishing a task. And if you're uncertain, just pad your time guess a bunch.
If you don't know, you know, if you've never remodeled a kitchen, don't read online one thing
that says it should really take $1,000. Like, no, I'm going to just go ahead and assume that
this person has no idea what they're talking about. It's going to take me three months and $5,000.
You know, like, then at the very least, you're positively surprised when it only takes you
two months and $3,000, right? Yeah. So if you don't know and you can't ask experts, just
just pad your guess a bunch. Yeah, the outside view is what it is called when instead of looking
at the particular details of what you actually want to accomplish, you just look at how long
similar tasks took in the past, and then think it'll be roughly the same amount of time.
Yeah, don't assume the happy path. Yeah. And when I initially started, you know,
independently realizing how bad planning policy was, and initially came up with solutions,
like my initial reflex is, you know, the padding, just pad it to X, but it can get difficult when
you get into like recursive padding. Like, okay, well, walking to my car is only 30 seconds,
so I'll double that to a minute. But in the wider context of a project, it adds up in weird ways.
Yeah, I drive to a friend's house, you know, if your phone says it takes 32 minutes, maybe give
yourself 40, you know, pad it a little bit, because phones are pretty good at planning,
that sort of thing. They know about traffic and all this and that. But, you know, if it's a
month-long project, it's hard really to get a good number down, which is the other thing is just
to bake in some room for flexibility, you know, like, that's why I was mentioning leave your
product directors out of your decision process, because they'll say, hey, we need this by the end
of November. And it's like, well, then you're not going to get it, because we can't commit to
shipping this, you know, immediately without all the details and stuff planned in advance. And even
then it's, it's hazy. You could tell us what you want or when you want it, but not both.
I was thinking of the, there's a rat fic about on building the Death Star. Yes. You know, which
one that is. It's a great one. It's tools of destruction, I think. I have been looking for
that one. Is that the one about, yeah, the whole project management? And when I was thinking of
project managers, it was this person who I was thinking of where they're like, no, like the,
you know, in fact, I did a, I was going to say to new voice though, I did instruments of destruction,
isn't it? And it is by Alexander Wales, same guy who did Metropolitan Man. Yeah, that was really
fun. There, I've actually been looking for that for like, probably months to years. No, you're
welcome then.
The post ends, it doesn't actually end with this, but there's a great example of the outside view
says on a cross cultural study, they found that Japanese students expected to finish their essays
10 days before deadline. They actually finished one day before deadline, asked when they had
previously completed, completed similar tasks, they responded one day before deadline. This is
the power of the outside view over the inside view. And I got to say, I am, I am consistently
impressed by how accurate the phone GPS is are with estimating my arrival time. And I think it's,
you know, it's just entirely because the phone doesn't know how long something is supposed to
take. It just compares every other route, every other person that drove that route recently.
And it says, yeah, that's how long it took them. It'll take you the same amount of time.
Exactly. It gives you the outside view anyway. Yeah,
know about the inside view at all. All right, are we ready to dive in?
I believe we are. Oh, wait, before we got to say what we're doing next week. Oh,
yes. Did anyone else have anything to say about any of these posts and the last one specifically?
I don't think so. Okay. Every time I hear the word planning fallacy, I hear
Hermione Granger say, Oh, looks like you fell prey to the planning fallacy. Because I just,
that was not at all the way I heard that line being delivered in my head. And then she gave it
to me and I was like, Oh, that's perfect. Yeah. That is so good. This is our casting. Yeah. All
right. For next time, we are reading Canemans planning anecdote.
Kahneman. Thank you. Kahneman's planning anecdote,
which probably should have been in this week, but I mean, three is really our limit. Also,
conjunction fallacy and conjunction controversy in parentheses or how they nail it down. So those
three posts. And as always, the links are included in the show notes and at our website,
the basin conspiracy.com. All right. Going on to our actual subject. Have y'all heard of the
earn it act that was put forward in March by Lindsey Graham and a bunch of other people who
hate privacy and the internet and everything good? I had not. I hadn't really run it on my radar.
Chase, can you tell us what this abomination is? Okay. Yes. But to start, we'll kind of have to
start with how the internet works. Serious tubes, right? It always comes back to section 230.
Yes, exactly. And section 230 basically is what allows the internet to exist more or less,
as we know it today. Yeah. It simply makes it so that content hosts, content providers,
even just service providers, don't have to entirely vet every single piece of information
on their entire website from every single user all of the time, because that would be completely
unreasonable. I mean, it's doable. It would just drastically alter what the internet is.
It would be like if UPS or FedEx or even the US Postal Service, if anytime someone sent a mail
bomb or anything dangerous or even like maybe a legal harassing threat through the mail, if the
delivery service could be held liable for delivering that bomb or that threat and they would serve
jail time or pay for it, then there would be no such thing as something that's privately sent
anymore. The deliverer would inspect every single thing and vet it before they would deliver it,
because if you send something illegal through the mail and then they go to jail for it,
they're just not going to let you send anything ever and that would be the internet. No one could
post anything anywhere unless it had been completely vetted by some other third party.
Well, by the company themselves, because it would be in their own interest because they're the ones
being held liable. So it stops just shy of forcing every letter to be read to the government, but
it's... Yeah. It'd be like if you couldn't have a phone conversation unless the phone company that
owned the wires vetted everything that was being said to make sure there was nothing illegal being
there just is no privacy anymore and due to the huge amount of labor that it would take to vet
every single thing anyone wants to say on the phone, we wouldn't have the phone system as we
know it. Yeah, it would make everything inefficient and it would provide possible deniability for
censorship of other things that maybe the government just doesn't like you saying. Right, absolutely.
So section 230 basically, if I remember correctly, was passed in the early 90s and it's the law that
says the equivalent of the phone company or the mail carrier cannot be held liable for what is
being said by people on the internet. Yes, you're still liable for things you post. If you were
on the website and you post an article that's full of illegal slander, what have you, you're
still liable. But if someone, if you post a positive article and someone in the comments says,
ah, he's actually an alien from space, you are not liable for that slander's claim.
Right. And more specifically, if some sort of illegal pornography was posted,
then you can go to jail for posting that thing. But the ISP that routed your file and the website
that your comment was posted on would not be held liable for what you did.
That'd be like, imagine, like you said, the phone analogy is perfect. And if I called you
and we're planning some terrorist threat, that's illegal for me to plan it with you and you probably
do agree. It'd be insane for T-Mobile held accountable for allowing this to happen.
Right.
And it's like, how are they going to pause the conversation long enough to hear everything
we're saying and allow it to go through or give it a green light or a red light?
And there's a fine distinction here because Section 230 is as we were talking about carriers
and data purveyors of all sorts. But the ERNET Act is specifically removing,
revoking those protections for content hosts. ISPs aren't explicitly mentioned anyway.
But it's a similar problem because a lot of content hosts we like, your tumblers and your
Facebooks and I'm dating myself, but it's...
The tweeters of YouTube.
They're full of user-generated content, just like the stuff the ISP would host.
So a comment section on your website, the Discord for discussing after an episode,
all of these things are hosted externally. And those would be what are more affected by
ERNET than ISPs.
Now, Discord itself would be impossible to have anymore.
Basically.
Well, no.
I mean, they would just have to check everything, right?
Right.
They would just scan and morally approve every single message, which is in no way problematic.
Well, I mean, it certainly wouldn't be free anymore if you had to pay a censor to approve
every single thing.
Yeah, I think it's like...
So that's what Section 230 is. What did ERNET do?
Well, ERNET more or less revokes those protections for content hosts, content providers,
anyone with a user accessible or a user modifiable.
I don't want to say comment section, but...
And what pray tell...
Anywhere a user can post.
What pray tell is their excuse for how they can do...
Why the sort of thing is a thing that they can do or they want to do?
Oh, save the children.
Specifically, child porn, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
And we have to bring up that the ACLU, the...
What's the...
Oh, the Human Rights Foundation.
EFF, the Human Rights Foundation for Protection of Human Rights.
All of these think it's a terrible plan, which you would expect to be the people,
maybe encouraging laws that protect children, but that might be because it doesn't help protect
children very much.
Yeah.
And I mean, in every single article I read, there was at least two disclaimers in there,
often more than that, saying child pornography is absolutely disgusting and horrible,
and it's illegal, and it should be illegal, and that's good, and we should fight it.
And then they went on to say why this law is terrible.
But like, you know, it was basically a...
I was almost sad how that seemed to be required.
Like, if they didn't say that people would assume that they were child pornography fans or something.
Well, because when you couch it in the...
This is to end this child sex exploitation, then like, if you're saying,
well, this is a terrible idea, like, oh, so you're a pro child sex exploitation or whatever.
So it's a nice, weasel-y way to get it in there and to have the conversation framed around that.
I mean, child pornography is like a misnomer because pornography is not that bad,
but child pornography is universally the worst thing in the world.
I had a great miserable...
Oh, it's filmed child rape, right?
Right.
I had a great miserable two hours with Sam Harris's podcast,
and he's talking with Gabriel Dance, who is like the...
Let's see, deputy investigations editor at the New York Times,
and he works with a small team investigating all things,
technology from online sexual abuse...
Or online sexual...
Sexual, Jesus.
Online child sexual abuse imagery to the companies that trade and sell our data.
So, I mean, the problem of child sexual abuse is the worst, you know.
It's among the worst imaginable crimes, right?
And so, I think Facebook, if I remember from the conversation,
it was a few months ago, is one of the best reporters of it in the tens of millions a year.
Wow.
Because they scan the stuff that's posted.
So it's not that it's the most...
It might be the most popular platform for sharing it,
it might not be, but the point is they're reporting it at the highest level,
which is actually good.
You kind of want that.
So if that means I can't send you a private DM
without someone being able to sniff it, I mean, it's one of those...
This is where I'm dunking wrong.
This is the...
The Urna Act is terrible,
and I can see why it has all these terrible externalities.
And yet, for most things, for most people,
it's not going to impact anything, right?
Well, it means that now someone is looking at every single thing you send.
Right.
For most things, for most people, as Jayce mentioned, it opens up a lot of other...
Even best case, and we say it's implemented with the best intentions by entirely...
People entirely interested in preserving public rights,
even in that best case, everything's still going to be filtered algorithmically.
And AIs have...
Simple AIs and simple filters have a terrible habit of blocking false positive,
again, blocking all sorts of stuff that shouldn't be blocked just out of an abundance of caution,
because it's easier to have an overly strict filter that blocks all sorts of stuff
