Yeah.
It can work if, yeah, you live in 1984, China.
Right.
Right, exactly.
Didn't somebody get arrested for that?
Which is not where we want to be, but it's kind of like,
that's kind of one of the only stable outcomes of laws like this.
Right.
It is, it certainly seems to be where Lindsey Graham and others of his elk want to be.
Yeah.
What were you going to say, Chase?
No, that was, that was, that's what I was going to say.
Sorry, I meant Jayce.
Yeah, that's Jayce.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Confusing.
I don't know.
I was just going to talk about like people getting arrested for political cartoons.
Does that happen that often?
But then there was a cute dog on my lap.
I was just like, I don't feel like I'm finding anyone.
I don't think people get arrested for political cartoons in China very much,
just because people don't do political cartoons in China anymore,
unless they're pro-the-communist party.
The whole Winnie the Pooh thing, though.
Right, right.
Which was like pretty benign.
But yeah.
Yeah, you get, you get a few people arrested for that,
send them to jail for a decade or two,
and all of a sudden there's no more political cartoons in China with Winnie the Pooh.
Right, once you have enough, just stating the obvious,
once you have enough monitoring, obviously you need less enforcement,
because everyone knows you have the monitoring.
Exactly.
Not good, but kind of the stable type outcomes that come from removing all encryption.
Well, this is a bummer.
Yeah, I'm sorry we had a bummer episode.
Yeah, we had such a positive episode last time.
Maybe we needed to even it out.
Yeah, we'll find a balance next time.
Yeah.
I don't know anything.
Sorry to be a downer, just to...
No, no, I mean, this is the...
Actually, we opened up with a very appropriate,
less wrong post for this, right?
Yeah.
We rather, I mean, it wasn't just about ignorance is bliss kind of thing,
it was about which cognitive biases would you like to have,
but it's always better to know than not know, right?
Like, you know, if this passes and everything starts going weird,
I'd rather be in the loop, right?
Right, so I can start building the digital version of my crazy bunker full of guns and food.
Exactly.
A big pile of illegal encryption tools and secure communication tools.
Are you actually...
Point-to-point radios.
No.
Ah, are you...
If he was, he wouldn't say so.
Oh, damn it, okay.
We gotta go back to messenger pigeons.
Do you have some sort of resource to point people who want to make a digital bunker?
Let me see if I can pull it up.
There's a laptop that was originally set up by Stallman
where they have stripped out all of the closed source code on it,
just literally all of it, which sounds easy,
but it was a Herculean task.
It's something thousands of men are.
Let me see if I can find the name of it.
Dude, Stallman is a fan.
And that's a place to start, but it doesn't really help in this case.
It's only useful as applicable as a crazy person's bunker,
as a crazy prepper's bunker, right?
It's in day-to-day life, it will not help you.
Would getting dark web connections and VPNs help at all?
It helps put you on a list.
Yeah, that's the thing is, if you have a VPN,
the VPN can no longer be secure, right?
Right.
So maybe if you were to fly to another country, buy a laptop there
that didn't have this backdoor stuff on it,
install this software there and then come back.
I think it's illegal to possess.
Well, for now, it's not illegal to possess.
It's only illegal for a service provider.
As it stands, it still remains legal to host
your own encrypted chat and services and what have you.
Even if these both were to pass.
Okay.
Really, you could host your own encrypted chat services?
Yeah, we do.
We've got a bunch of friends and I in the area.
It's a small service called Matrix called...
Yeah, but if the late act passes?
I think so.
It's providing a service.
I'm not sure.
I'm providing a service to anyone.
This is exclusively for my use.
Oh.
Yeah.
To provide a service, do you have to charge for the service?
And I wonder if there's like backdoor ways of funding things like Patreon.
I don't think you have to charge for a service.
Facebook and YouTube and Discord are all free.
The app.
They're using your data for like advertising stuff.
But they don't charge you for it.
Yeah, it's...
Right.
Yeah.
The build does specifically apply to operating systems though.
So if you have an operating system on your machine that's running that,
they'd still have a backdoor into it.
Right.
Right.
I'll have to see into that.
As I was reading it, it was specific to service providers.
I don't think it's a ban on personal use.
But I mean, inherently, if you are operating in a compromise device, it effectively is.
Yeah.
Well, fine on the bun.
Yeah, sorry.
No, no, it's all good.
If any of our listeners are internet doomsday preppers
and know ways that we can still communicate securely
after this sort of shit were to come down, send us some links.
Yeah.
Information.
I mean, for me, I'm a fan of privacy for the same...
Like the argument of like, if you have nothing to hide,
then you wouldn't mind if we take a look in your house.
I understand resisting that.
It's not so much that there's a possible way to view my signal messages
that I have a problem with.
It's that it's impossible for anything to be secure again.
Well, and you never know.
I mean, you can look at everyone in Hong Kong and all of a sudden,
they suddenly needed some decent secure communications.
They weren't directly intercepted by the government.
And you never know when you might need it.
I know that puts me in the crazy bunker building territory, but...
No, I'm right there with you.
That's a really good point.
Well, and also, once governments, totalitarian governments,
don't give a fuck around, they will search through stuff in your back history.
Like anyone in Hong Kong who posted things five years ago,
critical of the Chinese government suddenly probably has to watch their ass.
If you ever said anything bad about the government on signal
and then signal is forced to compromise,
then, you know, if a more tyrannical government takes charge in the US,
then they know everything you said years ago,
even if now you're like totally lemming and complying.
Insert give of the professor from Futurama.
I don't want to live on this planet anymore.
I mean, that's literally the point of tyrannical governments.
Have dirt on everyone at all times so you can compel anything from everyone.
It's a good gig if you can be at the top.
You know, short ten years usually for those positions, but...
I think even if you're at the top, unless you're the actual guy at the top,
it's terrible. Did you see death of Stalin?
Yes.
Oh, my God, so good.
Well, actually, I don't know.
Even the people that were literally one level below,
direct advisor to Stalin, still fucking terrified for their lives.
Right. That's a good thing to be Stalin,
but again, short tenure for that job.
Right.
Was it in that movie or was it another anecdote where, like, he...
I don't think he was even there,
but there were some clapping to celebrate Stalin,
and they clapped for, like, 10 or 30 minutes
because the first person to stop clapping, you know,
would be terrified that they would be thrown in the gulags.
Yeah. There were, like, people whose hands were going numb
because they just...
I think it definitely went on for more than 30 minutes.
I don't know if it went down for an hour or something,
but yeah, terrified to be the first person to stop clapping
because you obviously did not love Stalin as much as everyone else.
And what does that say about you?
Terrified to be the guy with one, you know,
this arm and a sling, right?
Because it's already broken from something,
and it's like, well, why weren't you so in support?
Well, I literally couldn't, you know, I snapped my fingers.
Well, that seems human.
Yeah. Anyway, high, high recommend for Death of Stalin.
It is a very dark comedy, black comedy.
All the events portrayed in it actually happened,
although, you know, the actual words spoken by the people
are probably not exactly what they said because it is funny.
And I don't think things would have been quite that funny at the time,
but as long as you can, like, have murder and sexual abuse
in your comedies and just blatant human right violations and terror,
it's surprising how good it is as a comedy considering how dark it is.
There's a show, it was by the same people.
