resentful. I was like, yeah, whatever. But it sort of also felt like, yeah, I mean, like, look
around the world kind of sucks and things aren't fair. And then like, so it makes sense that we
have this like totally like douchebag God. That rage at God was, I mean, it was huge for me too.
It's really a thing about when you're on the cusp of disbelieving because you still like feel like
God is real, right? And yet you see everything that's horrible in the world. And so there's this
anger. And you're like, what the hell, God? Yeah, it's not until you've been an atheist for a
number of years that you're like, oh, there was no one there in the first place. But God, I was
so mad for so long. And then like that anger transferred once I accepted God wasn't real from
God to religion instead, since they had convinced me that there was this God.
I think my thoughts kind of went back and forth. Like, it's really hard to regenerate what it was
like. It's hard to even remember. Like, I think when I was really little, I did believe in religion,
but only because I had no other models. And everybody else said that they believed it and
acted like it, like, you know, everybody that I knew, which was like my immediate family,
members, and friends. You were raised basically, you're religious, right? I was raised a non
denominational, some version of Christian God is real. Like, but we didn't go to church. I was never
told this is the way it is or something explicitly, but my parents were vaguely religious in a way
that imprinted a bit. The analogy I use is like, I believed God existed as a 10-year-old the same
way that, like, I believe Japan existed. Like, I've never been there. I'd seen pictures. People
told me it was real. Yeah, you have no reason to think it doesn't. Exactly. You just believe it
because you were told that as a child, which I think there's probably an evolutionary advantage
to believing in parents. The seven-year-old who wants to investigate whether or not the
lake really contains alligators doesn't go on to have children.
But also, what kind of crazy conspiracy thinking is it to believe that the entire world has
conspired to convince you of this all-powerful person that doesn't actually exist?
Well, but as a kid, you're not thinking the whole world's convincing you, right? It's just
your whole world is your parents. Yeah, but you would have to think like a conspiracy theorist
to doubt that as a kid. Oh, sure. Yeah, exactly. I remember an early, like,
deconversion moment being like realizing there are other religions and realizing that there are
people. They say that in some sects of Christianity, if you have a baby and the baby dies and the
baby hasn't been baptized yet, it's like, well, the baby is going to hell or purgatory. There's
all the weird wiggle things that people would do to you. I was like, well, they don't. Okay,
I know it says this, but there's a special purgatory just for unbaptized babies that's
actually really nice. It's not heaven. I remember the Rainbow Bridge, which is still a thing that
a lot of people talk about where like, it's animal heaven where your pets like live and then you get
to like cross the Rainbow Bridge and be reunited with all your pets. Oh my God, I'd never heard of
that. That is so adorable. There's like a whole book about it. I think I was in Sam's Club. I
remember being stuck in Sam's Club a lot of my childhood just reading the books out of boredom
and they were all like weird shit like that. Anyway, you should the the post ends up with
you should wonder I think whether the happiness of stupidity is optimal if it is a piece. Yeah,
there was a thing I wanted to say before. Yeah, grab it. Okay. Well, so he says that in order for
you to be able to choose which beliefs you want to, which biases you want to have or not to be
more happy, you would first need to a good model of reality so you can extrapolate the consequences
of both rationality and irrationality. And then you would have to forget that you had done that
afterwards. So you can't know the consequences of being biased until you've de-biased yourself.
And at that point, it's too late because there is no obliviate spell.
Oh, I do remember an instance of trying to make myself believe something as a kid. It was not
religion, but you guys remember the show Cat Dog from the 90s? Yeah. Yeah, people. Okay. It was
this like Nickelodeon show and their the main character was like a it was the like head and
torso of a cat fused to the head and torso of a dog. It's less horrifying than it sounds,
but the question of where's the poop come out is still an open question.
What kinds of weird cartoons, logic about like the physiology, I guess it was clever, but like
there's this sort of dichotomy that like, I guess it's in a lot of fiction, especially a lot of
cartoons, you think of like SpongeBob and Squidward, where you've got the happy idiot, like dog was
the happy idiot character, and then cat was the like the Squidward, like always like being gloomy,
but like intelligent. And I remember like a lot of cartoons hurt as a kid, because I always identified
with like the gloomy one that was always the butt of the joke. Like I identify so much with Squidward
now and I'm watching SpongeBob. And it's like, oh man. And for a bit, I was like, I'm gonna try to
be a dog person. It's like, I'm gonna like like dog. And I tried really hard and I was just like,
nope, can't identify with this guy. I think there is a way you could choose to do the second part
where you only keep the biases that are helpful to you. If you never actually did the first order
rationality, so you didn't find out which ones are helpful and which ones are harmful, but you
just trust the rest of society, everyone around you to have done that work instead and just adopt
their beliefs and their biases. Oh, so we should just hire a rationalist handler that'll only teach
us the things that'll better make us happier. That would work, but you have to trust your handler.
And then, you know, the Who Watches the Watchers thing comes along.
Isn't that kind of what religion is anyway? People be like, we have looked at everything
already. This is the correct way to do things. No reason to look any further. If you look any
further, it'll make you sad and ruin your life. It's an eight plot of 1984. It is eight plot of
1984. Totalitarianism being sort of like, yes, we the government know what's best for everyone,
shut up, do what we say, believe what we believe. But it is not portrayed as a good thing. Yeah,
I think it's like, whereas we're trying to get to like the haptopia where you do have a benevolent
AI God fixing all the things and telling you don't look into that hole over there, it'll make you
sad. It's still a little bit of 1984. And what did you say, Chase? Nothing, nothing. I was, I was
just talking about the AI God. Oh, I mean, like, what if you could live in a mellos without knowing
about the kid in the basement? Yeah, I mean, that sounds like the happy scenario, right? But don't
they make everyone see it? They do. Yeah. Yeah. Who knows if that's required for the ritual to
keep working or not, right? That's why it's called those who walk away. Yeah. And I always felt I
would have been one of the ones that walked away. Like, I... Me too. I think everyone thinks that
of themselves though. That's kind of the point, right? I know myself. I mean, like, I do radical
honesty because I know that I can't like, keep secrets. I just blur stuff out. And I also know
that I have to like, even if I know that like, finding out the truth about something is going
to hurt, I still like, can't just... I think that's like, probably the mindset that's like,
that causes people to be more inclined to seek out rationality and this kind of thing.
Yeah. Yeah. Wanting to know the truth and be the master of your own destiny kind of thing. Yeah.
Do you want to end up with the final part? Yeah. I guess there's one other thing before
that. You can't know the consequences of being, oh, you already read that part. Yeah.
You should wonder, I think, whether the happiness of stupidity is optimal,
if it is the most happiness that a human can aspire to, but it matters not. That way is
closed to you if it was ever open. All that is left to you now is to aspire to such happiness
as a rationalist can achieve. I think it may prove... I think it may prove greater in the end.
Yeah. And that's good writing. Yeah, it is good writing. And I think I also agree with the sentiment.
Like, when I was saying intelligent people can really expound on their depression much better
and make it more seem more reasonable and, in fact, more people, I think you can do the same
thing with happiness where you can just appreciate the happiness on a more in-depth level and share
it with others on an almost deeper level, I guess, than if you didn't have all the
background and the work and the thinking put into it. Yeah. I think so. I think it's like,
when you get into any art form, whether it be movies or music or whatever, at first you just
like it because it is enjoyable and cool and appealing. And the more you get into the geekery
of how this is made and how it can be appreciated and you watch all the videos about people
deconstructing stuff, the more you're like, wow, there is so many more levels of how to appreciate
this stuff. And you tend to start liking things in a more and different way. Yeah. Yeah. I think
there's something there. There's a deeper capacity for appreciation of something that way. Because
I mean, that's how I feel about religion too, where there's the idea of this very simple
universe. But then there's actually understanding how things work and it's so weird and cool.
Quantum mechanics, cellular mechanics, genetics, there's so much to learn. And if you're somebody
who's very curiosity-driven, that would be a very small world to live in if I was, I don't know,
European peasant. Yeah. And it's sort of like stop asking questions about everything. Well,
that would be a pretty unfulfilling life because it's just like, okay, I guess everything is exactly
what it looks like and everything that people tell me is exactly right. Just the peasant lifestyle
seems really bad in general. It's what peasants do, right? They hammer a thing. The King of
Monty Python, where the peasants were just sort of like- Just keep hammering the dirt until food
comes out of it. I think they were just like grabbing piles of mud and just sort of throwing the
mud around. There's some lovely filth over here. Still so funny. Yeah. We got to roll through these
if we're going to get to our topic of the day, right? Yes, we are. Jesus. Don't sweat it. It's fun.
The second one is why I'm looking. And all it says is that he's writing a book. Is there anything else
to add? Yeah. It's for those part-ventos. Yeah. Like vlogging. He basically says that he has a very
hard time like trying to write formal papers and like a big formal book, but he has no trouble at
all like writing emails and posting on forums and shit. And that just comes out as fast as he can
type. So he decided, yeah, let's go ahead and just post a blog post every day. And afterwards, I will
edit all up, curate it into a book. And that will be how I write this thing. And that is literally
exactly what he did, writing AI- Tozombies. Yeah. Rationality AI-tozombies is basically
the curation and reshuffling of all these posts that we are going through. We just like to see
the sausage made. So that's why we are going through this part rather than the official
final released version. It's fun to recognize that like, hey, I have this problem where I
can't do it this way, but I still want to do it. So I'm going to do it the way that
works for me and just make it work. He could not do it. There's a really common
writer's thing where he was saying, I just write very slowly and specifically because I'm thinking
a lot about every sentence. I'm going back and tweaking it and editing it. That's why like
when I was trying to do NaNoWriMo, it's like write a novel in a month, month. Oh man, that's
coming up, isn't it? It's next month. It's in November. Oh no. I've never done NaNoWriMo. I
just can't write fast enough. Well, actually like the only way I was able to do it was using
it's a free web tool called Write or Die. Oh, I know this one. Yeah. And that's where-
If you stop writing for a long enough time, it deletes everything you've written, right?
Or it'll start slowly deleting from like the back forward or there's a bunch of different modes.
I found the most value out of the one that would just- If you stop writing after a few
seconds, it'll slowly start to turn your screen red and make a terrible sound.
And you have to keep writing in order to make it stop. There's a positive one too, where it was
like if you keep writing for a long enough time, you'll hear like nice noises and see pictures
of kittens or stuff like that. That one didn't work for me though. The punishment was more
motivational. Yeah. So this one's short, not much to say. The one thing I wanted to point out
before we moved on was that I think I view this as a strength of rationality of like when you're
trying to do something and it's not working, but it's the traditional way of doing stuff.
Maybe like stopping and looking around and seeing what works for you that's kind of similar that
you can hack into using as a workaround, like just doing things weird. No respected academic
would just start posting blog posts every day as a kind of method of writing their next big
academic book. But you know, he did and it worked really, really well for him. So doing
things weird is a thing that we can harness. I think actually that was also the purpose of
writing Harry Potter and the methods of rationality where it was like trying to write this like
academic stuff wasn't really generating a lot of momentum. What if I make it in the form of a
Harry Potter fan fiction? Yeah. And that turned out to not only be like very motivational for
cranking out all the stuff, but then also, you know, attracted the fan base or I guess the community
as it exists now. Most people were introduced or most people that I know of. I think he did a poll
too. It was a very large percentage of people that actually found the community. It was around
like half of people. Yeah. Came to it through HPMOR or HPMore as everyone else says. The people
who don't have to, you know, spell out the name of the website for people to go to.
HPMore.
HPMore, yeah. See, if I were trying to go to hipmore.com, I'd be H-I-P-M-O-R-E and yeah,
just end up at someplace that sells hip clothing.
And then the last post was planning fallacy, which I don't know if we have to cover
all the stuff in it because I think most people are familiar with it.
Oh, we should absolutely cover it because, you know, there's no hipmore.com.
Oh, man, take it. It's too late. Now that I typed it into a browser,
someone else has already grabbed it to squat it. I just, I didn't think there wouldn't be a hipmore.com.
I should just redirect too much now.
Yeah, so planning fallacy.
Yeah, not everyone else says this has read the sequences, so we should cover it. That's fair.
Like planning fallacy, though, is my worst thing ever. Like, I suck at this. This is the
rationality skill that I'm the worst at, I think. And it's really hard to overcome this like,
it's a cognitive bias where you just sort of, it sounds so dumb when you say it too. It's like,
when people are trying to think of how long it'll take to do something, for example,
they'll think about like the optimal scenario. Like, oh yeah, there's this one time where I
wrote an essay in like three hours the night before. So that's clearly my norm. Oh yeah,
the traffic usually isn't that bad that time of day. I've made it in 15 minutes one time,
so probably I could do that in 15 minutes. And then like you just go with this completely
over optimistic estimate.
You always just think of like, how long does it take you to drive from A to B? And you don't
think how often is there an accident or construction or something along the way,
which actually is very frequently. So you want me to read the first several pieces?
Yeah. It starts out with this study that was made by researchers who are named,
but I won't read the names. Researchers asked for estimated times by which the students thought it
was 50%, 75% and 99% probable that their personal projects would be done. 13% of subjects finished
the project by the time that they had assigned a 50% probability. 19% finished by the time they
assigned a 75% probability and only 45% less than half of them finished by the time of their 99%
probability level. The researchers say the results for the 99% probability level are
especially striking. Even when asked to make a highly conservative forecast, a prediction that
they felt virtually certain that they would fulfill, students confidence in their time
estimates far exceeds their accomplishments. And it says that the reason for this is asking
subjects, oh, and another surprising finding, asking subjects for their prediction based on
the realistic best guess scenarios and asking subjects for their hoped for best case scenarios
produced indistinguishable results. So their best guess was the same guess as, you know,
what is the absolutely wildly most optimistic guess that you can make? And yeah, it's because
they said ultimately it came down to generally people didn't envision unexpected delays or
unforeseen catastrophes. They just looked through things like what would this look like normally?
And the lesson is that normal is never what normally happens. Chase, what have you been
screwed by the planning fallacy? Every time I've ever planned anything in my life.
Best answer. Well, I'm going to quickly say, well, do we want to cover how he said is the
best way to get around this? Yeah, that was actually what I wanted to highlight if nothing else.
Where was it at the end? Yeah, inside versus outside perspective. I want to kind of say these
backwards because it's the last two paragraphs. So there's a fairly reliable way to fix the
planning fallacy. If you have something broadly similar to a reference class of previous projects,
