Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Eneash Brotsky. I'm Steven Zuber. I'm Jay Sticky.
I'm Chase. Hello, Chase. Chase is joining us once again. You were with us. What was
the last episode you were on? It was our last tech-savvy one on something with EFF, something.
It's been at least three years. Maybe maybe more. Have we been on the air more than three
years? I think we're coming up on four. Damn, okay. You were on actually twice. You came
on once with Matt, and then once solo. Anyway, welcome back, Chase, friend of the show. Thank
you. Glad to be here. We like Chase because he keeps up with, I don't know, electronic
news. God, I sound like... Digital rights? Who were saying that? Thank you, digital rights.
That was the name of the last episode that he was on. What was? Digital rights. Oh, there
you go. Yes, Chase keeps up with digital rights. Apparently, something happened much earlier
in the year, starting in March, which I did not even know about because of fucking coronavirus
and Trump and fire and everything else that's been happening. This just literally snuck
by me. I did not know about it. I was like, oh my God, we should tell people in case someone
else has fallen into this trap. That's convenient just because I don't think there's actually
anyone who supports it besides a few difficult congressmen. We're not going to tell anyone
what this thing is until after we talk about the sequences. Right. So, ha, eat that for
your little teaser thing. Good hook. Yes. Okay. The first sequence, the first sequence post
we're going to be talking about this week is called Double Think, then in parentheses,
choosing to be biased. It starts out with a clip excerpt. That clip is for movies, right?
Excerpt from 1984, George Orwell's classic book, which I actually still think is pretty good. I
mean, it reads like an old book because it was written in the 50s. But I think that adds to the
charm, though. It has like a stylistic thing going on. Yeah, it probably is partially just Orwell's
voice and then partially just the time period that it's in. And importantly, you can't truly
appreciate 1984 until you've read 1984. The most important part about this story.
Which for really long time listeners was a short pony fic that I read during the period when
HPMOR was, you know, and it's one long hi, hi. Yeah, I was going to say hi, hi. It wasn't really
hiatus. It was a period where he was writing it and not posting what he was writing still. Yeah.
Are there other rationalist ponyfics besides friendship is optimal and 1984? Is this just
a whole sub-genre? I don't know. Yeah, I'm sure it's out there. There's got to be more than that,
yeah. And the friendship is, or the friendship is optimal is actually like at least two parts,
right? There's two parts and I think from two different perspectives or something.
I just re-listened to that while I was just doing some housework. It's on YouTube. Somebody
like podcasted it. Oh, nice. It's in like 10 parts or something like that. Oh, nice. We're
going to have to link it then in this episode. Yeah, we should do that. Cool. All right, so double
think. It starts with that little excerpt and then the- And if you can hear labored breathing,
that's because, you know, it's just babysitting a corgi. Yes, this corgi is not used to being
petted, I guess, on the head or something because he just seems incredibly happy.
Yeah. Anyways, the post starts with Elias asking, what if self-deception helps us to be happy?
What if just running out and overcoming bias will make us unhappy? Gasp. Yes. Which first of all,
question, how do you guys feel about the whole- Like ignorance is bliss? Yeah, exactly. I don't know.
I mean, actually, honestly, the first thing that came to mind when I was trying to think of,
like, do I know any dumb people that are really happy? I was like, dogs are all really happy.
And dogs are kind of known for being kind of dumb. Yeah, but dogs are also like-
Not people. They are not people. They are pets to humans. If these dogs had to make their own way
in the world, they would not be as happy. Isn't there some really self-serving
anecdotal data that intelligence is correlated with depression? I think I have heard that.
So that seems to follow that ignorance is bliss if you follow that very self-serving data.
I may be overreaching here, but I think generally, you know, the better your starting position or
the more privileged you are, the more comfortable you're going to be, not having to worry about
anything just in general. And that certainly makes it easier. And dogs are pretty high on that tree.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, you were about to say.
Seemed to remember a SlateStrike codex article that was showing that actually
IQ correlates with, like, all kinds of positive outcomes. I feel like I'm missing part of the
nuance there. Does anyone remember, like, specifically what claim that was? I think it was-
Basically what you said, that generally IQ tends to correlate with better life outcomes
in every measurable respect. Yeah, well, I think one of them was like,
like fulfillment, too. It was like happiness, quality of life, etc. So that seems to fly in the
face of this. That said, there's definitely a window, I think, for a lot of people. If you're
coming down from a nice reassuring belief, like, unless you're able to transition immediately into
a nice, solace, medium ground there, like, a good example might be people coming down from,
like, if you believe in afterlife of some sort, and then that illusion is shattered,
for many people, probably this window, at least, if not the rest of your life, where you're just
petrified of death, right? Like, I think believing in an afterlife is probably very reassuring,
if you actually believe that, right? I guess, but every believer I've met is still, you know,
sad when other people die, and they're still, yeah, have the same avoidance of death,
instinct, actions that everyone else does. I think maybe a bit less than someone like us
might have, because, I mean, like, they don't sign up for cryotics, they're not, you know,
taking life extension technology news very seriously or very hard, so they're not taking
preventative aging pills, starting at age 30, like, they're, I mean, maybe some of them are,
I don't know, but I don't know, I think for the most part, like, you know, if I wasn't aware of
whatever half the terrible shit that's been going on in the world, you know, like you mentioned,
this, this, the whole topic of today's episode flew into our radar, because the rest of the world
is complete, you know, dog shit. If I was somehow unaware of that, I'd probably be in a happier
place right now. Well, okay, so I have explicitly advocated for people watching less news, because
most of the time you can do absolutely nothing about it. There's no impact on, on your life aside
to make you more unhappy. But that seems less like an ignorance of listening and more of a
focus on things that you can actually change and that will actually affect your life.
I think that's not even like the news is skewed negative anyway. So it's not even really an issue
of ignorance. It almost seems to me, yeah, you're right. Because basically, you're just exposing
yourself to the dog shit stuff of the world, since that's what all the news is. Like, you can look
at positive news. There was, it might still exist. I don't know. For a while, I would check this
tumbler that was just positive news compilations about like, you know, this country now has clean
drinking water. And I think that it is kind of a weird thing about our species that we tend to,
I guess, because we're still to avoid the bad stuff. Yeah, we're evolved. And so we need to,
yeah, like have a survival mindset. Back in the day, if you heard about bad stuff,
it was happening somewhere near you and could affect you. Yeah, I we we try to end every episode
of the mind killer with some sort of happy news. So to slightly offset the previous 59 minutes of
shit that you've heard. There's a subreddit called Uplifting News that I like for that reason.
Cool. Oh, yeah. I honestly think that like, happiness is not correlated with intelligence.
Like, there's people all over the happiness spectrums in all levels of intelligence,
I have found. And I think really, it just changes how you can express your various feelings,
like people who are unhappy, have a much more eloquent eloquent way of phrasing it and convincing
other peoples that this is what life is. Life is pain. And anyone tells you otherwise is trying
to sell you something is much easier to sell when you have a lot of intelligence behind it.
Yeah, I don't know. I'm sorry for the dog growling. He's just he's super excited.
Every time I stop petting him, he just like nips my fingers right now.
It's like, hey, you're falling down on the job. See, if dumb people could nip other people on
the fingers gently, whenever they weren't being given something nice, they'd be more happy too.
Babies got it really good. They just need to yell and someone will just be like,
what do you need? I'll bring you anything in the world.
As soon as they have any sort of decent parents. Yeah.
All right, so I don't know. I think the thing with intelligence is at least it sometimes helps
you overcome your situations. Like, sure, dumb people sometimes like.
And I think it's really related to that. The less you need to overcome your situation,
the better your situation is to start, then the more you can get away with not making
optimal choices and not. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If you're in a rich family and you're,
you're not stressed about your grades at school because your life's going to turn out fine anyway,
right? Right. Like you're going to land a good job. You're going to make good enough money if you
even need to make money. So like your level of background concern is just totally flat.
And in cases like that, it might be less beneficial to someone's happiness to
really sit down and think about their life, right? Yeah.
Yeah, someone brought up decisions. I actually was just reading some articles about,
they're about generational stress about trauma and like chronic stress could be passed down in
the genes. They've like at least been able to study it three generations down. Jesus.
So there's epigenetic things that go on too and think, you know,
trigger the like during the genes on or off, but there's definitely a correlation between
someone's grandparents or in some terrible war. And that causes actually, what is it,
a larger amygdala, a smaller cerebellum and like impaired decision making. So sort of the thing
about what was it? I think Chase had said or one of you guys said having higher IQ like helps,
you know, or better life circumstances like kind of absorbs if you make bad decisions.
I think you're also just less likely to make impulsive decisions because of all of that.
I have, okay, so we're getting way off on a tangent now, but this is something I want to ask
you guys. I recently in our discord came across this exchange where it was pointed out that
nowadays we have like much more control over reproduction than we ever have in the past.
Well, in the past several decades anyway, nowadays not necessarily meaning like literally this year,
but a lot of people are choosing simply not to have kids. And a lot of those people tend to
be people who are already like kind of depressive and life hurts. And, you know, I don't want to
bring kids into this world. So I'm not going to. And honestly, that was a large part of my
motivation as well. And it was pointed out this is a good thing because that way people who are
genetically predisposed to be unhappy will not propagate those genes into the future. And those
who are disposed to be happy and have happy lives will have more children. So overall,
net utility of the existing people goes up as there's more happiness. And that kind of like
feels terrible. But on the other hand, like I cannot at all dispute this. It's going to be a
short term issue anyway, because we're going to be able to have CRISPR babies. I mean, they are
dear to me. At least for me. So you can actually like go in and pick and choose those genes.
I mean, I don't know how fast that's going to roll out. And whether or not, of course, it's
going to, I mean, even IVF, which is actually a pretty benign procedure, like GenX wise, but people
were freaking out for a long time when IVF came out. And that's been around for what 60 years
or something. Yeah, yeah. Even if you can pick the genes, though, that doesn't get rid of my
intuitive feeling that this world is bad and shouldn't have more humans in it. But I don't know.
I mean,
not shouldn't have more humans in it. Because objectively, it should. So the human race can
continue and do great things. But I don't know if I can be a part of it. Chase, you were going
to say something? No, not at all. I was just going to say, speculating on future outcomes
of genetic manipulation, so far outside of my reasonable realm of knowledgeable discussion.
And like the best thing about it is that there is no government eugenics program. This is all
self selection and people doing what they think is best for themselves and their own lives.
Yeah, I've heard lots of, you know, arguments about the idiocracy thing where people are like,
Oh, like the poorest, like really religious, etc. people are having the most kids. Well,
smart people who tend to be more depressed. I don't even know if any of this is true. Like,
I don't know if the numbers actually show that this is correct. I know a lot of people in the
rational sphere tend to be less likely to want to have kids. I think, I don't know,
it's still a fairly young demographic. But from what I have seen, it seems that the
replacement levels are less, you know, we are reproducing at less than replacement levels.
But on the plus side, there's a lot of people out there that are of the rationalist mindset
that haven't been exposed to rationality yet. So. Well, in part of the, you know,
it's like proselytizing, right? So as long as you're recruiting new members,
at a rate faster than you're losing them. But what if we recruit every member of humanity,
though, and then everyone stops reproducing? Because we reproduce it slower than our
replacement rates. I feel like if the entire world was making that rational of a judgment,
and I'm not saying it's actually rational not to have kids, but if that's the level that we hit,
then we might be equipped as a species to solve every problem we had in the 30 years before everyone
died, right? So maybe. Also, if we achieve immortality, we won't need to replace people.
That's a good point. But like, we're so far in the weeds. Yes. So that was all the first two
sentences. What he was really saying is that some people propose that true wisdom would be
second order rationality, choosing when to be rational. That way you can decide which cognitive
biases should govern you to maximize your happiness. We've really got far field, didn't we?
So yeah, choosing when to be rational and when to be not rational based on when it is most
advantageous to be rational or not rational. And the, I don't know, before we continue,
what do you guys feel about that? Without oblivion, that wouldn't work.
Yeah, it's the same sort of like Pascal's wager. I remember hearing about that. And before I could
even hear any of the like more nuanced arguments about why it was dumb, like immediately the
person who brought it up was like, but you can't choose to believe something if you don't believe
it. You can't just do that. So it doesn't matter. You bet me money on something. Oh,
you got to believe this or don't believe it. And it's like, I can't choose to believe something
like that. Or maybe you can maybe act like you believe the sky is green, but you can't
actually believe it if you don't believe it. And that's what Eleazar's talking about with
first order and second order beliefs where it's like, you really in your guts believe this thing
or like, um, I guess most of my life, like when I was a kid, I kind of, I was religious because
I was supposed to be religious and that never, I actually remember doing double think a lot as a
kid where I would start to think a thing and then be like, no, no, no, no, no distractions, ponies,
there's a dog, pretty rainbows or, you know. Yeah, wrong being scared of wrong think as a kid,
as an exposure to religion is kind of, I think one of the features which is terrifying.
Were you guys taught to be scared of wrong think?
Well, it's just like what, what Jayce was describing.
Okay. Yeah. Jayce certainly sounds like.
Yeah. I don't think I, I mean, I, my memory of all of my childhoods so vague. I don't think so.
There was some period around 10 years old, give or take three years where I was concerned for my
immortal soul, maybe younger. But it like, I don't know, it's been too long. My memory's too hazy.
But I imagine that's a thing, especially, you know, if you're whatever the Bible says you
shouldn't be, if you're gay or something, you'll hide from that. You're, you have an extra inclination
to hide from, from your identity and your, your orientation because you believe it's wrong, right?
Right. I remember having these thoughts like, man, Chelsea would be like really hard as a guy,
it's too bad. Just like kind of like, you know, crush it on my friend and like just doing all
the same things. Like when I had a crush on a guy, like, you know, staring at them out of the corner
of your eye and then like, but like just being like too bad. She's not a guy. What if I just imagine
she's a guy for a bit and then I'll imagine that we're dating and it's just like, I don't know.
But like, you're literally told that God can read your thoughts and that you not only have to like
act correctly, but you have to have the right belief. So like as a kid is, I was just, I remember
when I did believe in religion, I was mostly just mad at God a lot of the time too. I'm kind of
