so you're like, you can actually delete your Facebook account now because Facebook has
customers in California. Am I remembering that right, Chase?
At least that one sounds not so bad, but this was fun because my company didn't have any of
these things implemented, so we had to set up a bunch of shit to handle how do we actually
delete people, which because our database was put together by, it seems like it was put together
by people working all across the globe in different time zones who spoke different
languages. When in fact, it was six guys who sat in the same room, but it was a nightmare to
implement a way to anonymize and pseudonymize and then delete their data. Yeah, I don't know, man.
Is there any happy news that we can, like, is there a chance that this will be, you know, not
passed? Is there any not somewhere way to look at this? There's a chance to be passed with an
additional amendment that outright bans private communication in the country. That's the opposite
of what Stephen has to do. Oh, shoot, sorry. I got that back. I mean, so I guess in that future,
though, then that's the point where the citizens will start noticing, like, hey, why can't I text
my girlfriend or something, right? Like, people are going to notice. I guess they'll still detect
them, but it won't be private. So will this fly under most of the populace's radar? Well,
maybe I'll keep it slowly, right? Yeah. The biggest place this change will start to show up
quickly is any public facing discussion, forums. I can't name the millions of dedicated specific
forums, right? You know, I've got 13 for motorcycles and the model of computer and the
model of phone and the, you know, every individual hobby has its own forum, its own site, and they're
going to be hit first and they're going to be hit the hardest because they don't have
the resources to spin up, you know, an entire investigative branch, right? So that'll be,
I think, be the first visible change is all of the small forums are probably just going to die.
So on the flip side, the public forum on, say, YouTube, Facebook, other big ones,
you won't notice it as much because it'll just silently not be visible or otherwise,
you know, not posted to the site. So you can write your tweet and no one will ever see it and
that's harder for you to detect. I wonder, there's a number of states where it's illegal for kids to
send naked selfies to each other. I think it's almost all of them. I think most states have
an exception that, like, if they're of the same age, it's not child porn. I think it depends on how
trigger happy your district attorney is or something. But yeah, for the argument, what
are we going to say, though? Well, I was going to say at this point, the phone services would
basically have to scan every single picture anyone is sending or either that or have some
age limitation and only scan the pictures that people under the age of 18 are sending to make
sure they aren't sending nude selfies. But, you know, I could be texting you a picture of my
weed garden setup, right? Well, if you lived in a state where that wasn't allowed, they need to
know that. Possibly, yeah. I'm still not sure if this covers non-child sex material.
I don't think it has any specific exception. As I read it, of course, I haven't read the
literal full text of the lots, Julian Pages. But as I understand it, it's more or less
threatening revocation of basically all section 230 protections, which includes...
Every summary that I read said that it is revoking all section 230 protections for anything that is
child sexual material. But again, since you don't know if a picture that someone is sending is a
picture of their car or a picture of, you know, themselves naked and they're not 18 yet, you
have to scan literally everything. So it basically affects everything everywhere, even though it's
only, in theory, in that child sexual material. That may be. I mean, so if they're just like,
you know, checking your motorcycle forums to see if there's child porn on there,
your motorcycle forums should survive, right? Well, they have to check every single post on
their entire website. Oh, right. It's not the government checking. The motorcycle forum host has
to buy or buy or write an AI that can check everything that's posted. Right. Okay. Yeah.
And since this does affect things that are sent between people's phones,
phone companies would have to start scanning every single pick that you send to anyone else.
Am I remembering incorrectly that Facebook actually...
Like people have the ability to flag content and then it gets evaluated with by AIs and they have
humans that are, like their job is to go through all this material.
Yeah. The pain farms offshore. And that was also talked about in that episode on child porn.
Okay. Yeah. I was trying to remember if we had talked about that already. I just remember reading
about how traumatized some of these people are having this job and having to look at all this
terrible shit. Well, so you go to Facebook and you watch a beheading video and because someone
posted some Taliban video or something, and then you click the report button, it's flagged,
and then some human has to review it, right? So then some human has to watch it and be like,
yep, that was gross. That's not going, that's not, we're going to go ahead and block that.
But yeah, those pain farms are offshore. They're cheap and it's just these misery factories.
There was an interesting point made. These are generally, like you said,
offshore to cheap foreign places. A lot of those places are more conservative
than American people in general. Yeah. They're going to see the breastfeeding
mother and be like, oh no, can't have that. They specifically interviewed someone.
She was like a lady in her 30s. She was a religiously conservative Hindu, I think.
And she was, there was lots of things were like, yep, these Americans, they should not be allowed.
This is not good. And she would just censor things that we would be like,
what the fuck? It's just a bathing swimsuit.
Ban Americans.
And yeah, she was like, no, this goes against my religious sensibilities. I will not allow this
to be seen. And I mean, it's a tiny amount of power. It's like one person that's banning flag
videos, which honestly, some troll flagged because they have something against you. So
they flagged your stupid picture. But you know, it goes to show there is weird secondary effects
that we don't think of oftentimes to these. Sure. And then there's the fun thing of like,
where when it's flagged, it's taken on automatically until it gets human reviewed.
I remember when Dobby, the giraffe was being born at the Denver Zoo, there was a live stream
and someone marked it as pornography. And so the stream was taken down for like an hour.
Whoa. It might have been longer or less. Give or take. It was some, you know, non negligible
chunk. You know, I don't know how I didn't actually watch the video. I don't know how
up close and personal it was. I don't know if you want to watch the giraffe come out. But if you
want to see a tiny little baby giraffe take his first stumbling steps, you might have missed it
when it was live. Yeah. I mean, having seen Jim Carrey been birthed from a rhino,
that stuff is legit gross. That's one of those scenes where I had to walk out of the theater,
not because it was gross, but because of the second hand embarrassment. There's so many Jim Carrey
movies. He's like, oh, no. Yeah. All right. We need some positive news here. Is there anything
happy happening anywhere in the world, tech world, maybe if it's relevant or anywhere else,
just because? Well, I don't think we got to the worst part. Okay, great. Hit me again.
The worst part is that the Urnit Act, they carved out the end to end encryption because,
that is just absolutely ludicrous to break all encryption in the world. A lot of our
fucking banking system runs on that. Well, that's the thing like for these dipshits who are
proposing these don't know how their phone works, right? I remember what was it? It seems like
last year, but probably four years ago because time is weird now. But they like dragged Mark
Zuckerberg and the CEO of Google to Congress and be like, why is it when you Google my name,
bad stuff comes up? Because you keep doing bad stuff. There's not someone on the other end
of Google returning stuff for this. It brings up what's most relevant. I remember they asked
Zuckerberg, why was Trump's tweets flagged? And he's like, I don't know. I don't work at Twitter.
So that's the level of people who are writing these laws, right? And there's no secret messages.
They have no idea what the fuck that means. I feel like this one is somewhat unique in that.
I feel like those are the only people supporting it. I actually googled earn it support and I
can't find anything. It's actually weird.
They said that this is, by the way, an unelected 19 member commission who are developing these
guidelines. So it's just like, who even are these people? Why are they put like another thing they
mentioned that? The Department of Truth. I mean, the one thing we know is that the head of that
commission would be the Attorney General, which right now is Barr, who loves censorship.
I just don't know. I found this really funny because at the end of the one article I was
reading, they were suggesting what Congress should do. And one of them was, to this end,
Congress should update and implement a comprehensive national framework to respond
to and prevent the spread of child sexual exploitation material and ask the government
accountability office to evaluate the effectiveness of these measures. And I was like,
okay, wait, there's a government accountability office that they're not bringing in here.
So the encryption stuff was carved out in an amendment and the amendment introduced other
issues, which we have talked about at length just now. But because of that, on June 23rd,
Senator Lindsey Graham, who we all know and hate, also Senator Cotton, which that name
struck me because we talked about him in the last Mindtula episode. He is the one who is
running without a Democratic opponent right now. Something happened with a Democrat dropped out.
And so his main opponent at this point is a Libertarian. And the guy's pulling only 11 points
less than Cotton. So like right now, there could potentially be the very first Libertarian ever
elected to the Senate on the Libertarian ticket, which would be interesting if that happened,
although still unlikely. And Blackburn, as the third Senator, introduced a bill
that basically says, let's make encryption completely illegal. It's called the Lawful Access
to Encrypted Data Act. He said legal or illegal? It would make all encryption illegal. Oh, illegal.
Oh, not legal anymore. Yeah. Which is laid for short, LAED. Looks like lead. It is. Yeah.
It makes me think of like a Scottish person saying, Lord. Well, I was just when
LAED of its papals. It's what I was thinking about. Like it's specifically trying to ban
child porn. They're like, yeah, the LAED Act. I was like, oh, no, this one is not trying to ban
child porn. Yeah, I know. This one is literally just encryption is illegal now. There can be no
more intended encryption. Sort of. It's blocking services from offering. It isn't China level if
you have a private chat set up literally between you and your friend on your own server. They
aren't going to raid your house yet. So that's a bright side. They won't raid your house if you're
using it. Yes. But it will now be illegal to provide it if it does not have a backdoor built
in that law enforcement can access. Yeah. Which means basically a backdoor built in that anyone
can access. Or eventually, certainly. Yeah. No, no, there's absolutely no way that you can make
a backdoor without someone getting to it eventually. It might take a few years, but a backdoor is
Yeah. I mean, yes and no. You think about it. You use your email and it has lots of backdoors.
Google can get into it. If you're at a company, your company can get into it.
That doesn't mean anyone can, but it means eventually anyone will be able to.
Well, that's partly because Google has a team of people staying ahead of the
the safe crackers, right? Right. Right. So if you don't have the Google resources to
keep fighting the ever-increasing power of the safe crackers, the hacking criminals in this case,
like you're just fucked. Well, and it's evolving constantly.
And that's also, Gmail is not end-to-end encryption. No, not at all.
No, it's like this specifically says even end-to-end encryption has to have a backdoor
built in. The reason that signal is no longer offered in Australia because there's a law in
Australia that says any end-to-end encryption has to have a backdoor in and signal is like,
we literally cannot do that. Sorry, by people in Australia.
It's like what signal is designed to not do.
Yeah. Which I'm sure has excellent long-term effects on Australia's journalism and
investigations and just everything. I mean, correct me if I'm wrong.
Isn't our current electronic banking system based on uncrackable encryption?
Well, yes. But also, I don't think that would really be affected by this.
Okay. You think they're just going after communications?
Yes. And there are other methods by which the government has access to banking information
that they can use and do.
All right. Let's see. It applies to operating systems, apps, messaging, chat, social media
platforms, email, cloud storage, and video conferencing, and all electronic devices with over
one gigabyte of memory.
So cloud storage is one of the ones that was brought up in that Sam Harris episode on
child pornography because S3 is the dropbox. It's what dropbox is built off of. It's just
a bucket where you can put whatever you wanted in on Amazon.
They explicitly don't scan the stuff on there. And so because you can buy as big of an S3 bucket
as you want, it's really easy to hoard whatever you want on there, including nefarious terrible
shit. Why did I bring that up? Oh, because online storage of anything over a gig?
Anything that has more than a gig of memory on it.
So they're talking about crack encryption fundamentally in endpoints, in customer devices,
in your devices, which is that is almost worse.
It is insane because once your device is compromised, it doesn't matter how good any
service is at all. As soon as your finger touches the screen, as soon as you say something in range
of your device, who knows what's going to happen because it's not secured in any way.
And with COVID-19, kids aren't in schools anymore. People aren't at their jobs. Everybody is using
these forms of communication. This is basically a device to install spyware in everything in our
lives. It certainly could be used for that. What was it? Was it Iran? There was a company
somewhere that was, well, a government that was not on good terms with America,
and they were buying technology from us. And I believe it was the CIA went in and had the
manufacturer, like on the actual hardware chip model, install a backdoor so that we could access
them. And eventually they found out about it. And now most countries for anything that is like
national security level will only use chips that are created in their own country by
their own companies, the ones that have that option. Obviously, some of the pork...
I mean, and a famous example of this already going wrong is there are a huge pile of known
Intel management engine vulnerabilities that have... And the Intel management engine is,
theoretically, it's a non-nefarious tool. It's for remote management of servers, and it lets
Intel help you diagnose problems. But there were holes in it, and it ended... The end result was
tons of servers were compromised through vulnerabilities baked into Intel hardware
on the servers. And that wasn't designed to be a backdoor, but it still was one. This is worse.
Yeah. This is like the US going to every manufacturer and saying, you all have to have
these chips, like we installed in the Iran computer systems that we shipped to them,
so that we can access this at any time and do whatever we want with it,
like mandating that all of us have that in all our electronics.
So what are the odds of this going through? Because this would...
I think they're low just because of how fucking nuclear insane this thing is.
Well, because Apple prides itself and is pretty good at actually being secure.
If they say, we're not gonna... I mean, the government would probably get by,
although it's not clear if Trump would survive, if there were no iPhones in the United States
anymore. But the... I don't know. I'm not sure... I mean, Google probably takes a pretty good
stance on their phones as well. If you start telling everyone, yep, build backdoors,
and they're like, no, fuck you, or we can't, are these gonna just stop being on the shelves?
Are they gonna be outlawed outright? Imagine if the government kicks into your...
It's easy math to run.
Take your iPhones.
Right. It's not in their interest to do that. It's easy math to run,
which is we can comply with this insane law and it'll have huge repercussions that'll
