They're descriptors of the reality of the nuclear engine in this case or the nuclear
reactor, but they're not like judgment calls about whether or not it's good.
Exactly.
Yeah.
The primary point of the article, um, I pulled a
quote out was that these two facts can be cited by different sides of the same
debate, but they're logically distinct.
The facts don't know who's side they're on.
Uh, and I took that to mean it's kind of another expansion on the policy debates
shouldn't appear one sided essay.
This one says that, uh, despite our brains, natural tendency to view arguments
or facts as tools or as soldiers, which we could either use for fighting on our
side or against our side, facts don't exist to support sides.
The facts are just words that we use to describe the physical qualities of a thing.
Yeah.
And so he uses the, the example per the name of the, the post, the scales of
justice that lady justice carries a set of scales where presumably the facts
against and the facts for way each side of the scales, whichever one comes down
heavier, that's, that's the verdict.
Um, he had, you know, so, so running with that, he says that not all arguments
reduced to mere up or down.
Lady rationality carries a notebook wherein she writes down all the facts that
aren't on anyone's side.
And I think, yeah, that's maybe a good way to look at.
It's certainly like policy debates.
Maybe that's not the best, arguably way to look at crime or something.
I don't know, but even says in there that like, there are certain situations,
like did John Doe kill John Smith?
Like, yeah, there is definitely a scale of justice system there and we should use it.
I think it's, I try to remember this idea, even if I don't remember this exact
article, whenever I get riled up and sure, I'm correct about something.
Cause like, whenever you start to feel sure you're correct about something, it
means you're viewing all the facts through a lens and you should go back and
be like, what am I, what facts don't fit in on either side?
And where should I check that notebook of rationality and reassess myself?
I looked at, uh, he also pointed out that there's, you know, it, there's a
binary question such as, did John Doe kill so and so, and then there's other
things that aren't binary.
It's weird that we always have these kinds of idea of there being two sides
or that this is good or this is bad.
I think he said that as like an overall good or a bad feeling about
something that colors your judgment on it.
That's a good point and thanks for reminding me.
That's the main difference is that here's a proposition for my new nuclear
reactor is not, did John Doe kill this person, right?
And one of those has a yes or no question.
The other one's just like, here's my idea.
Here's the pros and cons.
Well, in the end, you have to decide, are we going to build the reactor or not?
Yeah, but, but one is like a matter of fact, a matter of historical or
scientific fact or something, right?
And in that case, there'll be pieces of evidence for and against it, just like
you'd expect.
Whereas like evidence in assessing the nuclear reactor, the hypothetical one in
this case, it's not so much evidence as it is arguments.
But I think what the point that he's making is that people don't see that
they don't emotionally feel the difference until it's pointed out.
They see them as the same thing.
They see arguments against it as being evidence that it's a bad thing.
I think the point is that like, even if you eventually accept that the
nuclear reactor should be built, you must still accept that there is a
greater chance of meltdown and know that.
Whereas, or if you make a decision that a nuclear reactor should not be built,
you also have to accept that there will be more nuclear waste now because of
that decision.
And you made the decision you made, but don't forget the facts.
Yeah, that even when it does come down to a up or down binary, you know, are
we doing the thing or are we not?
Remember that the facts aren't on a side.
They're just what they are.
There's something limiting about thinking of something as an upward down to, I
think this example might have actually come from the essay that comes after
this, but you talked about cars and he was saying, for example, you know,
people get hung up on the idea of our cars, good or bad.
And then there prevents them from thinking about what should be like
engineered traffic differently.
Cause what you're trying to do is minimize deaths, not figure out whether
cars are good or bad.
Same thing with the reactor.
You could say what we were trying to do is generate X amount of energy with
this amount of, so like you don't want to silence people from coming up with
ideas because you can actually take some of their ideas.
Like the road argument, maybe the problem is not that cars are good or bad, but
maybe we should change the material that roads are made out of.
So they have more friction and it would cause less accidents or something.
Yeah, automate traffic.
Yeah.
I think in the next post really ties into this point too.
But like just another example of not all arguments being up or down, you know,
in some, in some metaphorical slash literal sense, people who are anti
any sort of gun control, take that position with the weight of dead
children weighing on one side of the scales, right?
Like they're saying, yep, we're accepting a certain number of dead kids every
year because we care enough about.
Because we think that the risk of losing our guns would put us under further
tyranny that would be worse.
That would be the best steelman argument.
Exactly.
Whatever the argument is.
Yeah.
And to be fair, I think I've spoken out against this before.
I think that's a really shitty argument.
I think the government has all the nukes and fight, fight helicopters and stuff.
Like again, they're not going to nuke the population, but like we're not going
to win against tanks with our, with whatever guns the Vietnamese would disagree.
Like I actually very much disagree with you on this one because I hang out with
enough crazy gun nuts in PA that I know that if it came down to it, like no
one's beating a predator drone.
I 100% agree with that.
But guerrilla warfare is highly effective and very dangerous.
But I think that you are correct in that, that is a facetious argument.
It does not actually strike and does not help.
Like, and it's also not, I think what their motivation motivator is, right?
I think that the guns are fun to shoot.
They really are.
They really are.
And, and it's, it's a, it's a skill that when you're good at it, it's very satisfying.
The loud noise that kicking your hands.
Like it's a fun thing to do.
Yeah, that's like arguments or soldiers kind of.
Yeah, it is.
And it's, it's a great example of just people putting up whatever they can.
Exactly.
Putting as many soldiers as they can.
And, you know, the defense of tyranny is a really strong soldier to put up in
the fight, even if it's not one that they really support.
Guns are fun.
It's not like a argument that's going to make you look good.
Totally.
Random quick question, just because I'm crazy.
If we'd had predator drones in the Vietnam war, would we have one?
No, I don't think we would have one.
Cause like the reason we lost Vietnam is cause the Vietnamese were smart enough
to start publicizing those losses we had, even though we were beating them
significantly, we looked worse.
And it was public outcry that defeated Vietnam.
It was all psychological and predator drones would only enhance that.
Why do you think that ever since Vietnam, they don't show wars the same graphic
level they used to?
Yeah.
That's when they introduced all the major regulations on the reporting of war.
Showing the bodies of soldiers and stuff.
Kids and like small groups of soldiers that were operating in stealth and they
had like vastly inferior weapons, but a predator drone couldn't find them
in the jungle necessarily.
Well, they probably couldn't even find them.
Like you don't want to drone someone in the city.
Or that, yeah, I was about to say, they do all the time.
My bad, but yeah, they couldn't find them in the jungle.
So on the next essay about regulation, I actually kind of disagree with him.
This next essay is called blue or green on regulation and tell us why.
So, or at least I disagree with one of the examples he brings up.
He talks about how, I forget what he said, maybe it was like cars kill 7000
Americans or something, but he's like the FDA kills 50 to 100,000 Americans by
delaying drugs from being approved.
I think that's just a bad point, quite frankly, because every time you go on TV,
you're always seeing an ad like, did you take this drug 20 years ago and now you
have like bunions on your lungs, please contact us for this settlement.
Like I understand the point he's trying to make here.
And to not fall into the fallacy we just talked about about being like, this is
just good or this is just bad.
I get what he's saying, but this is not a good example.
Like the reason that we delay those things, even if they are drugs, they'll
be future approved is to try to prevent as many of those long term problems as possible.
I believe his argument is that they are far, far too strict.
And they delay things too long and they make things cost too much.
I disagree with him based on the number of drugs that we end up finding out have
terrible side effects 20 years later.
In fact, I don't think they're strict enough.
I agree with him based on how much it costs to get any sort of drug onto the market.
Scott Alexander writes some great things about like why, how now doctors can
give you fish oil after a 20 million dollar.
Melatonin too.
And melatonin, yeah.
And people in Europe have just been doing it for years because people already
know that it's safe.
It's just that they can't sell it until they go through these hoops.
There's a number of things that the FDI has really dragged its feet on
and it has taken much longer.
I, as a personal example, had a vasectomy just last year because I was sick
and fucking tired of waiting for vasogel to get approved by the FDA.
Truth.
I had been like seven years and I was like, all right, fuck it.
I'm apparently never going to get this.
So.
But would you want it to have it if there was a chance that in 20 years
your junk would fall off?
Yeah, there's a pretty good chance it's not going to fall off.
The, the, um, the, five percent is too high a chance for me.
I'm just going to say that right now.
Much lower than five percent.
Uh, the, that's what he's saying, that their risk tolerance is way, way too low
and ends up killing more people than it helps because the amount of people that
could be saved, if things were just sped up a little bit is higher than the
amount of people that will be hurt due to something slipping through the cracks.
I would like to see the statistics about how many, how much money has
been given to people who took pharmaceuticals that 10 to 20 years
later really ended up messing them up in some way because I actually think
that that point is incorrect, but I don't have any data and I would like
to find the data because I'm pretty sure you're right.
