And now YouTube and all those things are like, Oh, we're not actually platforms.
We are part of the system.
If you do not toe the corporate line, we are silencing you.
And fuck all of that is my opinion.
You're, you're lofty goals of the internet never being capitalized.
Word was never going to happen.
No, I know this is this is my, this is my old idealist who's, you know, been
ground down by reality.
I'd also like to point out something.
We all hated it when YouTube included ads, but the money they generated from that,
they started being able to give back to the video producers for the first time.
So yeah, for a long time, you could be independent and put videos on YouTube.
But unless you were able to leverage that in some way, YouTube was not enough
to sustain yourself.
Now that is not true.
Like you actually have people who survive on YouTube.
The corporatization of it made it more viable for actually more people to speak
their mind freely and to communicate.
Like I think that it's not as bad as it looks at the moment to have corporatized
the internet, but it is annoying.
It also gave a lot of headway for some really unsavory characters to have.
What I had the phrase, some bad motivations is the bad way of putting it.
I had a better way of putting it.
Perverse incentives.
Thank you.
Yes.
Mind reader.
High five.
I was literally thinking ill-gotten gains.
So the perverse incentives to get views at all costs.
And then you get those unsavory characters who are, who's that guy who went to
that, the forest?
Logan, something Logan Paul.
Yeah, yeah.
I had a friend over a few weeks ago and we were talking all about him and
apparently as a brother and they, yeah, Jake Paul, then they do all kinds of weird
shit and like that.
So the capitalization of YouTube also did that.
Yeah, well they're total douchebags.
Right.
But that doesn't mean that they should be kicked off of YouTube.
No, no, no, I'm making a lighter point here, which is saying
that by, by doing, by being able to give a big, give back to content creators on
YouTube, it also incentivized people to be really gross, to do whatever
talk to YouTube.
I don't know if that was even the corporatization of YouTube.
I think it's also just the attention.
Yeah.
Like if someone wants to do something so outrageous that advertisers won't be
associated with it, fine, demonetize their video, but leave it up there.
Well, I think in this case, I was thinking of like, it, it, since their
bottom line is number of views, they'll do whatever it takes to do that.
Even if it's like freaking out little kids and pretending to get murdered
with a shotgun and stuff.
I think we're talking about something else at this point though.
We are.
I was just, yeah, I was responding to the, the corporatization of YouTube.
So the, I'm just not okay giving the powers of censorship to these corporate
conglomerations.
I think that it's fine to give them censorship powers, but they need to be
upfront and have a decent process that people can fight against.
Like Sargon of Akkad has no, like, recon pen, like no way to reconcile with
PayPal and, uh, Patreon, he can't go up to them and say, Hey, what can I do to
change my channel to bring it back?
They just destroyed him and that's not, that's, that's my boundary.
I'm not against them having a line.
I'm not even against them banning people, but if they're not going to do it
in an ethical above board and transparent way, it's too risky.
It's way too risky.
There's way too much potential that right now the people in charge of those
companies and the constituency they're aiming towards is very liberal and has
really good ideas, but that's not guaranteed to be true forever.
Yeah.
The culture could easily change.
Yeah.
And then, then maybe you are, you've created a precedent where you're
allowed to discriminate now based on the majority not liking what you say.
Yeah.
Like Sargon can't like go to court and fight his traffic ticket in this case.
Right.
It's like a, almost a whole different rule of law is being used in both of these
cases.
That's, that's a very good point.
Yeah.
It's not actually fair.
The law would have been more reasonable to him.
I do appreciate your guys's moderate viewpoint on this.
I still strongly disagree.
I'm sticking with my extremist.
They should not have any powers of censorship, but I realize you guys will
probably win in the end.
Well, so I think I'm agreeing with you.
What, what if they had terms of service that said you can use our website, but
you can never use the N word in a, in any context outside of a historical context.
And if you, so if you do that, you can do whatever it's kind of like saying,
I'd be fine with that.
I think that's perfectly reasonable as long as they're upfront, they're clear
about it and it's not in their 36 hour long document.
Um, but you know, if there's like a, if there's a list of, of no no's at the top
of their terms of service and said, you can't use the N word, you can't post
pictures of minors in technically legal, but obviously not cool, whatever, like,
you know, whatever borderline child porn or something.
Um, I'm trying to think of other things that child.
Yeah.
That's so sad.
So I'm trying to think of other things that like are technically not illegal,
but like we're like, we can say as a company, you can do whatever you want,
except for these things.
Would that have been all right?
Or would you say no, no, no, if you're going to, if you're going to be as
biggest patron on, you have to allow anyone to come on there, post softcore
child porn and use the N word with abandon.
Yeah.
As long as you're willing, I like it that you're willing to die on this hill.
I am.
No, that's totally cool.
I mean, the, the softcore child porn, you're getting into again areas where I
have moral qualms with the actual thing.
Like I, I, again, also not good with people calling for violence on YouTube.
But, uh, in general, no, they, I'm not good with their being censorship powers.
I understand, you know, okay, you just can't say the N word, but then we just
have seven new dirty words.
Sure.
Um, going back to Tumblr for a minute too, there's kind of a sense in which this
goes back to a whole band items store discussion.
And I guess I'm pulling away from the moderation a bit, but, um, whether it was
like the foster sister thing, trying to keep people from using Tumblr for
prostitution or whether it was the advertisers, one of the negative
externalities about them banning all of the porn sites was that I know there
were a bunch of fan artists and, uh, fanfic writers who also got banned because
they were drawing like, uh, Sherlock and Watson having sex or whatever, you know,
or like they had one picture with titties in it at one point, but like some of
these people actually like, they made their livelihood off of commissions and
they got banned over things that weren't even like the target.
Yeah.
Certainly the execution there, they hit, that's why I think that it was largely
some huge push, whether it was their, um, yeah, because they, they, they hit
back really, really hard and they're like, no, we're not even going to analyze
stuff.
We're going to just run some, some image search software on every picture on
the website and ban everything that flags anything without looking at it.
Yeah.
A bunch of people were panicking beforehand too.
And they're like, I don't even know what to delete from my blog before
they do the purge.
Yeah.
So people got hit and they didn't even understand why they didn't even have a
blog that had anything pornographic on it.
They might have reblogged something that someone else at one point, like it's
just a mess.
I mean, on the one hand, this is also a, a reminder that as long as you are
running on somebody else's, uh, software, someone else's thing, you're never
safe and everyone should have their own blog whenever possible.
But I know, I know, I know that's not, I mean, that's, that's one of the reasons
I've never bothered with Tumblr.
Any of those I'm like, nope, just going to get my own website, pay the money,
you know, because I know I can always keep it up unless like the government
actually comes and shut me down.
But again, that's not necessarily true either.
If, if, if people have already gotten Patreon and, and YouTube and
PayPal and everything on their side, who are they going to go to next?
They're going to be like, okay, ISPs, we see that you're still allowing
this person's content through, through the internet.
Yeah.
Okay.
Web hosting service.
We see that you're still hosting this guys.
I mean, even if I were to buy my own server that I have up 24 times, I
still got to connect to the internet through wires somewhere, some sort of
service provider, they can just contact Comcast and be like, you're
letting this guy's data through.
Don't you know he's a Nazi?
Well, that's why I'm pro net neutrality.
I'm just going to jump in and say this.
I'm honestly, I think I'm leaning a little bit more towards Enias's side,
but it comes down to a fear of the end results.
Like I have very little moral positions about this, honestly.
But like I said, I'm worried that this is just going to create a new system
where it'll be easy for worse people to funnel money in even more hidden ways,
because that's what is incentivizing right now.
And that's way worse in my opinion than anything Sargon could have said.
I do like how you're very easily and it seems just able to take the long view
and say, look at what this is going to do.
Forget what you guys, you know, forget the reasons you're doing it, all that.
Just like, look at what will probably happen.
That's, I think a valuable thing to look at.
And I didn't even think of those considerations before you mentioned it.
Yeah, I'm terrified of what this isn't going to create in the next year,
because I think what you're going to see is a Patreon alternative at the end of
the year. And I guarantee you it's going to be used by a large number of people
who would never dare go on Patreon because it would have brought them too
much scrutiny. But now that they have a subtle way to funnel money that cannot be
hacked, even if it was created for a good reason, it's going to end up helping
neo-Nazis and alt-right people.
I do think I would like to be on this Patreon, whatever.
What I was just going to say is it's going to make it harder to make Patreon
alternatives because of the whole, if you create something that's like,
we're anti-witch hunts, all the witches are going to go there.
That's like what you were just saying, David.
Yeah, pretty much.
