But at the same time, the reason the witches are going there is because it
protects everyone, including witches.
So you would actually probably be, I mean, more secure financially.
Like it would be more difficult on this future platform to demonetize you,
but you would have to share that space with really terrible humans.
Well, I mean, if literally everyone is on two platforms, then if one
platform gets rid of them, you know, there's less incentive for the one
platform to do that anyway, because they aren't hurting that thing as much.
They can still survive.
I would like everyone to be on two platforms just so that they aren't,
you know, putting all this power in one corporation's hands.
I should point out that the reason that Sam Harris left Patreon wasn't out
of solidarity with anything Carl Benjamin said or did, or with any sort of endorsement
or even protest.
It was more just like your thing of like, you know, in the event that Patreon wants
to, you know, swing the band hammer a little harder, I don't want to take the risk.
So I'm going to just be all fully self-sufficient.
Same reason I have my own blog.
You just, you don't want to be reliant on other people to that extent.
Yeah.
The thing is now all of Sam Harris's enemies can kind of point at him
leaving and say, aha, we knew he was a neo-Nazi.
Yeah.
Fuck them.
They were going to say that anyway.
I can't wait to say that.
And yeah, honest, I mean, you mentioned that Jordan Peterson's gotten more
annoying in the last year.
And I know that I think now I don't know a lot about him.
I get the impression that he was never ready for like the level of attention
he got.
I agree with that 100 percent.
The second he got the spotlight, he's just like, oh, I need to keep the light on
me and keep saying crazy shit.
And now he's like full climate change denial.
Yeah.
I read, I read 12 Wolves for Life and it's got none of that, uh, the stuff
that you see him like blogging about now or the people talking about him.
It's a great book.
And I honestly, I will still say this to this day.
If you look at his old YouTube videos, his lectures as a teacher, he seems
like a brilliant professor of psychology and a guy with a lot of insight.
Listen to him about psychology and not politics or meteorology.
Or maybe even mythology.
That's sort of where I'm at with Sam Harris now is like, he had a lot
of fun stuff to say on philosophy.
And like really again, I think this is going to be running the
theme until he's out of office.
Literally everything got worse when Donald Trump became president and like
including his podcast and everything Sam Harris has been talking about for the
last two years, it's a lot less of like fun conversations on, you know,
cosmology or physics or AI or whatever.
And it's more just like, oh my God, let's keep, you know, if we, we have
to edit out the sounds of us breaking each other's arms, jerking ourselves off
about, you know, let me, let me rephrase that.
I don't know.
This was a joke from Rick and Morty, or bastardized version of it.
When he was like, now it's just all this, you know, intellectual, dark
web, self masturbation stuff.
And like, look, we're so victimized guys.
Cause, you know, whenever I say that black people are unintelligent, I get
kicked back on Twitter.
Look at us.
And it's like, yeah, it's devolved into culture wars.
Yeah.
And it's super annoying.
And like, you know, his, they're even talking about, um, I heard about this
in the very bad wizards, like a, an anonymous peer review journal, um,
where people can go out there and publish all of their bull, you know,
they're possibly bullshit, but possibly, you know, just politically
incorrect findings, um, and hide their identity because they're so afraid of the
fallout.
I, I do like how, and again, I'm not in academia.
Maybe things are worse, uh, for academics than I thought, you know,
Should there be a place to publish scientific findings that you don't think
you can because you would get crap for it?
I think that's, that's what the thing is for.
All right.
Um, but I don't, I guess I don't know, again, a lot about how the
internet academics work.
I would like to think that if they're solid science, we know what you're
saying, people will publish it, you know, they don't like it, but maybe
that's not the case.
Oh God, no.
So, all right.
Um, I mean, academia has more backbiting and politics in most places.
Well, I guess my, my rosy-eyed view of science would have been that, you
know, the science speaks for itself.
I mean, that's pretty much what happened to that guy who got fired from Google.
I don't remember his name now.
Right, right.
But like, I read the paper he wrote and I don't think it was tactful.
I don't think it was.
The phrasing was unfortunate.
Yes.
But none of the data he pointed out was wrong.
He lit, and the worst part, the thing that made it most infuriating is at the
end, he's like, okay, these are the reasons I think there are not enough women in
tech, here are my suggestions to fix it.
So even if you thought he did everything wrong at the end of his article, he
legitimately was just trying to fix it, but because it was not politically
correct, he got screwed for it.
And that was not even like, that was an internal memo within Google.
It would be so much more terrifying to try to do that on a public platform and
publish it.
Like, that's so scary.
I think people have a right to be wrong.
Like, I don't even know that he was right.
He very well may have been absolutely wrong with what he wrote.
But you have a right to be wrong about something.
And not be considered a bad person for having said it.
Well, yeah, not be kicked out and made a pariah.
Did you get a chance to say the thing that you were waiting to say a few
minutes ago?
I know it's been a while.
I think I forget what it was.
If it's important, it'll spring back to mind.
I'm just actually thinking of how relevant this all is to the less
wrong posts.
And also that we've been talking about this for a very long time.
We're starting to just talk in loops.
Yeah.
All right.
Shall we move on?
Yes, but I'll move on.
You have final thing to say.
My final thoughts on this is that I understand much better your position.
I think I've said it pretty well before.
And I think with the combined might of Inyosh, David and Jess, I think I've
moved more towards the idea that banning him was a bad idea, uh, or more towards
that position.
I think I still like the idea.
Like if it was, if it was my website, if I owned PayPal, I would say, no, I'm
not going to let you use it.
You fucking suck.
I think I stand by that, but I do see the point that like this isn't you,
Steven, the person or even, you know, John PayPal or John Patreon and their,
their personal thing.
This is a gigantic company.
And for a lot of people, it's the only way they get stuff coming in and out.
And I, I think I see where you're coming from, but as far as, uh, saying the
bad thing or maybe being wrong and public being okay, uh, Louis T.K.
was back in the news this week.
Oh God, I heard about this.
What happened?
He, he's been doing a bit of standup.
Um, and he, he made a joke.
I didn't read the full joke.
And I don't know if there's a video of it or not, but it made, it made the, if
you're familiar with Louis T.K.'s comedy, he makes like a lot of like
jokey arguments and has fun.
And he does it in a way that is often like insensitive.
So the joke that he made this week was, um, that being a kid who went to a
school where a school shooting happened, it doesn't make you interesting.
And that, you know, millennials are boring or something.
I forget the full context, but it was, it was.
It strikes a little too close to home.
It wasn't inflammatory in the sense that, you know, he's saying like, look,
just being involved in a school shooting doesn't make you interesting.
So the kickback was being super insensitive to that.
And if I'm missing an important piece, let me know.
I don't think I am.
I think that was the thing.
It was a really, it was a mean joke.
But so my thoughts on that is that it's a mean joke, perfectly consistent with
Louis T.K.'s brand of humor.
You know, he's, he's made mean jokes in the past, but this isn't even, uh, a target.
He didn't, he didn't name a name and say, you're boring.
Right.
I think he was just saying that like, you look having something scary and
interesting happening near you, it doesn't make you interesting.
Um, so my, my, I heard about this yesterday and my thought was like,
cause I could tell what the person who told me this wanted to hear was
like, isn't he a fucking shithead?
And I'm like, well, if he wasn't already on such thin ice for where he's at.
That joke would have been perfectly fine in a routine of his three years ago
before this drama came out.
People would have, some people would have been unhappy still, but it would not
have like stuck out like a sore thumb the way everyone is like looking at him
right now.
I totally, that was exactly what I had said.
I mean, that's basically a Sarah Silverman joke.
She could deliver the exact same joke cause her character is also like a horrible
person.
That is actually a very good point to make.
And I think that the, my thinking was just that like, come on, Louis, you've
been an entertainer for so long.
You know what the public perception is right now.
You got to ease back into this.
If you're going to get back in at all, you start making jokes surrounding
dead kids, um, you know, not, not hypothetical dead kids.
Like he had one joke about, you know, having, uh, plastic bags where you
could put, uh, you know, dead bodies in every three feet of America, because,
you know, people should be allowed to kill people or something, whatever it was.
Oh, murder should be illegal.
That was the bid.
Um, and then yeah, we'd have, you know,
public ways of disposing of the bodies because people are doing it all the time.
Just like acid baths on the street and stuff.
Trash cans, it was plastic bags.
