him owned a bar downtown.
And the way that works actually, anyone's allowed to just go sit in court if you get
super bored and you live near a courthouse, you can just go listen to all the dumb shit
people get dragged in front of the judge for.
Yeah, that sounds fun.
Yeah.
Yeah, go watch some lives to get district torn apart.
Anyway, so he was driving people home from his bar after close and he had an unregistered
gun in the car, which he uses for self-defense in the event that something happened because
he drives drunk's home because he's a chill dude.
So it made it sound like, oh, wait, maybe the gun was registered.
I forget what the deal was because the guy...
There was some technicality.
There was some technicality and maybe he didn't have the right...
I can't remember what it was.
In any case, we're getting really far afield, but I'll finish this quick story.
He had said...
I was...
Because he was right in front of me and he's talking to his lawyer and stuff and then his
lawyer talked to the...
You know, they're talking to the room and the judge and whatever.
And the lawyer had said, all right, look, if you do this, you could face up to eight
years or whatever it was.
This is some high number because you've got this, this, and this.
But if you just do what the judge is saying and plea, you just get served a couple months
in jail.
And it's like...
So when they asked him, how do you plead, he said, I plead guilty, but I want it on the
record that I didn't commit the crime of being charged that I'm pleading guilty to.
And they said, fine.
So it's weird.
But yeah, all that aside, I feel like we're slipping into that same...
We're sliding down that slippery slip without the intellectual dark webbers want us to,
which is that being de-platformed or being called out on Twitter is the same as being
charged with a crime and it's not.
No one's gotten as far as I know to Karl Benjamin's house and cuffed him, right?
I don't think anyone gives a shit about being called out on Twitter.
Most people would like Karl Benjamin would actually probably like that because it would
give them more views.
I was being trolly.
But yeah.
Okay, okay.
But being taken off of Twitter, not Twitter, Patreon, that for a lot of people, that's how
they fucking pay for their heat during the winter.
And that's his livelihood, sure.
To be fair, he earned what, when he was kicked off, he was making 12K a month.
So if he didn't have money to save for the winter, that's on him.
But I'm being an asshole.
Yeah, no, no, no.
And I mean, to be fair, it's not even that I care about the money that much.
It's like, I mean, we're on Patreon, we make some money.
If we got kicked off, whatever, both still jobs have jobs, right?
But it's the fucking principle of the matter that you can just make people these promises
like, yeah, we'll be your service.
You can use us, everything.
And then be like, oh, no, we don't like what you're saying.
Get out of here.
I dislike them exercising censorship powers.
So you're drawing a line between a business owner and a dragon like Patreon or Apple or
whatever, right?
I'm drawing a line between someone being silenced for having the wrong opinions.
And even though I do think his opinions are wrong, I'm like, let him say it.
All right, so may I make an argument where I agree with you, but I'm attacking it from
another side.
Sure.
Let's think about the consequences of this.
Really, someone is going to create a Patreon alternative.
And I do believe that they will try in order to prevent this from happening again to create
a very resilient and anonymous system, probably involving a cryptocurrency, but I can imagine
a few different ways they would do that.
And what's this going to do?
It's going to attract all the actual neo-Nazis.
It's going to attract the actual dangerous people, because now we have forced a group
of people to create an anonymous donation system in order to support themselves.
Even if you think Sargon of Akkad was completely wrong, I think this does more damage than
good in the long run because it's just going to polarize things further and create a new
platform that will enhance more hate speech.
If they kept it on Patreon, then they could have said, hey, we gave Sargon of Akkad three
warnings and now we've taken him off for a month.
He'll be back on in a month, but we're giving him a warning and they could have enforced
the idea without creating this terrible dynamic.
Yeah, they kind of just merited him.
Yeah.
That's actually a really good point, and that's a good way to put it, that they martyred him
on this, because they, as far as I know, he didn't get real warnings or something.
I did see the video that the person who told us about this sent in, and he wasn't given
a heads up.
He wasn't given a slap on the wrist.
Like I said, a month's off, saying, look, we're going to hold this month's payments
from you because you need to get your shit together.
That would have been probably a good enough wake-up call, and then maybe he would have
done something different.
But you know, I should be able to make it, again, absurd.
If you went to Bakery and somebody came in and said, I want a cake that says fuck the
Jews with big swastika on it, would you make it for them?
I would not.
And can I explain to you why?
Aren't you silencing their way that they wanted to celebrate with their cake?
Yeah, their free speech.
No, no, no.
Here's the thing.
If I had pre-made cakes available and refused to sell them to a Nazi that wanted to write
fuck the Jews on his own cake, I would absolutely sell that cake to them, because it's just
a product there that for anyone to buy.
If they want me to invest my labor to, like, customize it, then that's a different thing.
Even if all of your cakes came with a tag on them that says, made by Inyasha's Bakery,
and so when they post pictures of their big Jew-hating cake on YouTube or on Facebook,
it's going to have your tag on it.
Whatever, man.
I'd make cakes, people buy cakes.
I think people sell notebooks, and then they write racist thing in them, but I've never
looked at a notebook company and said, you're supporting hate speech.
Even when their names are at the top of it, I've never really blamed them.
No, no, but the manufacturers of Tiki Torch did come out and say, like, we don't condone
what those idiots are doing with our Tiki Torches at that white hate rally, so.
Well, that's because they were using the product incorrectly.
If someone was to stand still to keep the bugs away, if Tim was to actually, like, start
some kind of hate campaign on my bakery, being like, how dare you sell to Nazis?
I would say I do not condone the conditions, the actions of these Nazis, but I wouldn't
stop selling to them.
All right, so I think for me, I don't know, I'm torn, and maybe there's a less fringe
example than Sarkhan to look at, which is Alex Jones was kicked off within a week of
like.
Did you say less fringe?
I meant less controversial example.
OK. Yeah, thank you.
Good point. So he was kicked off of what?
YouTube, Patreon, Apple and some other giant thing within a week.
Maybe Twitter.
Yeah, social media platform.
Yeah. And so this came the week that he because this is Alex Jones is the the
conspiracy theorist radio show host who boasted a weekly phone call to Donald Trump
before he became president.
And he was like he's the main guy behind like the the school shootings being fake
and those parents are paid actors.
And so when he would say, you know, hassle these these actors because they're just out
there to try and stir up the shit and take our guns and people did that.
That's the buy for years.
And then finally, probably people to kick him off was when he encouraged his listeners.
Well, I don't think he said go out.
I don't think he said, quote, go kill Robert Mueller.
What he said was like, you know, I've got a big audience.
He'd better be careful or something.
It was some it was a big threat against the director of the Special Counsel of the FBI.
And that was like, all right, cool.
Finally, we got him.
We can't get him on being a complete fucking piece of shit.
But we can get him for breaking this, you know, for towing this legal line.
Yeah. And so for inciting violence.
Yeah. So well for implying incited violence.
Right. Right.
So that's implying inside of violence might not even be a crime,
but do you do you support him being taken off?
I think once it's at the point where any reasonable person can tell that he is
threatening someone's life, then yeah, I see, I think.
And I know that this is a slippery slope.
Maybe you guys will talk me off of it.
And I'm sorry, I'm dominated in the conversation here.
But I think for me, you have the most extreme opinion.
I do, which is that like I would have been on favor with kicking him off two years ago
when he had said, hey, look, those those brave parents are a bunch of bunch of
phonies, you guys send him a bunch of letters and here's their addresses.
Go give him shit. Oh, at that point, I also would have been OK,
kicking him off, because that is that's doxing people.
So for they for them to be harassed.
Well, I mean, they're also in the phone book, right?
So like, I don't know if it's doxing and these people, you know, gave their names
on the news, like that's I don't think it's even really doxing other than
it is just saying go be an asshole.
These people I think are harassing.
Is that actually against the law?
Like I think our harassment laws are a little too light.
That sort of thing should be illegal.
Is it not? I guess I don't really care what your information is public.
I think that it's fair use to publicize it further.
Like the truth is, I'm pretty sure if someone did like 20 minutes of
Googling, they could probably find my phone number.
Oh, yeah, short somewhere online.
And if they publicize that somewhere, I probably wouldn't be happy about it.
But I don't think I have legal ground to tell them to take it down,
because at worst they could just be like, click this link
and I'll redirect you to David's number.
Like I don't think there's any way around that.
Yeah, there's a point that I wanted to make where I do actually think
that there's a difference between, for example, the small cake shop
and like the huge platform like Patreon.
I think that the scale does matter after a certain point,
because even if your phone number is in the phone book and people can find it,
if someone with a really significant audience behind them publishes it,
then you get a huge stream of harassers.
You know, it's it's worth making the distinction at some point
by how much damage can be done to either the person who's livelihood
got taken away or by the person who's being harassed.
Quantity has a quality all of its own.
So your position then is that it's it's you draw the line at the law,
whatever the law is, presumably, maybe, I don't know.
Zoomably. Yeah.
But it's I'm drawing the line at the law
because I think the law is fairly reasonable in this regard.
And the difference between the cake shop owner and
