well, I guess you you bit the bullet in the cake shop owner,
which is like I'd sell it to him anyway.
Yeah, I actually disagree with that.
Really? Yeah.
I also wouldn't hire a neo-Nazi like to work on my house, right?
Like if I was I didn't mean to drop, but I just wanted to add another example
that, you know, you did a lot of housework last year.
If you were contracting out some of your work because you needed help or something.
And there was, you know, applicants or whatever.
And, you know, one guy was like, yep, I'm a neo-Nazi asshole.
I got swastika tattoos on my face and this guy is like, I'm a normal dude.
You probably would hire the normal dude if I had the choice between them.
Yeah, even I mean, I think the idea that like you you don't want to support
somebody who's going to use your money or your your whatever to.
No, it's not nearly that.
I would just be much less comfortable having a neo-Nazi in my house or around my person.
I think I didn't make that point very well.
I guess I'm sorry, just go back to yours.
I've lost my train of thought.
Yeah, I don't have a good like place where I would draw the line necessarily.
That would be the difficult thing to do.
But like, for example, you know, Ash's bakery, if you did bake a cake for a neo-Nazi,
that could ruin your reputation among, you know, the small area that you operate in.
Yeah, but if you were in the fifties and you served a sandwich to a black person,
that could ruin your reputation too.
Yeah, but there's one case where like you're doing the right thing.
And one case where you're doing arguably the wrong thing.
I mean, like neo-Nazis are not analogous to 1950s black people.
OK, OK, no, I'm going to actually like step in here.
The fear is this, even if it's completely justified now, what we're doing
is allowing Patreon and the mob, because that's really what it is.
It's the overzealous social justice warriors who may have a good point,
but are using their numbers to pressure a company with ideology to change their
actions and to deplatform people.
And it's really easy to just expand that out.
The fear is that maybe this guy does deserve to be kicked out.
Maybe his morals are genuinely bad enough.
But once we've set that precedent, it's easier and easier to expand that
to just everyone who disagrees with the party line.
Who's the guy who directed The Guardians of the Galaxy?
James Gunn. That's literally what happened to James Gunn.
Well, he apologized two years earlier.
That's the most infuriating part.
He actually publicly apologized for that, but it wasn't enough.
James Gunn thing was different. He was fired.
He wasn't said, you can never direct again.
We're taking away your director's license.
Well, I mean, it's nice that there's more than one employer in that industry.
There isn't more than one Patreon.
OK, so I see the point you're making, I think.
But that's besides the point.
You thought it was unjust that he was fired, right?
Well, to David's point, the whole like they didn't.
First, they went after the Jew hating neo-Nazis.
And I didn't speak up because I'm not a Jew hating neo-Nazi.
Then they came after, you know.
So like I I'm familiar with the with the line of reasoning.
And I I think it's maybe a slippery slope fallacy to say, like,
then they're going to go after everyone else.
Well, it's not a slippery slope, but it's actually happening.
Yeah, like I've seen it.
I think it's kind of what happened to Jordan Peterson.
Like I think he started very sensibly,
but he made one or two positions that made him not socially acceptable.
Transgender lobsters or whatever.
Yeah. And what ended up happening is because he was being
he became so polarizing, the only people who would accept him
and talk to him was the right.
And you can watch him become more right wing over the year
because he is had no one else to communicate with.
By ostracizing him, you just radicalized him even further.
That's my fear with deep platforming people.
You're just going to keep pushing them to more and more extremes.
And do you think Sargon of the Cod or his followers are going to become
more reasonable or more inclined to the liberal viewpoints
that the end goal of the Patreon company?
Are they just going to become more pissed off?
I like that line of reasoning because it's it's sort of
completely separate from everything that Sargon says or does.
It's more just like, what do you think is going to happen?
And that's that's an important consequentialist way to look at it.
And I I think it's hard to.
I'm sure there's a way to make that example, not follow through, right?
It's like, if you take away, you know, whatever.
Like maybe his followers won't follow him to a new platform.
And this will effectively close his channel.
But I don't think all of his followers are going to leave this
with a good taste in their mouth about Patreon or the social justice
warriors and the mindset that push this forward, even if in the future
they are very correct and they should change their mind.
This is going to taint it forever.
Well, I also think one of the reasons these people are
silenced because the silencing, this is effective.
It makes they they're the lives of these people harder.
When they say these things, they're punished for it.
Other people see that you get less of this speech.
But I am Donald Trump as president.
That is my rebuttal. It doesn't silence it.
It doesn't change. It just pushes it underground.
And then when people have the opportunity to vote anonymously,
they will let it out.
I think I was going to make the I was going to say the exact same
sentence for a totally different point, actually, that like I think
since we did that episode on punching Nazis, I was just thinking about that.
I'm not I'm not more in favor of punching Nazis necessarily,
but I'm in favor of taking them off of Patreon or, you know,
not letting them post YouTube videos or something, right?
Well, and I get.
Do you think that Sargon's a Nazi?
No, that's not the point. I'm making I mean to equate that.
I'm making a separate thing.
And I think the reason I was thinking of Donald Trump is that like
we're in a very reactionary stage now as a society
because we have this this admitted child molester.
Well, let me not be super straw manny.
He's he's he used to brag about busting into the locker rooms
of his child beauty or of his beauty pageants because he's because
let's not forget that he was also on the flight logs of the guy
who had his own Lolita Island.
Yeah, there's also allegations of you were unaware.
No. Oh, yeah, I'll send you the information then.
But a few years ago, there was some creepy millionaire
who they arrested for having a private plane that he would take people
to his own Lolita Island.
And if you look, Donald Trump's name is on that list
of people who were on the flight logs, as is Bill Clinton, interestingly enough.
But everything is corrupt and terrible.
We can talk about that later.
Wow. I think I brought I brought up Trump because, like, it's it's a
it changed the pulse of society like a lot.
Like it would be one thing, you know, Clinton had to least go up there
and pay face values like being a good person.
And, you know, he couldn't get up there and say, quote,
I could shoot somebody on the Fifth Avenue and I wouldn't lose a single supporter
and be totally right about that. Right.
If Bill Clinton did shoot somebody in Fifth Avenue, people would stop voting for him.
He at least had to hide it when he raped someone.
But I totally. Yes.
Didn't he? All right.
I think I'm not sure what the litany of Bill Clinton's sex crimes
were compared to Donald Trump's one.
I'm pretty sure Clinton wasn't wasn't trailing 16 odd allegations
before he became president.
You know, the the level of of that kind of thing used to be a deal breaker.
It used to be a deal breaker.
And now, again, doing it 15 times isn't right.
Bragging about it isn't, you know, so that's where people are like reactionary, too.
And I get maybe I don't I'm I'm not a I don't like the label
social justice warrior.
Looks like that makes it sound like I'm I'm a sympathizer.
I'm not. The tactics are disgusting.
The witch hunts essentially.
Yeah. And, you know, and and they can be just as bad.
They do doxing of people that they don't like.
You know, I've seen I couldn't pull up an example because it was a couple years ago.
But, you know, where they they're mad at somebody.
So like they sent them pictures of like their kids leaving school.
But you know, we know where your kids are and all that.
So like. But you're OK with it in this one case.
Well, no, what I'm saying is that I'm more sympathetic to their to their
just to the steel man version of their goals.
And like I'm sympathetic to their their motivations.
Like things are things are kind of fucked right now.
I'm absolutely in favor of their goals.
So I am in favor of social justice, too.
It's their tactics that I have issue with.
Yeah. And so I think the whole, I don't know, I I'm I didn't like the idea.
I guess people could do whatever they want with their money and stuff.
But like if, you know, somebody owns, does somebody own patron?
Is it publicly traded? I don't think it really matters.
Like the point is, is like if somebody using using a service that I made
or that I that I helped that I co-owned or something, you know,
if we ran a blog on our website or something and guest contributors could post things
and it turned out that one contributor would say
fairly inflammatory things on our blog.
And then, you know, probably the most inflammatory person on our blog,
just to make the example easy, but not, you know, full out, you know,
batshit crazy, but then they did batshit crazy stuff on their own time.
And they frequently linked to their, you know, they were super prestigious.
And they like, Oh, look, I post on the Bayesian Conspiracy website all the time.
Look at how cool I am.
But they would go off and say terrible things, you know,
the Sandy Hook parents are our actors and, you know, all this and that.
I think it'd be fine to say, you know what? Sorry,
we don't want you posting on our blog anymore. You kind of suck.
Yeah. So like your don't you think it's fair to give them a warning first
and be like, Hey, we would appreciate it if you're not going to link to us.
Like we'll be fine if you posting, but please don't link to us.
If you're going to say these things like the idea is not that there should not
be a line somewhere. I agree with you that there definitely should be a line.
And even Patreon has the right to draw a line and say, we don't want to support this.
The issue is the method in which they executed, they gave no warning.
They did not communicate and they essentially succumbed to the mob.
And the worst thing is if they back down and switch,
now they're sending an even worse message that's going to encourage even more
crazy people like Sargon of Akkad. Yeah, like they've put themselves
in the worst position by doing this. It was a dumb execution.
And I I think that the manner in which he was kicked off is is related,
but a separate issue from just the idea of like, should he be allowed to use Patreon?
Can I make a counterpoint Craigslist?
