The point that's fair, but the point is, isn't that's, but we're having
an argument that I think he's trying to avoid and that, like, we're not really
having where we're raising points about why cars are a good idea.
But that's not that's not the point, right?
No, it isn't technically what he's saying isn't false.
This is about our freedom to drive.
We want the freedom to choose that convenience over the risk of death.
It's just put in a much more sacred value sort of way, rather than a, we did
the math and we prefer the convenience sort of way.
Yeah, there's kind of signaling that comes into play about what
arguments you are and aren't allowed to use, which is kind of a whole other
point, but it's still kind of interesting.
Maybe that should be a lesson we take out of this, which is we should try to
not allow, at least in honest discussions, our fear of signaling from being
honest about the good and bad qualities or the different qualities of a
possible regulation.
I agree completely.
That also hinges on having a person on the opposite side that you trust.
Because if you think you're up against someone who doesn't care and will
treat politics as a winner, take all, do whatever you need to win thing, then
you're not going to just say, we did the calculations and we think the
convenience is worth the deaths.
You have to catch it in these frames.
Otherwise you'll be crucified.
Isn't there a Slate Star Codex post about the difference between people who
believe that we are just disagreeing about something?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mistake theory versus like your theory, conflict like you are malicious.
Yeah, I wanted to do an episode on that too.
I feel like that's very much related because one of the comments to that
pointed out that how you deal with a person in a disagreement and whether
you default to assuming mistake or conflict has a lot to do with, do you
think they are acting in good faith?
Because if you think someone is acting in good faith, you are more willing
to just believe it's a mistake.
But if you think they're being malicious, then you're not going to extend
that and you're going to end up falling into this scales of justice, right
or wrong mentality.
So maybe the answer is to be good rationalists.
We should be nicer to each other.
I also think this is a great reason to raise the sanity waterline because
then if there's more people that you can trust to have these conversations
with that aren't going to use them to crucify you in the public, or even
if, you know, the public won't accept your crucifixion, they'll be like,
look, we're all rational enough to consider these numbers.
That would be a better world.
Yeah, like the best world would be a world where someone can be wrong and
they won't be ostracized for it as long as it's clear that they were trying
their best.
Yeah, the Google guy.
Yeah, that's really the one I think of.
Even if he's 100% wrong, I don't think what happened to him was fair.
And hopefully we can become a society that is more capable of reading
the notebook and less inclined to look at the scales.
Well, like just the perverse way, the weird way that things get when you're
considering arguments and by extension facts to take sides, you get, you know,
again, climate change denial, you know, Oh, that can't be true because it
would be bad for business.
Right.
And because it's bad for business, well, then I deny the facts.
And so like, that's just a really like taking out its face.
If you do that with like another thing, um, but like, say nutrition, like, well,
I like Snickers.
If you, if you say they're bad for me, I'm going to just disagree with your
science because I think Snickers tastes good.
And therefore I'm not going to take it before that they're out for me.
That sounds insane to make that argument.
Right.
It sounded insane already when you did it for climate science, but, but
that's more mainstream disagreements.
I was trying to pick something even more in America.
Yeah.
Uh, so the, not, not just, I wasn't giving sympathy to the climate change
denier deniers.
I was just saying that, you know, you can use this anywhere.
And it sounds insane, um, to, to the fact that, you know, what, what climate
changed, I guess, not climate change deniers, what, you know, unregulated
business proponents should be saying is like, sure, it's bad for the environment,
but it's good for business.
And, you know, that, that sounds, that sounds like too, like evil to say.
So they should say, we'll use our profits in 50 years to save the environment or
something.
Also, let's not forget that you could always say like, yeah, we are climate
change deniers, but they might have like a few good points.
Like I heard the argument recently that whenever a lot of volcanoes explode,
you see a general drop in the earth's temperature.
Cause there's ash in the sky.
There's been like three volcanoes in 2018 and there is, it looks like we
might have another one in Hawaii in 2019.
And there's a very good chance it's going to lower global temperatures for
the next decade.
This does not mean that global warming is not happening.
And it does not mean that climate change isn't real.
But because anyone who brings up the point that things might actually get
colder for a little while is automatically thought of to be against
climate change and a denier, they're shoved into that camp.
Like we aren't listening to those people because it sounds like it's
signal something bad when that's not their goal.
They're just trying to put out a piece of data.
Is that actually happening?
I didn't know that happened either.
That's a really good example of a case where somebody for our side, though,
could be a, well, like I'm assuming we're none of us are climate change
denialists, but, uh, you know, that, that's a person who, well, what was I
trying to say there?
Yeah, that like, you know, we're pro the side of climate change is real, but
that's the side of climate change is real.
Actually negatively painting someone who could have been an ally because
you're trying to make it a blue or a green issue.
Who was just trying to point out a fact that, Hey, it might actually
get colder for a while.
And then if like this would be a person who this winter, if it was
unusually cold, they would point out and then people would be like,
don't you get it?
Temperature and weather isn't the same thing as climate.
You hate the environment.
When really that guy was just trying to be like, Hey, maybe we should also
deal with the ash in the sky.
That's interesting.
I would hope that our side, the scientists aren't that, the league.
Yeah, but if they are, then that sucks.
But you're right.
If they, if they are, then they're failing and they should just be, yeah,
look in 50 years, temperatures are going to be crazy.
But right now they're weird because of whatever atmospheric ash.
Then I would like to think that fact would be absorbed by scientists and
they would just keep.
It's not just said, just the like pro climate is like a blue and green issue.
Yeah, which is insane.
So you will get the pro people that aren't going to listen to that guy
because he sounds like he's like giving a greenish position.
Yeah, that's very important.
And then you're going to have the green people who are going to misinterpret
him and be like, yeah, the world's only getting cooler.
These climate change deniers are wrong.
And then 10 years later, when the temperature is like four degrees higher
and New York is underwater, they're like, oh, maybe we shouldn't have listened to that guy.
It is just weird that, I mean, that's the whole point.
All these posts, but I just, the meta step back point, like the fact that
you're desired to have a certain policy proposal or decision can impact on like
the fact that you're, I know that like this is what we're talking about.
But I'm just seeing this like kind of like an original seeing right now.
And it's blowing my fucking mind.
Um, I might have said this before.
I'm having deja vu right now.
So, uh, yeah.
Yeah.
I think it's important to notice to that or to, you know, be aware of the idea
that even though we like consider ourselves rationalists, our brain still
work like this too.
It's like really easy to think of, oh, like people who are aren't
rationalists have all these biases, but we do too.
And we have to be aware of them.
Well, I think you can train yourself to be less affected by it.
Like, I think there's actually studies that show that the more you learn
about cognitive biases, like to an extent, the more affected you are by them
because you think that you understand.
I, okay.
So that's the thing.
I believe that rationality has nothing to do with understanding
cognitive biases.
I think it's all about building instinctual patterns of thought.
Like, like a martial arts technique.
One of the things you should do is anytime you hear someone say something
absolutely outrageous, you should immediately try to steal man, their
argument, like make that a habit, especially for the people you dislike.
And then eventually you'll be less likely to fall into blue, green thinking
because you'll immediately see the strongest part of both arguments.
I think what Jess was talking about was called sophistication bias where
when you're aware of cognitive biases, you can point them out and your
opponents and then say, I don't fall, I don't fall prey to these
cause I'm, I already know the bias.
Yeah.
No, but I agree with what David was saying.
Like that was, I think actually one of the strengths that the
rationalist community has over like the atheist movement, because I did
see a lot of that, like, uh, making fun of religious people for their
cognitive biases, acting as though they didn't have any themselves.
Yeah.
And it's, it's, uh, training the kind of subcognitive techniques is sort of
the whole point.
Yeah.
And whatever, whatever tools work for you, some will work better than others.
I think the science of rationality is still working that out.
But one thing I try to do is if I, if I'm reading something, this is
something I did about going, I was reading a lot more philosophy in college
was like, if I came across something that I was agreeing with a lot, I found
my, if I noticed that's nodding my head, I would stop and I'm like, all right,
hold on, go back a couple of pages and then try and rip apart everything you
just read, tear it to shreds.
Cause if, if you're agreeing enough to like be physically, physically
agreeing with it, Steven, you're, you need to check yourself before you're
just, uh, running with it too hard.
So yeah, this sounds a little too good.
There's something tribal going on here.
I always go with the opposite feeling, which is like, if I ever noticed
myself getting really angry at hearing someone.
And I know that other people find him popular, especially when I know that
they're, they're reasonable people that I trust on other things.
I always go, okay, I'm obviously missing something.
