It would be conclusive one way or the other.
Like we could probably get a clear answer for what it's worth.
You guys are both saying I'm against Eleizer's point or I'm for Eleizer's
point or on his side, rather.
I don't think he was making it.
I don't think he's picking.
He was trying to do it all falling.
I just think this was a bad example and I wanted to point out that I've been.
I think he pointed out, I think I just wanted to say that what he's saying
may be factually true.
Whether or not, if he's trying to illustrate a larger point with that,
I think it's different, but you know, if whatever, I didn't click the link
that this is a hyperlink in the post that the FDA prevents 5,000 casualties
per year, but causes at least 20,000 to 120,000 casualties by delaying
approval of beneficial medications.
So that's FDAreview.org.
Presumably, maybe they've done their homework.
I'm not sure.
But you know, whether or not, I think even if you take that as true, the point
is, is that good, is that okay?
Is that an acceptable loss?
Is that, are we willing to do that for the risk of saving people from bad medicine?
To be more on topic, the idea that we should try to decide policy and
regulation not based on our preconceived sides or actually, I think this article
might be more relevant now than when it was written, because now we definitely
have the culture war leaking into our decisions about regulation and the
tribalism that comes with that.
So there is a real value in being able to be objective and look at all the
data in the notebook of rationality.
Yeah, I think it's funny that Eleazar fell into his own trap.
I thought it was really funny because he starts out kind of going back on the
earlier Birch's Law essay, saying that he opened it with saying that if people
are allowed to behave in stupid ways, they will.
This will inevitably lead to people hurting themselves.
And then people took that to mean that he was pro-regulation, but he was just
trying to say that I'm just stating a fact about the situation and I could have
brought up the best points for the other side, but that would be missing the
point.
I shouldn't have to.
And then he goes ahead and gives the whole other side of the argument, even
though he said he shouldn't have to.
I think that was on purpose.
Yeah, it was just funny.
It was.
And I think what he was to be, in my reading anyway, was that it was like,
this isn't an argument with sides, but if you're assuming I'm taking one
fine, here's the other side's position.
But I think the whole meta point is that there aren't sides, or rather, there
shouldn't be sides here.
There's just the facts.
And then you take in all the facts, you try to get them as unbiased as possible
and then process them as unbiasedly as possible.
And then you weigh them with whatever you value and then you decide what your
policy proposal is.
You know, the example of cars is really easy, right?
I'm actually not sure what the best arguments are for not putting in a
lower speed governor on cars.
Like it turns out, if you take at least a lot of cars built like after 2000 and
on an open highway and go like 115 miles an hour, it stops accelerating and then
just coasts you back down to 80 before you can use the accelerator again.
Yeah, cars have governors on them that don't let you just go 150 miles an hour
if your car is physically capable of it.
So why doesn't that kick in at 90?
Because there are no speed limits that let you go above 90 in the country.
Well, I'm not sure what the argument is, but the real reason is that like it's
fun to go that fast if it's safe to do so.
Well, and sometimes it's convenient.
Totally.
Um, the way that we found out about this when you're driving through fucking
Kansas, yeah, that we were going through the middle of nowhere, Nebraska, uh, I
don't know, 10 years ago with a friend who in his car was 2003 or four Pontiac.
It wasn't something fancy.
It was just what was around.
And, uh, when we got it, I can't remember, it was 110 or 115, but we would go
miles.
So several minutes not seeing anybody.
So we were just like saying, Oh, our fast car can go and, you know, by that
speed car shaking a lot.
You know, there's a lot of uncertainty of the structural integrity of the car.
And like, you know, am I going to just, you know, hit a light bump and just go
careening off the road or something?
And then the car like, and you're just, it just idled until, or rather it just,
the accelerator stopped working until like I said, hit 80 or 85.
Is that after you would already hit on 115 or whatever?
Okay.
It was whatever top speed you hit, then it slowed it down.
I'm sure there's something that we can look up on whatever it is.
And how long was it before you could go back up?
Until the car hit whatever 80 miles an hour.
Oh, and then you could then you could accelerate again.
Yeah.
And how old was the car?
It was like a mid 2000s.
Okay.
Yeah.
I want to say early 2000s, 2001 or three or something.
But anyway, I brought that up as just a, a thing that the, the argument that like,
look, cars kill people.
It's not an argument.
That's just a fact, right?
So, you know, 30,000 Americans die every year in car accidents.
That's, that's a bad thing.
Nobody wants that.
Is that an acceptable cost for having cars?
That's the question that people try to answer, right?
Or is that an acceptable cost for having cars the way they are?
And the answer we've collectively given is yes.
Yeah.
So, but like the facts aren't biased themselves.
Like again, just like the fact that kids die every year playing with their parents
guns or in school shootings.
That's not an argument.
That's weird.
This sounds weird to say.
Like let's use that as an example.
Well, kids die every year from opening up their parents like pain medicine that
their parents have very good reasons to have and taking too many.
Does that mean that we need to like make it even more difficult to open the pill
bottles?
Should we just get rid of all pain medications?
Because should we get rid of swimming pools entirely?
Because children can die in them.
It's weird to say that like, you know, the number of dead kids every year is,
isn't an argument against guns, but it's, well, no, it is an argument against guns,
but it's just one thing to consider.
It's also just a fact about like what it means.
Oh, I see what you're saying.
Yeah.
I was trying to make it like just, just, here's, here's
all the facts that we can put together now, way how much you care about them.
But yeah, the swimming pool thing is something that people bring up all bring
up a lot and the medication thing is important too.
And sidenote on medication.
God, I, whenever I bring home, you know, like even especially if it's over the
counter stuff, like, etc.
Or whatever, when I buy it, I'll bring it home and then open it immediately.
Cause fuck opening that stuff when you have a headache and you need it.
And you're just like, oh my God.
And then then you've got to sit there and like punch the little wrap thing that
doesn't tear off properly and it makes that loud popping noise and you already
have a big headache.
So that's super annoying, right?
And if it was even more, even if it was even harder to open, I'd be even more
annoyed about it.
So I feel like I got a glimpse into your life just there.
Like a brief, brief image of like angry headache, Steven.
Yeah.
I like punching a bottle.
I'm using like the knuckle to bust through the, I wish, I wish the listeners
could see the technique he's using.
It's truly wonderful.
Cool.
Do you like not, the tonial clipper you got in your bathroom?
I do.
And I, and it's easy to get open when I'm not needing medication.
It's just like when you get in there and it's just like, Oh God, I need this
right now.
And you're like, I can't fucking open this.
That's my minor gripe.
And I don't care how many dead kids it costs me.
I want to be easier to open.
I'd like to point out that when we were just talking just now about like, you
can't just say, I'd like to shoot my guns or you can't just say, yes, we're
willing to accept these deaths for cars.
He points it out here that we all know what happens when you try to trade off
a sacred value against a non-sacred value.
It's why when someone says, but if you don't ban cars, people will die in
car crashes, we don't say, yes, people will die horrible flaming deaths and
they don't deserve it, but it's worth it.
So I don't have to walk to work in the morning, which is technically what
we've all decided as a society, right?
It's worth the convenience, despite innocent people dying in car fires.
Instead, you say, how dare you take away our freedom to drive?
We'll decide for ourselves.
We're just as good at making decisions as you are.
That sounds a lot more like the gun debate.
And him using cars here over the guns was a really great idea.
Yeah.
But I also feel like that's not really the argument.
The real argument is that cars save us opportunity time.
Like for every person a car kills, think about people whose lives were saved
by ambulances and Ubers taking them to hospitals at a speed that they could
not have walked.
I think you're you're just making a argument for the sake of winning the
argument at this point, because you could easily make a law that only
ambulances or people, you know, only vehicles taking people to hospitals or
other emergency situations are allowed to drive.
I don't think we could sustain our economy, though.
Or we certainly couldn't.
You know, the number of population that we have without cars.
Right.
It's worth it.
Choosing, no, no, we're choosing those deaths for the economy that we have.
For the humans that are sustained by that economy, because if we didn't have
cars, it's not like those people would disappear.
They would die hungry and the economy would fall apart.
Well, we could have much denser cities.
I think if we put the if we if we put all the ingenuity and money behind it,
that we could to refactor the like the job market, you know, what you're
like, this sounds like a solvable problem.
