So what am I missing here?
What, what would be the best interpretation point received?
David, I'll check out David Peterson's stuff.
I was thinking of Jordan Peterson too, because I actually had this like
really knee-jerk reaction to just like a lot of his mannerisms, the way
he had been presented.
I was like, I should probably go read his book actually, because.
Yeah, his book is delightful even.
Even if I don't like what he's been doing with that, I found the book
really hard to get through.
But I think that I agree with a lot of his points in the book.
I've seen enough of his videos that I do not feel compelled to read his book.
The book is different from the videos though.
But he's gone off the deep end.
He's doing a talk, I think with, uh, Dave Rubin and Sebastian Gorka.
And if anyone doesn't know, Sebastian Gorka is the closest thing
to a living supervillain I'm aware of.
He was a right-wing nationalist from Eastern Europe who helped
Trump get elected and has may or may not have supported Hungarian war crimes.
And he has a goatee and literally talks like this.
Yes.
Don't you understand, my good fellow?
It's not necessarily a reason to think he's evil though.
A lot of people have accents.
Supporting neo-Nazis in Eastern Europe is a very good reason for me to think you're evil.
I was talking about the accent.
And the goatee.
And the goatee.
I think that was worse.
Listen, as someone with a goatee who sometimes speaks with an accent,
I definitely don't trust him.
And his deep scar on his face and his cat that he's petting while he's on stage.
Right.
Yeah.
I just look up YouTube videos of Gorka and I'm telling you,
if you don't think he's a supervillain, message me.
I want to end with, okay, first of all,
I've noticed that a lot of the times when we end talking about these,
I pull out his quotes at the very end because they're very punchy and good.
Just realized this is another thing that makes him such a great essay writer.
He always ends the essay with something that's like,
ah, damn.
Or else like, oh, fuck yeah.
Or just something that's so poignant and emotionally engaging
that you want to read the next essay.
And it sticks in your mind.
So I'm like, yeah, this guy's good at writing.
Anyways, he ends with, imagine for a moment
that much of what the Greens said about the downside of blue policy was true.
That left to the mercy of the free market,
many people would be crushed by powers far beyond their understanding,
nor would they deserve it.
And imagine that most of what the blues said
about the ground side of green policy was also true.
That regulators were fallible humans with poor incentives,
whacking on delicately balanced forces with a sledgehammer.
Close your eyes and imagine it, extrapolate the results.
If that were true, then, then you'd have a big problem and no easy way to fix it.
That's what you'd have.
Does this universe look familiar?
Love it.
Yeah.
Wait, that looks, that reminds me of home.
I don't know what you guys are talking about.
All problems are easy and where I live.
Mostly it's delusional, but it's nice.
So did we have anything before we finished and move on?
No, I don't think so.
I think, I do get, I think it's fun.
And that's, that's one thing that I like.
We've got a meet up tonight that, you know,
I'm looking forward to going to because there's the norm in the community where,
you know, at least we're getting there with, you know,
some of the people aren't, you know, super into this stuff.
But, you know, where you could,
where somebody could be taking a strong emotionally charged stance
and they could just say, hey, look, Steven,
you realize that like you're using that fact as an argument, right?
I'm like, oh, shit, you're right.
Let me, let me, we can agree on the fact or disagree on the fact
and then research it and see who's right or wrong.
And then I'll just tell you what my values are
and we'll see what we can do about this.
But I think it's the, the ability to be able to point to somebody and say,
hold on, the fact isn't choosing your side.
And for them to, you know, not to say fuck you or I'll make it,
choose my side and to say, oh, wow, you're right.
Yep. Let me, let me reassess what's going on.
I find that to be indispensably valuable.
Yeah.
That's where I'm at.
It's a good community to have.
Totally.
For next time, we will be reading the less wrong posts,
super stimuli and the collapse of Western civilization
and useless medical disclaimers.
There you will be links to both of these on our website,
as usual, TheBaseinConspiracy.com.
Yep.
All right.
I was going to say we should do listener feedback.
We just had a few quick ones, but at this point,
it's just about time for us to leave to our meetup.
I don't think we really have time.
Yeah. I don't have much to, much else to run on.
Yeah. There's some feedback, but I do want to save those
for time when we have actual time to address them.
Yeah.
Let's see. Anything else to cover?
I think just thank our patron.
Yeah. Oh, wait, video game section.
I don't have anything in here, but as far as a light note,
I've been playing Red Dead Redemption 2,
which I'm not in love with.
It's a popular game.
It's all.
I've heard so many good things about it.
It's, I played the first one just like a few months ago
to give it a shot because I didn't really,
I hadn't played any of them.
And it plays like a rockstar game.
It plays like GTA where it's kind of clunky
and all the buttons do a lot of things and.
If you crash your horse, does it explode?
No, but you can run it like accidentally into a pole and kill it.
So.
Oh, no.
Oh, I think you can do that in real life.
It'd be a better horse rider.
You really bond with it too.
Like, because you care about it and you get to name it
and it's, you're like the time that you spend with it,
like your affinity with it goes up.
This is like if your Tamagotchi died every time you dropped it.
It's super weird how the psychology of that thing works
because even in Horizon Zero Dawn,
I was like getting kind of emotionally attached
to some of the robots that I was riding around
and I started naming them unofficially.
Oh, no.
It's anyway, I guess this isn't interesting,
but I feel like it's clunky.
The story feels kind of like I'm not invested in it,
even though I'm playing through the story and it's,
but that's that it's beautiful and there's a lot to do.
You can run around.
I like the immersive aspects to it.
Like you need to eat, drink and sleep
and keep your health up and stuff.
You can get overweight.
So can your horse need to moderate that?
Wow.
And you don't find that annoying?
No, I like that.
I like all that stuff.
But what I don't like is that the entire game feels like work,
even at the quests.
I was about to say,
I don't like controlling my own diet in real life.
I know.
Like why would I want to do double the work
and help it for a digital creature?
Just take some pixels off.
I think what I like is like in Horizon Zero Dawn,
like for example, the game can last,
I don't know, however many in-game weeks,
but you never need to sleep.
And it's like, you know,
and I don't want it to be like where you're getting tired
and fatigued to the point where it's ruining the game,
but I like it a little bit, right?
Yeah, it didn't break my immersion.
There's been games where it did kind of,
even Horizon Zero Dawn,
the thing that broke my immersion was whenever you jumped
into icy cold water wearing basically like a leather bikini
and then you got out and you're just running around
fighting more robots.
I was like, no, you'd just be dead of hypothermia.
Yeah.
You create a lot of body heat fighting those robots.
I guess.
You should spend more time at Russian bathhouses.
We'll talk about it later.
Okay.
You can spend like your entire months long
play through of Skyrim, never sleeping or eating.
And yet there's options to sleep and eat in the game,
but it's like just for fun.
No, sometimes you need to eat a lot of cheese to heal.
To heal, sure, but you know,
if you have healing spells and potions, you're fine.
I don't know.
So when I played through Skyrim a couple years ago,
I did it with all the mods that had all the immersion stuff.
I realized this was way over the head
and we could probably cut all this out.
This is just video game talk.
I thought it'd be fun to end on a light note
that didn't matter to anything.
