Oh, okay.
But, uh, so that joke, that joke was funny.
I don't think it stood out that much, you know, even though he probably talked
about dead kids in that joke.
Um, in this, he's talking about people who he's talking tangentially to people
who actually exist.
Yeah.
Specific inflammatory cultural phenomenon.
And you know, it, at least it wasn't, uh, it wasn't inflammatory.
But I guess what I was, I was thinking what David had said that like three years
ago, this would have been a Louis CK joke that we could all laugh at or say,
ah, man, you're being kind of an asshole and just roll our eyes.
Like, well, I guess that's Louis.
But now it's like, dude, come on, you got it.
You got to take it easy.
Um, anyway, that was, that was my Louis CK bid.
We have a section on the notes called, uh, Stevens.
What was it?
Stevens pot, stir Stevens pot or something?
Yes.
Stevens, uh, stir the pot.
I don't think that's how it was for, I kind of, stir Stevens pot.
I like it better this way.
It makes me feel like I'm entering an escape hatch with you.
Enter the Steven pot quickly.
How else will we get to Mars?
Let's see.
Side topics slash, uh, to indulge Steven slash stir the pot is what it was.
Oh, um, and, uh, actually now that I scrolled to that in our notes, I'm
going to just plug really quickly.
I heard about, and then listened to episode 45 of very bad wizards on gender
differences, whereby the philosopher is in my words, whereby the philosopher, I
forget which one is the philosopher, which one's the psychologist.
The philosopher was very obviously wrong and completely missing the point the
entire fucking time.
And the psychologist was, was being as patient with him for as long as possible.
Before he's like, again, I forget which one's the philosopher, but he was like,
no, man, point to me a study where like, you know, um, you know, girls who are
forced to play certain toys, adopt certain ideas and then, you know, are pushed
out of whatever job market or something.
It's like, are you fucking kidding me?
Listen, you're being an asshole, dude.
This, this is the shit, like, you know, that we, that we've been doing in
psychology for 50 years is like, yeah, but my daughter, you know, says whatever.
He's like, yeah, but me, we've been doing studies on, on populations for
50 years, man.
So it was, it was a lot of fun to listen to.
And I think if I had to guess that whatever one of the philosophers
positions have evolved a lot since then, um, but I do encourage anybody who's
down for some, it's not even like outrage inducing because there's somebody
level headed there.
I don't listen to your suggestions anymore ever since I listened to the Massimo
Puglussi, uh, Eleazar Yudkowski debate, because that was infuriating.
Really?
Dude, I like Massimo and I'm a stoic myself.
And I just wanted to like strangle him the whole time.
I was like, and I was like, this is not that difficult.
Like you're way smarter than me.
You have a PhD.
Why are you not getting this?
But, but it's at least different there than watching Massimo give an hour long
lecture whereby he's wrong the entire time and uninterrupted, right?
That's true.
At least with that, with the Massimo versus, uh, Eleazar debate and with
the, uh, Tamler versus, uh, David, is that their first names?
Yeah.
Uh, at least they're there arguing and there's somebody there saying,
all the shit to the wrong one that you want to say anyway.
So at least it's validating that way.
Yeah.
That kind of just reminds me of what we were talking about, like why I don't like
to listen to debates anymore, because I still don't want to hear the 50% of the
conversation where someone is just giving the same tired argument.
Luckily, this isn't that bad.
And, you know, take, you know, listen, like I said, the, the, the subject was
basically, uh, they, they start with, um, a paper that they both kind of
disagree with and then they get onto the absurd with it that argued that, uh, you
should have like good toy diets for your children that let them play with, like,
that's the hard part that they disagreed on.
Like, should they be forced to play with, you know, guy toys, if they're a girl
or girl toys, if they're a guy, like the same way that you force to get
to eat vegetables, type of balance.
You'd like forcing a child to play with certain toys.
I mean, I think those people don't understand what the word play means,
because literally one of the definitions of play on any person with
psychology, we tell you, is if someone's trying to force you to play, you cannot play.
Right.
It is not play.
Then you're just making your children pick up dolls and put them back down in
front of you to make you feel good.
Yeah.
I was given a lot of Barbie dolls and, uh, of course, I like shaved their heads
and painted them and made them into centaurs and stuff.
I mean, like, you know, cause they're going to do what they're going to do.
They're going to be who they're going to be.
So you can get on board with the two of them at that point.
And then they get on to like, basically whether or not, like the incentives
that kids have to have certain toys and then how that affects them growing up.
It was a fun episode.
That was my indulging start the pot suggestion.
So that was episode 45 with very bad wizards.
And I forget the name of the episode, but number 45.
Excellent.
Was this a recent episode?
No, it was like two years ago.
Okay.
So yeah.
So you were saying someone might have changed their opinions by now.
Well, it's kind of interesting.
He definitely has because one of the more recent ones he was arguing.
It's whichever one his mom is, uh, Christina, uh, half summers or whatever.
What's her name?
Or not Christina.
Shit.
The one that he was arguing with in that episode a few episodes ago.
Uh, he's arguing with his step mom.
Yeah, what's her name?
I don't remember her name, but that's Tamler.
She, she's the Intellectual Dark Web academic.
Oh, okay.
And, uh, or she's an academic in the Intellectual Dark Web.
She's, she's one of the pictures in that, that essay that we linked to that had
the pictures of people taken under street lights and stuff.
Okay.
She, she's on that.
Um, so yeah, he was arguing with her basically making a lot of the reverse
arguments that he made in this episode.
So a couple of years later, he's evolved quite a bit.
So, um, at least there's that.
Yeah.
I think it would be interesting to listen to a debate where someone who was
giving the same tired arguments actually changed their mind, like part way through
or kind of,
Well, you never change your mind in the middle of a debate because, you know,
it's happened to me once or twice.
It's happened to me once or twice, but I think that might be a side effect of
rationalist training and trying to accept a good argument as quickly as possible.
Cause I've never seen anyone else do it.
It could happen in a personal debate, but not like anything public.
Yeah.
You're absolutely right.
Is this public?
Cause I changed my mind a little bit on the Patreon stuff with you guys.
So I would consider this basically public.
I, I don't think so because the reason it is going to be put out for the public.
But the reason you don't back down in public debates is because of the pressure
you, of the audience watching you.
I think that's a real psychological factor.
I think it's also because in those sorts of debates, there's two sides that are
going at it and we were just kind of like discussing something.
And like, it's not like any of the four of us came in with exactly the same views
and wanting to gang up on anyone else.
So that's different.
Well, none of that characterizes the very bad wizards episode either.
So that's good.
Um, yeah.
So do you guys want to talk about the two articles we had from less wrong today?
Yes, we do.
Let's do it.
All right.
Onto the strong post.
The first one was the scales of justice, the notebook of rationality and apropos
to what we were just talking about.
Uh, in this, Eliezer points out that everyone in an audience at a debate keeps
a mental running count of how many points each speaker scores against the others.
At the end of the debate, the speaker who has scored the most points is obviously
the winner.
So everything he says must be true and everything the loser says must be wrong,
which is probably a little bit of an overreaction or overstatement.
But I think it's, he goes on to defend that in the specific context that he's
talking about.
Yeah.
Um, he uses the example of like a nuclear reactor.
Uh, so he says, all right, well, if you go, in fact, this is a real study
that they did, which may or may not have replicated who knows, but something
like this is probably definitely true where, um, what's the name of the effect
where, uh, it's not the horns effect.
Yeah.
I was going to say Halo and horns, but I think that is what we're going to do
with people.
That's the other effect I know.
Um, well, the idea that if you go to somebody and say, Hey, we've got a new,
um, nuclear reactor prototype that's more likely to melt down.
It's like a point against the reactor.
But if you say, Hey, it produces less waste, that's a point for it.
And yet if you tell somebody, Hey, we've got one that, uh, um, produces less waste,
they'll also guess that it's also less likely to melt down because those two
facts are logically distinct.
Yeah.
And so they assume that if something's good about it, well, then it has to
have all good traits.
There's something's bad about it.
But until you, Hey man, this thing melts down more often.
Oh, well, then it probably produces more waste too.
Huh.
It's, so the point is that he's saying that people view things that way naturally.
Yeah, that, that.
If he thinks he says people would view these as two facts opposing each other,
or in fact, they're not opposing each other at all.
They're just two different facts.
