Yeah, alright, let's do this.
Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber and we have two special guests today.
I'm David Youssef.
I'm Jai Sticky.
Yay!
David is in town.
He was here, what, a year ago, about?
Almost exactly, yeah.
Okay.
Hasn't been that long.
It was when I was doing the renovations, right?
Yeah.
So I guess nine months ago.
It was a while.
Yeah.
Thanks for having a couple episodes.
Yeah, but anyways, he was on an episode and he's here visiting us again, so we decided
to have him on for this.
Yeah, alright.
I'm feeling kind of organized, but we can just run right into this.
Are we ready?
Yeah, well last episode you, at the very end, asked me this question and I was like, I don't
know who this is, whatever, I don't want to talk about it, and then it's come up again,
so now we're going to talk about it.
What was the question you asked me at the last episode?
We had somebody write in and ask if we had any thoughts about Carl Benjamin slash Sargon
Avacad being kicked off of Patreon, and I thought it'd be kind of a quick 10 minute
thing to run past, and there's a bit more I guess to talk about there, so.
10 minutes, haha.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, I don't have much more than 10 minutes of thought, but I'm sure you guys will get
me, get my thoughts going, exactly.
Even if we each only have 10 minutes, that's 40 minutes.
So to be clear, does anyone have a lot of background with Sargon Avacad?
No, never heard of him before you asked that question.
I've watched a few of his videos, and the truth is, he's not neoconservative, and he's
not exactly alt-right, but he's definitely leaning in that sphere, and a lot of his views
seem very politically incorrect and just downright wrong.
What about you, any background on this guy?
I knew of him as like an anti-SJW, that was it.
I had literally never seen anything that he put up, or I'd heard the name Sargon Avacad,
but I thought it was some ancient Egyptian prince or something, turns out he ripped
off his name from some ancient figure like that.
So I knew that this was somebody who was around saying things, but I didn't know who it was.
So what happened with Sargon Avacad?
Yeah, so, well, I guess what happened was he was kicked off of Patreon, what, like three
weeks ago, early December?
And like right after that happened, right after you asked me, I suddenly started hearing
about it, because it became a thing with Sam Harris and a bunch of other people.
It became a big thing, and part of what made this more fun to talk about is, I want to
say a couple of days later, Sam Harris announced that he was leaving Patreon, and I think he's
their largest content creator as far as the money he brings through the website.
I really, I didn't know that.
I haven't verified that, but somebody, I saw a post on it on the subreddit ModeratePolitics,
and they said that he was, I'm not sure, but-
Even if he's not at the top, he's right up there.
Yeah, he-
I'd like to make an update.
I just found out today that Jordan Peterson and Dave Rubin also said they were going to
leave as of today.
So it's going bigger, more people are leaving, and they're both pretty hefty hitters.
Well, we've lost a few patrons, I know, who just, you know, are going with this and
then like, fuck Patreon.
I remember the first time this happened about a year and a half ago.
That wasn't about somebody being kicked off, that was them changing their payment policy.
Right, yeah.
And there were several people who left because of that too, but then they changed the payment
policy back, and we got most of them back.
That reminds me, we lost somebody who was at the $10 level, and we need to give them
some.
Well, I mean, it's not, you know, I fully support your decision to leave if this is where you're
at.
I don't think we're leaving.
Maybe we'll decide where we're at after the show.
I don't plan on it.
Maybe you just turn your mind.
What's the top alternative to Patreon right now?
There is none.
Yeah.
The top alternative is setting up your own PayPal thing.
That's what they're doing.
So Jordan Peterson in the video he put out today with Dave Rubin, I watched it this morning,
explained that they were going to try to release something by January 15th, but they've decided
to push it back.
Whoa, that is way fast.
Yeah, they've decided to push it back by another month or so, so they can really like
sharpen it up.
But they apparently got emails and results from people who work at Google and Amazon
that want to help them set up a cryptocurrency based alternative.
Why cryptocurrency, man?
Because then no one can trace it and they can't stop it.
Intellectual dark web.
Yeah, it's also a major barrier to entry.
Yeah, seriously, who cares if people can trace the money that you've donated?
Unless they're terrorists.
Well, in that case, you probably don't want to be funding.
Well, that's my point though.
Like, unless you're buying drugs or supporting crime, you don't need to hide who you're
giving your money to.
Well, no, that's the thing.
The reason that they got rid of Sargon of Akkad is because the credit card companies
asked them to, which is terrifying.
That's not the official story.
No, it isn't.
But the official story is full of holes as well.
Well, the official story, so we'll get into that and then I want to hear this possibly
conspiracy theory too or not.
I know that there was another platform that they were moving to, and I forget what it's
called that was based in Russia, that then PayPal kicked back and said, no, we're not
letting you guys use that one because PayPal is the money transaction person behind Patreons.
So that is sort of monopolizing them out of the ability to take money off the internet,
which is interesting.
But I don't know.
So my understanding, sorry, we're going to say something.
You know, I'm just kind of wondering why no one else was setting up their own platform
with Patreon being such assholes and PayPal like fucking people over.
But I guess they are now.
So they need to work on something that is not Patreon or PayPal related.
So I think that's what they're doing.
There was a non-Patreon PayPal supported one that they were then kicked off of too.
So I kind of thought like Q was sort of silly sounding before, but like now I guess might
be a thing.
What?
Q was like some service that are trying to advertise themselves as like the new alternative
to PayPal.
Was that the letter Q?
Yeah, just the letter Q.
I remember that.
That was a currency though.
Like some kind of, yeah, e-currency or something.
I wonder how that's doing now.
I've generated a lot of buzz in that.
I don't hear about it anymore.
Right.
It came and it went.
But you know, we do need some alternative to PayPal.
Anyways, we are getting off topic.
Oh no, this is all somewhat related.
I think.
So again, just doing some quick homework on Carl Benjamin, the guy who goes by the online
name of Sargon of Akkad.
He has the Wikipedia page and that's where most of my homework came from because I didn't
get around to watching any of his videos.
I guess I probably could have, but frankly, I just wanted to see like, all right, what's
quick and dirty?
And I trust Wikipedia's analysis of everything.
So the first part, like there's one of the top paragraphs was, here's the quote.
Benjamin's early YouTube videos often promoted anti-feminism.
His channel first drew attention during the Gamergate controversy in 2014 when he argued
in one of his videos that members of the Digital Games Research Association were actively plotting
to influence video game development to conform to their ideological feminist agenda.
And then in, I'm sorry, yeah.
Yeah, real quick.
I don't think, I mean, unless we are here to like trying to judge whether he deserved
to be kicked off or not, is that what we're doing?
Because I don't, I don't think that's necessarily all that relevant.
Like we already know that he's sort of a, he's probably anyway from what I've heard
some sort of light right leaning troll and anti SJW and I'm willing to concede that.
I think I, my, my, my, I have one more quote and then I was going to make my quick case
about why I think, I think we are here to kind of debate that point, whether or not
he deserved it.
Okay.
So then the next one, and again, Rita's Wikipedia page, there's good and bad.
I think Enya's summary is basically accurate.
But then there was another one in May of 2016 in response to the Labor Party politician
Jess Phillips statement that rape threats are commonplace for her.
Benjamin said quote, I wouldn't even rape you in a YouTube video and repeated this
on Twitter.
They declined to apologize for the comments.
So I'm sure he said things that are insightful and interesting to a lot of people, but my
quick takeaways of this guy is kind of a professional asshole.
And so I think the official story for why he was banned off a Patreon was that he had
used the, the, the basically the one word that we're not allowed to say, the N word
in a video and they're like, Hey, you can't do that, it's hate speech.
And so what you said is that it's full of holes was that it wasn't on his own channel,
I think.
And he was using it the opposite of the pejorative way that's usually used.
He was making fun of like racists by calling them like white N words or something.
And he was trying to use an insult that he knew would hurt those white supremacists the
most and using that word is an effective way to do that.
Right.
There's not really any good pejoratives for white people.
No, not really.
And I think, and he was doing it like he's,
Listen, honky, I don't need you.
That's right now.
But that's just a very silly word.
I don't know if anyone's actually offended by that.
I always thought cracker with white and square.
And again, that's a very funny word.
It is.
It's not like it doesn't have the punch there.
I mean, because there's no history of violence associated with it.
Yeah.
Once there is, then we'll have an insult with punch.
But yeah, someone will get to work on that.
So there, there are official reasons for banning him was kind of just, it seemed like, you
know, we're grasping at straws.
But my, my thing is that I, it seems like he has a history of being a professional asshole.
