Like Craigslist is famous for not really judging or giving any fucks.
They just put up your ad and that's it.
But they just got rid of there.
Like they did get rid of their adults because they were required to by law.
Yeah, they got rid of their what their adult section, their adult section.
That's their prostitution section.
Basically, yeah.
But Craigslist, just, you know, we're a platform.
Put your ads up. We don't vet. We don't do anything.
I mean, they would if it was actual stuff like
exploiting children that would get taken down.
They were like guns for sale.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
But for the most part, they're like, you can put whatever you want on there.
And I respect that.
I don't I would not respect Craigslist nearly as much if they were like,
Oh, I'm sorry, you're too Christian.
You can't sell your Bible payer for nearly here.
Or, oh, I'm sorry, you're too rationalist.
You can't advertise your blog here.
You know, I think I think Craigslist made a never made pretensions
about being like a good company, like a morally grounded company.
Like, did the the thing I was about to say, I don't call themselves the Christian.
No, no, I don't mean that.
But I know that like Craigslist is famous for people selling people stolen shit.
OK, so like I break into your house, steal your TV and put it up on Craigslist
that night and like Craigslist doesn't care.
It's like, we're just we're just facilitating the deal.
It's not our problem where the stuff came from.
Is Craigslist supposed to look into every single TV that's put on their website?
No, but I think it would be cool if they found somebody who was
constantly selling stolen stuff that they're like, all right, we're going to
we're going to ban your account.
OK, OK, so let me like point out something.
So they did ban the prostitution section, right?
They also got rid of that from Backpage, which is another big website
that had a similar function.
And if you ask sex workers, their lives are much worse now.
Yeah, they're much harder.
They're much more dangerous.
They're being pushed back out onto the streets and having to rely on.
And I bet you if they tried to start monitoring who was selling
stolen stuff online on Craigslist, what you would end up creating
is either another website or go back to the old way where people would
just try to fence it in person.
And that's probably a lot more dangerous and risky, and it would probably
have more violence.
Like it's by banning people selling stolen stuff on your website.
You have not stopped stealing.
And I don't think it would.
I don't think it would stop the person who was willing to steal in the first place.
You've just made the entire process of stealing and selling more risky
and more dangerous along the whole way.
Well, not just that.
Craigslist isn't a police department.
They don't have investigators.
That's the police's job.
If you ask Craigslist to start policing that thing, they're going to do
the same thing that the every single website has had to do since
Fausta Sesta got passed.
They're just like, I'm sorry, you're not allowed to sell any TVs on our site at all.
This block got passed. Fausta Sesta.
It's the sex worker.
Yeah, it's the big sex worker bill that fucked over all the sex workers
in America, basically.
And it is the reason that it is speculated that's one of the reasons
that Tumblr got rid of all the porn stuff.
It's just like if one person out there is using Tumblr to facilitate sex work,
then we're fucked.
And so just outright ban on it entirely.
Well, I think I'm sorry.
I was going to say, I think Tumblr's thing was that they've been having people.
Miners have been posting sex videos themselves for since the inception of Tumblr.
Right.
And they've gotten a handful of slaps on the wrist.
And I think finally, whatever happened, they're like, you guys need to get this
shit under control or your guys are going to all go to jail or whatever.
Right.
So they're like, all right, cool, ban hammer.
Super hard.
Right.
The entire law is fucked.
It's basically doing that to the entire internet.
Well, I don't know.
I guess I need to look at this lot and I think about it.
I just know that I think Tumblr's thing was specifically about minors
posting pornography of themselves.
What I'd heard about Tumblr was that advertisers weren't comfortable
with putting their content along with the porn.
And not that that was like the major, you know, driving force behind it,
but that was a major consideration.
I thought it was specifically underage porn.
Like porn sites do great, you know, I was about to say, I'm pretty sure
Pornhub can support advertising on a few risque tumblers.
But they don't get like tied advertising.
That's true.
But their, their supply of advertisers is very limited.
There were mainstream advertisers that wanted to, I mean, Tumblr has a, it
was a massive platform and it had, you know, I guess it continues to a huge
audience, but there was like too much ratio of weirdness to, you know, tied ads.
So tied, you know, and other mainstream advertisers were threatening
to pull their stuff off.
Then that, I'm sure the Tumblr thing is more complicated than I summarized
it for, because you're right.
Like if, if Tumblr's main revenue comes from people putting ads on it and
normal, normal companies, like, you know, tied, you know, you don't pay to use
Tumblr.
Exactly.
So, um, they're, they're kind of at the whims or at the mercies of their
advertisers.
If their advertisers are all saying, we're pulling out, unless you guys make
these changes, they're like, well, I guess we're going to make these changes.
That brings up a related thing.
I know that there's been a handful of people like TV personalities who will
go on TV and say something and stay in a racist or whatever.
And then their, their advertisers are pulling.
Um, what are your thoughts on that?
That is, well, my thoughts tonight is the same thoughts of the Alec Jones
things from earlier, where if they do something outrageous enough that people
aren't willing to watch them and advertisers aren't willing to support
them, that, that is how this thing is supposed to work.
Those are two separate things, though.
People are still wanting to watch Alex Jones, but advertisers are unwilling to
put their name behind him.
I'd like to point out that Alex Jones now makes more money than ever.
Right.
I was going to say, if Alex Jones is willing to work for free, then whatever,
but, uh, these companies like CNN or whoever it was that fired their people
aren't willing to take that hit.
And so they let their people go.
I mean, that, that is kind of the market speaking.
But are like the advertisers doing something wrong by saying, we're not
going to give you our support anymore?
Cause like, are they, are they dragging us in this case?
Are they people?
Go ahead.
Two things.
Uh, I'm going to go to the bathroom and you had something to say.
I actually didn't want to hear.
Okay, go ahead.
Oh, wait, well, wait.
Did you say, yeah.
Well, then I don't know what I was going to say about advertisers is that they
aren't not people.
Um, yes, it's the scale argument again.
Yeah, but, but like, if I'm, if I'm tied, if I'm tied's advertising chairperson,
they don't want to be tarred by, yeah, yeah, I don't, yeah, exactly.
So like, I think that it's, as the person representing tied to the public,
it's totally within my, my rights.
And it's my responsibility to say, oh, I'm not going to support Alex Jones.
Right.
So, all right.
We definitely need to put a GIF and the notes here of all of those many awesome
ones where it's like, yep, it's a tied ad.
Um, I'll find a good one.
Uh, there's a ton of like high quality GIFs where they'll like subtitle for
something else and a little pan away to the fence with the guy for Stranger
Things and be like, yep, it's a tied ad.
Like from the Superbowl tied commercial.
Anyway, I have no idea what you're talking about.
Oh, they're, they're wonderful.
Okay.
Um, here's, so yeah, my, my thing on my thing with that is that if I, if I was
tied and, uh, you know, whatever, it could even be retroactive.
You know, fuck it.
Well, geez, now I'm sounding like somebody supporting kicking out James Gunn.
The difference with James Gunn is that he didn't actually do anything wrong.
Okay.
Where is, where if it had come out that James Gunn had raped 30 people in 2010,
then like, cool, fire him, kick his ass, whatever.
Did, um, I don't know, I run straight to the reducto ad absurdum to make sure
that my points have, have a grounding somewhat.
I agree with you here, but I don't think either Sargon or that lady that got
fired from CNN raped 30 people.
No, they didn't.
That's not, I wasn't saying that.
What I was, what I was doing was a step back.
What, what I was saying is that there is a ground where I would be, where I would
say, okay, cool, I'm okay kicking somebody out for something they did retroactively.
I established the baseline at somewhere absurd, not, not absurd that it's at
somewhere extreme.
I, I am going to say that the difference in that case is that a, the CNN, CNN is
not a platform in the same sense that YouTube or Patreon is.
Allow me to quickly explain, um, where I'm coming from ideologically here.
I am an ancient man.
Now I saw the internet born and I remember at the time when it was internet was
supposed to be the thing that freed us from the corporate overlords.
Like there's, you can only get your book published through major publishers,
right? Oh, or you can put it up on the internet and anyone can see it.
You can only get your movie produced through these few Hollywood elite
cartels, or now you can just put it up on the internet and anyone can see it.
It was this great democratizing force and YouTube for a long time was that anyone
could put a video on YouTube.
YouTube didn't care.
They didn't vet videos.
You just put it up there and anyone could see it.
And if your shit was good, people would watch it.
People would tell their friends, people like, check out this hilarious thing
that I saw on YouTube and it would get eyeballs and the major media corporations,
the normal routes that censor people, the governments had nothing to do with it.
