We kind of call this the third attractor and that means you have to have control mechanisms
that prevent catastrophes, but you have to have checks and balances on the power within
those.
How do you do that?
So global governance and global government are not the same thing, right?
Global government, the idea that there's some centralized global monopoly of violence,
the bad idea.
The idea that there is some more effective process of global coordination, even whether
it's a more effective process of nations engaging in multilateral agreements that can
be facilitated by technology that can make the participation or violation of those agreements
more transparent or there is some process of global governance that has to occur where
there's both effective power for enforcement.
This is why we can solve those types of coordination problems to some degree, those race to the
bottom within a country where you have a monopoly of violence because the law on monopoly
of violence just basically says, no, you're not allowed to cut down any of those trees.
That's a national park and if you try, the police will stop you and they have more capacity
for violence than you do.
With international issues where you don't actually have international enforcement, it's
really, really tricky.
So for all of the really global issues, and that looks like it's in each nation's interests
to burn the coal as fast as it can and the oil, it's in each nation's interests to win
the AI arms race, even though that increases the likelihood that we all die from it in
the long term.
So global governance that has appropriate checks and balances is a tricky topic, but
it's a necessary topic.
What gives you hope today?
A lot of things can be hoped.
I have noticed in my own work, people in top positions of power and major institutions
that affect the world being radically more aware of things that are fundamentally unviable
about this world system and interested in deeper changes and actually starting to try
to implement some things just even in the last couple of years than I had ever experienced
previously.
So the idea that, you know, the kind of behavior that individuals can do on their own matters
and the kind of stuff we can do locally like, you know, prototyping new types of communities
and new types of cities, you don't solve climate change in time and you don't solve planetary
boundaries in time and you don't solve AI risk that way, right?
That requires kind of agreement from existing top-down organizations.
They can't actually innovate a new world.
They can just stop bad things from happening with the right kinds of agreements to innovate
a new world actually does require local and more participatory activity.
But the fact that after COVID and after the extreme political polarization that has happened
and after how much of Australia burned and then flooded and, you know, now with the war
on Ukraine and I think there was a situation where previously people who were thinking
about it and who were prescient realized this world system is destabilizing and is fundamentally
not sustainable.
Most of the people who were administrating it didn't think that.
Now almost everybody thinks that and that's actually something that gives me hope.
Great.
How much time do we have to react to avoid extinction?
Some species go extinct every day as a result of human activity.
So for them, we're already past existential risk, you know, Kiev was an incredibly progressive
place not very long ago.
It wouldn't have seemed like a place where eminent catastrophic risk was coming for many
people and, you know, that's even true of Syria not that long ago and you see the pictures
of what culture was like in 1968 in Iran.
So it's not like how long do we have before catastrophe hits.
We're already in a rolling global catastrophe.
Like how long does Australia have before it burns that already happened, you know, and
from extreme weather events that are a result of human induced activity poor environmental
management and problems with utility companies and overuse of groundwater and climate change.
And how quickly does war escalate as a result of what's happening in Ukraine at larger scale
and already what we see in regarding Taiwan and Azerbaijan and Armenia and Iran and so
many places.
These things could move very fast or more slowly in ways that are chaotic and totally
unpredictable.
When you look at things like the planetary boundaries, how long until we pass certain
planetary boundaries, you'll hear people talk about this thing happens in 2050 and this
thing happens and by the end of the century or whatever with climate change.
But we've already passed some of the planetary boundaries, you know, there's a study just
published in the American Chemical Society Journal saying that certain toxic chemicals
in rainwater kind of ubiquitous around the world are past the EPA thresholds for human
health.
And this was particularly the the fluorinated surfactants which don't break down, right?
So they come forever chemicals.
But the idea that things that are carcinogens and cause birth defects and are endocrine
disruptors in rainwater all around the world are past the levels of human health tolerability
is a huge deal.
It means even if you go get off grid as can be and try to live off the land, you can't.
And how quickly we're producing those chemicals, not only is there a cumulative effect of them
because they're persistent, but we're also increasing our production of them exponentially.
And so how long do we have?
We're already in a situation of a breakdown of a world system.
It's already existential for many species.
It's already catastrophic for people in many areas of the world.
And so I would reorient the question to be more like, is there anything that we can do
to have it not be totalizing?
And the answer is yes.
And the answer time wise on that is the full life attention of everyone as best as possible
directed at better understanding the issues and participating in the solutions is what's
required.
In individual level, we've become a bit lazy maybe because we think like there is always
a solution and we don't really need to act.
How to wake up and also how do you get the news because you have like so many news in
different directions.
Like we don't know who to believe and we don't know like we're not sure we need to act because
things always have a solution by themselves.
There's a really interesting book called The Politics of the Invisible written after Chernobyl
because after the Chernobyl explosion, the uranium is invisible, right?
We can't see it with the human eye.
Obviously now COVID that's invisible and yet totally lethal.
And what he was exploring in Politics of the Invisible is because of modern technology and
chemistry, we can make things that are totally lethal that we can't see that require people
with Geiger counters and the ability to do physics that not everyone can do to be able
to determine safety levels.
How does that work with democracy when most people don't have the capacity to do that?
So you'll see currently a lot of people doubting climate change science, but nobody can actually,
the average citizen can't run the IPCC's mathematical models to say they work or they don't work
or they...
And so people are largely kind of left to faith and you then end up getting politics driving
people to either be kind of pro-institutional or anti-institutional.
And the institutions get things wrong, so it's easy to be anti-institutional and neither
of the positions are actually viable and there is something other than truth, which is the
movement to power motivated in both of them.
I see that when people think someone else will come up with a solution, they feel kind
of unmotivated, but also when people think there is no solution, they feel unmotivated.
And this is also something I find really interesting is when I talk to someone who has a really
fervent adamant view about whatever it is, that whether it's vaccines or masks or what
should happen in Russia, Ukraine or abortion law, whatever, they go from complete certainty
without understanding the position of the other side or all the complexity or nuance
well.
And if I challenge it and not, regardless of which side it is, and show them the increased
complexity, okay, well if we price carbon that way and China doesn't, then autocracy
ends up running the world, so you're voting democracy out and whatever it is, then for
so many people, the first response when you increase, show them the way they're thinking
about it doesn't actually map to the complexity of the problem, they go from utter certainty
to nihilism in one step.
They're like, oh fuck it, it's too hard, it's too complex, I give up.
And to move from certainty to nihilism in one step is so damn lazy, like cognitively,
emotionally, epistemically lazy.
And so I want people to go from certainty to like, actually I don't understand this
all that well.
Actually, climate change or global science or policy on this thing is pretty complex.
There are experts who spend their whole life working on it who disagree.
That doesn't mean there aren't solutions, but the one that was fed to me that everybody
on my political side agrees with and everyone on the other side disagrees with is probably
not a fair version of the whole truth.
So I'm not going to give up because I don't know.
I'm not going to hold the certainty that I know because I don't.
I'm going to work to try to understand competently while recognizing I don't yet.
And then even once I get to much deeper understanding, I'll still recognize how much stuff I don't
know that's relevant and new information that might come in.
So I want people to be much more epistemically rigorous and epistemically humble at the same
time, epistemology meaning how we go about knowing things.
So I want them to work much harder at trying to come to understand while having much less
certainty about their current level of understanding.
So when you ask what sources should people go to for news or whatever, the ones they don't
currently go to is the first answer.
And then, of course, progressively better sources.
Not all the sources independent of political spinner are equally good.
But when you can see where do the various earnest experts on the topic disagree and
you at least understand those positions pretty well, then you start to have a sense of the
topic.
As a philosopher and because you spoke about politics, do you want to stay away from politics
or are you into politics?
Politics meaning how people organize and how they coordinate and how they make sense of
the world together so they can make choices together.
No, I'm totally focused on that.
The current political system and the United States does not do a very good job of helping
people collectively make sense of issues well, collectively identify all the values that
matter that are shared values and then collectively make good choices in the presence of the shared
sense making and shared values generation.
So it's not that I think there is never a time to engage in voting for a particular
candidate or on a particular proposition, but how to engage in metapolitics, meaning
how to evolve this political system and economic system, how to evolve the political economy
along with evolving the infrastructure and tech stack and the culture and value system
simultaneously because all three of those inter-effect each other.
The culture, the political economy and the infrastructure and technology, they all inter-effect
each other.
So you can't change any of them without changing all of them to think through what has to happen
in all of those for a viable world to come about.
I'm very interested in that.
Okay.
Let's speak a bit about you, something very interesting I found.
You mentioned you were homeschooled by your parents.
Which qualities did your parents manage to let flourish in you that might not have been
so important also in the traditional education when you're changing teachers every year?
I was homeschooled, I did go to school, both private and public schools for little bits
throughout my life.
So I have some experience of it, but most of my childhood was homeschooled, but it was
not traditional homeschooling, meaning I didn't have the state curriculum and just do it at
home.
My parents were kind of interested in running an educational experiment that is a little
bit closer to what people call unschooling today, but there was just no curriculum.
Okay.
What they felt you need to learn.
It's not what they felt.
Their hypothesis was expose the kids to all the different topics, see which ones they're
interested in, facilitate their interest, and kind of trust them.
So it's aligned with some of the ideas of Montessori and Dewey and Constructivism.
But you know, radical had no curriculum at all.
But and I'm not saying that is what I would advise, but there's a lot good in that.
And what qualities that facilitated in me that most educational systems don't is all
of my studies were things I was interested in.
And so my interest in learning was actually growing all the time, right?
There was never a place where I wanted to get out of school and go play or do something
else where learning felt like a burden or where I ended up not having any negative association
with study.
And I had only positive association because I was studying things I wanted to study.
So I find that people tend to become good at things they really enjoy.
And so facilitating, like even if you have a curriculum, really paying attention to where
