a student's interests are and where their passions are.
And if there's a topic that isn't appealing to them, trying to find a way that actually
has it really appeal as opposed to just forcing them to do the thing makes a huge difference
not to their learning of that topic, but to their relationship to learning itself.
What a special event that put you on this path of trying to see the truth, what's happening
and observe the complexity of the world.
Lots of events.
I mean, some people have a near death experience turning point that is really kind of singular.
I think most people's life path unfolds from lots of things.
So as I'm mentioning being homeschooled by parents who are obviously kind of interested
in childhood development and the books my parents read to me as bedtime stories were
Buckminster Fuller's Design Science and Fritschof Capra Systems Theory and Eastern
Vedic Philosophy and things like that.
So there were people who were thinking about what is the world?
How does the world work?
How do we integrate across the various philosophic and scientific traditions?
How do we improve civilization?
Those were kind of like just the core thoughts.
And so I didn't really have to get on that path.
And then a big part of my study as a kid was not just studying various areas of philosophy
or science or whatever, but also being actively engaged in activism.
My mom was particularly into kind of hands-on activism with whether it was helping the local
animal shelter or larger kind of factory farm animal rights issues or environmental issues.
So being engaged in activism and then seeing what the problems in the world were and then
similarly having a system science and kind of design science background to look at it
and say, how are these problems interconnected?
What do they have in common as generative dynamics?
What would it take to address them more comprehensively because it's not that hard to see that whether
we're talking about issues in healthcare or issues in war, issues in politics or issues
in the environment, things like perverse economic incentive or one of the drivers of all of
them.
So it's like, well, how do we think through an economic system that doesn't have perverse
incentive?
Yeah, I would say it was working across many different areas of activism, seeing how they
related to seeing why the solutions that we were working on weren't adequate because they
didn't address the deeper dynamics.
Those were kind of key early things for me.
Thank you very much, Daniel.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
