but in a fully connected setting, you don't have a blanket as such.
In fact, the Bayesian graph describes the factorization
or the articulation and the sparsity of the system.
So it is a connectedness that is usually much, much,
much sparser than everything connected to everything.
But that's not to say that differences can't make a difference at a distance.
It's just that they propagate through a local causal structure.
And then space time is constructed by certain kinds of cognitive agents.
That was one of the key aspects of this course.
And so we can take as primary the topology
of the active inference agent environment relation.
And then Markov blanket is just the sensorium on the inbound
and the action capacity on the outbound.
One question that I do have to that is,
what about the nonzero gravitational effect, for example,
of something that's distant in space and time?
Of course, Markov blankets don't have to be spatial temporal.
They can be in arbitrary state spaces.
But how do we deal with those kinds of long range influences?
That's my question.
Yeah. Well, here, I think it's useful to contrast Newtonian gravity with Einsteinian gravity.
Newtonian gravity is infinite range and instantaneously acting.
Whereas Einsteinian gravity is infinite range, but it's locally encoded.
So the Einsteinian gravity that you feel is your local measurement
of the curvature of your local bit of space time.
So that is very much happening on your Markov blanket, right?
It's a local measurement, local in space time.
So let's assume there's a space time that's objective and characterized as everything.
Then you're locally measuring it on your blanket,
and that's what you feel as gravitational attraction or your mass.
Whereas in Newtonian or Laplacian gravity, you don't have that sense of locality, right?
As soon as something changes anywhere in the universe, it affects you.
So Einstein was struggling, of course, to make gravity consistent with electromagnetism,
where it was clear that forces are transmitted at finite speed, the speed of light.
And he didn't have the idea of a graviton moving at the speed of light.
But he did have this idea of local measurement.
So nonlocality was anathema to Einstein,
and that's basically why he spent so much trouble removing it from physics.
And that's why he hated the idea of entanglement so much,
because it seemed to him that from a space time point of view, it had to be nonlocal.
Daniel, can I bring up a point at this point?
So I think this is somewhat relevant to a question I really wanted to ask Chris,
which is in lecture 6, I remember minute 23.
I wish I had written it down, but I can roughly remember.
There was that phylogenetic graph, and you see life growing in a self-similar way,
just like the genealogical tree of species, same thing happens at the individual level with growth and so on.
Anyways, I found that fascinating in the sense that the degrees of freedom of life as a whole grow,
and around that minute 23 you made a comment, well then the environment must be shrinking.
And you tied this with space time, and something about space time, from the physics side,
we also have that cosmological inflation and whatnot.
Are any of those things related?
That remark I feel was made impassive, and I think there's a lot there to be said.
It also maybe shed some light on the emergent space time issue.
If it does emerge from a more basic ontological object like the tensor network,
and the degrees of freedom are in the tensor network,
is it fair to say that life as it grows gets more of those degrees of freedom,
but then somehow anything that happens to space time is an illusion in that sense?
I don't even know if I'm familiar with that question, but I think Chris knows what I'm talking about.
Yeah, the comment makes the most sense in the context of the state space itself,
leaving aside space time.
So if you think of a Hilbert space and draw a boundary someplace that separates
what we're going to call life from what we're going to call non-life.
Essentially what life has done over the past three billion years
is incorporate bits of the non-life part of the state space into life.
So total biomass is increasing,
so more and more of the available mass is getting incorporated into living things.
So if we can kind of heuristically fold space time in and say,
in the locality, in the locale of Earth and over this fairly short time period,
the expansion of space time is more or less negligible.
So life is actually taking up more space now than it did
certainly at the time of Luca when all of us weren't around,
but there is just one population of cells that we're descendants of.
But the point about the Hilbert space is just the point that if you have once,
if you've divided it in two and you move the boundary,
then one system gets bigger at the expense of the other system,
which now has less of the Hilbert space.
So that's all that remark really is.
As the system, in a sense, takes over degrees of freedom of the environment.
So that's in that case, so it becomes a different system at every time step.
From the point of view of it, it has now a different Hilbert space
and different internal dynamics of physically, it's a different thing.
But when we look at it, we say, oh, this thing is continuous through time,
it is expanding, it's growing, it's developing, evolving, whatever.
Right.
And so then I guess the comment, just that question that just occurred
as you were talking, that begs the question,
does that biomass come to dominate all the degrees of freedom in the universe?
Is that there's all, presumably, there's a tension with the rate at which those
degrees of freedom are growing and the rate at which a space time is growing.
Does the growth of space time, in terms of those degrees of freedom
that may be more fundamental amount to loss in error correction capacity,
how do we not, I mean, and maybe more speculatively,
how you reconcile this with loss of thermodynamics?
Like, do we know, are you implying that life is going to come to dominate everything
and fill up the entirety of the non-universe?
Yeah, I think that's a stretch.
But I would say at this point that until we have a mature theory of quantum gravity
that makes enough empirical predictions to be testable,
it's not clear, at least to me, how the whole
emergent space time picture fits together with the inflationary picture
or the expanding space time picture.
I mean, in some sense, taking a strict Hilbert space view,
if the universe is an isolated system, then its Hilbert space is fixed.
And so your question, in a sense, becomes,
what's the relationship between space time and the Hilbert space?
What we think of is space time degrees of freedom, real degrees of freedom or not.
And it seems to me that question really isn't resolved.
And I'm not sure at this point how to resolve it.
Eris, do you want to?
Yeah, I just have something small to add.
Overall, this is very interesting and these questions are very deep.
What I wanted to add is that I was thinking the initial question regarding Markov Planckets.
And I also have some question that it's related with it, but I will ask Chris later.
What I wanted to add now is that basically Markov Planckets are a way of describing the boundaries of a system
in terms of statistical mechanics of statistics, let's say.
And essentially, from what I understand, they are paramount in order to define observers and also the systems under observation.
So any physical system can be seen as an observer with a Markov blanket, let's say.
So now trying to tie it all up with active inference.
Well, active inference, as I understand it, implies that the system is actively referring to its external states from its internal states
in an effort to both learn, let's say, and adapt to the environment.
So this goes back and ties with this metaphorical link, let's say, with the scheme.
This is how I understand it.
And it actually means that a system with a Markov blanket can actually be seen as performing physics as information processing,
which is the mark of this series that Chris is offering to us.
And a final comment in terms of non-locality, non-locality can actually be seen as a form of information processing.
So this is what I wanted to add.
Did you say how nonlocality is a form of information processing?
Yes, this is how I understand it.
What do you think about that, Chris?
If we put it in terms of entanglement,
entanglement is a useful resource for information processing,
but it's only a usable resource if it's combined with classical communication,
either across time or across space.
So entanglement is only useful as a resource if different observers can act locally,
i.e. without interfering with each other on the quantum resource.
So if you think of entanglement as non-locality, if you embed it in space-time in that way,
then it is useful as a computational resource,
but the observers also have to transmit classical communications in a way that fully complies with locality.
So in a Bell EPR type experiment, for example, if you have Alice in one lab and Bob in the other lab
making measurements of some entangled state, then at some point, to know that the state is entangled,
they have to send their classical records to each other as classical communication
and then deal with those records locally.
So in a sense, non-locality in that sense is useful for computation,
but it's only useful if you also have locality.
Great, thank you.
Actually, I'm working on a novel notion, let's say,
that is something that takes the notion of entanglement and transform it in the following sense.
I'm actually thinking of maximum entanglement as a resource for classical computation.
So that's something I am actually exploring.
I find it to be a nice concept.
Did you say maximum unentanglement?
Yes.
Maximum separability.
Yeah, okay, that makes sense.
I mean, we need maximum separability.
Yeah.
Or we need to be able to factor a state space to talk about two different observers.
So to talk about conditional independence.
Yeah, in my head, this maximum entanglement as a resource can actually be expanded to perform classical computation
or even to increase the coherence of a quantum system.
So I'm playing with that notion a bit.
Cool.
Thank you.
Can I ask something really quick about?
Yeah.
There is, okay.
So they're apparently like, from what I don't understand very much, but from Bohr,
apparently the whole experimental setup was one like entity.
They couldn't be broken down into like constituent pieces that are interacting,
but had to be taken as one entity from what I understand.
And apparently Einstein's view was, well, I really don't know what his view was,
but apparently like it's not one entity can be broken down into localized pieces that are interacting.
And I'm kind of, apparently they couldn't get along like Bohr and Einstein.
Apparently there was like a party or something and then they all congregate to separate parts of the room and didn't really interact.
And apparently it was because they had these like opposing views on the same thing of like breaking down the interconnectedness
into separate constituent subsystems.
And even like taking the partial trace, I mean, there was one universal function,
taking the partial trace which was literally defined as subsystems, but never perfectly.
So I'm like, it's all tied together, but I can't really explain what I'm trying to say.
Well, how do you, I'm asking everyone like, these seem like two very opposed views.
They seem like very alternative views.
Like on one side you have like kind of like an indivisible whole.
And the other side you have like locality where it's almost like there's like a sequence of measurements leading up to an ego and I that then measures as like a real entity.
As in another one is like the observer and the observed are one thing that cannot be meaningfully separated.
Maybe functionally they can be separated, but like as actually onto like as actually existing subcomponents that cannot be defined strictly.
That's too different.
I mean, from what I understand, one of them is saying, yes, you can define these subsystems and they really do exist as separate entities.
And the other one is saying that's just kind of like a like a useful notion, like an useful way to organize information as to operate on that information, deposit a subject in an object and to have the subject operate on the object is a useful way for thinking to separate itself.
And it seems like this is closer to boredom.
The other one is closer.
Well, apparently has a distinction of like born Einstein from what I understand from what I understand, which is please correct me if it's wrong.
And so, yes, I put that out there and I don't know what that's going to spawn in terms of responses, but yes.
Well, I think that's a fair characterization of the Bore Einstein debate, actually.
To add a response there, whether it actually exists, it seems like in one of those framings, you had an observer looking at something.
And if we define actually existing in a relational observed setting, then to the observer, it actually the measurement actually exists, prepare, measure, prepare, measure.
And then from another perspective, viewing that setup, then it's the observer of a setup.
And so it's just again to Chris's first point about what perspective, and this is one of the most essential pieces that that the blank screen
relationality brings into play is there isn't a view from nowhere, but there is a perspective that may have a definite answer.
And yet there are multiple perspectives that have complimentary answers in our scenario.
Daniel, can I speak for a minute?
