Oh, yeah.
I was muted earlier.
I didn't realize I meant to ask David.
I don't have an answer to your question, but I was wondering if you could reformulate it would be.
Would it be fair to reformulate your question and say I say in our blankets objective or not is the bore Einstein debate equivalent to that.
And then second, and I guess this may be for for Chris, I was just giving through the answers and one of them was talking about how the main one of the big tensions between general relativity and quantum theory is the idea of object persistence.
And I don't know how to articulate it either, but I feel like it was more or less what you were getting at.
David, is that is that correct?
Yeah, I think that's another way to put it.
And also the thing you said about the third person looking at those systems if there's multi agent communication.
That's what that's that's kind of the thing that I'm.
That's kind of the thing that I'm kind of stuck on and trying to understand this.
Because like if there's a third agent looking for those two are subsumed in the information on the holographic screen.
And then I don't know anyways, so that's where I'm kind of.
I think a delightful thing to read here is.
Gene vigners paper where he introduces the vigners friend thought experiment.
I think it's from.
There's a book called the scientist speculates the editor is someone named good.
Geo of D.
And.
It's also and bigger as a paper in this book.
I think it's 1961.
And it's also the paper where.
Vigner talks about.
Consciousness being an essential concept and quantum theory.
But the thought experiment is.
That vigners friend is doing an experiment in his laboratory.
And making observations.
And vigners outside the laboratory.
And.
Vigner has to regard his friend is in some sort of superposition.
With his instrument he has to regard his friend is entangled with his friends instruments.
Until vigner can actually interact locally with the friend and make a measurement.
Of the friend state.
And so it makes.
Vigners friend and his apparatus.
Look like an entangled pair.
And vigner now looks like an experimenter who's operating on just one part of an entangled pair.
But vigner himself tells the story very nicely.
And it's just it's that sort of.
Historical text I think is always useful to have a look at and see how the.
People themselves.
Were responding to this.
Idea.
And vigners quite perplexed by this thought experiment.
And I think all of those people were were.
Were quite, you know, they were quite.
Honestly mystified with what.
Observation actually is and what.
Consciousness is and all of these other questions that.
People are a little bit scared to talk about.
In the ensuing several decades.
Self reference.
Yeah, you can go ahead.
So for a friend seems to be.
Like there's this ancient symbol of the world of Boris.
The output is the input it feeds on itself.
Even like consciousness after contextualize my.
I have to contextualize to contextualize like a self referential after everything refers to itself.
And then at the end self references where all the paradoxes are like this sentence is false.
Or all I know is that I know nothing.
Paradoxical statements.
So there's some sort of mystery cell division of self reference.
Like that ancient view is that it's like embryo genesis cosmogenesis.
Same thing.
I don't know.
Yeah, there it seems to me that there's some sort of mystery.
It's like the mind is just a lunge.
Like, I don't know, thinking tries to make these styles systems, but it just slips out.
Like, I know, it just, it can't grasp it.
I mean, but that's, that's already a conclusion, which I don't necessarily want to even make.
Because if it's self reference, that is thinking, okay, then maybe it goes all the way to the bottom.
But I don't know.
Daniel, can I ask you a question before we run out of time?
Actually, I have two maybe one is a bit longer.
The second one.
The first one, Chris, is I was very intrigued looking forward to hear you talk a little bit about that cycle of error correction and memory and persistence and so on.
And in particular, I was wondering if it relates at all to the main other thing you talked about in that lecture six, the copy and diversify business because intuitively,
if that cycle is something that an organism has to implement, I'm talking about that slide with, you know, the error correction and whatnot, then it pays a thermodynamic price for it.
So I presumably there's an anabolic process of trying to grow so you can feed degrees of freedom into this error correcting scheme.
If, you know, thinking like a physicist or something like that might be happening.
So is the copy and diversify feature a necessity of having to run this cycle.
That's my first question.
That's a good question. I don't know whether it's necessary.
I think one could think of a fairly small scale heat engine or metabolic system that can pull just enough free energy out of its environment to store a one bit memory.
And you can think of think of something like a flip flop, right? These things aren't alive. So it's not it's not quite as complex as an organism.
But it is using energy to maintain a memory.
And its memory does influence its behavior.
So I think we have these limiting cases like this that don't have to grow.
But when you when you think about organisms.
Organisms have the problem of being made out of very delicate parts that need to be replaced.
And it's it's that degradation that I think is driving this need for constant copying.
And from a
from a physics point of view.
I think what that boils down to is that the
organisms living right at the edge of an interaction with its environment that's too strong to maintain.
So the environment environmental interaction is constantly a risk of spinning out of control and having too large an energy transfer, which basically tears the mark on blanket apart.
And exposes too many of the internal degrees of freedom to the outside.
So I this this may be one way of saying what characterizes life that it's it's interacting with its environment.
Right on the edge of an interaction that's too strong.
And it's it's it's great to have a strong interaction because then you have you have big eigenvalues and so you have large bandwidth.
But the risk is that the environment tears you apart.
Close to the fire, but don't get burnt.
Become become the fire and then control the redox balance.
And gain that auto poetic, regulative capacity.
Which works when it works.
Yeah, until something comes along with bigger teeth.
Another comment, if I may, is as the course comes to an end, one, two of the two themes I realized associated to classicality that we've talked a lot about in this class are object persistence and boundaries.
Right.
So classicality being a feature intrinsically boundary related and having a lot to do with object persistence.
And so, so, so are these just things completely dual from from an FEP point of view because you want to maintain the integrity of the boundary.
You want, you know, you want to preserve that classical information presumably.
I'm not sure I guess my question to everyone is our object persistence.
And, and, well, in the topic of classicality, object persistence and boundaries, like, are these basically completely dual pictures.
That's my question.
Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised.
And we also need object persistence to define space.
So this idea of object persistence is is a very key idea that that has to be dealt with.
And physics has largely ignored this idea, which is kind of objects are taken for granted.
But I think I think what Carl says in that 2019 free energy principle for a particular physics paper is fairly clear on this.
I mean, you basically says the free energy principle tells systems to persist.
That's basically what a system has to do.
By maintaining the integrity of its Markov blanket.
I think that's very insightful.
If it doesn't, it's not.
Yeah, it's not a system anymore.
Well, as we somewhat glide towards a local closure.
Of course, anyone is welcome to bring up any reflections.
And also, I'd love to hear about where we go from this now measured outcome.
How do we prepare individually at the Institute scale ecosystem scale?
And what are we going to do coming out of this?
Are we talking about that right now?
Or any thoughts?
Keep learning, bro.
Ecosystem scale.
Like the active inference ecosystem and our own ecosystems.
Going on to our own scale.
I guess the only thing I can comment on this is I echo the view that or not view or rather remark that Chris made in the lecture about quantum biology as a field.
It's in a nascent stage right now.
But I mean, I think, you know, there will be a natural interaction between the active inference community and quantum biology that I'm making that surmised right now.
So let's talk about quantum biology for a second.
I'll open up the Pandora's box here. Let's think of it as a parable as opposed or maybe even fan fiction because Chris has shared so much with us. I want to kind of build off of it.
If you'll indulge me for a second, I'll read you a little story just to hear the story out.
Quantum biology sounds like more than up or down without saying that it is more.
Up or down is what information can be counterfactually is looking at carrying capacity as in quotes can be.
And from that carrying capacity comes orientation, things like direction and scale.
Things like the ability to plan appear to fit better in the entire orientation category relative to the carrying capacity category, which is non-community in action.
So if this is a big if we agree that orientation is to follow.
Should our recognizing of planning affordances follow as well.
So from the session slide, there was a quote, living systems are genetic quantum systems that the FEP has driven to a high level of computational complexity.
And here the end quotes computation is baked in as something planable.
With this as a reference frame to make plans, we need carrying capacity. Check agreed.
But in order to learn, where does the carrying capacity plus orientation relationship insist that we start with a received plan.
This perspective is compared to say actively inferring our way to the plan falls out of carrying capacity.
Just making this explicit, we can then ask, should we first apply a received plan or apply active inference.
That helps clarify when the strategy is one more based on exploitation versus a strategy more based on bias to exploration.
In summary, when did information delivery, things like product or package, packaging begin to trump information carrying capacity, which is essentially information processing.
Rather than we need this paired relationship to carrying capacity plus the orientation as a minimum of two so that we can compare, identify change and no change model patterns, etc.
This is another way of asking when did subject matter expertise come to be seen as more valuable than prediction matter expertise.
When it seems like we need both capacities, if we want independency.
And here's the kicker.
If not given time to reflect on what's being asked here, and I know Chris often times has a nice long pause to reflect, but if not given the time to reflect, people will take their subject matter expertise strategy,
which clearly is a next move perspective over one that holds up next move plus all moves, meaning that they bring prediction matter expertise into follow to parameterize to unlock to unring to unbound what's in and what's out.
Of course, without prediction matter expertise, what is quantum biology.
Wow.
Can you just post that someplace so we can think about just email it to your Chris.
Cool.
That was great.
I think you're, you're asking about the
fundamental question of what, what, what does Carl call it, epistemic value and the role of curiosity and
that whole cluster of issues.
Well, I think I need to give you the credit that you deserve on this.
I think it's the fact that you have allowed us to interact with you.
That's given us the kind of courage and confidence to be able to put things out there.
I don't know how much of it sticks or how much of it.
I'm not sure that it requires disciples, but I do think it provides what you've done is provided that medium.
So again, I guess that's my way of saying thank you.
Well, thank you.
Yeah, thank you, Chris.
I have learned so much this year, more than, more than ever before.
Okay, well, great. This is, this has been a great class and hopefully
hopefully various things will come out of it.
Certainly just from looking at the questions that have been in the question forum.
Lots of people are thinking about these issues and
that's, that's what I think AII needs going forward is people thinking and talking about stuff.
Thank you, Chris. Yeah, a few outcomes that we know will transcribe the lectures, the discussions, add in screenshots, add in the Q&A and publish those proceedings as a book.
We will pick back up in 2024 with potentially having the recorded and written contents as part of a curriculum.
So not just replicating, but now continuing on with another quantum flow across this now classical artifact,
because it's quantum in the moment. And then once it's communicated, it becomes a classic.
And we got most to prepare that state.
All right, great. I'm going to have to sign off. But thank you very much.
Thank you, Chris.
Thank you. Thank you, Chris.
Tell.
Does anyone else?
Does anyone else want to make any reflection or comments?
I just thank everybody that's helped organize, participated in all of the discussions, even the people who showed up at the very end of the discussions, because I really appreciate that.
Again, I cannot emphasize enough when we get a chance to interact with this stuff, when we get to manipulate it, when we're able to ask questions, even though we feel vulnerable.
I think that that's when a lot of the really good stuff tends to get consolidated. So thank you to all of you.
I'll read some fun comments from the live chat.
