Hello, and welcome everybody.
This is physics as information processing.
It's October 28th, 2023, and we're in discussion six.
So we'll see where and how and when we go, but to begin with, thank you for watching.
If you're watching live, please feel free to write any questions or comments in the live chat.
As this is our last discussion, we're going to be probably ranging broadly.
So looking forward to people's comments there.
Otherwise, perhaps we can all go around first and say hello or just give any thoughts or
reflections to get things going.
And then we'll jump into some of the questions and answers and look at some of these great
thoughts that have been sent and responded to.
So perhaps Dean and then Harrison, David, any just overall thoughts or comments to get us going?
Thanks, Daniel.
I guess my overall impression was that I think that the way that the entire series was organized
and structured allowed for these kinds of conversations that we're having today, which
I think are really, really valuable as you can see on the slide here.
I think a lot of question and answer tends to be focused around what is, whereas the conversations
that we've had, we can sort of tease that apart a little bit and ask questions around
what if and get into the counterfactual piece of it and interact around that.
And I really, really appreciated that.
So that's my overall sense that we haven't left it sort of on the page.
We've actually been able to sort of breathe some life into it through these conversations.
Cool.
Harris?
Yeah.
I just wanted to say that it was a great series.
We all learned a lot and we got the opportunity to even ask questions to Chris and get back
some very insightful answers that they are very helpful in order to, let's say, push
the envelope forward.
Overall, this has been a great series.
I've enjoyed it a lot.
And while conversing with some of my colleagues, they also enjoyed it.
So the feedback is great.
And thanks to Active Inference Institute for facilitating this and to you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Welcome.
David, if you want to just begin with any thoughts or what brought you into the game
in the bottom of the ninth?
Well, in school, I was actually trying to use free energy to develop some sort of a network
of agents that were deciding what information to send in what states to be based on each
other's approximation of each other's states.
And so I registered at the beginning, but then I guess life happened and I didn't really
participate.
But yeah, so now I'm just kind of opening up to things and participating more in the
world that I exist in.
And this is a natural, this is really tied to the work that I was doing in school.
I don't know if this is a place to ask a question, so I'm not going to ask any questions.
Let's begin with that.
Okay.
So I was thinking about, I'm still confused about like Markov blankets and non-localism.
How do those two things work together?
Well, like non-localism seems to me that an entity could be distributed arbitrarily in
whatever is, I don't know if the universe as like space-time is what is, or if that's
just a construction that we create through the information processing and like putting
relation like enunciating or like rendering the information in a way where it's like all
the related components can be mutually distinguished.
But the Markov blanket seems to be highly local.
I don't know, maybe this is what, like I'm confused about this, it seems to be highly
local and like it seems like everything is connected with everything.
So I'm kind of confused about how an entity could be defined with a Markov blanket while
at the same time what is seems to be completely intertwined non-local mutually like defined.
Yes, Dean, please.
So can I just, David, just clarification.
Are you thinking that local and non-local is somehow similar to maybe arbitrary?
I'm thinking local is like within a volume and non-local is like distributed like a sphere
like a small sphere where all the information is like within a sphere and everything within
that sphere is causally irrelevant, everything without is causally irrelevant, but then like
I'm thinking of a Markov blanket as a sphere and everything on the inside is like independent
statistically from everything on the outside.
I guess I'm asking around where do you see that being placed, do you see that being placed
arbitrarily?
Like when you set that up, whenever you decide where that boundary exists, are you asking
because it's local or it's non-local because it's wherever inside and outside is present,
is the, what's the word I'm looking for, are you wondering about how that doesn't seem
to be consistent that one minute it can be here and then the next minute it can change
and arbitrarily end up being in a different place?
It doesn't seem to me that that's the confusion, it's more like, like you know what David
Bohm's implicate in explicate order and the idea that the explicate order is like one
hologram and there's like the hollow movement where each layer affects each layer and it's
all, the explicate is all that one's explicated in mutual relatedness, I don't know.
I don't know if these words are incoherent completely, like and then but then the Markov
blanket, like I'm taking the example of my skin is like, I don't know if that's even
an example, but my skin is like a Markov blanket, but then if everything is mutually related
and explicated, like this whole body is submerged in the same field that everything else is
submerged in and in that sense everything is linked to everything, there's no, I don't
know, like, let me try adding a few pieces here.
So, welcome, welcome, Andrew and Chris will hopefully join too.
Here we go.
Okay, opening act.
Just to catch up, Chris and Andrew, David asked about the Markov blanket and about if
slash how everything is connected to everything and how we associate Markov blanket or the
holographic screen with localism and non-locality, do you want to give any quick thoughts on
this or are you asking me if you want to either of you could, I don't know, let's wait a minute
for Chris to show up, yeah, I'm glad you found it, the way family.
So, question, did you guys go through the slides of last time, the lecture on biology?
No, no, we just began and started with a Markov blanket question.
Yeah, I mean, I think, I think you wouldn't heard to talk about that because a big part
of that last lecture was the copy and diversified notion as a universal feature in nature and
I mean, naively, I think that the creation of new boundaries is implicit in there.
So, maybe Chris can comment, but I also thought it was very worthy of mentioning today that
the cycle of error correction, memory and so on.
So, those would be my only two comments in the agenda for today.
Maybe Chris can say a few words, but I didn't mean to interrupt.
So, Markov blankets, we can pivot it to biology, I'm sure.
Okay, I think I'm seeing this question.
Is this a question about the definition of Markov blankets?
There's something about, I can't actually see the entire...
No, it's not a question on my screen.
Oh, it's not a question on your screen.
Okay.
So, it's a question on your screen.
Right.
But could you tell me what the question is again?
Yeah, David, just restate it, how you see it.
The question was if everything is mutually connected and mutually defined and interconnected
and there's non-localism in the sense that everything is mutually connected and mutually defined
and I'm kind of implicitly working with the assumption that the implicated explicated order
makes sense and the explicated is like one hologram and it's...
I've lost audio altogether now.
Oh, I still hear him.
Oh, the audio...
Chris?
Chris?
Is the audio okay?
Yeah, I lost at least half of that.
Audio just dropped out altogether.
Yeah, so I'll try to...
Sorry about that.
Just like so, if everything is kind of explicated...
If it's information in the brain is kind of rendering it all at once together,
I'm just confused as...
And the whole body is submerged in the same...
The whole body is submerged in it.
If I look in the mirror, the whole body is submerged in it.
And it's all non-local.
I mean, by that, I mean, it's all connected together and mutually defined and mutually necessary
to even make sense of any piece of it.
If there isn't even such a thing as a piece.
And I'm wondering...
I mean, so that's one way of looking at it.
And then the other way is like the local...
To me, it seems like there's like this skin mark-off blanket and it's kind of local.
And I'm kind of like confused as to how those things kind of worked.
Like how those things...
Like it seems like all the information in a sphere,
a sphere could be a mark-off blanket.
And then on the inside and the outside,
they're statistically independent.
Is that the whole movement on the inside and the outside
because of the mark-off blanket separates those.
But then if everything is...
If this whole body is submerged in this thing that's mutually related,
I'm just confused as to how like...
I don't know.
I just am confused as to how those things work together.
I suspect the...
I'm not sure I understand your question,
but I suspect the answer has to do with whose point of view we're talking about.
So if you are the system that's in...
So let's fix a mark-off blanket someplace.
If you're the system on the inside,
then all you can see is what's encoded on the blanket.
And you have no independent access to what the dynamics is on the outside.
So you don't actually know what the dynamics is on the outside.
And similarly, if you're on the outside.
If you're somehow able to view the whole system,
you can see the whole system is having some joint dynamics.
But if the whole system is isolated,
then there isn't anybody on the outside by definition.
So the idea of a whole dynamics is just a theoretical postulate
that we make to make the mathematics make sense.
Now, if you move from the classical formulation to the quantum formulation,
then it's possible to prove a very nice theorem,
which is that if you're inside a holographic screen,
you can't measure the entanglement entropy across the screen.
So what that means is that you can't know that your state
is conditionally independent of what's going on outside.
So if you're inside a holographic screen,
you can't know that you're not entangled with whatever's outside.
So you can't even know whether you have a well-defined state, in a sense.
And I think the same thing would probably hold true
from the point of view inside a Markov blanket
that you wouldn't be able to know
whether your Markov blanket had holes in it or something like that.
The problem is in the classical formulation,
you assume there's no analog of entanglement.
So there's no analog of entanglement entropy.
So I think the strongest thing you can say is you don't actually know
your statistical relationship to what's going on outside,
but you still can only see what's encoded on the blanket.
Thank you, Chris.
If I get out a few more pieces.
So, David, you described everything connected to everything.
In a system with that kind of a base graph,
there aren't Markov blankets,
because a Markov blanket is the set of nodes
that make two other sets of nodes conditionally independent.
So in a fully connected setting,
again, leading to the question, what is outside of that,
