Professor Lee Cronin, thanks so much for coming on to Evolution Soup from your home in Glasgow,
Scotland.
You hold the Registrar of Chemistry at the University of Glasgow and have given over 300
international talks and published over 400 peer review articles in journals such as Nature
and Science.
And your main interest is in the origin of life and how biology emerged from non-living
matter.
How are you doing Lee?
I hear Scotland recently went into lockdown again.
So did this affect your work in any way or is it just business as usual?
Good morning.
The lockdown started and basically the group is going in as normal with some additional
precautions to minimise the number of interactions on campus and in the lab, but because the
lab is we're fortunate to have enough space, it's possible to social distance according
to the legal guidelines.
So it's tough, we're back in, everyone's safe and which is the best news, but also
good news is we're able to continue doing science and some of the genesis engines I've
got or selection engines as I probably it's better to call them, we're also starting to
run now.
Well, before we find out about your fascinating work, let's just hear a little bit about your
background.
Lee, did you always have an interest in science and in particular the question of how life
came to be?
Yeah, I've always been interested in science since I can remember, you know, since I was
I suppose five, four, five, six years old where I can recall those memories and I don't
think the quite the origins question was there.
In fact, I mean, I must confess, I'm not interested in the origin of life or what did happen.
I'm more interested in what does happen because I think the process that gave rise to the
origin of life is ongoing right now.
So I guess I've always been deeply interested in how things work in the universe and one
of the things that mystified me is basically the mechanism for selection and evolution in
the universe and I've always been interested in causation.
I think that's, you know, there's a lot of, I've done a lot of kind of introspection
and been thinking about how I got to where I am in terms of why am I interested and I
can just remember as a child trying to manipulate, you know, the sun photons reflecting things
through bits of glass and understanding how things interact with each other.
And I guess I've always wanted to understand how the universe works and what is more fundamental
about asking how the universe works, which is about asking how life got started and is
that how is that process working now.
So the search for the origins of life, also known as a biogenesis, is nothing new.
For those who don't know, can you give us a brief overview of the experiments that have
been conducted leading up to your first experiment in 2011?
Yeah, so the origin of life or looking at a biogenesis is not new.
It's been going on for hundreds of years, thousands in fact.
As opposed in recent history, you might, the people who are trying to think about
how matter could be animated, and I suppose in medieval times there was a kind of morbid
fascination with life and death still is.
So there are people thinking that life could just spontaneously generate and because people
saw suddenly bacteria growing or maggots growing and things like that, but then that was shown
to be a fallacy that life cannot spontaneously generate in inorganic stuff.
But the irony is really that, and we'll talk about that, is it actually does.
But let's talk about experiments.
So people looked at the kind of inorganic stuff becoming alive, and then as we went through
to the kind of 17, 16, 17, 1800s, obviously alchemists wanted to turn metal into gold,
based metals into gold, so they were kind of thinking about whether matter had some kind of
essence. And then when we started to get really serious about chemistry and understand how
chemistry worked, people started to do very fascinating experiments with what happens in
the soup of chemicals. And the first of those was really happening, say in the 1950s, where
two guys, Miller and Yuri, decided to do the Miller-Yuri experiment, which literally takes
the simplest things you could imagine. Some methane, so that's kind of, that's the simplest
gas molecule that will burn on Earth is, just one carbon atom and four hydrogens.
Some ammonia, that's the simplest nitrogen based atom, that's one at nitrogen 300 atoms,
which is used for the fertilizer. And then some water, H2O, so water is all around,
and some hydrogen H2, one of the most, you know, simple gases in the universe,
put it all together in a bell jar and just have two electrodes and zap the material to
simulate, you know, lightning and kind of other reactions going on, you know, thousands of volts,
between 50,000 volts. And when they did that, they found that there was a soup of molecules made,
like the primordial soup, as they called it. That was in the 1950s. In the 60s and 70s,
sugar chemists started to look at very simple reactions, would make very simple sugar molecules
and take formaldehyde, which is the simplest kind of aldehyde, and then do reactions with that,
would make sugar-like molecules and make a big, gooey mess. So there'd be lots of reaction and
stuff like that, and then going on into the 80s and 90s, people have been doing soup experiments
with, with DNA and RNA to see if you could make kind of genes spontaneously in the test tube,
and then, also, I've looked at the components of RNA and DNA and said,
can these molecules be made in the laboratory easily? And I have, you know, views on all of this,
and people will be trying to string them together to try and come up with a plausible route that
connects dead earth, no organic chemistry, to a biological earth that we have now.
Right, and I remember when you were talking about spontaneous generations,
even as a kid in early science books, this idea that if you put some rubbish out, rats will
appear. It was basically that, wasn't it? Basically, yes. The spontaneous generation
really was, you know, there were biological materials inside the container, which were
basically decaying, and, you know, if the flies had been there, there were larvae that turned
into maggots, and there were, or if it was just bacteria or fungi, they would grow,
so they were already present. And it was showing, if you sterilize the material,
then obviously nothing would grow because everything was dead. So spontaneous generation
was ruled out. But my comment I made about spontaneous generation is, of course,
spontaneous generation does not occur without evolution, but if you have a few, if you have
some time, you can get evolution into biology. So on a billion year time scale, spontaneous
generation using evolution is the answer on a quick time scale, spontaneous generation is just
misunderstanding biology in the seeds that are in the system. Well, you conducted your own experiment,
the first of many, in 2011, an experiment known as inorganica. But before you tell us about that,
is it appropriate to define life? And if so, how would you define it?
It is appropriate to attempt to define life, but I think the problem with defining life
is more arguments have gone into defining life than actually making it. And the problem is,
it's hard to define something you don't, you can't remake or understand. It's like saying,
define an automobile. What is an automobile? Well, automobile was defined by, you know,
the people that first generate them, is an automobile defined by four wheels?
A steering wheel? No, you could probably move around in a, with a car without four wheels,
you could do with three wheels or five wheels. Do you need a steering wheel? No,
you could have a couple of levers. So the problem is people got themselves confused about the
definition and what is the core definition and what is the functional definition and what is the
kind of add-on definition. And so I found that really arguing about definitions of life then
led you into, oh, well, we need this and this and this. No, let's define an automobile, let's
define, well, we need wheels, we need a steering wheel, we need an engine, we need an exhaust pipe.
Well, if it's an electric car, you don't need an exhaust pipe. If you use levers,
you don't need a steering wheel. If you don't, if you decide you're not going to use four wheels
and you have more, you can have eight wheels, right? So some of your definition of your car
has no meaning yet what does the car, what do you do with a car? We get in it and you travel from
A to B. So what I decided to do is rather than get trapped in this loop of what is life defined by
and how do I make life in the lab and say, well, what universal thing characterizes all life on
Earth that we know of and probably all life in the universe? Is there one such thing?
And I realized very quickly there is and that is life using it uniquely, uniquely
defined by its ability to generate complexity via evolution. And what I mean by and what is
prerequisite for complexity that is functional information. So life generates functional information
and if you could have a measure for functional information, you could say something is alive
or dead. So virus, does it have functional information? Yes. So virus is on by this definition
alive and you go but viruses aren't alive, but let's go on. Does a fly have functional information?
Yes, flies are alive. Then when you start to say, oh, there are some things that have functional
information that are not metabolically alive, what connects them and what connects them all
is evolution. And so what we need to do is to say, let's not look at life per se because there's
lots of different types of life, metabolically alive things, viruses, AI's, where do they all come
from? Well, they are all connected via the chain of evolution. So viruses could not exist without
Darwin and evolution, they are related to the all the living organisms on Earth. Human beings
are also similarly related. Donkeys, you know, and classes of animals that can't be produced
anymore and therefore are not genetically alive anymore, dead ends if you like, but we're all
unified by the fact that evolution made us. And that I think is a new definition that I would
like to put out there to say, hey, let's not worry about whether a virus is alive or dead,
because of course, if you're unlucky enough to have COVID, when those COVID virus particles
inside your cell, they have hijacked the cell and they are alive for that moment in time.
And then when they eject the cell and they're going out to infect someone else, they are not alive
metabolically, but they have the potential to be alive. And I think that's a very important
distinction, but we need to understand that the connection, the hard connection, the irreducible
connection is evolution. Well, on this channel, Lee, we talk about the signs of biological evolution
and in many of the debates that we see between evolutionary scientists and evolutionary skeptics,
such as creationists, the skeptics will usually end up saying, well, we may not fully understand
evolution, but you can't tell us how life began, to which the evolution proponent will respond,
that's a biogenesis, not evolution. Those are two different things stick to the topic.
But Lee, you're saying that these things are actually inextricably linked. Is that right?
Yeah, I think that they are linked. And the problem with the debate that creationists all
have to try and disprove evolution through complexity is that they are creationists in
general that do this are they're not taking part in the discussion in a way that is an argument
that means that you can change someone's mind. If you have an argument with someone, then for me,
the prerequisite of an argument is you have a point of view you believe in. But when your point
of view is shown to be inconsistent with the evidence, then you are willing to revise that
point of view. What creationism is, is creationism over the last 50 years, is this evidence of a
body of people that don't want to accept the method of dialogue, logical discussion, you know,
is my axion correct, yes or no, and then move on. They are trying to muddy the borders with
questions and lack of information has been evidence of their point of view.
What they don't understand is science, the process of science is about explaining where you don't
know. That's it. You know, I reason I'm focusing in on a biogenesis is because we don't know how
that works scientifically yet and we're trying to uncover the mechanism. The creationists will say,
look, evidence of the creationist viewpoint and like, no, no, evidence of the scientific method.
It's like, we didn't know how to land rockets on legs, but we knew it was possible. And then Elon
Musk with Space X worked out the mechanics of landing the rocket on legs. It's a very hard thing
to do, use technology. So I think the problem I have with the creationist debate is that isn't a
debate, it is a religious cult. And if you're not able to question it, and the questioning is done
unprofessionally, illogically, and with mal intent, then you're not going to have a productive
discussion. So I think that I find that most creationists is very easy to talk to them and say,
look, if you're not willing to debate the actual thing we're doing in the lab,
and what that means in the divide between falsifiable hypothesis, which means it's
falsifiable, and faith, then you have a problem. Because what I'm not saying as a scientist,
I'm not saying people who are religious are stupid. I'm saying people who have a religion or have a
faith, faith by definition, is in something that can't be falsified. Whereas the origin of life
is a hard problem, but the experiments can be falsified. So the creationists in a way are in
they're in a sticky wicket, because they're always going to lose because, you know, it's like
adopting a point of view. And so they're always on this adversarial front. So I think there's a
contradiction there they try and make doesn't exist. It's a bit like the way you would convince
someone in the fake news, you just bombard them with ever more outrageous examples of the thing
that you want your the thing that you want to argue against and then use that as a straw man.
So I think we need to take it down and say, what is your faith? What is the science doing?
And how is the science and the faith interacting together? And now you can have a really interesting
discussion with theology. And that is actually happening between science and theology. But
creationists are just like a parasitic cult that they don't have anything to add to the debate
other than they're a virus on religion, right? In the same way viruses exist in biology. What are
they doing? They're meant to sow kind of, you know, skepticism in in the wrong way. You know,
we're not skepticism. They're supposed to pretend to be skeptic, but so for Nazism. It's okay,
you can very easily cut down these discussions by by reason and debate. And when people start
ad hominin on you, then you know that you've won and they've lost. But it's not about winning and
losing. It's about critical thinking and giving evidence and finding the answer.
Exactly narrowing down the space in which your hypothesis works. You know, it would be really
interesting if we were able to make a life form tomorrow. But it's going to be hard to make a life
form. But we will be able to show the mechanism of evolution in the same way we see the evolution
is working on earth right now. In fact, indeed, it's working in real time. And the way the UK
locked down and didn't lock down allowed the virus to mutate. Because why? Well, there's two
arguments here. Let me take a segue. America didn't lock down like the UK. South Africa didn't
lock down like the UK. So mutation of the more virulent viruses didn't emerge. Why? Because
people were exchanging the virus freely, people getting ill. Lots more people died in have died
sadly in the US. Now, of course, the proportion of death in the UK is actually quite high. In fact,
the highest right now. Now, why has that happened? Well, there's demographic reasons, but we locked
down, then unlocked down and locked down and locked down. And when you went through cycles of
amplification of mutation and propagation, and that was a really, I think that would turn to be a
hard thing to see for society. But that was evolution in action right before your eyes.
Like a weird petri dish. You know what? Unfortunately, the vaccines seem to be robust
touch word against the mutations that come out. And we will need to revise the vaccines in a
couple of years. But the good news is the UK have done a brilliant thing after making mistakes or
well, that's not mistakes. After what's happened, it's really sad. You know, over 110,000 deaths in
the UK, I think it is now, where we stand on the February 23rd. But we've vaccinated almost 17 million
people. And so that means our death rate should drop dramatically. Of course, this isn't a competition
with other countries about who's the best, who's the worst. It's about saving humans. And also,
it's about looking at how evolution and epidemiology interact and our cultural interactions. But
