not an extremely expert about this topic, about this particular library. It only took me one week
of training in order to get to this output. What I can say is that we can evaluate PMC marketing
as a really robust open source library that someone can use fairly easy. I mean, it took me one week
to understand how it works. That probably is going to take you a shorter amount of time if we
follow it to this point. It's a tool not specifically for data scientists that understand
how Bayesian statistics and probability work. So I would say is to use five out of 10 because
just because we compare it to a SAS no code product. Flexibility, I would say eight or nine
out of 10. It's extremely flexible. There are a lot more other parameters and priors that we can
use in order to model and change the posterior that we get from these trainings. Complexity is
six out of 10 and granularity and the utility that I can bring to our company. I think it's
a nine out of 10. The cool thing about this is that it embeds the probability distribution on
every measurement that we do. So it is extremely, extremely powerful. I would suggest PMC for
all the companies that do need to create a really robust model for their brand.
They have data scientists, a data scientists team, an engineering team that can actually run these
analysis week or week, a month over month. It is fairly, I mean, it's not super cheap because it
requires all the people, but it's a free open source library that you can actually start to use
and learn really, really quick. To be honest, it's the easiest open source library with the right
insights about probability distribution and taking into account uncertainty level that I've
ever seen so far. Compare Cassandra is nine out of 10 ease. I mean, it takes three clicks in her
to create an output. It's really easy to refresh. So ease to use nine out of 10. Utility for the
business, I would say seven out of 10. I mean, it generates pretty cool insights that are really
easy to interpret and validate over time. One thing that is not super on point is with these
probability distributions. I mean, we use an evolutionary method, not a Bayesian measure
methodology in order to measure the uncertainty rate of DMMA. It's just two different techniques,
but we've optimized our UI and our insights in order to be extremely easy to be interpreted
by non-technical marketers. So all the insights then are interpreted through our systems and
then explained in natural language as we saw previously. So I would say Pi MC is for companies
and brands that have a data science team internally. Cassandra is more suited for non-technical
marketers or marketing agencies that want to scale up their measurement operations. Hopefully,
this video has been useful for you and I can't wait to challenge a new, another open source
library about MMM. See ya.
