or where the trenches are drawn with definitions and that sort of stuff.
So that was something I was unaware of, that that was a contentious point for a lot of
people.
That's kind of interesting.
But I get it, it makes sense because you want to distinguish saying this is different
than us just fucking strangers.
This is going to be us agreeing, I like ethical non-monogamy, I think that's the great umbrella
term that I think can be used interchangeably.
And that does apply to signing also because people are hopefully aware of what's going
on and have agreed to it in good faith.
Now the reason that we're talking about this also is because to just take it back to the
rationality community is a survey that we mentioned before.
It seems that there is a much higher percentage of people who self-identify as polyamorous
in the less wrong community than in the community in the US, well in the population at large.
So to just bring it back to that, I did participate in the survey that we're quoting and I think
it was at a Scott Alexander generated survey.
When was, which was, how long ago did you take the survey?
It's the, I took it maybe even a couple years ago.
Then yes, that was when the Scott Alexander ones.
That was when the Scott Alexander ones and that's the one that you quoted on a previous
post of ours.
Yes.
But here are the stats, people who prefer being monogamous, that was 51.8%, prefer being
polyamorous, 15.1% and certain or no preference, 30.9% and other, 1.5%.
What are the other two options that the 1.5 might have meant?
Again, it didn't ask about ethical non-monogamy, it asked specifically about polyamory, so
swingers who are not monogamous or maybe don't consider themselves monogamous or they don't
like the word polyamory for any reason, might be people who either choose uncertain or preference
or other.
Gotcha.
So, not the most perfect questioning, if you really want to dive into that one, but it
was one of many, many different survey questions and let's compare that to the US population
at large.
There are estimates that up to 5% of people in the USA are involved in some type of consensual
non-monogamy.
So, they're saying that it estimates as high as 5%, could mean that it's like 3%.
Yeah, 3 to 5% actually is one that I saw in a bunch of different places.
Of course, this is really hard to measure, as always it's hard to get into what exactly
people are talking about, but that number seems to be any, for any kind of setup in
which other partners, sexual or romantic or both, are part of the situation.
So are we asking now what the link is between rationality and polyamory?
Yeah, so I thought maybe we could start by talking about what can explain or what theories
can we come up with to explain the higher percentage of self-identified polyamorous people
in the less wrong community.
Well, personally, I'm of the, okay, there's obviously founder effects and all that, but
more than anything, I am of the opinion that rationalists in general tend to be a bit of
a contrarian counterculture people and want to explore things for themselves rather than
taking the standard dogma of society.
Yeah, actually, I've definitely heard that a bunch and I think that you can potentially
apply it to other communities too.
For example, polyamory is higher in people of queer sexual orientation communities and
this is kind of a personal observation that other people have shared this personal observation.
At least when I started in about 2008, you know, really being polyamorous, the most other
people who I met who were like that would fit into the stereotype of being really nerdy
or geeky or otherwise kind of non-mainstream and happy with it.
I think it comes from a willingness to challenge what we've been taught and to re-examine things
yourself and when you look at the way compulsory monogamy is forced on people, it's really
not surprising that a large amount of the people who are willing to ask those questions
do come to the conclusion that this monogamy thing is kind of bullshitty and I think I
should consider my options.
There's also I think the I guess compounding factor that a lot of I'm not sure what the
age demographic breakdown is specifically, but I think I would guess that it's largely
a younger generation's game.
You don't get a lot of, I'm sure you get plenty, but I would bet that less than half
of the self-identified rationalists on the surveys are like say over the age of 50.
I actually don't know what the breakdown is for people who are ID is poly.
I know that there's definitely some differences between the, you know, the old people, the
old poly people and us younger 35 and younger people.
The rationalist community is definitely a youth community, so they're mostly of the
young kind, but it seems just in my experience that normally the people who are more open
in their sexuality do tend to be older.
I don't know.
I actually really don't feel like I can weigh in on this one.
I've been in different communities, but I've also seen a recent, what I feel like is an
explosion in people embracing various kinds of non-monogamy and those people I feel like
are running younger.
Yeah, they are nowadays.
And that's what I was getting at too, is I think that it's part of the general trend
that I'm seeing a lot of people online, because I don't see that many people in real life
as I do online, of people holding positions that their parents certainly didn't hold.
So we have less religious people in the younger demographics, and I think for similar reasons
you might get people challenging the assumption, you know, they look at their parent's relationship
and they're like, man, they certainly weren't happy.
Oh, I'm hearing about a lot of people are not doing what they're doing.
What's that like?
And also, the policing of sexuality is a thing that happens much more to younger people
than to older people.
The older you get, the less people tend to give a fuck about who you're fucking.
And the also, the more people tend to get more in touch with what they want.
Personally, I've found that a lot of young men have very unfulfilling sex lives, the
ones that have sex lives, because as a young man, you're told you want the thin little
blonde chick, and that's what's hot.
And if you get that, then we are going to judge you highly and that's a status symbol.
And so every guy thinks they want the thin young hot blonde chick.
And it takes a good 10 years or so for you to realize, if you're into something that
is not a thin young hot girl, oh no, I like the rounder girls more, you know, I enjoy
having a bit of meat on my woman.
And it takes a while to learn that and it takes a while to not care as much about what
society says you should like.
Or you know, even another shoe, I think that, especially girls that I knew growing up, if
he's not over six feet tall and not interested, a lot of people would be even way more superficial,
self-professed more superficial, not me just being like, they were superficial, like they
would want them to make a certain amount, all the stuff that like movies would list
off, right?
Well, especially if you're a guy, you lots of times chase women not for the women, but
for the respect of other guys.
So to bring this back to polyamory, why are we concerned in the evolving attitude as
people age over who they want to be dating by body type?
Like what does that have to do with poly?
Oh, I don't think it has anything to do with poly, it's just society being fucked up.
Oh, I think it did tie in because we were talking about other ways that...
I think we were talking about why it used to be that older people were more likely to
be poly.
And now it's been swinging more towards the young, but I was just saying it used to be
more older because it would take people a while to get more comfortable with their sexuality
and to throw off what society is trying to force on them.
Or be married for a long time and maybe have a spouse die or maybe they've been married
for a long time or with a partner for a long time and they're no longer interested in having
sex or there's a bunch of different reasons.
I do not want to make any claims about the age demographics of polyamorous people.
But there has definitely been an explosion of the young recently.
You said, oh, wow, when I was talking and like, I want to know why because it sounds
like you were strongly disagreeing with something.
No, I was just like slut shaming.
No, I was kidding.
What?
I think it was your use of the word meet on my woman.
Yeah, I believe.
I did not like that phrasing.
Oh, really?
Oh, I'm sorry.
I didn't mean it as an insulting way at all.
No, I...
We're not even...
I don't want to get into it.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
So...
I think...
I think I knew what you meant.
I apologize for my phrasing if that was problematic phrasing.
I think different body types maybe would have been the more kosher way to put it.
Oh, I was just thinking of the ownership part of my...
Oh, the my woman.
Oh, I meant the kind of woman I'm attracted to.
Never mind.
And not even me personally.
Just...
Okay.
Sorry.
At least we know you're not an ownership type person.
That's actually one of the reasons I hate monogamy because of the ownership aspect of it.
Oh.
So, with a little bit of backpedaling, I want to make a possible counterpoint to kind of
fringe communities being more comfortable with exploring non-monogamy and make a note
that racial minorities are really underrepresented as practitioners of polyamory.
It turns out racial minorities are underrepresented in just about everything and there was a fun
breakdown on an essay that we'll link to by Scott Alexander called...
That's the one.
I think he draws eight possible conclusions as to why this might be the case and probably
parts of most of them are part of the answer for the general underlying thing.
But everything from like NASCAR enthusiasts to furries, you get respondents in the single
digits in like the black community.
Which why would that be the case?
So it seems to be an interesting phenomenon that's...
Minorities are always underrepresented in any fringe movement.
Yeah.
And so that seems to be a larger...
Racial minorities specifically.
Yes.
Yeah, for sure.
And that seems to be a larger phenomenon than just for poly, although the Slate Star Codex
essay was written in response to an article that was written saying that the poly community
is just for white people or something.
So the...
Yeah, that completely conflated it with like swinger's parties, like as if minorities maybe
don't have enough money to go to expensive swinger's parties and that's why they're
not being involved in poly, which was just so faulty, it was terrible to read that article.
But that said, it is my impression as a non-poly person that there's not a, you must be this
white to join the club criteria, right?
There is not.
Okay, I didn't think so.
I know that's out there.
Not that I don't know.
We don't have a little color chart that we hold up to everyone.
Well, you should not have gone to Bermuda, look, you just, sorry.
I'm happy to have loved people of minority races and still do, so I don't think that
it's a complete exclusion, but for some reason, people of minority races are definitely
underrepresented.
Another thing that I wanted to mention as a possibility for why less wrong community
might have more poly members than expected is something that you mentioned, which was
obviously the founder effect, which is a concept in population genetics, kind of explaining
why a certain population might have a much more narrow, you know, narrow gene pool.
And it's because a few people show up, they happen randomly to have those characteristics.
And so those characteristics are expressed at a greater rate than they would be otherwise
if they were representative of the larger population.
So in other words, maybe there are more poly people because more poly people randomly
happened into being early adopters of rationality movements and less wrong, and they brought
other poly people with them.
It could be a non-random effect, right?
