It could be that the founders were poly because that was the rational conclusion that they
came to when they started this whole movement thing.
That's different than the founder's effect though.
So let's get to that in a moment.
Okay, so I guess I wanted to sort of equate just as long as we're, well, I don't want
to deviate, but I want to see if this brings the point home.
So I was thinking that there's also a higher rate in the rationalist community of like
cryonics members as opposed to general population.
Is that explainable by any of the same factors that might say why there's more poly people
in the rationalist community?
I think there might be a combination of factors, but I mean, so the one that you're mentioning
is maybe it actually is a reasonable position to take, and people in the poly community
or in the rationality community are willing to question their presuppositions, think about
why they do what they do, and update.
So maybe it actually makes sense for more people to be polyamorous than there are in
the base population.
Right.
And if more of the base population was willing to question their assumptions, then more of
the base population would be poly as well.
Yeah.
And something else, another thought is actually people who are well respected and high up,
including Eleizer and Scott, are both polyamorous themselves and have written about it.
So maybe they have an undue influence on people who read their stuff and think that they got
a lot of good things to say, and people kind of follow suit.
Actually personally, my husband of eight years, and we started out in a polyamorous relationship,
although it's certainly gone through a lot of changes since we started out, I think that
part of the reason he was willing to do that with me was because he had been exposed to
the idea through overcoming bias and less wrong, and he was kind of more comfortable
with that idea and didn't think it was so totally crazy, but I would want to do something
like that.
So it seems to come from a lot of places, the inclination towards polyamory.
I wanted to say really quick, as a follow up to our Chronix episode, very short side note,
after our discussion with it, I felt more prepared to talk with people about it in my
personal life, and I had a conversation about it with my grandma there and my mom.
My mom agreed to sign up for Chronix.
These conversations can change people, and one thing that really slowed me down when
I was crack-crastinating was that I didn't know anyone else, and that it would be just
me and a bunch of strangers if it worked out right.
Anyway, so I thought it was extremely gratifying to get a mind changed and possibly life saved.
That's pretty huge, and I just want to put that out there so people know that you can
change people's minds with good arguments sometimes.
Congrats, dude.
Yeah, that's great, and that totally applies to this topic.
Yeah, absolutely.
It applies to every topic.
And regarding, Scott actually did a great post, Scott Alexander did a great post on Slate
Star Codex called Polyamory is Boring, which we will link to in the show notes, and you
can check that out.
It is about how normal and very much like being monogamous, Polyamory actually is.
Yeah, from the outside, I think I mentioned this before on the air, where I had a friend
call me out of the blue once, and he had just encountered his first poly person.
And to be fair, for him, it's not the kind of thing, we mentioned that I'm from Fort
Collins, and that you said the community is lively and active there, but it wasn't the
kind of thing that I was ever exposed to there, really, and that I guess he hadn't been either
until he met somebody, and he had the same sort of like, this is, have you heard of this?
This is so weird.
So the Scott Alexander thing was, you know, from the inside, it stopped being weird really
quickly, and he opens it up with a fun analogy about, well, forget it, you guys read the
essay, it's fun, it's not that long.
Yeah, it feels normal, it feels really natural, and it feels a lot like any other kind of
relationship, and how you would run any other kind of romantic relationship.
So I've been, I'm going to talk briefly about why I like polyamory and dyslexia.
I am one of those people, I don't know how, how much of, you know, how many there are
of us in the world, but who has just been poly by nature since, as soon as I discovered
girls, I guess, I never quite understood what this whole weird jealousy thing is about people
having to have just one other person, and I couldn't figure out why people weren't
just, you know, loving with everyone that they were in love with.
So you're saying you didn't, you didn't, or you still don't quite understand where that
jealousy comes from?
I, I, both.
I mean, I, I think we'll take a failure of imagination to literally have no idea where
people are from.
Do you experience jealousy, Anish?
Not sexual jealousy.
No.
I do, and we can talk more about that later.
Okay.
That sounds fun.
You know, society beat me into shape, and I was like, oh yes, now one true love, etc.
And I was in a monogamous marriage for six years, and the whole marriage had problems,
so we can't blame anything on just one thing.
But anyways, eventually I got out of that, and I was like, oh thank God, I can join my
people again.
Let's put this, let's put this on the table, I think, if I remember correctly from your
timeline history, that that was back when you were a fundamentalist, right?
No.
Are religious fundamentalists?
No, no, no, no.
I dropped religion when I was like 14, 13, or 14.
So when were you debating evolution and stuff on the forums?
Was that pre-13 and 14, too?
That was between the ages of 12 and 13.
Oh.
Yeah.
Alright, never mind.
I was precocious.
And, you know, it wasn't really forums because the internet didn't exist yet, and its current
form, it was just local BBSs you could dial into.
Gotcha.
Yeah.
But the thing that I dislike about monogamy, and we touched on it before, is the possession
aspect.
The treating the other person as if they are your property.
And this is, it's more the case that men do it to women, but women also do it to men.
We're both shaking our heads, bro.
Yeah.
You think it's equal?
I'm shaking my head.
Okay.
So I also don't think that it's something that has to be a part of a monogamous relationship.
No, no, no, no.
Like, you know, Steven's relationship, the fact of monogamy, I'm fine with.
But the fact that lots of monogamy, the way it's practiced, certainly the compulsory
monogamy of society today, is very much I own my partner's genitals, and I own their
affection and no one else can have it, and I think that is complete bullshit.
When I was first dating, and I was 17, I was very possessive, and I had this feeling like
I was entitled to, you know, this because I, because we were in love, and I was entitled
to, you know, this amount of time because we were in love, and this amount of consideration
because we were in love, and this type of behavior because we were in love, and that
is, I think, more of a lack of mature understanding of what it means to enter into a relationship
with someone than it is something that is specific to any kind of relationship structure.
I think so too, and I think that there is probably an even distribution between sexes
as to the propensity for the ownership quality, right?
Yeah.
Were you looking at her as you walked by?
You know, so it says the TV girl, and you're like, why yes, she has female characteristics,
those are the same things that attracted me to you.
And it wasn't a sexual, it wasn't even a sexual thing, it was a, it was just like, where are
you going?
We should be together at all times.
You know, there wasn't, it wasn't, say, a jealousy, you don't need, you need to not
spend time with other people or look at other people, it was, these are things that I absolutely
must have in a relationship.
And I feel like as I've gotten older and Polly actually really helps this, I've expanded
what a relationship looks like to me, what it can look like, and it's become less of
a matter of having expectations that people need to fulfill in order to, to have my love
or get to relationship status or, or even the need to have such a status, but it's
more of a dance where you're having all sorts of different interactions with people and
there's a lot more freedom and it, and it much more depends on what you both want to
be doing and when to be together.
I don't want anyone to be tied to me because then that's not a relationship in my opinion.
That's, that's someone that I have enslaved and captured somehow.
I want someone to want to be with me and if they don't want to be with me, then that's
fine, you know, go on and be with someone else, but this, this forcing people to be
with you is, I've always considered it just gross and that, that is what Polly frees you
from.
Like you are allowed to be with other people and if you want to stay with the person, you
stay with them.
I would say that's what Polly frees you from and more what like just being mature and thoughtful
frees you from.
That doesn't necessarily free you from that.
There are a lot of relationship expectations that I held long into being in a polyamorous
relationship.
Like if I don't get to see you two times a week at least, I'm going to cry because this
isn't fulfilling my expectations.
Oh, well, I mean, if it's not fulfilling what you need in a relationship, then you probably
need to drop the relationship and move on.
Needs and expectations are different, right?
Yeah.
So, or, or desires and expectations are different and, and the line between them can be a little
fuzzy, but I feel very happy that my desires are becoming more free.
And I think that Polly kind of lets you do that because you can have different kinds
of relationships and still fulfill some of your, some of your needs with different people.
And that's what I think is nice about de facto monogamy.
It's that you aren't tied to each other, but you just don't want to have anyone else
in your relationship and that's fine too.
That's sort of, so I'm trying to think of, and, you know, not to put my relationship
on a pedestal, but I'm contrasting my relationship with like archetypal relationships I have
that you're describing, right?
And it's like, it doesn't bother my, my partner, if I go out with a girl all night or if a
girl stays, stays at our place when we hang out until four in the morning, it doesn't bother
me if she's out with a guy until the wee hours in the morning, like that.
But it's very easy for me to imagine relationships where like, I can't believe you're out with
this guy till past midnight.
What are you doing?
You know, like that whole weird possessiveness.
That's a trust issue too.
It is.
But I think, so that might be a lot of what that possessiveness comes from, right?
Just the whole trust issue.
Well, no, I think, I think the trust is a, is a really good part of that because when
you have enforced monogamy to me, I don't feel like you can ever really trust your other
partner to be staying with you because they want to be with you.
And to me, I don't want anyone to be with me if they don't want to be, but once your
partner has gone out and slept with someone else and they come back to you anyway, they're
like, yeah, I mean, that was fun.
I enjoyed that person, but I live with you.
You are the person that I come back to.
Then you no longer have just like faith that they love you.
You now have knowledge that they love you, you know,
He's talking from a hierarchical perspective.
Oh, fuck.
I was going to bring that up, but that I noticed that that is not how you would describe it.
But I would say that I think there was, you were linked to the essay on your blog that
I read something about that that you wrote maybe last year.
Oh, okay.
It was a short post somewhere that I think you might have shared to Facebook or something.
Okay, okay.
But you wrote something on that.
We can dig it up.
