Yeah, no.
You might have a better memory than I do of which one it was.
I didn't remember that I posted that, but yeah, it's very much to me once, once your,
once your partner is free to leave, but doesn't leave, then I feel much better about being
the relationship.
I no longer feel like I am imposing my will on someone.
If they're not there by unbreakable vow, but they're by choice.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yes.
And you know, I know that they're free to pursue sex somewhere else if they want to.
And you know, they will if they want to, but they're coming back to me.
For listeners, unbreakable vow isn't a rationalist term, it's from Harry Potter.
So the part that I was saying was coming from a hierarchical perspective is the, they live
with me, they come back to me, they might go out and do other stuff with these second
like satellite lovers, whatever, they come back to me and that's, that would be the difference.
Okay, see the way that you like, no one can see this, but you made this hand motion like
floofy, oh those satellite people don't matter.
But that's not the case at all because everyone that we've ever had sex with is someone who's
been a friend of ours, either a couple friend or someone that we know personally.
I mean, we don't just have random sex with strangers.
No, of course not.
Yeah.
So these are people that are important to us.
When I was a swinger, I was in a relationship with the same couple for the better part of
a year.
Nice.
Right?
And they were our friends and we would go out to movies and dinner and go to reptile,
we were all very interested in animals and go see reptiles and cool stuff like that.
And it was not a strictly sexual relationship, but that is what we did and I was, but there
were also rules.
They were the couple, I was the third person, there was no, I couldn't just go hang out with
one of them.
It always had to be them together.
Oh, that sucks.
It, there were, there were a lot of different, there were a lot of different things.
That sounds like they didn't have trust then.
Oh, they definitely didn't have trust.
So out of curiosity, out of curiosity.
I take back that high five, that sounds like a terrible relationship.
Oh, well, that's why I ended up leaving that situation is because it was, their relationship
was rocky enough and difficult enough for me to tiptoe around that it became very uncomfortable
and while I still claim them as friends, it, you know, and this was, this was like seven,
eight years ago.
I was no longer interested in having that kind of relationship with them.
Did we talk about the word primary yet or did we just use significant other or I think
we did.
Yes.
If we expanded on what that meant, I can't remember, but it was, it was exactly what
we're talking about.
It's the couple.
So I'm not, I, I don't have a situation where I'm involved in the couple and then there
are other people who I'm also in relationships with.
I am in multiple couples.
I wanted to say really quick that that relationship that you described from years ago sounded
a lot like you were in a relationship with an unstable person who happens to be two people.
Does that, does that sort of encapsulate it?
They were, yeah, it was unstable.
Would you, would you count that as a Polly relationship for them?
No, it was definitely not a Polly situation.
It was a, I mean, you could call it a friends with benefits situation or a swinging, swinging
coat on coat situation or something like that for them.
But even though there was like friendship and hanging out, it still wasn't Polly.
I'm just curious to see where some people, no, there is some blur, that is, that is
fair.
I would never call that Polly because there was no opportunity for a really close romantic
relationship for me.
It was, they were the romantic couple.
I was the friend that they could have sex with.
So yeah, I guess I've outed myself as having experimented with swinging for a little over
a year, a while back and the reason that I chose polyamory is because it turned out that
that was a really unsatisfying way to spend my time and that what I really wanted was
really close emotional connections with people and I wanted to be able to form those really
organically.
So the interesting thing that a lot of people would say, I think I really want to form a
close intimate relationship with somebody and I want to form that relationship organically,
but you used plural and I think that just different zone to start from is where that
difference draws, right?
So this is why I think people don't love, I guess in the rationalist community there
isn't a huge desire to work from a definition and then talk about stuff from there because
definitions suck, right?
It's hard to define anything in a satisfactory way.
Yeah, I know that starting from a definition is difficult and that we've kind of expanded
on and modified that definition as we have continued to talk, but I think it is helpful
to have something to start with and that particular thing that we started with I actually pulled
off of the website More Than Two which is, it's run by Franklin Vo and there's a book
of the same name by Franklin Vo and Eve Rikert called More Than Two that I absolutely recommend
especially if you're somebody who agrees with my particular form of poly which I arrived
at through a lot of mistakes and pain and trial and error and then this book came out
and I was like, why, why wasn't it there before?
Exactly, I could have read this five years ago.
Wow, other people came to the same conclusions I came to, this is fantastic and so helpful
and actually reading their book is what caused me to finally give up rules.
Not because it's bad to have boundaries to talk about what you want in a relationship
and what's important to you and have other people respect that but because there's a
bunch of unintended consequences that come along with rule making and one of those is
that people hold the rules as more important than even what they care about the rule actually
being about and I have made this mistake where I'm like, you broke a rule, that was our agreement
and I have zero tolerance for rule breaking around here, I can't even trust you anymore
whereas having an evolving conversation about it is a whole different situation
and then the other thing is that when you make rules as a couple, those are things that anybody
else who's dating your partner or dating you, they didn't have a say in that they are taking
those orders from on high and while they might agree or while many people do agree to enter
into a situation where rules are set down from on high about their relationship with someone
by a third party and that other person, things change and when love is concerned things are
often unpredictable and that's one of the ways that I guess I found out that it's really important
for me to have the potential to be in a changing morphing relationship because
because if you're with that couple that you're just friends with and then you fall in love
and they're not okay with that that hurts, it's heartbreaking and I've had my heart broken a lot
and when it is a third party who is not in the relationship that you are in who is making
the calls for your relationship that fucking sucks, it does I think unless you're agreeing to it
informed in advance right but like even then it might still suck right and then I guess I'm
trying to think of some rules that like are obviously stupid like I mean maybe not obviously
stupid but like there are things like you can engage in this kind of sexual activity but you
can't kiss or is that really a rule some people have oh god that's such a swinger rule right there
I was that you can't kiss yeah I've never heard that and I've hung around a lot of swingers
yeah that's the Julia Roberts yeah I mean that's the same thing as blumpies they don't actually exist
it actually exists blumpies don't exist don't worry about it I don't know about blumpies but
the Julia Roberts rule there's no way that's always one of the first things you do you with someone
so first of all that was going to be the fake rule that I was going to invent as an example
of a bad rule I had a couple solicit me uh-huh and they had a ton of rules oh no and one of them
was you do not kiss my male partner on the lips because you know what this is about me
and and I'm like well I don't want to be a bunch of fun finding somebody who's interested in
getting into a relationship with y'all because at that point they just need to hire a professional
this is an example yeah they do not want a person to have sex with they want a professional to
help them for an evening this is an example of uh this demonstrates the fact that you can meet
strong strong people in real life strong strong men so all right so hold on I wanted to just throw
this past you guys and you guys are the experts here uh it seems to me so like I think we can
all agree that a stupid rule is saying no kissing on the mouth because I just seem to have the kind
of even for me from the outside looking in as I'm hoping some of our audience isn't already in this
and they can sympathize with my ignorance a little bit why people do that trust issues and
stupid boundaries it's trust issues but also there is a as people are opening up and as people are
letting go of possession there is a a pretty serious desire to feel special and people will come up
with um artificial ways that they can feel special like he only does that sex act with me
I feel special because your partner loves you I I think so but but things like no he only watches
game of thrones with me or no this is our special thing we go to the theater or you know it can be
all sorts of this this might this might be a straw a straw man example or not you guys let me know
what if the rule was you only say I love you to me you can have really close friends that you
fuck and hang out with and hold hands and snuggle and watch the movies with but I'm the person
that you you say you love you too but then that draws the problem of like what if you fall in love
with them then you have to be dishonest yeah unfortunately that's an incredibly common rule
that people in non-monogamous relationships make you may only love me I must be the most
important person in your life period I don't believe we have that rule but I have my own issues with
the L word that are unrelated well we can get into that some other day maybe unless it's if it's not
that long it ties into polyamory well people use love in a lot of different ways and um when you're
communicating it it often helps to say I love you and by that I mean you've been an amazing friend
and I'm so happy that you're in my life sure I love the time that we spend together so the
reason I fear the L word is because of the the whole way I was raised again to you know with
the monogamy to me when you say I love you to someone that means and I want you to be mine
and be with me forever and I will take care of you forever and here's a ring and I can feel feelings
I love you to your brother or your mom right well I mean you can say it to family and it doesn't
count but if you say to someone the opposite sex especially if you're having sex with them
then all of a sudden all of that baggage is on you and I I I know not everyone is like that but
I still I fear saying that to someone because they're gonna think oh my god he loves me we're
a couple more together forever and I'm like wait no what I just I have strong feelings of love
towards you so I do not want you to pack your stuff and move in with me today this is and this
brings up as far as we're talking about the complication of just why I could avoid the word
that's a good point I've totally asked different people to move in with me um so far it hasn't
hasn't worked out no it hasn't happened oh it hasn't happened except for except for Tim who I did
end up marrying oh so I wanted to bring that up as an additional rule that kind of made sense but
it's not necessarily like a romantic relationship thing but first I wanted to say as far as they
I love you thing I exchanged and I love you with a friend of mine that we've been friends for for
many years and he's gay and I'm not but we both knew what it meant yeah and so it was more of the
you know the I love you kind of thing right yeah so um but but so like a rule that kind of makes
sense so say you're in a relationship where you're where you're splitting the bills uh for your uh
say your your home right and like an implicit rule might be that you you live there and you pay
the bills but say you fall in love with somebody and you move in with them but like that it needs
to be established somewhere in advance that you can't just up and leave those financial obligations
because then then you're leaving say your your hypothetical partner we can use Tim
in this example do you guys split your bills we do somewhat so like but let's try let's say them
let's say the mortgage is 50 50 right and then we definitely pay half and half rent and then
then say like well I'm gonna go live with this guy well and you know you can try and find a roommate
good luck but like that seems like a rule that seems distinct from well generally in a healthy
relationship one person isn't just gonna up and leave even if you have a roommate they just don't
up and leave if you're in a friendship they just don't up and leave you in a lurch um Tim and I
both spend a significant amount of time away from home but we share with other partners
sleeping over or you know doing stuff from multiple days going on trips whatever but we also share
responsibilities for our pets who we love and paying the bills and basic stuff like that
so my position I think would have been more coherent had I laid out my three
hypothetical rules okay in order which was the obviously stupid one of no kissing on the mouth
with your with your superfluous partners that's how they would model their satellite partners
and then the second rule that seemed less stupid but still probably common was no I love you so
that people and then the third rule which I which I was trying to think of one that was like really
made a lot of sense was was no leaving you know I want to jump in with a rule that makes a lot
of sense and this isn't the specific rule I have in mind but because Katrina was very much against
the rules and the third party imposing things on you and yes I agree with you that sucks sometimes
things suck but on the other hand if you're in a relationship with someone else or even two or three
other people you don't want to hurt them no and sometimes things will hurt other people and if
you were to do the thing that hurts them anyway that is that is just mean it's inconsiderate and
it makes it makes you have to reevaluate the relationship if you're willing to do things
that hurt them even though they hurt them and sometimes I want to be very clear I'm specifically
talking about rulemaking I'm not talking about so for example yeah but that can look like a rule
like if if a couple has important distinction if a couple has you mentioned Game of Thrones let's
say it's there on what season six now a couple has watched Game of Thrones for five years they've
bonded over it it's like a family ritual nowadays if that person were to go and like on a Sunday
evening let's say they always you know watch it together on Tuesday because they're busy on Sundays
and Mondays on a Sunday evening that person were to go to one of their lover's uh friends houses
and watch Game of Thrones with them and the next day the the the other person found out
they could be really hurt and to the third party that looks like a stupid rule that's like oh he
