Today our topic is polyamory.
A quick interjection.
When this episode was first recorded, I accidentally outed someone.
This episode has been edited to remove their names and certain identifying details.
Again, I'm really sorry to the person affected.
This is a much requested topic from...
Is it?
I've had at least two people ask for more information about it, so...
Okay, well we did mention it in previous episodes with almost no explanation.
That's true.
So let's start with an explanation.
How about a definition?
The Oxford English Dictionary from 2006 defines it...
I hate dictionary definitions.
Me too.
What's that?
Well, we're starting with a dictionary definition because the truth is we probably all have
different definitions of polyamory, so why don't we just settle on one?
The dictionary definition is polyamory, the fact of having simultaneous close romantic
relationships with two or more other individuals, viewed as an alternative to monogamy, especially
in regard to matters of sexual fidelity.
So the custom or practice of engaging in multiple romantic relationships with the knowledge
and consent of all partners concerned.
That's actually really good.
I think that's a fair definition.
I really liked the line as, quote, viewed as an alternative to monogamy.
At the last lecture on me, I had a long conversation with somebody who insisted that if you drop,
you know, three main factors from what people consider a romantic relationship, then that
just applies to every relationship.
So everyone's poly.
And I was like, yeah, but then like really what's the difference?
You know, why would you even classify yourself and it got into this whole long thing that
we were basically just quibbling over our different definitions of how it should be looked at,
but by bringing in the fact, just looking at it, think of what you think of when you
think of monogamy, but plus or, you know, plus one or more.
And that's, that's really, I think what we're talking about.
Is that fair?
Yeah, I think that's generally what we're talking about.
Of course, relationships are on a multiple axis spectrum and there are people who are
a romantic and asexual and I think that we'll get into that a little bit more a little later
in this episode.
But yeah, just for right now, multiple romantic relationships concurrently with the consent
of everyone involved, with the informed consent of everyone involved.
And that's-
I think that's completely justifiable.
A really important part of it.
Okay.
To be distinguished from a, on the surface monogamous relationship where one party or
I guess both are having other romantic entanglements unbeknownst to their primary part.
Right.
So that's not what people talk about when they use the word polyamory.
No, that's cheating.
Or shouldn't be.
Yeah.
So the reason that we're talking about this particular topic, actually let me back up
for a moment, you should probably know where we're coming from and what our personal biases
are and what kind of relationships we are involved in.
I'll start.
I'm in a non-hierarchical polyamorous setup.
You're going to have to define non-hierarchical if we're going to introduce it now.
And sit here.
You're going to have to say it three times fast.
Non-hierarchical, non-hierarchical, non-hierarchical.
Oh, damn.
Almost.
It almost worked out.
I think I slipped a little bit on the last one.
But, so I'm in polyamorous relationships with four other people currently.
So where does the non-hierarchy come in?
We will talk, I think, a little bit about.
So hierarchical is the idea that there is a primary partner and almost necessarily secondary
partners and sometimes even tertiary partners and so on and so forth.
Yeah, quadrennary.
That sounds sad.
Actually, these are pretty flexible definitions, but part of it's the idea of having a primary
person who you are in a relationship with and other relationships are satellite to that
one.
So.
And you are not to that.
I know.
Okay.
No, that's.
That's what the non-hierarchical means.
Non-hierarchical.
So I'm not into that biz currently and, yeah, how about you, Steven?
How would you describe your relationship structure?
I thought it would be more fun to do the two polys first.
No.
So my relationship is I'm in a monogamous relationship with an individual.
But where this is going to be less of like the two polys versus the token monogamous
and more like, well, it will come out more later, I think, but really we're in a position
where we're satisfied with what we offer each other and where we're at with our romantic
fulfillments.
And neither of us are axiomatically opposed to the possibility of bragging that out later
in any way.
Defective monogamous, then.
Yeah, pretty much.
I take a little bit of issue with there.
There's a little bit of an implication there that I don't think you meant to make.
I think I know what you're thinking.
That by being polyamorous, it means that someone is in any way not satisfied with one of their
relationships.
I don't want to dive into more, I think, because I wouldn't stand behind that implication,
but I would be interested in exploring it.
So let's save that until after we hear Yasha's introduction.
I want to riff off your thing real quick, because the de facto monogamous relationships
are the only monogamous relationships I can respect.
Like when people are forced into monogamy, I kind of consider that this is compulsory
monogamy.
I consider bullshit.
But the de facto monogamy, there's quite a few people I think, God, I don't remember.
I think it was Bertrand Russell.
But someone who is monogamous his entire life, but said, yeah, you know, my wife and me are
okay with that.
We just have never had any desire for that.
And to me, that's, you know, that's fine.
There are people out there whose preferred relationship style is legitimately monogamy.
And for them, you know, all power to them takes all kinds of different types.
I think that's a good thing to bring up, because I think that there's probably some discussion
out there in some of the fringe poly forums where they insist that monogamy is completely
unnatural.
That no human is built that way.
And everyone, everyone, well, I say this, I say this, I say this having skimmed a little
bit this afternoon, mainly the angry rant, grantings of Dan Savage, who I don't think
would endorse that position entirely, but he really, he really came off.
Well, I heard him describe on one thing where he was describing monogamish, which I was
going to talk about that, which is his, which is his word, correct me if I'm wrong, for
a most monogamous couple who occasionally do stuff without people.
Yeah.
So that probably fits into the consensual non monogamy umbrella for sure.
But the reason I brought him up was because in the, I think it was on Joe Rogan podcast
that I was listening to him talk about it on, he equated being in a monogamous relationship
your whole life to standing on your one leg the entire life.
Is it physically impossible?
No.
But is it really comfortable?
No.
Well, I would also like to say that he was probably talking about people in general, as opposed
to everyone.
Because I mean, there are, I've been reading Dan Savage since I was in college in 99, when
his column was still titled, and I don't, I think it was called Savage Love Still, but
it always, all the letters to him started with, Hey, faggot, which, which when I first
read that, I was like, Oh, what the fuck is going on here?
Oh my God.
And then I read, I was like, Oh, this guy is gay and he's like totally okay with this.
And I guess that's okay.
He's embracing it, you know, but no, I've, I've been reading or listening to Dan Savage
for so many years now.
And he is not at all someone who, he very much embraces all the different types of sexuality
out there.
Okay.
And yeah, he, he believes in people who are nationally monogamous too.
Okay.
I don't think he was talking about everyone in that regard.
And other perspective, I don't respect a lot of Dan Savage's positions and I think they're
terribly wrong and offensive.
Oh wow.
So.
I guess you were right about us disagreeing on a lot of things.
We can link to his Wikipedia page, which I went to, because I'd heard of him before,
like I said, I'd heard him on that one interview, I think it was in the Joe Rogan podcast.
And I was looking for something that we'll bring up later.
I found an article that he'd written in response to another article that was written that quoted
Dr. Helen Fisher.
And he used like all caps, the fucking data and you know, a lot of like, it sounded very
junior high-ish the way, but I get it, he was mad.
Maybe that was, maybe that's part of his delivery and I didn't know what to expect.
I expected something more calm and I'm comparing it to what I read like on Scott Alexander's
blog.
I'm hoping that we can get away from Dan Savage and back to, I'm really interested in hearing
how Anyash is going to describe his relationship structure.
Yeah.
Let's do it.
Well, it's interesting that you brought up Dan Savage, because I was going to mention
that our relationship is what Katrina would refer to as a hierarchical polyrelationship,
which is a term I don't like because I do not like the term hierarchical.
I just, it's ugly term.
And Melissa doesn't like the term poly, because she's like, I'm not poly.
And so the phrase that we've often use is Dan Savage monogamish, because we're like
monogamists, we're a couple and we know do the standard normal couple of things, but
our relationship is open.
We can sleep with other people.
And so we both think that term is kind of cool.
She used to use the term swingers and swingers also applies, but it's just so fucking 70s,
you know?
Yeah.
It's not a nice term either.
So all of the things that you guys have been describing are again in the realm of ethical
non-monogamy and people might quibble on what polyamory specifically means, but I think
an important thing to think about for polyamory is it involves multiple intimate romantic
relationships.
Yeah.
Wait, does it have to be intimate and romantic, or can it just be swingers?
No, it really, if it's just sex, then I'm going to put my foot down and I am planting
my flag and I do not want people to take the word polyamory, which is a specific form of
non-monogamy away because then there's no term for it.
So the other place that we're all coming from is that Inyash and Katrina know way more
about this than I do, just because since I'm not in that community at all, other than
apparently everyone I know is, so like other than being distantly connected to it through
that, I've had no reason to do any research into what terms I want to tag onto myself
