Hey, this is Mike Cascio, and you're listening to the BruteStrength podcast.
This week's guest is Daniel Schmockdenberger, co-founder and director of research and development
at Neurohacker Collective, a company that specializes in developing things to improve
cognitive function. Their only product out now is a new tropic called qualia, which is
basically to supercharge your brain. When I went into this conversation,
I had intended to talk all about new tropics and ways to, what are some legal medicines that
people can take to improve their brain function? What we actually ended up talking about was,
first off, what are basically the prerequisites for someone to be meeting
before using these types of supplements? We talked about adrenal fatigue and how to know if
you're drinking too much caffeine. We talked about sleep, a little bit about nutrition,
because the basic premise is that if you don't have some of these basic or all of these basics
down pat, then it's like putting a turbocharger, and I'm using his wording here, a turbocharger
in a car without an engine. Putting a turbocharger in a car without an engine
means that the car will go nowhere, but if you have an engine without a turbocharger,
then your car will still move. We talked about the engine portion of the equation
on this one, and then we're going to do a follow-up soon. Daniel is an incredibly
intelligent guy, and I learned a ton from this one, and I know you will too. Enjoy the show.
What's up, everyone? This is Mike Cashew. I'm here with Daniel Schmockdenberger,
co-founder and director of R&D at Neurohacker Collective. Daniel, I know you're an incredibly
busy guy. Thank you so much for making some time to do this with me, man. I'm very excited.
Happy to be here with you. This is fun. Awesome. So before the show started,
just now we were talking about my personal experience with caffeine, and the fact that
I've been taking way too much caffeine, and I got off completely for a couple weeks ago,
and as we got into conversation about it, it sounds like I may need to take quite a bit more
time off. So I thought it might be an interesting place to start, because a lot of my listeners,
I know, are caffeine addicts. There's even a company in the crossfit space called,
in weightlifting space, called Caffeine and Kilos, and it's very romanticized, and people just love
their coffee. So I think this would be a really useful conversation for us to start out with,
for people to know if they might need to do the same thing that I'm about to do.
So what are the signs that someone is taking too much caffeine?
So step back a little bit and recognize that caffeine is a psychoactive chemical compound,
right? We can say a psychoactive drug, and it's one of humanity's favorite ones up there with
alcohol and cannabis, etc., for a very long time, from tea and coffee and mini sources.
And I think it's a beautiful molecule and can actually have life extension and life enhancing
properties used rightly, and like any tool, and especially the more powerful tool, can also have
life damaging properties used improperly. And it's pretty easy to misuse caffeine. The easiest
way to misuse caffeine is to use it to deal with tiredness from not resting enough. So
if someone is not sleeping enough, or they're not sleeping well, and the way they notice that is
they're either tired in the morning when they wake up, say to alarm, they don't feel
fully rested or they get tired in the afternoon, their answer to it rather than to rest is to
stimulate. That's how adrenal fatigue and burnout happens. And so kind of paradoxically,
caffeine is best used when people are already energized, and they are then using it for enhancement
of metabolic activity in an already healthy system that can handle the stimulus as opposed to in a
under-rested, under-operating system that can't really handle the stimulus without damage. So
that's the biggest thing. And there are so many people who use caffeine as if it is a replacement
for adequate or good sleep or good rest in other ways. And that is a very fast way to make it very
bad for you. Right. So what you're kind of suggesting it sounds like is that one of the
biggest benefits of caffeine is more to do with the metabolism rather than to do with boosting
your energy and stimulating you in that sort of way. Is that what I'm hearing? Well, and even
regarding the kind of stimulant properties, the central nervous system stimulant properties,
the way it inhibits adenosine, the way that it has a dopaminergic effect, those still work much
better on a well-rested system that can handle being stimulated without being damaged, right?
Because if a system is getting tired, it means the body is endogenously down-regulating rather
than up-regulating because it wants to be in a rest and repair point place rather than in a
fully on and utilized place. So when the body needs to be in a rest and repair place and we
stimulate it to be in an on place, that is at the cost of the integrity of the system. Gotcha.
So that's the first big thing with regard to caffeine is it's really critical that caffeine
is not being used because it's needed. It's being used when it's not needed as an enhancement to
the system. Gotcha. And that's not just caffeine. That's if someone's using nicotine, if they're
using theobromine, if they're using any kind of stimulant, it's important to keep that in mind.
So before we go into how to identify if someone is taking too much of caffeine or any stimulant,
why is it even important? What are the dangers to someone's performance and even health?
Yeah. So many things. If you look at adenosine inhibition, and so adenosine is a neurochemical
that helps bring on the sleep impulse, and so caffeine inhibits that molecule. If you're trying
to inhibit it when it's coming on strong because it needs to come on, then you'll end up getting
imbalances in your adenosine cycle and in your circadian cycles, which will look like not getting
as good a quality sleep and not getting as much repair during your sleep, it can then look like
resistance to adenosine inhibition. And so you'll notice that by having less of an effect from
coffee where you can take coffee or any source of caffeine and still fall asleep afterwards.
That means that your ability to inhibit the adenosine cycle has been down-regulated.
And then specifically, adrenal fatigue and adrenal burnout happens largely when you
continue to stress a system that has been stressed and now needs to repair before you give it
adequate repair. And when you understand all of the roles that the adrenal glands have in
converting neurologic impulse to endocrine impulse, it's involved in fat metabolism
and muscle repair and lean body muscle mass. It's involved in everything from genetic transcription
to the regulation of the rest of the endocrine system to immune function to bone density.
And so overstimulating and overtaxing your adrenal system is definitely not something
somebody wants to do. Got it. So what are some other signs that people can look for?
What are some tests they can give themselves? Yeah, one of the common ones is that the stimulating
effect that caffeine had early in someone's use, it doesn't have anymore. And that's the sign of
desensitization, down-regulation. So they used to drink eight ounces of coffee and feel increased
wakefulness. Now they have to drink more coffee to still notice a smaller effect.
If you used to not be able to fall asleep on coffee, now you can fall asleep on it. If you need
more than you used to need, if you are having a sense of needing it or needing it more times
in the course of a day, later into the day, if you're noticing the effects less, these are all
signs of desensitization, down-regulation. So one of the key things with pretty much anything is,
in terms of anything that we're taking in other than like water and air is cycling.
And so just like with workouts, you need to have cycles between stressing the muscles and
then letting them rest and repair. And you want to kind of cycle between different workouts,
because if you keep doing the same workout, you start to desensitize to that particular stimulus
and you will get less from it than if you cycle it to another way of stressing the muscle.
And if you think of it from an evolutionary point of view, in terms of chemistry coming into the
body, pretty much other than water, there was no food source that was always available all year
round. And so our body was consistently getting different kinds of chemical input and then
regulating in a hunter-gatherer kind of environment. So rotating our foods and rotating our supplements
and etc. is valuable and different ones need to rotate on different cycles. There are some things
that down-regulate quickly, like say some, this isn't a supplement, but from a kind of
neurohacking point of view, if someone does MDMA, they don't have to do that many times before
their system will start to acclimate to it, down-regulate and then have pretty bad symptomology
if they stop doing it. So someone really shouldn't do that more than, and it's going to depend on
their individual physiology. Some people might be able to do it a couple times a month, some people
only once every several months. So the cycle there has to be relatively little on lots of off,
whereas say someone is taking resistant starch as a prebiotic, they can take that most of the
time, but pretty much anything should be cycled off now and again. With regard to caffeine,
it's actually a molecule that people habituate to and then get a low level of addiction or
dependence quite quickly, which is the signal of that is getting headaches when you come off of it.
And so letting people stay in an on-cycle longer so that they're not dealing with say,
you know, headaches every week as they're cycling off, you know, on the weekend,
the general recommendation I give to most people is if they want to use caffeine regularly, as
opposed to just now and again, which I think is fine to do if you're sleeping enough and not over
using it, is give or take one week, every quarter, you come off of it. And the first couple of days
suck, you can take ibuprofen for headache if you need to, sleeping those first few days extra is
valuable because even if we're good about sleep, almost all of us end up accumulating little bits
of sleep debt now and again, and sleep banking actually does work to some degree. So at least
a week per quarter off. Now, if someone has not done that for a long time, so they've been on
their caffeine source regularly for years, and especially if they have underslept an association
with that, and especially if they have taken more than the caffeine than they should be to begin
with, and they've kind of down-regulate their sensitivity, they might need to come off for
much longer than a week before they get to re-regulate adequately and move back to healthy
relationship to it. And depending upon someone's caffeine metabolism, which is, you know, largely
genetic, depending upon the health of their adrenal glands and their nervous system, that can be a
pretty huge variance. But there are people who, when they cycle off of pretty intensive caffeine
usage, are still dealing with side effects of coming off for three months. For the time period
that people are dealing with that, it's actually really important to not get back on caffeine
because you really want your system to re-find its homeostasis, right, to find its homeodynamics.
And there are things one can do to support themselves. They can try taking other kinds
of stimulants as a way of stepping down, and then getting off those two. So butamine,
which is a synthetic version of B1, which actually up-regulates the sensitivity of the D1 and D2
dopamine receptors, which are partially affected and down-regulated by the caffeine, can actually
help someone come off of it faster and easier. And so butamine and tyrosine together often
can be utilized for that. Adrenal support in general, B vitamins, adaptogenic herbs, and mostly,
more than anything, is just a lot of sleep, sleep banking. So when people are coming off of
having been on too much caffeine or any kind of stimulant for a long time, taking three or four
days where they just sleep as much as they can, even if that's 12 or 16 hours a day,
can make a tremendous difference to how quickly someone feels better, their cognitive function
increases, their physiologic function increases. Damn. Well, like I was telling you before,
I only took two weeks off about a month ago. And as we were talking, it sounds like my,
you know, I've overused caffeine to a huge extent for a very long time. And I probably have to go
back in and take some more time off. And I didn't get any headaches whatsoever. But one of the worst
things for me was I was just incredibly irritable. Like the smallest things would agitate me or
stress me out. I felt just this enormous amount of pressure when nothing had changed other than
I stopped drinking coffee. It was a crazy feeling. Right. Yeah, coming off of caffeine is, again,
it's going to be much harder for some people based on genetics than others, much harder for some
people based on how dependent they were on it, factoring all those things, how long they've
been doing it, how much they were doing adrenal exhaustion. But in the cases where someone's
dependence on it is stronger, caffeine informer is a good website. And they give a good breakdown
of caffeine in different products and science around caffeine metabolism, etc. But if you
read on there, even though they're a website that, you know, is supportive of people understanding
caffeine and the positives of it well, when you read about the experiences of people who are
going through withdrawals and come downs, many of them sound a lot like people coming off of
stronger stimulants like meth in terms of experiencing irritability, anxiety, and then
worse even depersonalization, derealization. So, and just to kind of step back from theme of caffeine
for a minute, like, even meth is a cool molecule. It's one that, again, people regulate to so
quickly and it creates, it creates override independence in the dopamine-urgic system
so quickly and has so many side effects, I just really don't recommend. But no, it was used so
widely in the, you know, 50s before we recognized all the issues of it. And, and Adderall now is
an amphetamine. It's just, you know, the only different new methamphetamine in Adderall is one
methyl group. But like all of these things have the possibility of positive therapeutic application
to take exercise, right? People can exercise in ways where they exceed what their body should do
and they injure themselves rather than benefiting themselves. And so pretty much anything, even
if it can be good for you or really is good for you in most applications, can also be used
irresponsibly. And the more powerful something is, the more one has to be mindful and the less
one has been mindful, the higher the probability that there has been some irresponsible use.
Right. I love that perspective. I appreciate that. I'm gonna, I'm gonna give it another shot.
So I want to dive into neurohacking. The company you own is called Neurohacker Collective. And I
think everyone out there has heard of the term neurohacking, but I think there are probably a
lot of misunderstandings and myths surrounding the word. So first off, can you just describe
briefly what neurohacking is? So I'll describe the way that we think of it and kind of how we
define it. So neurohacking for us is utilizing any kinds of tools, technologies, processes that have
the ability to upregulate some aspect of brain or nervous system function or associated body
function that then affects brain or nervous system function largely for the purpose of
being able to upregulate some aspect of cognitive or emotional function. We're specifically looking
at the mind-brain interface mostly. Now we could of course look at the brain just for its effect on
the body, like increased coordination and, you know, sensory systems, motor systems, and that's
also kind of in the periphery of it. We're largely looking at how do we support the body to affect
the mind and emotions? Also, what can we do with mind and emotions to affect the body and brain?
And how do we kind of hack the mind-brain interface for both better subjective experience and
increased capacities? And how do we do it in ways that are not just upregulating to some capacity
in the moment, but with side effects and downregulation of something meaningful long-term?
But how do we do it in a way that is sustainable, regenerative, and where we're actually more
focused on upregulating regulatory capacity itself rather than just upregulating some particular
kind of stimulus in a way that might override the integrity of the system?
What do you mean? Can you explain that last bit a little bit further?
Sure. So let's say we're going to talk about stimulants again. Stimulants are
tools of neurohacking, but most of them, most of them don't fit into what we would consider good
neurohacking tools. So let's say we take Adderall. There are outside of its medical application,
there are many people who take Adderall or other kinds of smart drug stimulants to be able to launch
their tech startup, to get through their taxes, to do their midterms or finals, whatever it is,
because they're having a hard time focusing adequately and this is helping them. So Adderall
is primarily working on your dopamine system. It's a presynaptic dopamine agonist, so it's
making your neurons produce more dopamine. And dopamine is involved in the ability to focus
and drive. So if you're trying to do something that is kind of easy to procrastinate and get
distracted from, increase focus and drive are pretty great. Now, how does the body naturally
produce and regulate dopamine? If we think of what we'd call the endogenous dopamine's
regulatory system or the internal dopamine regulatory system, there's a whole lot of
things that happen. You eat protein that contains phenylalanine. The phenylalanine,
the protein has to get digestive, get absorbed through the gut. The phenylalanine converts to
tyrosine, converts to anacetyl tyrosine, converts to L-dopa, converts to dopamine, goes across
the synapse, passes a bunch of enzymes that are trying to break it down, MAOB, COMT, etc.,
gets received into some post-synaptic neurons. There's a bunch of things that happen to have
