worry about that. And I would say that's better than not doing it and a far away from actually
having an evolutionally relevant diet because the form of nutrients from natural sources,
let's just say from a plant source, it could be plant or animal source,
you'll have a plant that has a mineral that is bound in multiple different forms. So,
you're not just going to be dealing with, say, salary, you'll have sodium as a little bit of
sodium chloride and sodium bicarb and sodium bifosphate and many different forms. You'll have,
you take a magnesium supplement and maybe it's magnesium citrate. The body has,
give or take, 13 different forms of magnesium that we know of that utilizes and very differently
in different kinds of tissues. So magnesium for brain health versus magnesium for
it's kind of electrolyte properties or in muscles or heart or adrenals, different forms.
Natural foods do a better job of giving you a wider variety of those things, also oftentimes
with cofactors, some of which won't be in the multi, some of which we don't even understand that
well, that will affect absorption. And then things that we don't even usually think of as
micros, like all of the antioxidants and all the polyphenols, all of the plant-based enzymes, etc.
So those matter a lot. What we know about life extension right now,
kind of the best thing we still know about life extension, we know, you know, quite a few things,
is caloric restriction is meaningful for life extension in all mammals, including humans.
And when we look at the people from blue zones who have, who live the oldest, the areas where
you have the most people that live over a hundred, their diets can be a little bit different. But
one of the commonalities is that they are in general taking in less calories than we are.
They're in slight caloric deficit, but they're taking in their calories from micronutrient
rich sources. So their diet is lower in macronutrients, higher in micronutrients, which means
they, you know, are in caloric restriction without being in nutrient restriction.
Interesting. Got it.
Which is the exact opposite of empty carbs, right? So this is why getting food from
organic, biodynamic, local, seasonal, rotating whole food, etc. sources actually makes a big
difference is all of those other compounds. Now, that's one thing, right? Is that actually
getting the good things from food other than macros is really important. One on the other side,
not getting bad things from food is also really important. And not getting bad things from food
means inflammatory compounds. So if, and this is going to be a little bit the same for everyone
and a little bit different, most people will have inflammatory reactions or have a probability of
having inflammatory reactions from a lot of common things. So pasteurized dairy, hybridized grains,
excessive sugar, etc. Those are all going to be probably inflammatory for most people.
And you're not just talking about inflammation in the joint, you're talking about internal
inflammation throughout, like systemic throughout the body, right?
Yeah, starting in the gut and then having systemic effects that originate in the gut.
And are there, are there, is there anything, any kind of identifying markers that people can look for?
Yeah, yeah, rather than, than just going to a lab?
Oh, I thought you were asking lab markers. That's okay too. Yeah, the easiest, the easiest first.
So again, this is tricky because there are a lot of different inflammatory markers and different
ones show up first for different people. So the inflammatory markers that in a normal non-functional
medicine doc will most commonly run is the run CRP and sedrate and maybe homocysteine. And those
are primarily kind of cardiac inflammatory markers that are predispositions for heart disease.
There are plenty of people that actually have full blown inflammatory diseases where none of
those are elevated. They, we might see CalProtectin elevated showing inflammation in the bowels and
we can have kind of inflammatory bowel disease without any of the heart inflammatory markers.
We can see specific cytokines that are elevated that are going to lead to autoimmune diseases,
like lupus or rheumatoid arthritis or fibromyalgia or PMR. So, and then there are people who have
like elevated histamine, maybe just genetically that leads to inflammation. You'd have to
kind of specifically look at that, including neuroinflammation or who have lectin sensitivity,
which you can see through different markers like adenopectin, which leads to sensitivity to lectin
rich foods. So one thing I would say here is for people who are interested in optimizing health,
going to work with a good functional medicine doctor who can kind of take in their symptoms,
take in their goals and then prioritize labs with them and create customized protocols,
it's highly recommended. Think about this. Think about all the times you heard about someone who
got some intense headache, went to the doctor, had a brain scan, found out they had a pretty
serious brain tumor and they got diagnosed with a few minutes left to live. But they were completely
asymptomatic and that brain tumor was growing for years. Similarly, and whether it's a brain
tumor or tumor anywhere else, the absence of symptom does not mean the absence of pathogenesis,
right? You can have the development of pathology asymptomatically for a long time.
And when we're looking at autoimmune disease, when someone starts having enough joint pain that
they actually go check it out and they get diagnosed with rheumatism, it's not uncommon to see
autoimmune antibodies or inflammatory cytokines years and sometimes even decades before
someone would have got that diagnosis from symptomology. Why that's a big deal from a preventive
medicine point of view is if you see the early signs of it and the person doesn't have the symptoms,
it can very easily mean they never have to get them. Because you can stop and you can
prevent progress of the disease and usually even reverse it if you know what you're doing
when you get those markers. So if someone is in symptomology, then obviously go tend to it.
But if someone is really interested in trying to optimize your fitness and your energy levels
and your health right now, but you want to keep optimizing those rather than have them degrade
relatively rapidly in age, then having a sense of what's really going on in your body and being able
to address things ahead of time and have a personalized approach based on what's actually
going on for you is a good idea. And is any is just any functional med doctor acceptable or
there are there certifications and identifying marker marks for those doctors that you would
recommend people seek out? Tricky. One of the things that is on our goal list for our company
is actually being able to make a directory of functional doctors and other kinds of therapists
that can recommend people in whatever city someone's in based on what kinds of trainings they've
done and reviews, etc. There's certainly some things you can look for. So functional medicine
is a specific branded thing. The Institute of Functional Medicine has very good trainings.
It's some of the better trainings that are kind of standardized right now. You can also look at
just people who call themselves naturopathic doctors and integrative doctors and just kind of
see if what they are doing is relevant to what your interests are. Obviously, if you have
some GI issues, having a integrative or functional doctor who has some GI specialty,
or if you're trying to build a lot of muscle, have one that is good at hormone optimization,
right? You'll want to look at whatever your goals are, someone who has some specialization
and experience with those topics. And then right now, the best you can probably do is
check out reviews and then go meet them and see if you resonate. Done. So originally, I wanted to
really dive into natropics and different neurohacking techniques as well as longevity. But for most of
this conversation, it's been kind of like what are the precursors people need to have down before
they consider that type of thing, which I think is a great starting place. So before we wrap up,
I know people are going to have a ton of questions about the nutrition piece. What are
one, two, or three resources that you would recommend people go to that are
widely varied and also digestible for lay people in terms of micronutrients and that kind of that
sort of thing? I think nutrition is actually one of the trickiest topics.
There is so much vested interest in people who have kind of authored books and just hold to a
particular ideology of the kind of food people want to eat of the associated morality and ethics
and lifestyle and culture elements that there are very few topics that are less coherent across the
whole field than this one. Medicine does not, like within the field of integrative medicine,
there's not as much intense difference as there is in foundational nutrition. Similarly,
there's not that much difference in thoughts on sleep. So I mean, a classic example is
people who are in the more raw food and more vegan and more kind of calorie restriction
direction, and then people who are in the more ketogenic diet, primal diet, paleo direction,
they both reference a lot of well done science. And there are really good scientists and doctors
on both sides of that, and they both look at blue zone studies, but in very different ways.
Some of it's because it's going to be different for different people's genetics,
for different people's physiology, how they approach it, etc. So I would say there are
general rules of thumb. To say one should eat closer to the living ecosystem is a generally
good rule of thumb, meaning the more processed and packaged, hybridized, sprayed, etc., something is,
the worse it is in general. It's not an absolute truth, but it's a general truth.
And the closer to things that have been what our bodies evolved to eat over very long periods of
time, and particularly also with less pesticides and herbicides and things that are designed to
kill life on them, and the more they come from healthy soils rather than pretty demineralized
soils and the fresher they are, versus they've been out of the ground for a pretty long time.
These are all, you know, and to the degree it's meats, then grass fed, free range, etc.
That's kind of important across the board, whether you're eating meats or not, or these
ones are not, or nightshades are not, like kind of dial that in second, dial in this general
approach to things that would have been part of a living ecosystem first.
And I would say then the next good rule of thumb is paying attention to how you feel
as pretty closely as you eat different things. So pay attention right after a meal. Do you have
a sense of overfullness in your belly? Like you're having a hard time digesting it? Do you have GI
symptoms afterwards? Do you get tired after eating it? Do you get hungry again right away? Do you have
energy for a while? Do you sleep well afterwards? The more you can do kind of a really attentive,
quantified self-assessment, just even spend a few weeks and journal what you're eating and
then journal how you're feeling in association and dial it in. The combination of the general rule
of thumb of eating evolutionarily relevant foods and paying attention to which ones feel good for
you, that would be foundational. Then study specific diets on top of that, and then do
actual functional medicine where you look at your nutrient levels and your food allergies,
et cetera, on top of that. In terms of resources to go study more, the reason why I was hesitant to
say the resources is they mostly all fall into camps that are very different than other camps,
so I have good things to say. I think Dave Asprey's new book, Headstrong, is one of the best
introductions to health for people who have not got into it yet that I'm aware of. I think it is a
people take different through lines of how they write a book like that, whether it's
understanding healthy fats or whether it's understanding caloric restriction. The through
line he took was cellular health, mitochondrial energy and brain health. That's a great through
line. Then he looked at diet and exercise and sleep and toxicity and hacking techniques in
light of that. I think a lot of what he has in the book is really foundationally great. It's not
going to be appropriate for everyone. People will want to modify, but I think it's a great starting
place. In terms of other people that have a similar-ish dietary philosophy,
a lot of what Dr. Merkola writes on diet is similar and clinically well backed up.
If you go speak to a normal cardiologist, they're still looking at Pritikin's work on
extremely low-fat diets having lower heart disease, living longer and more Mediterranean
diet. I think that is largely just older research, but not irrelevant. I have seen people do
a bulletproof diet, ketogenic diet a little bit wrongly and have their lipid profile get super
whacked. There is some need for nuance. I actually think a lot of the raw food vegan communities
has good things to say on diet. Even if you decide not to be vegan, you decide to eat some other
animal products with it. A lot of the insights on soil conditions and micronutrients and plants
and therapeutic use of herbs and whatever there is great. Those are a few. That's excellent.
I appreciate that. It sounds like there is no perfect diet. One size fits all, which is kind of a
that's the case in just about everything in life.
There are rules of thumb. There are generalized principles and then there's a lot of room for
adaptation. What someone should eat if they are training heavily versus not and training
for powerlifting versus ultramarathons and based on their genetics and age and what kind of medical
conditions they have. That's all going to just be so, so different. One thing I will also say
is the idea that someone should not do kind of more advanced neurohacking,
biohacking things if they don't have the foundations down. This is not totally correct.
I wanted to take that perspective first because I wanted to emphasize foundations,
but say we look at either use of notropics or use of EEG neurofeedback or different kinds of
sleep tech. Sometimes, even if someone's foundations are screwed, they're screwed enough that the
person's behavioral chemistry is out of whack enough that they just can't fix it. They can't
actually get themselves to eat better exercise well, sleep well regularly enough. Sometimes
those interventions actually help the person enough that not only do they get the benefit
of that intervention, but it helps them get the foundations down better. To change their behavior.
Right. Absolutely. One of the things that we have found with qualia and with notropics is
if people are having issues with sleep, if they're underslept or if they have kind of
overused stimulants, they might need to fix that first, but otherwise, if say their diet is poor
or their exercise is poor, it's been very common that people will start. I mean, not all notropics
will be the same. Qualia specifically has a lot that balances the dopamine opioid access. It's
actually helping work on the chemistry systems of motivation and behavior themselves. We've had a
lot of people who just couldn't get themselves to be regular with exercise and diet. They got on
that and then they actually were. The general rule of thumb is someone does want to be focused on
foundations, but if they're having a really hard time focusing with foundations, finding tools that
can not support them to keep not doing foundations and think that they can just augment it, but
things that can actually help them with the behavioral dynamics of doing the foundational work,
that can be super useful. That's a great perspective. I love that. Even if it is a placebo that gets
them to change the behavior, then the important part is that they are changing their behavior,
which oftentimes is the most important piece. The fact that what you guys do is so holistic and
has such long-term effects is just that much better. I love it.
Sometimes therapy actually, the right kinds of therapy can really help someone change patterns
underneath their behavior. Neurofeedback can help neuro-regulatory patterns that
can make a huge difference to just someone's state of health and well-being over all stress
processing, but also then how people react to stress and go into addictive patterns.
We can say both sides. We can say get foundations first and then do advanced techniques. We can
also say if the advanced techniques can help you be able to do a better job with foundations that
you've had as new year's goals every year and not actually been able to stabilize, don't keep
trying and failing at the same thing. See if additional tools can support you.
Right. I love that. Look, I am really dying to continue this conversation. We've opened so many
doors, but we're going to have to save some of it for the next time. What do you want to leave
these listeners with or do you have an ask of them? I enjoyed the time with you and I'm looking
forward to the next time. If this was interesting and people have questions on other topics, my
ask would be that they just tell you what they're interested in that we talk about next time.
Other than that, my ask would be that they take more responsibility for their own health and
well-being in life than they did previously. That means study more so they can actually understand
how to support themselves because that will put them not just in the best position for their own
health, but also in the best position to help other people and be an asset in the world.
That's phenomenal. Well, I'm definitely inspired. I'm going to make a few
behavioral changes and then do some more self-experimentation with quality of myself.
Once that is taking place, then we'll follow up again.
Sounds good.
This is a conversation. Thank you so much, Daniel. This has been phenomenal, man.
Likewise. Appreciate it.
