a regulated dopamine process and we don't want kind of peak dopamine all the time. If you are
wanting to have kind of intense focus, concentration, recognize patterns, the body will naturally
up-regulate dopamine for that purpose. If you're wanting to relax and meditate, calm down,
make love, participate in some art, you might want dopamine to drop a lot. You might want
serotonin to come up, right? So your body is naturally regulating all of these chemicals
in relationship to what's actually adaptive to the environment and what's going on.
Now, so that regulatory cycle has the ability to pay attention to what's needed and then up
or down-regulate levels of anything and anything in relationship with everything else that's going
on. Now, if I just give someone a presynaptic dopamine agonist, if I give someone something
that just basically is going to kind of elevate their dopamine and fix it, then a few things
happen. One, they're no longer as adaptive to their environment because their dopamine is not
being internally regulated, it's being externally regulated, which is why a lot of people on
any kind of psychiatric med, one of the things that even if it stabilizes them that they describe,
is oftentimes feeling more numb because now they're neurochemistry and thus their emotional
state is more fixed and independent of what's happening so they don't feel their own ability
to kind of respond to and react to and feel what's happening, right? That's not desirable.
One of the other things that's happening, if we kind of just fix the dopamine, is the dopamine
is elevated irrespective of all the things that it should exist in specific ratios and
dynamic equilibrium with. So the relationship of dopamine to then the other catecholamines,
norepinephrine, epinephrine, and its relationship then on the other side, the neuro-inhibitory
side to serotonin, we did mess with all those intentionally. So now we start getting kind
of weird imbalances in neurochemistry and then because we're just elevating that in-chain molecule
and being able to keep it elevated, the body's own ability to produce dopamine without it can
start to drop, which is what creates dependence, we call addiction, and the body's ability to
the way it's processing dopamine changes. So if dopamine starts being very high
ongoingly without the body having produced it in the synapse, then the body might start
down-regulating the dopamine receptor sensitivity because there's too much coming through and then
if you get off of the Adderall or Math or whatever it is, now the natural amount of dopamine you
produce is less than it was before and your receptors are even less sensitive to dopamine
because there was these higher amount, now you're experiencing this pretty terrible withdrawal and
crash. And so rather than just give someone a state, we want to support their own brain, body,
mind capacity to produce the states that are relevant in response to the environment in real
time. So that's what we mean by up-regulating the regulatory capacity of the system rather
than overriding the regulatory capacity to just fix a specific state. So something like Adderall,
yeah, let's just take Adderall. So something like Adderall will go in and produce a ton of,
basically fill the brain with dopamine, release all of it at once, and then leave it in worse shape
than it was in in the first place. And what you're kind of suggesting or what you guys are working on
is things that can leave the brain in a better shape than when you found it.
Yeah, I mean, when you think about, I know your audience is very connected to the CrossFit world,
and if you think about the philosophy of the CrossFit world and the sense of
general preparedness and general capability for lots of different kinds of activity,
the whole goal is increasing the adaptiveness of the being physically, right? That it is not someone
that can just lift a lot of weight but can barely move or someone that could run fast but
couldn't handle weight when it can come or it's the sense of kind of how do we make the
being actually more responsive, more adaptive, increase the responsive capacity. And so there's
ways of both stressing the system and then allowing it to repair and then stressing it in different
ways. And so similarly, with our own internal physiology, with our immune system, we want an
immune system that can respond better to different kinds of pathogens faster. We want a repair system
that can repair different kinds of injury faster, right? We want a neurochemical system
that when we want to focus can go into intense focus. But when we need to be able to move our
focus between a lot of things, task switching, we can move it between a lot of things without
feeling stressed or irritated by something moving our attention. So how do we increase our
overall adaptiveness as a being? Now, of course, neurohacking doesn't imply that. A lot of, like,
just if you're doing anything that is changing the way the nervous system operates for some
intentional purpose, that's a broad definition of neurohacking. I'm just taking the next step to say
the kind of neurohacking we actually value and respect is the kind that while it is enhancing
some instantaneous capacity, it is also enhancing long term capacity or at minimum not damaging it.
Love it. I've got a two part question for you next. So first off, before we get deeper into
optimizing brain function, what are some of the prerequisites that people should be doing
consistently before considering some of these neurohacking supplementation,
these ways of supplementing? And if they are not meeting those prerequisites, are things like
neutropics, neurohacking supplementation, are they even beneficial? And so with those prerequisites,
I'm talking nutrition and lifestyle mainly. Sure. It's a nuanced question, so I'm going to answer
it a couple of ways. The first part is, I would say, to the degree that someone can have the
foundational aspects of lifestyle be what they want first and then any kind of enhancement be what
they build upon that foundation, that's a good rule of thumb. And so if someone for instance
isn't sleeping well, either they aren't dropping into deep delta sleep or they aren't getting enough
sleep, then say the person starts taking immune supportive herbs. Well, most of the immune repair
only happens at night when you're sleeping and during delta sleep. If you're not getting enough
delta sleep, those herbs, there's not going to do that much. If you're taking things that are going
to support tissue synthesis, most of the tissue repair happens during delta sleep. If you're
taking no tropics, they're going to support things like memory. Memory consolidation happens during
delta sleep and some aspects happen during theta sleep. And so you're going to get a kind of tiny
fraction of anything that you're taking that's going to help your regenerative capacity if you're
not doing the foundational thing that is where regeneration occurs. We can also look at diet and
say, all right, say I'm going to take some supplements and I take, even if I take a handful
of pills a day, I'm still talking about a relatively tiny amount of grams in comparison to the total
amount of food I eat per day. And all of that food is chemistry that is not just macros that are
going to be affecting my body fat and muscle composition, but they are all of the microbes
that are affecting what my brain is made out of, what my hormones are made out of, what all my
tissues are made out of themselves. And so all of that food is either medicine or toxicity or
somewhere on that spectrum. And so if somebody is taking in food that is not providing adequate
nutrition, and especially if it's providing toxicity, and then they're going to try and just
override that by taking supplements, it's kind of like taking caffeine instead of sleeping, right?
So the reason that the word supplement is used is it means in addition to, right? So
if you think about, maybe I think most people on your podcast will probably be familiar with this,
if you think about the way that like a turbocharger or a supercharger added to an engine moves
more oxygen through the engine so you can get more combustion, a turbocharger without an engine
doesn't do anything at all. An engine without a turbocharger still does a lot. And so if you
think of the engine as lifestyle, and you think about all the kind of hacking as like adding a
badass turbocharger, there's no question it can make you go a lot faster, but it has to be on top
of foundation, otherwise it just doesn't work that well. So now that's the main thing I would say.
And so the foundations, everybody knows what the foundations are and nobody likes to hear about them
because they're hard and we don't really like doing them and we want like new shit. But I'm going
to put to the foundation sleep, exercise, movement, food, diet, nutrition, stress, management, reduction
and those kinds of categories.
We can get into more things that you could fit in there, but let's just call those kind of the
primary foundational categories. I'm going to put sleep in its own category and say that
if someone is having even the tiniest bit of sleep deficit, it has a degree of negative effect on
their whole system that a little bit of poor nutrition or a little bit of inadequacy in exercise
just doesn't have. Got it. Interesting. And so as I mean, we know that exercise affects the
genetic transcription pattern of thousands of genes. That's a huge fucking deal. It's like
our genome doesn't really matter that much genetic transcription matters because if you have a gene
that's just kind of sitting there quiet, even if it does code for elevated homocysteine or whatever
it doesn't matter, right? It only matters if it's actually coding and those
proteins are being built. So you can change what is actually expressing genetically from lifestyle
factors. And so exercise profoundly, if you're looking at being able to affect thousands of
genes, that's a huge deal. It's affecting exercise can upregulate BDNF, which is a brain derived
neurotrophic factor, upregulates the production of new neurons in your brain, which prevents
neurodegenerative disease, repairs nerve damage, increases cognitive and emotional capacity. I mean,
like if you've made a list of all things exercise can do and its effects on decreasing depression
and decreasing likelihood for every kind of major chronic illness, it's hard to imagine that anything
could be more powerful than that. And the same with diet when you think about all the negative
effects of excessive sugar, of so many kinds of processed foods, of toxins that can be in foods,
of inflammatory foods, and the positive effects of having your micronutrients be adequate,
adequate minerals, vitamins, etc. Yeah, there's nothing like all of these categories are foundational.
If you get really great sleep, but eat shitty, you'll have problems. If you get, you know,
really great exercise and eat shitty, you'll have problems like they're none of them replace the
other ones, but you will get more profound problems faster from sleep issues and any of the other
ones. So I really do think, and it's such an easy one, it's such an easy one to cut because it's
just boring and life is interesting and there's a lot of shit we want to do. And it's so easy to
have this like I'll sleep when I'm dead thought give me more caffeine like I want to do stuff.
One of the things that is fascinating to me is in the sleep deprivation studies,
as someone is in moving into deeper degrees of sleep deprivation in time. So one thing that's
very interesting, say someone naturally wakes after eight hours sleep. And so instead they set their
alarm and they were going to get to bed on time, but they like checked one last email or did one
thing. So they now they just got seven and a half hours sleep. That still seems like a lot, a lot
of people only get six, seven and a half, I'm pretty good. But it's actually a half hour of sleep
debt. If you add that up times a lot of nights, right, it doesn't take that very doesn't take
very long for it to be missing a whole night of sleep. And you think about how someone feels in
that case and then missing weeks of sleep, as it as it goes on time, that really happens. And so
we'll notice that some of the symptoms are things like verbal fluency and word recall.
If you're looking for a word or you're looking for a name, it's kind of on the tip of your tongue,
but it takes a minute to find it. That's a pretty classic sign of sleep debt. And that shouldn't
be that's not just like aging or being human or having a high IQ, that's actually a sign that
your brain is not functioning that well. And it can be from different reasons, but it's most commonly
a sleep debt. If you've just completely fucking forgot where you parked, or where you put your
keys or your phone or what you were doing last or, you know, something like that. So your short
term memory has that level of capacity for impairment. That's, that's not normal. That's
actually a sign of dysfunction. And the most common reason for this sleep now it can be for
other reasons, it can be new nutrition deficiency, it can be stress overload, it can be exposure to
toxins, neurotoxins, mold, etc. But sleep is the most common one and sleep helps with all those
other things. So one of the interesting things is that as someone is moving into sleep debt,
at first they notice it and they go, oh, I'm a little bit tired if they had been sleeping well.
And then they're like, oh, I'm getting more tired. But as someone gets deeper into sleep debt,
they stop recognizing that they're getting deeper into sleep debt. And so there is actually a
mismatch between someone's own self assessment of how much sleep debt is there and how much sleep
debt is actually there. It's very much like drunk people who can't recognize how drunk they are
because their brain is misassessing it. The tired brain is misassessing this also from just an
evolutionary adaptation, right? Like think about mothers who have an infant baby, they're just not
going to get enough sleep for a while, right? Unless, unless they just have one of those magical
babies that sleeps all night long and they have a husband that does a lot and maybe a nanny in a
community, they're going to go through a period of sleep debt. And so to be aware of how much they
were in sleep debt would just suck. So they just kind of be, there's this evolutionary adaptation
to be less aware of it. But the problem, of course, is that we can then exploit that lack of
awareness to keep going. And so most people will have a situation where they're like,
say only operating at 70% of capacity, but they only, but they think they're operating at 90%
of capacity. And that misassessment is actually the cause of a lot of problems.
So when you were asking about foundations, I really do put sleep in its own category.
And then next, I'm going to put nutrition and what people are taking in their mouth.
I'm going to put movement. I want, you know, exercise will be a subset of that. And I'll put
the relationship to stress, which is going to have to do with the relationships in their life,
the nature of their work, the way they create meaning, how they've processed old trauma,
whether they give themselves time to meditate, journal, et cetera, do things to process it.
Now then we can put other categories like someone's home environment. That's kind of a big deal. If
they live in a house that say has mold in it, or they live in an environment that's actually
dangerous. So they're stressed out all the time or dealing with physical stressors,
or they're around people who are either particularly negative or have lifestyle habits that influence
them in the wrong direction. So environment, people and physical environment can really kind of be
argued another foundational category. Tell you what, let's stop it right there. I want to pull on a
couple of those categories. And I'm realizing that we could have a four hour conversation and not
get through everything I wanted to get through. So I'm just going to go down a couple of these
different avenues. First off, that misassessment is absolutely fascinating, because one of the
things I was going to bring up is that so many people, they think they're operating at 100%.
And when you suggest a couple of things, whether it be nutrition or sleep advice,
they don't really see the point because they feel like they are operating at 100%.
I'm curious, are there any kind of biggest bang for your buck type interventions or changes that
you think most or all people should make? All is obviously not going to work, but most people
are deficient in a need to change in their diet? In their diet, yes. This is a lot of things. And
there are some things that are true across the board, and there's a lot of things that are
going to be different for different goals and different physiologies. You had asked me previously
a question about a diet that focuses mostly only on macros and being flexible with it.
If someone is focused on their physique, and so they want to make sure that they are
burning more calories than they are consuming in a day or consuming just enough of their big
growing muscle, so they're really macro-focused and being more flexible with which macros,
which foods they can get their macros from so they can actually sustain that for a while,
we totally get why that diet evolved. And it is grossly underware of lots of things that are
relevant other than just short-term physique and flexibility of how one does that, right?
Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think what you might mean is most people that follow that
kind of diet are uninformed on the importance of micronutrients?
So a few things. Micronutrients is going to be the first thing about that diet that is off.
There's several other things. Couldn't you potentially follow that kind of diet,
but also keep in mind all of your micronutrients? Kind of. Okay. I mean, yes, keep going.
So macros are where you get calories from, right? Protein, fat, carbs.
And someone, this isn't the normal definition, but someone can also kind of think of water and
fiber as macros. They're not caloric sources, but they're things that you need a lot of each day,
right? But then your micronutrients are your vitamins, fat soluble, water soluble vitamins,
your minerals, your macro minerals and your trace minerals, and then all the phytochemicals and
polyphenols and enzymes and et cetera that come from a natural diet and a wide variety of natural
foods. You could say, well, can't I just take a multivitamin, multimineral, and not kind of
