we would consider that all red light.
So what we have to do is convert these wavelengths to frequency.
So I wrote them all down before.
So to get frequency.
Uh, from a wavelength.
So the frequency for light number one is equal to.
Uh, lambda one divided by C.
Right.
And the frequency for lambda two is going to be frequency two.
And that's going to be.
Lambda two.
Divided by C.
The book says that to find frequency.
It would be.
Frequency equals.
No, that's right. I did this wrong. Sorry.
I was trying to do it.
It's C over lambda.
Okay.
Yeah.
Is equal to.
C over lambda one.
C over lambda two.
Okay.
So now you just have to put in the numbers with the units.
And that'll give you two frequencies.
Yeah.
I feel like I can set up the equation.
And it might be some questions that I have along the way of it.
Well, um,
I think you can do this. So let's say the two frequencies are.
700 nanometers and 650.
So this one is larger than this one.
So what does that mean about the frequency since this is the inverse.
Oh man, it says my meeting will end in 10 minutes.
Um,
let's see if this really does end,
I will start another meeting right away and figure out how to get that to you.
Okay.
Um, so which.
If this is a larger wavelength.
Is this one going to have the larger or the smaller frequency?
That's going to have the larger frequency.
So large, this is larger than that.
And you're saying that.
So I'm dividing by a larger number than over here.
So it's a constant divided by a larger number.
So this should be the lower frequency.
Oh, cause yeah, cause larger number means it's split up into more. So.
Okay. So.
All right.
Let's see if it'll let me beg for more time.
No.
Boy, they've gotten hard nose. I remember.
For some reason, it let me go long, long time before. So.
All right. So is that, I think you've got enough to probably go on that one.
So.
I got a, um, I plugged that into my calculator and I got like an answer where it was just.
Like.
Well, you're going to have to carry units along because remember the units for C.
Are.
You got to do the units. There's no skipping the units.
They're not going to give you easy units.
So the units are going to be C is in meters per second.
And the wavelength is in nanometers.
Okay. You can't cancel those out. You've got to fix the units as well.
Oh, that makes sense.
So, uh, now the problem will be since it's,
you got to convert either meters to nanometers or nanometers to meters,
but that's a factor of 10 to the nine.
So you're going to be off by a billion if you don't do it right.
So it looked like you had something like 40,000 or something like that on your calculator.
So it's probably a billion times that.
For the frequency.
And the number all visible light comes in with the frequency of about 10 to the 14.
In verse seconds.
So I'll say the answers should be about 10 to the 14 inverse seconds.
And that's a good thing to kind of remember eyes is that if someone's asking you about the frequency of light,
just remember 10 to the 14. That's a kind of a magic number.
And now the coefficient in front determines exactly what the answer is,
because they should be something times 10 to the 14.
When you get to the frequencies. Okay, let's look real quick at the next one. If you're ready to go on.
Yeah, I just have one more question about this. So how would I get 10 to the 14th because I looked at the book for guidance and it did end up showing 10 to the 14.
I didn't, I didn't understand because of the equation is speed of light over seven to 10 over to the second power.
How would I get 10.
You got look packs you're going to have to do the units in long hand every time to get it right on these problems. So let's let's take this one.
All right, so see is 3.0.
10 to the eight meters per second.
And the wavelength for one, I can read this is 7.0 zero.
Is that the wavelength.
Yeah, times 10 to the two.
I can't read that what does it say 10 to 10 to second power, and then then that's a nanometers. Okay, so 10 to the two nanometers.
Okay, so just to go through it again so I'm going to put the two numbers down so because we can do those in a calculator.
10 to the eight divided by 7.00 times 10 to the two.
It's just too shaky. And then I have
and the units are going to be
meters per second divided by nanometers.
Now I'm going to try to do this in one fell swoop.
So I'm going to have to convert meter. So you see it's nanometers over one, the one is implied there.
So if I get this one into meters, then the meters are going to cancel out and I'll get one over seconds so let's let's convert.
If I put meters in the denominator, and I've got new nano nanometers in the numerator.
In one meter, there's 10 to the nine nanometers.
Let's check that out.
Nanometers here is going to cancel nanometers there.
It's a numerator and a denominator thing. And then here I have meters in the denominator and that's going to cancel meters in the numerator.
Can you do a screenshot when we're done that way I want to erase all this because I am going a little fast.
All right, so in my calculator now I have 3.0 times 10 to the eight divided by, or that's horrible, 7.00 times 10 to the two times one times 10 to the nine, 10 to the nine.
And the units are one over seconds.
Okay.
So I can actually look at I'm just going to do the.
So I have three divided by seven is the coefficient.
And I've got a minus two is six.
And six plus nine is 15.
And I'm going to convert seconds to hurts, or one over seconds to hurts.
So three divided by seven is about a half.
Let's say it's a half 0.5 times 10 to the 15 hurts.
That's not standard form for a scientific notation I need to multiply this by 10 which means I have to take one away from that so that's equal to five times 10 to the 14.
So let's say let me.
I'll put my calculator here.
Come on with my thing.
I can't get to my calculator so do three divided by seven and what do you get.
You divide by seven I got 0.428.
428 is 43 so instead of five here.
It's 4.3 times 10 to the 14 hurts.
Okay.
And then I just do that with the other value to, and then that's my range.
Yes, so the, and it's going to be a larger number than 4.3 times 10 to the 14 it might be, I don't know.
Yeah, it's going to be, it might be up to five or six times 10 to the 14 hurts.
It says I have less than a minute. So if this connects us, I will try to start a new one.
Yenda, do you want to be on the net new one? Are you bored or?
I can be on.
