Okay, you want to get a picture of that or did you or.
I already snapped the picture of it.
That makes a lot of sense now.
Okay, all right, good.
Amanda.
Yeah, I'm good.
This way works a lot better, I think.
What does.
I said the way you worked it works a lot better than the book, I would say.
Okay.
I'm going to raise this.
All right.
Now we got to go to module four, right.
Which problem.
In number four.
I think the Lewis dot problems are probably the ones you had some trouble with.
I can't hear you, you're muted.
Did I mute you?
Sorry.
I must have me to myself that's my bed.
I had so 4.1 the Lewis structures are pretty.
Those are pretty easy with the bonds.
Those are also pretty easy.
It's just some of the more complex ones with the double bonds and the triple bonds.
And then also with the giving the chemical formula names with like the Roman numerals.
Because.
For example, for on your own 4.2.
I did it as I would if it was in normal notation.
So beryllium chloride.
I originally thought that would just be BCL without the two.
Without the.
The squared ends.
Turns out there's like exponents to them and I don't understand how to find those like exponents.
Okay.
One of the ones that we have to give spet extra information on.
If this was iron chloride, we would have to give you more information.
So beryllium is a place in a periodic table.
That's easy.
So.
Okay, get on that thing here.
So beryllium.
Is it two hours?
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Go to the periodic table and tell me what group it's in.
It is in the.
Really.
Then to a group to a to a.
No, is that right?
I'll be in the it's in one of the s groups.
But the it's in group to to a.
So.
Okay.
Yeah.
Man.
I couldn't pass the test today for I think having time off really like.
Is a problem.
Okay, so it's group to a.
So that means then.
In the symbol is.
Me.
byddwch llawer o hyn yn llwy praction AWF.
O ser, hoes bell Ychydigum pan cofio'r cyfle i benigadewis a mae yny coolee physique ty llygau usach ar ychydig식ad Lelerin beth p fryd.
Felly, roedlaeth Chlorine ond hyn wedi gwerthio coll Patri Yn mermaid.
Cyrswyd gen i symud yma yn blwyd yn 7a,
Felly, mae'n meddwl 7 ychydig o'r cyflawn.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
Rwy'n meddwl o'r cyflawn o'r cyflawn o'r cyflawn o'r cyflawn o'r cyflawn o'r cyflawn.
Olw'r cyflawn,
mwyaf i enwりwyd wedyn cyflawn yyrddon.
cyflawn yn spouse cyflawn.
cheerful cyflawn yw olid forth yma.
Rydyn ondัr cyflawn yw olid hwn yw Llyfr.
Mae'r lluniaid ychydig.
Mae ddweud y behalf presupurio.
Mae'r dwledd o og yn femferon.
On i'n swetheshwyr i'r mewn cyfwiritol.
Ymddwch nome chi y gallu gallai gwneud ar wahanol yougol arrangementid mwr yn chloiol?
Mae'n ffordd wahanol wahanol, ein hawdd ymdd вр shot yn âch makdell, a phw agility o'r maintenant.
Rhaid.
Now I've got another that leaves one electron here and I can't move it over here because this has a full.
chlorine structure, so I actually need another chlorine.
i'm just going to copy what I did up above.
There's one electron, and so if I take this electron and share it here right there, then okay beryllium is given away it's two electrons so it's a happy camper chlorine has gotten an electron and this chlorine's gotten an electron, so these are going to most be happy so and typically the way we would write that would be CL.
Be.
that's not right.
Be.
And CL and i've shown one dash that represents.
Well, this isn't that's not right it's not going to be a molecule like that right we're going to have beryllium now, since it lost two electrons so forget this that's wrong beryllium lost two electrons it lost two negative charges so now it's a a plus two charge.
And we have two chlorines.
And they each got an electron so it's a minus one charge and a minus one charge and so we would say then that it's got to be be.
And two chlorines.
Oh, because the two electrons and be they satisfy the chlorines which would make that which would negate the positive charges correct correct.
So beryllium has more electrons than zero that would mean it's a positive charge and if, for example, chlorine had less than what would satisfy the octet rule that would mean it's a negative one charge, but if it was say at like six electrons would be a negative.
No, no, when you add an electronic gets a negative charge.
What we did was we took this electron from here and moved it over here. So we gave chlorine an extra electron, an extra negative charge.
And that's why we say CL minus.
Oh, and then when you and then when you take away an electron it adds.
It's a plus charge then so beryllium is left with a plus two charge and chlorine is left with a minus charge minus one and a minus one charge.
That's why I need two chlorines to make the net charge overall is still zero.
So one another way to designate that if I write it like this molecule here I could put two plus and then minus here.
So the net charge net charge.
On this thing is I've got plus two on the beryllium minus one on one chlorine and minus one on the other chlorine and so the net charge is still zero.
Plus two minus one minus one is zero.
Is that all they asked about that?
Yeah, so what would you say is a good chemical formula?
Yeah.
Would it be helpful to write out the Lewis dot structures for these type of problems?
Absolutely, you have to.
If you don't do it, you won't get it right.
I mean.
So let's okay aluminum.
Okay, aluminum.
Aluminum phosphide.
Did you get that one?
That would just.
That would just satisfy and just it would just be ALP on its end, right?
Because the aluminum in the five said three plus five would equal eight.
Aluminum, man.
It's in group three five, right?
Or is it?
Aluminum is in group three eight and then phosphorus is in group five.
Okay, so that's not so group three eight and phosphorus is in group five.
All right.
So let's do the Lewis dot structure of this.
Al.
It's got three electrons.
So I'm going to go one, two, three.
That's not very close to a octet.
Is it?
And then phosphorus.
It's got five.
One, two, three, four.
Oh, I see what. Yeah, okay.
So.
So this is three electrons short of an octet and aluminum since it's a metal will give up electrons pretty easily.
So what I would do then is say I'm going to take this electron and put it there.
I'm going to take this electron and put it here.
And this aluminum this electron and put it there.
And so now the Lewis dot structure is going to be Al.
And I've got three pairs between Al.
There's one pair.
Two pairs.
Three pairs.
And then P.
It has that other lone pair, which I have to take account of.
All right.
So P now has two, four, six, eight electrons around it.
So that's
Let's see.
I should be able to change colors here.
Yeah.
So the book.
The book offers kind of a weird way to do it.
It says, I mean, looking back at it, it says that in group one, eight, it would have like a plus one charge.
And then group six, eight would have a negative two charge.
So say that like, for example, for the magnesium, magnesium nitride problem, if it said, if it's in group two, it has a plus two charge.
And if it's a group five, eight has a negative two charge.
Because the five, five minus eight is three, which would mean that it requires three more electrons to make.
And it says that if we look at the groups.
So say, for example, if it's in group three, eight, it's a positive, a plus three charge.
And if it's in five, eight, it's a negative, it's a negative three charge.
So for this, we could just switch the numbers and it would cancel out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the way they say to do it.
Lewis electron dots are another way to do it.
Because now I can see what kind of bond is this.
That's a double bond.
I'll ask again, what kind of bond is this?
That's a double bond.
I'll ask again, what kind of bond is this?
One, two, three pairs.
That would be a triple bond.
I just, I saw it going across.
Now that's why I thought it was a double bond.
Oh, like this one is shared or something.
So you have now, since aluminum lost three electrons, it's a plus three.
And since phosphorus got three electrons, it's a minus three.
And aluminum is happy by itself now.
And phosphorus will be happy.
So it would be A L should have changed to black triple bond P.
And it's kind of optional to show the lone pairs, but for right now I would show them.
So that's what aluminum phosphide would look like.
But yeah, the other way would be to say, okay, aluminum, boy, that's horrible.
Aluminum is in group three A.
So it's going to lose three electrons.
And phosphorus is in group.
So it's going to be a minus three.
So it's going to lose three electrons.
And phosphorus is in group, so it's going to be a minus three.
Phosphorus is in group five A, so it's going to be a plus three.
So that tells you the stoichiometry.
So that means for each aluminum, you can use one phosphorus.
So A L P.
But that doesn't give you much insight into the kind of bond between them.
It would be potentially a triple bond if it's in a solid form.
When it goes into solution, it's going to be A L.
Minus or plus three.
And phosphorus.
