Minus three in solution.
Because remember it's an ionic compound.
And it's going to dissolve so that each of these ions is independent of one another.
I get that now.
Okay.
All right.
I've got seven minutes on this go round.
What else do you need?
I have like one last question.
So in my book, I understand the Lewis structures for like the molecules because all you have to do is just put the certain things on there.
Like you'd have to do.
For example, for NHC at the end in the middle, because that's the least electrically charged.
And then you would fill out the valence electrons.
And then you would create bonds with what is on there.
So I understand that.
Okay.
But what I'm sure is with problems like 413 and 414, because they're a little more complex Lewis structures, because they have more.
They have like three elements in them.
Is it problem 413?
Yeah, problem 413 and problem 414.
They kind of, they're kind of tripping me up.
That's not study practice problems or extra practice problems.
What page are you on?
ydy'r cyfnod yma.
Ydw i'n ddweud ychydig o'r problemau, o'r problemau o'r extra.
Ydw i'n ddweud yma?
Ydw i'n ddweud yma.
Ydw i'n ddweud yma.
Ydw i'n ddweud yma.
Okay, r're yw all iddiewin y dyfodir je nhu h...
Nid wnaeth i'r ffat maen nhw'n gwe fan i.
Ydw i'n mynd ynOur fel chi
Terfer aynid,
let's do that one then.
Maybe I can do that in five minutes.
Ydi'r gyddon ni'n shooter o ddim yn yar gydFC?
want that. Too late. All right. So a Lewis dot structure for CH2O. All right. So carbon
is in group four, so it's electron dot structure is four outer electrons. H is in group one, so
it has one electron and O is in group six, so it's got two pair and one, two was one
electron in it. And I have two of these H's. Okay. So, yeah, so where C is the least
select or is the, or O is the most electronegate. So C would probably be the central atom. So
let's start with that premise. So when you do these, sometimes you end up saying, no,
that's not right, because you can't make it fit. It's like you picked up the wrong puzzle
piece or something. So, well, let's just, for example, let's say, oh, it looks like oxygen
is going to be the middle atom. So I'm going to draw it down here. Okay. So this is attempt
one here. All right. So now, well, goodness, if I put the H's there, I don't have any place
to hook the carbon. So let me draw the carbon here. All right. So I can say, well, if I move
this, share this electron there, and this one there, that makes oxygen happy. And carbon
has lost two electrons. So it's almost halfway happy. Or it's sharing them. It's not lost them.
It's this is a covalent bond, not a ionic bond. And then I could say, well, look, I've got two
hydrogens. So if I put one here, it's electron, it can share right there. And do another one
here. And let it share there. Maybe that's complete then. Now, what's happened? See, I started out
thinking oxygen might be the central one. But as soon as I connected carbon, I saw that I
couldn't connect anything else to oxygen. So, um, well, my first observation, which I didn't
draw anything for was I said, if I put the hydrogens right there, I'm going to have just
water, and then I've got the carbon and nothing to connect it to. You look a little shocked or
dazed. Am I going too fast here? No, that makes sense. Okay. So it turns out the way I do this,
carbon did end up being the central atom. So then I would just redraw this, I would put C. And I
have two shared pairs with oxygen. So I'm going to draw a double bond to oxygen. But I want to show
these pairs here as well. So dot, dot, dot, dot. And then I want to show that I have these
hydrogens here. So that's a shared pair. So I just have to do H and show a bond and H and show
a bond. So let's count on now. H has one shared pair. H is happy. H here has one shared pair.
He's happy. Carbon now has four bonds. One, two, three, four. So that makes carbon happy. And oxygen
has two, four, six, eight electrons around it. So it's pretty happy as well. So that's probably the
right answer then. Does that make sense? That does make sense, because the bonds have to connect
somehow. So the carbon sense it has, four valence electrons, it's going to connect to the oxygen,
because the oxygen needs to be satisfied, because the oxygens and the hydrogen. Hydrogens can
act because it causes two electrons to make a bond. Let's go back and another way to check this.
Let's count the valence electrons. We could have done this at the very beginning. Carbon has four
valence electrons, right, because it's in group four. Hydrogen has one valence electron, because it's in
group one A. So it has, since there's two of them, that's two valence electrons. And oxygen is in group
six A, so it has six valence electrons. So tall together, there's 12 valence electrons, 12 valence
