Our social environment and our media environment.
The information that is coming in.
When we started the conciliants project, I did a project where we curated different Facebook feeds.
I made different avatars, curated Facebook feeds, and I had some Facebook feeds.
It's obviously different in the US and Sweden here, but there were just a huge amount of videos of cops abusing black people.
But what it doesn't show is what percentage of all police interactions that is, because by the time I've seen a hundred, even if it was over the course of years, but there are tens of thousands of interactions every day, it might be a very statistically small percentage, and there might be a lot where the cops are abusing white people and Latino people.
But when all I'm seeing is that it seems to be the totality of reality because we evolved in an environment where what our eyes saw showed us reality.
And in watching that, even though I curated it, by the time I had watched it for an hour, I fucking hated cops and thought they were all racist.
And then I curated another one that showed cops saving kittens from trees and doing heroic stuff and black people attacking cops.
And then I was like back the blue.
And I could be affected by the media environment even when I was fucking curating it.
And so, you know, after we're done with this conversation, you'll go home and you'll scroll and it will remove everything we talked about.
And then you'll get notifications and you'll have messages and then, you know, at some point you may or may not remember this conversation.
It will be mostly as if it never happened.
And one way to change that is go change the settings of everything coming in your media environment tonight.
Like, just go unfollow a whole bunch of shit.
And then go intentionally follow a bunch of other shit.
So you see planetary boundaries, follow Nate stuff.
So you see that information coming out like follow a bunch of things that will actually keep you apprised of what is really going on that's meaningful.
Unfollow the other stuff so that you at least have because all of marketing and all of politics will try to capture your attention and consciousness in other directions.
At least do what you can have some continuous reminders of what is more important.
That's what we call this talk, what is important.
What is important.
Sometimes I do an exercise with my classes.
Where I ask people to do to describe a system, any system, any system, your body, your relationship to your partner, you know, whatever global crisis catches your eye.
And to illustrate it.
Okay, now most of the time when we illustrate a system.
You start by having nodes.
Okay, so there's an economy node or there's a family node or there's a, you know, here's me and there's my husband and here's my kids and here's you have these nodes and then we connect them with lines.
Right.
Or, you know, you could do another one, you could do one on nav. Right. Let's let's draw the system that is not.
But don't use any lines.
See if you can call up another form of description.
Because you don't have any relationships in your life that look like lines.
Or feel like lines.
So this is really important because actually, if you think that you are responding to or studying a system that is connected by nodes and lines, you're missing a lot of information.
There's a lot of very important information what's in those relationships.
How do they, what texture are they, what color are they, what rhythm are they in.
How do the relationships relate to the other relationships so that you don't end up with some kind of idea that you can just swish in more and more and more data to get an understanding of the system.
To actually understand what's in the relationship between the different aspects of it and what's the feeling of those relationships.
Right. You could describe a family and you could have, you know, parents, kids, grandparents and just draw some lines.
But as you know, every family has a completely different logic and feel and communication that's possible in that family.
So that exercise for me gets at what you're talking about.
That it's, there's a whole realm of information that's there that you know you're in it.
You just haven't been asked to express it. It's not the normal way we express it.
And if you just look at systemic process as nodes that are connected by lines, you have a different agency altogether than if you start to actually illustrate those relational processes.
Your sense of agency is vastly changed by that.
What do you, how do you, how do you come into that?
Right. If you have nodes and sticks, you can move this and remove that and you have this first order agency is easy to come by.
Thinking about the world and models is idol worship.
The model of reality is not reality. It's a false idol to the real reality and believing that it's reality is idol worship.
And so models can be useful.
They're always wrong.
They're always potentially harmful.
I think of models as intellectual tools and they're very powerful models that are very powerful intellectual tools.
If I'm teaching a kid how to use a skill saw, I teach them to be very fucking careful with it.
Because yes, they can cut wood, but they can cut their hand off really easy.
And if I'm teaching them how to use a gun, I teach them to be very careful with it.
I think about math and I think about physics and I think about systems theory.
I think of skill saws and guns.
But radically more powerful than skill saws and guns because they can make nukes and AIs and synthetic bio.
I think about how to perceive reality compellingly enough that you can make a weird simulation of reality.
Powerful enough to actually destroy base reality or meaningful parts of it.
So I think about all technique meaning human abstractions about the world as powerful and dangerous and that they have to be held that way.
They should be taught that way.
This love of models is another one of these lurking ghosts where you think you can just reach for something and it's going to help.
It's going to give us assistance in this and if you don't remember that it's just a map.
And the thing is you don't.
Most of the time people forget that their map is a map and they think, yeah, but this is how it is.
We've done this thing.
We started tonight with a piece of music and in a way a piece of music is also a map.
But it's a very different kind of map because you're invited into it with many more forms of your process of making sense of memory,
of emotion, of the opposite.
Was it Isidore Duncan who said, I can't remember who it was or a nice name that might have been.
But you listen to music with every part of your being.
So most of the time the map that you draw does not call upon every part of your being and it doesn't allow for you to completely interpret it differently next time.
This is important because if what we're talking about is life, then the information and our way of moving with information must also be alive.
What does that mean to have information that's alive?
And what does it bring from you?
What does it call from you?
When you hear a piece of music, what's coming up through you?
And I think that, again, coming back to agency that is at nth order, it looks different.
It feels different. It's another thing.
It doesn't feel like a shopping list or a to-do list or a steering committee.
It feels very different because it is coming from another direction.
So, you know, I use this example a lot, but we have the sustainable development goals, right?
And the sustainable development goals, if you just look at them, there's a whole meta message there.
What does the culture that we're in look for?
What's the appetite for information?
What is it?
Well, we like boxes.
We like boxes. We like to separate things.
We feel like we have this under control when we can do this.
There's a way in, there's a kind of agency that those boxes have, oh, trillions of dollars have been put into committees for each one of those boxes.
And people are beginning to, you know, even get involved in how they are, you know, pick three, okay?
But if you look at this image that we have right here, right there, where there's a mother nursing her baby,
I would invite you to see every single sustainable development goal is right there.
That requires, and as mammals to continue, we must be able to feed the babies.
And the babies have to be able to feed the babies.
And the babies, babies have to be able to feed the babies.
And the people who make the food have to be able to feed their babies.
And the people who make the clothes have to feed their babies.
And we need air.
We need water.
We need soil.
We need equality.
We need respect for each other.
And we need the whole pictures right there.
So this is what I mean by the logic is so different.
At first, it doesn't look like something you can interact with.
Sorry.
But there it is.
Yeah, I was thinking that
it seems like this is overwhelming complexity.
There's 50 million chemicals in the database of the American Chemical Society.
And we need to think about what all the endocrine disrupting and neurotoxic
and carcinogenic effects of all of them,
plus the combinatorial effects of them, and et cetera are.
Except you don't actually have to do that.
Like the simplicity of don't make systems that have to grow forever.
That's dumb.
Don't make systems that extract resources faster than they can replenish themselves
or that create pollution at the time.
Like the actual logics of thriving systems are pretty simple.
So there's a second simplicity.
There's a complexity that people have to have
if they want to try to understand how to interface with these systems,
which we do have to do temporarily to change them.
I want people to learn how to lobby for government subsidies,
as well as the big pharma and big ag and big chemical companies do,
but for the exact opposite side.
I want people to learn how to convert toxic subsidies in chemical agriculture
to regenerative agriculture,
because then the market topology will start to move the world in a better direction.
That does require some real understanding of financial and political systems.
But long term, that's actually not the kind of intelligence that humans need to have.
Long term, it is interesting how much more simple it is
to be able to think in second simplicity and first principles.
I've been fascinated lately.
I just finished this new book, and I'm really excited about that.
As I finished it, I felt a little bit free from all the thinking
that I had been working on for years.
It opened up the door for new things to start roaring in,
and there's this tiny little piece that's about this fantastic possibility
that every time the seasons change, every single organism changes,
and the relationship that makes life does not.
Nothing gets broken.
When we're talking about the metacrisis, one of the more difficult conundrums in this
is how to fix one thing without breaking six others,
the externalities, the puzzle requires action,
but every action seems to make it worse, seems to break something else.
So what are the ways in which we as living creatures can also begin to make change
toward life that doesn't break life?
I want to say something about what you said there.
The Anthropocene is complex, not complicated.
It seems like it's complicated.
An individual building is complicated, a laptop is complicated,
anything with a blueprint is complicated, but the Anthropocene is complex.
It is being created by human activity mediated by sociologies and economies and cultures
and things like that, and it's evolving.
The technosphere is actually evolving, and it's also symbiotic.
In the same way that a single animal can't live by themselves,
you have predators and prey and the plants, you have these kind of self-sustaining guilds,
which technology requires lots of other technologies to exist,
and then it gives rise to new technologies.
It creates environmental niches that give rise to new things.
The problem is that the human-built world, the way we have built it,
the technosphere, social sphere complex, is complex in a way that is incompatible with the biosphere.
And so it is an accelerating complex system that is debasing the biological substrate that it depends upon,
which is why it's suicidal.
If you think about, I don't know if everybody has read Meditations on Molok or heard me talk about it,
but if you think about $100 trillion a day economy where all of that money is a decentralized incentive system,
incentivizing all of the humans to figure out new ways to make money and or do more of the existing ways,
which means that it's incentivizing search algorithms and optimization algorithms.
It's running on 8 billion people, but it's also running all 8 billion people.
So as powerful as parallel computational processing is and why the cloud became so much better than supercomputers,
being able to run a lot of parallel process, this is parallel process against things that are already general intelligent,
on top of general intelligences, and then all the computational intelligence and narrow AIs are being built into this system.
And this system has an imperative, right?
It has a built-in growth imperative that involves all countries and all technologies,
and anyone who does the bidding of that system well gets more power within it,
and anyone who goes against that system is also going against those who are doing well in it and they'll get down-regulated.
And that thing totally has is what's causing climate change.
Nobody wants climate change, but that thing is causing it.
That thing is driving AI arms races and is causing species extinction and boiling the oceans.
That thing is on a suicidal path. That thing does have to get killed.
And killed or converted, if we want a habitable biosphere and responsible use of tech to be a possibility.
And the trick is, it is actually functioning like an ecology.
It's super resilient.
It's responsive and that our bodies are actually dependent upon it right now.
So we have an ecology of crises, and that's a really big problem,
because it's not like a machine.
If you pick up, you just lift up the hood of your truck, you can pull out parts and replace them.
This is not that. It's compensatory. It's interdependent.
It's patterning and repatterning and it's moving.
And super intelligent.
So I think for me, one of the things that I think is important, what's important,
is not to underestimate what it takes to actually be in this moment and to participate in the process of shifting or killing it.
Don't lose morale, because we need you to keep playing music. Keep falling in love.
Keep loving your babies. Keep taking care of each other.
