We have, everybody's got their own lawn mower or their own power drill or their own.
So the individualism of the separation has been so complete that it's in the logic, it's in the air, it's just how it is, it's how it is.
Beginning to perceive one's self and each other in this moment.
This is a very serious moment to be alive.
It requires that there be something that disorients us.
And that disorientation is not necessarily an easy sell, right?
So one of the things that happens with warm data is it's disorienting.
And the things that come out of it are not what people went into it for.
Because it's working in multiple contextual ways and when you're actually working with systemic process, it doesn't end.
You don't have a point where you can say, well let's measure this output because that isn't the output.
So it's disorientation is the gift.
Now this took me years to be able to say this because it's not a feel good, but it does feel good.
But it feels good kind of like when you take it, if you have ever given blood and you have a tourniquet around your arm and they take it off and suddenly there's blood flow moving through your limbs in another way.
It's that feeling.
It really is warm that there's connection happening physically, intellectually, historically, personally, interpersonally.
I remember you once saying if the defense system, if the defense department would like to actually protect a nation, this is the sort of thing they need to do.
Because how do you bring people together without brainwashing them or falling into some authoritarian pattern?
Without manipulation or authoritarianism, how do you make change?
This will seem like a non sequitur.
How many people have heard me talk about the metacrisis somewhere? Is this familiar?
So I can describe the generative dynamics that give rise to the metacrisis a bunch of different ways.
We can talk about it in terms of a linear materials economy bound to a exponential financial system with embedded growth obligations.
We can go deeper and talk about perverse incentives and social traps.
We can talk about choice making architectures that have externalities built in.
These are underneath all of the various issues.
We can go deeper and talk about qualities of mind.
Ian McGillcrest, master in emissary, getting reversed type dynamics.
But if you asked me simply to state what is the cause of the metacrisis, I could just say sociopaths run the world and everybody else has ash conformity.
And that would be fair. It would be as good as any of the other descriptions.
When you're saying the institutions aren't ready to protect the people, Alexander the Great wasn't trying to protect the people.
Genghis Khan wasn't trying to protect the people.
The founding fathers of our country who genocided 100 million Native Americans and enslaved Western Africa weren't trying to protect the people.
We think about how gruesome World War II is with 26 million deaths.
That's a quarter of the number of Native Americans we killed to make the Western values that we hold as so civil.
When you look at the extreme outliers of different cultures, the most peaceful ones and the most violent ones, the most rational and irrational ones,
I find this very interesting because when you look at whole cultures that fall outside of the bell curve of cultures,
you can see what human nature can do under certain types of conditioning across a distribution of humans,
not just what a person can do that might be some genetic aberration.
So if you look at the Jains or the Quakers or the Buddhists, if you look at the Jains, you can see millions of people who won't hurt bugs.
Human nature can do that.
If you look at the Janjaweed, you can see a population that if you make it to adulthood, you've cut people apart with machetes.
Human nature can do that.
Human nature is extremely adaptive to conditioning.
We started doing social science after ubiquitous conditioning.
We had made the industrial revolution and capitalism and nation-state ubiquitous, which is a weird fucking conditioning,
having nothing to do with our evolutionary history.
And then we started doing social science, then called it nature.
And then when we see...
Just a second, please hear that.
This is a really important piece because the idea of what is human nature gets thrown around.
All the time.
Yeah, it's Jewish.
Yeah, and we point to all sorts of research on what human beings are capable of or even in cognition, what's possible.
And it is actually inside a tautology.
The research proves the research here.
And the research method itself was created in this ubiquitous conditioning.
Go ahead, sorry.
I had weird fever dreams all night to try to get well.
I slept a lot.
And I had these dreams about indigenous cultures teaching white people how to talk to animals.
It was really beautiful.
Really beautiful.
So you can have a culture the way Tibet was before it was invaded.
It is really relatively kind and peaceful, but they don't war well and they get destroyed by the culture that wars well.
And...
But that particular kind of thing.
And the reason I bring this up is most of the Mongols weren't Genghis Khan.
You can condition people ubiquitously to be a certain way, but almost all the wars have been initiated by a small number of people.
And then everyone else has to participate.
They both get conditioned by those systems and they are forced to participate in them.
But mostly what is driving the economic machine is not the survival of people's kids.
It's winning, right, at a massive scale, at a geopolitical nation-state, centabillionaire, AI masters of the universe scale.
And so there is a Gaussian distribution on psychological attributes.
But there is a power law distribution on power.
And the people with all the power are outside of the Gaussian distribution in their psychological traits.
They are the people who are oriented to and good at getting power and then in turn make systems that condition everybody else.
That has to get fixed.
That has to get fixed. It's a fucked up topic to take seriously.
If there is to be a future of civilization, that means it has to get addressed.
That means anyone who gives a shit about the world, who doesn't happen to be a sociopath, has to get very active about who's in power and who isn't and what systems are in power and which ones aren't.
And it's tricky.
It's very tricky because sometimes these things come cloaked in jeep's clothing.
They look like the systems that are supporting us.
They look like your friend.
You know, they look like, but we're here for you.
You can't live without us.
If you take out the billionaires or whatever it is, you're going to, et cetera, et cetera.
Molok induces Stockholm syndrome in everyone.
I've never said that in Stockholm.
So what is implicit change?
Where is that?
Because there's some thing that's taking place here.
Some way in which you and I have both stepped into another set of patterns of living our lives and how we spend our days.
It's not easy to quit your job and to live differently.
It's not easy to simply step out of those relationships, especially when they are your boss, your family, your friends.
You could have to do things for very practical reasons.
You're caught in it.
You're caught in it.
And this becomes day after day, year after year.
This is the thing that I'm hearing you say.
This simply cannot continue.
There has to be a shift.
We have to wake up.
There has to be a coming to a different place now.
How do you, how do we, where is that implicit change?
Because how many times have I done something or, or, you know, worked with the warm data lab, for example, and someone says, I don't know, what's the point of this?
What's the point?
What's in it for me?
And there it is.
That's the ubiquitous conditioning right there.
The second you say, what's the point or what's in it for me?
You're in it.
There isn't a point in the meadow.
Life makes life because life.
Right.
So wherever this ghost lives, it's deep.
And, and how, how we think about, you know, what's, what's worthwhile?
What's the point?
What's the point?
And on the one hand, that thinking is absolutely necessary because a lot of what we're doing is sort of not worthwhile.
A deadly, in fact.
But somehow in the asking of the question, you end up back in the same thinking that got us here.
So there's a logic shift.
Like I was saying earlier, there's some, we were going to talk about double binds a little bit and how you get out of a double bind.
I want to say something to the what's in it for me thing.
Yeah.
And what you were saying, underscoring the what we think of as human nature studied under ubiquitous conditioning.
Isn't human nature?
I think what's in it for me is an expression of a hollow human who has to always be focused on getting something because they're so empty.
From a civilization that has conditioned people to be empty.
Because from a supply side economics point of view, it's awesome.
Because when there's emptiness and people are looking for what's in it for them, I can sell them a bunch of shit.
I can manipulate them in a bunch of ways based on what will be in it for them.
And but it's so aberrant to the whole history of the human experience.
If you think about 200,000 years in tribes and you think about words like being pretty universal in the tribal culture, I am because we are.
If we all weren't, I wouldn't exist.
And you know, it's funny taking a job that we don't like doing something we think is meaningless or actually contributing to problems so that for the couple weeks a year we get off, we can go camping and live basically a shitty version of an indigenous person's life.
Like how that fits in the progress narrative is really funny.
So I think that I've noticed when people are camping with their friends, they don't check their phone all the time.
They don't go to the fridge and stand looking for something all the time because we evolved to have the stimulus of nature and the stimulus of other human beings and intimate relationships and music.
And you know, like very basic things that actually create a fullness of the emotional human and that when we're put in hyponormal environments where we all have our own house where we're alone.
So we put on the TV to watch faces of other people or we go to Facebook to watch faces of other people because we're actually tribal beings.
But we have not learned how to interact with other humans well so we don't want to live with other humans.
In fact, the only human we'll share space with is the ones we're having sex with and our offspring and nobody else.
But then we'll spend all our time watching faces that we don't actually have to interact with or have conflict with.
I feel like we live in a radically hyponormal environment of the real stimuli that create human fulfillment.
In which case what's in it for me doesn't even arise in a fulfilled human.
And the hyponormal environment makes us susceptible to hyponormal stimuli.
The what's in it for me and the addiction and etc.
I think it's, and so the story of this is the way humans are.
This is the way humans are when they're conditioned to be that way.
That's how they are when they're conditioned exactly.
And if you're asking what's in it for me, it's because you want something, because you've been told that you need something because you lack.
And if you're lacking, then you need something.
So what's in it for you?
And around you go.
And this is perfect.
But it's also interesting to see how hard that little bugger is to get out of the system.
I mean just paying attention to how often you think about something you're getting ready to do or someone you're going to meet or where something's going to go.
And there is that question.
What's in it for me?
Where's this going?
And I'm fascinated by these invisible ghosts that move through us, like the what's in it for me or there are a lot of them.
There's ideas about the self that are very much attached to.
If you're thinking about what's in it for me, then who's me?
Where's the edge of me?
Am I just this person?
Or is me my family?
Or is me my grandchildren's grandchildren's grandchildren that aren't here yet?
Is me my community?
Is me my nation?
My culture?
My religious group?
Like where's the edge of me?
Is me my bacteria?
And the ecology that they're in?
What's in it for which me?
And that's an interesting and confusing question of which me are we talking about?
I wish that was actually a question people were asking.
Yeah.
I don't think most people are actually inquiring into the nature of self beyond the boundary.
I don't think so either.
But it's worth asking.
Yes.
What's in it for which me?
The finiteness of time is a reality no matter what.
It would be the case in a totally different civilization that I wouldn't have time to learn every single language and every musical instrument and meet every person and see every beautiful place.
So asking is this the best use of my life energy aligned with what is most sacred to me and what I'm devoted to is a good question.
But that's a very different question than what's in it for me.
Because it goes back to enthorter agency.
This is bringing us right back around to that.
If you're asking what am I participating in in this membership with life itself.
Then you're looking at not only the you that is in this skin body.
But multiple relationships and relationships and relationships and relationships.
There's rigor there.
It takes effort to do that.
Not really that much, I would have to say, but it takes effort.
It takes a moment of stopping and getting out of the script out of the teleprompter and noticing that there are these many, many means, not many means.
And that practice I think is actually absolutely vital in this moment for how we go and get anywhere out of this mess.
I'll share one very tangible thing related to what you just said is our consciousness is being conditioned by our environment all the time.
