But at the same time, don't be thinking that this is simply a matter of making a new model.
And that the trickery of what it is that we're working with here is significant. It's significant.
And in some ways, we don't understand it any more than we really understand what makes a forest make life.
There are ways in which these things are coming together that are beyond our perception.
So be careful. Be careful. But be rigorous.
And stay in love, because if you fall out of love with it, you can, with life, that's not a good place to be.
The reason that the meadow keeps being a meadow is because life.
The reason for doing this is not because anything, just life.
And that's enough. That's everything, actually. Yeah.
Yeah, let's bring Nadon.
Thank you.
Thank you. Good to see everyone. Just real quickly, how many have followed my work or my podcast just to get a sense?
Oh, my gosh.
So in her typical Nora way, I said, how long would you like me to speak?
And she says, between one and 20 minutes,
it'll be closer to one, and then we can take a break and reconvene and do some questions.
Daniel, don't take this the wrong way, but you should get sick more often.
I'm not sick. I feel pretty good. However, Daniel has recently recommended some multivitamins to me,
and there's a daytime one and a nighttime one, and this afternoon I took the nighttime one.
So you know what I refer. I feel fine, but I'm a little sleepy.
So I took a few notes.
I think that we do know the future in some ways.
We don't know what it's going to look like, but there are some biophysical constraints.
Recently in my work, I talk about the four horsemen of the 2020s,
which are, number one, our financial claims relative to our underlying biophysical reality.
Instead of tightening our belts and using less, we're doubling down and creating debt at a very fast rate,
and that inevitably has to reconnect with the biophysical underpinnings of our situation,
which are energy, materials, and ecology.
The second category is we are rapidly changing our relationship with what is the wealth and productivity
that has got us to this point, and the historical story has been about money and technology,
and the reality is energy, materials, and ecology.
And with the Russia-Ukraine situation, our geopolitical arrangement,
and Daniel talked about all the wars in the past being started by false flags and the very sociopathic, powerful people.
So there is a phase shift from a unipolar to a multipolar world.
The third risk is the six-continent supply chain and the complexity of our grocery stores and our systems
and our medical supplies, because it's been based on this part of the carbon pulse,
where we've outsourced everything into this really complex situation.
And then the last piece is the social contract, how we get along with our fellow citizens within and between countries.
And so we don't know what's going to happen specifically,
but I think now there are no longer any non-radical paths ahead of us in the next decade.
And so we might not know what's going to happen and the scale of what's going to happen,
but I think getting to Nora's point about nth order agency, there are some no-regret strategies that exist.
And the one staring us in the face is what's here this evening,
is we have to start building social capital and social relationships,
even if we're not solving problems, even if we're not doing things directly to prepare,
because we can't really prepare other than maybe imagine what life would be like with 30% less income or 30% less energy
and then act accordingly.
But what we can do is build relationships ahead of time.
I've been referring to this as rocks in the river,
is if there are no psychologically, physically, emotionally, structurally, full-stack humans in a community
when these events come and the water races faster, everything's going to tumble down.
And if there are these bigger rocks that act as anchors, they help others in the community.
And if there's enough rocks, they actually redirect the water as it comes through.
We're working on really complicated, scary issues.
Daniel's mentioned AI and biology.
There's Russia not too far from here, and my country is doing just sociopathic things,
not the whole country, but certain people in the country.
And it can become overwhelming.
I've found that the single biggest antidote for me is three things,
but one in particular.
One is time with my ducks and my dogs and just being in the moment with animals and my friends.
Two is spending time in nature.
And three, and this hit home two nights ago, Daniel and six or seven of our close friends working on this
went out for Thai food in Stockholm.
By the way, so far I love Stockholm.
The weather is freaking awesome.
We had dinner and we were talking about these issues and I just felt this levity of spirit.
Despite the topics that we were talking about, I was with seven other humans who deeply care about this moment in time.
And that we were helping each other.
We had each other's backs.
We were all working on the most meaningful thing that we could be working on.
And that's worth more than money or anything.
It's working with other humans on a collective path.
So I have more to say, but I think I'll just stop there and we'll take a break and then have some questions with the three of us.
But thank you all for being here and I have that feeling again tonight.
Yeah.
So we're going to have a little break and what we are going to have a little break.
You actually don't have a break.
This is the moment when you get a chance to kind of talk to each other and have a little bit of conversation around this conversation.
And then we'll come back together and take some questions.
So take 10 minutes, 20 minutes, take 20 minutes and then we'll come back together.
And if anybody comes up, I'll be bowing normally.
I'm a hugger, but I don't want to get anybody sick.
So thanks.
To weld this together between the American and Swedish way.
Well, I played the Swedish blues before and now I play American blues.
This is a sleepy John Astus song.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Wow.
Oh, thank you so much.
The blues.
That was so nice.
So we are here ready with a microphone to assist and there are also people online that have questions.
Do you want to start with the people online?
So the hub in Hudiksvall has two questions.
So I just read them for you because we have a problem here with the technique.
The first question is how do we get away from the current financial system?
And the second question is how can we build organizations to work towards something better against the destructive powers,
better or against the destructive powers that you allude to in your conversations?
Maybe we get some more questions before you answer or reflections.
Maybe we get a collection from the room and then bring them all together instead of doing it one at a time.
I wonder what are the most hopeful initiatives that you have seen so far?
It's been about a year since you did the previous event here.
I remember being there as well.
What would you say has changed in your worldview since then for the better and for the worse?
Nora, you were on your way to start to talk about double-bind.
I'd just like to bring that thread up again.
And also, we need to kill it as if it is outside of us or is it?
It's easy to think that it is outside of us.
There was this question that popped up around when is implicit change?
Or where, I think, is implicit change?
And I'm curious about when.
When is change?
Thanks.
My name is Anna Boleyn and thank you for your great inspiring talk this evening.
You talk a bit about complexity and about discomfort and how you need to enter that discomfort.
And it strikes me as well that in this room we have a lot of people that are very comfortable and engaged by these ideas.
How do you engage with those that are less interested?
How do you engage with the discomfort and that challenge to an audience that is less willing to hear?
Thanks.
Do you want to start?
Yeah, there were several of those that I had thoughts on.
I'll start with the last one.
There are many audiences that need to hear some versions of this.
But there is not one version of this for all audiences and I've learned that.
I have a small organization and I had choices on what is the audience.
Hollywood needs to hear this story or whatever the Swedish version of Hollywood is.
Right now we are going to colonize outer space and send people there with Matt Damon to plant potatoes on Mars.
Or we have brain eating zombies.
The reality is going to be in the middle.
When you give humans examples of altruism, they are 400% more likely to do altruistic acts.
And we need media showing realistic versions of maybe a simpler, more local, less materialistic future to give people ideas for what to do.
We also need politicians and leaders to have some sort of blueprints or plans for what's coming so that they can break glass in case of emergency.
And people have thought about it cognitively ahead of the emotional moment when things are necessary.
We need young people to have different understandings of the future and their role in it and their own development.
Like Thomas Bjorkman talks about the Nordic secret and the psychological development of young people.
We need community leaders to have a little step ahead of the curve and lead action.
And then there is the general public.
I haven't had the bandwidth to do all that, nor does Daniel or any of us, so I've been speaking to the choir.
And I think that's the choir is starting to grow.
I call them the walking worried people that don't really know the details, but they know something is wrong and something is coming.
And, you know, we spoke three nights ago to KTH University and there were a lot of international students there from Bangladesh and Egypt and Morocco.
And they were like, well, you're coming here as a person of privilege and people in my country don't have choices and you have choices.
And so when we talk about collapse or I call great simplification because it's less binary, people say when is collapse coming?
Many collapse is already here.
So when you say when is collapse coming, what you really mean is when is it coming for us?
So you're right to ask the question.
I do think Daniel and his organization, Civilization Research Institute is looking at a lot of really important critical risks to our civilization like AI and bio weapons and things like that.
Personally, I don't think that's something that we need to talk about with everyone, which is work do the work.
But there are messages that because what can I do about AI or or bio weapons, but I can help inspire and educate people to meet the future halfway.
My view is we are not going to kill the super organism.
The super organism is going to run out of high octane fuel and there will be a financial whoosh.
And what we can do now is change the initial conditions of those future moments by education, by building community, by simplifying our own lives, by raging against the machine and protecting ecosystems and and species.
And you know, whatever is meaningful to you, whatever path is important, I think those are the things that we can do now.
I worry about killing it because you're right, we are also it.
So if it is killed, there is a potential of instead of a bend of a break.
And I don't know how that looks, but I think to directly kill it, even if that were possible, may not be the most benign outcome.
My colleagues may disagree.
I'll pause there.
Should we kill it?
You mean to comment on that?
I see Pontus's point.
It is in us of us all around us running through us.
But I also feel there is this vampire.
And it is a life sucking vampire.
It's what it does.
It eats life.
So there is another part of me that realizes that it is the undead.
I mean, in the metaphor of the vampire, it's an undead thing.
And that means that it eats life.
It eats future life and keeps current life comfortable and convenient.
It eats all sorts of life, I think.
The 13 species that it extinct every day is current life that are all being fucked.
And the fact that you know well, there's 1% of the mammal biomass in the wild that there are in factory farms today.
That's eating life in the most gruesome way possible.
It is also eating the possibility for future life.
The...
We have this dynamic because we've done so many podcasts.
He can tell my facial expressions when I want to say something.
The Molok thing that you're asking like, to what degree is it in us?
There's something weird about sapiens relative to the other species that we inhabit the world with.
Maybe some of the earlier hominids had some amount of this quality, but they're not here anymore.
That does not necessitate Molok in the metacrisis, but it certainly makes it possible.
Which is as huge as whale brains are, and as sentient as they are.
And in my guess, probably have deeper sentience than us in many ways.
They don't figure out how to protect themselves from whaling ships.
There is a certain kind of abstraction that leads to Technae, that leads to an Anthropocene they don't have.
And it does seem like the best anthropological story we have currently is that Homo habilis and Australopithecus,
and all the earlier hominids that we co-inhabited the planet with were extincted by us.
Because even though they were tool-making, we were doubling down on the tool-making and tool-advancing capacity cerebrally.
And it does seem like many of the megafauna that were extincted were extincted by our early overhunting.
I think when Ian McGillcrest talks about the master and the emissary, where he's saying that the right hemispheric modes of being,
that are more oriented to what David Bohm would have talked about as a perceiving wholeness in a very wide, non-semiotically mediated way.
And the left brain perceiving semiotically mediated parts, being able to see one, being able to model, right?
And being able to see some parts having causal relationships to other parts, i.e. Technae, both cognitive Technae and the applied physical Technae.
But currency and democracy and language are Technae.
What Ian was saying is that the left brain has to be an emissary in service to the right brain because it's very good at goal achieving,
