I don't know if people have ever... The very top people at BlackRock, the very top people at the largest financial institutions or in the CIA work way the fuck harder than almost everybody else does.
They are working all the goddamn time. They have a degree of drive and ambition that is almost mind blowing and they learn the most powerful tools of technological advantage.
And so if the world is to do better, it does need people who learn the tools of technological advantage and power and are willing to work extremely hard but not for self-serving goals.
And not even for nation state goals, but for the well-being of the commons long term. And then that won't be the future world, but that is totally the one that has to happen in transition.
Using the devil's tools for Gaia's work.
Do we want to take another couple of questions? Okay.
Hi. Thank you. I have a question about words.
Because there seems to be an interesting difference between you Daniel and you Nora and how you approach words.
You spoke a little bit about it in the beginning because the two of you think similarly what you speak in different ways.
So I was wondering if you could speak a little bit about how you attend to words, especially when you adopt new words.
What are good words? What are good words in different contexts? What do good words do?
You make up lots of words. Do you want to speak to that?
Mask. Maybe you can connect these two actually in a certain way.
The word that stuck with me you mentioned several times is transformation and it may be a thing what it actually takes to transform anything.
And antaric practices came to my mind. I don't mean sexual practices, I just mean really transforming the energies.
And what it takes from a person, an individual person to sit with the heaviest of energies, the anger, the rage, the extremes of desire.
And it seems that the way through by experience and just by also learning the practices is the way to the other side is the way through.
There is no way to circumnavigate the darkness at all.
And this is something that takes a lot from an individual person to train.
It takes a lifetime to get good at it.
If we just scale it up to a collective level, how can we possibly transform without total immersion in darkness first to get to the other side?
So there is no semantics that can get us out of the experience it seems.
I just like to hear the thoughts about it.
Do you want to answer?
Okay, hello. Thank you very much for a great talk.
There is a word that I like that I encountered I think in my own head, but I'm sure it's been elsewhere.
Capitalism for all its faults has a very clear goal, maximize profit.
And then all the little rivers kind of go into this giant ocean of destruction.
But I was at a demonstration climate change thing the other day.
And one speaker talked about this village that's being flooded, another spoke about this tree that's being endangered.
And there's just problem after problem after problem.
And after a while I tuned out because it's just too much and I can't do anything about all these things.
And I feel that what our movement really would need is a goal and incentive structure that capitalism has and is great at that binds us.
Because we're kind of all trying, there's this quote that I love,
for everyone who strikes at the root of evil, there are a thousand hacking at the branches.
And I feel that there's so much branch hacking and very little agreement on what is the root and how can we strike it together.
And so that's a statement and I'd also love to hear your thoughts about it. Thank you.
Thank you so much for everything you've said so far.
I'm not really sure what question I've got, but I think what I'm missing,
you started off talking about the state with institutions and you've described the effect of the market in its destructive growth nature.
If we say that society or civilization comprises the state, the market and civil society,
what function do you see the villages and commoning perhaps in the sense of Eleanor Ostrom's work?
What function does that have in learning resilient patterns to meet the inevitable?
Because we can't continue what we're doing. What do we do when this doesn't work anymore?
How do we meet that in the terms of the village and what do you see as commoning?
What could that be as a verb?
Thank you so much so far. I raised this question of arms race that we're really facing in the world.
That feels very scary, but how can we de-escalate this in a practical way? What can we do about it?
Which arms race?
Thank you.
You're talking earlier about that you could, if you wanted to, you could boil down the metacrisis to sociopaths run the world and everyone is basically an enabler towards those sociopaths.
Talking about the people that you were discussing there,
how do we stop producing that sort of concentration of power and influence?
And why is it that most of them come from the United States?
And is there something there to look at in terms of what can we do to reduce that happening in the United States?
And how could we avoid it happening in other places by not making the same mistakes?
That's enough, I think. And I think we need to also get this guy home.
There's no amount of new words that you can make that will actually stay new words, all the words start to carry and get metabolized by the existing epistemologies and perceptions.
But it's still important to try to communicate in new ways and to make new words because there is the possibility of a gap.
And in that gap, there's the possibility of something new coming in to begin to articulate a new theory or to open up a new way of describing something.
It doesn't actually change the world, but it changes what it's possible to communicate in the world.
And that's enormous. That's big.
We can look around and say, well, we have to change the parts or we can say we have to change the relationships because we're systems thinkers.
Then we can say, well, we have to change communication because actually relationships are made of communication.
And then what's it possible to actually communicate? Where does that live?
We're in a room right here where there's all sorts of constraints around what is possible to communicate.
You guys have been in a different room all week and what it's possible to communicate in this room is different.
It's not written on the wall somewhere. There's no instructions explicitly pasted anywhere, but it's everywhere.
It's not possible to communicate and arguably the entire movement and structure of a systemic process is shifted inside those invisible possibility realms.
I have a brief follow up to that.
Words are incredibly powerful, but over time, words become culturally burned terms like neoclassical economics or fractional reserve banking or climate change.
Climate change means something to a certain number of humans, and then another group of humans build up antibodies when they hear that term.
And so it has become no longer a functional term to have real discourse.
So we need to keep inventing or communicating new terms that describe our reality that can broaden the conversation.
I don't know how to do that, but so many of our words immediately set off identity or it just closes the conversation.
We need words that open the conversation.
So I love speaking with you guys because I do use words really differently and tone and gesture, and it makes it possible to open up different kinds of ways of thinking.
But then you guys come in and you also are bringing in this wonderful precision and this crispy thing.
It's satisfying in another way, right?
It feeds another kind of curiosity.
It allows me to explore in another whole dimension when I hear you speak.
And then maybe I can bring in an invitation to explore a different set of textures and possibilities and experiences.
And maybe those two can start to resonate off each other in ways that are absolutely unique to you.
That's, I think, very exciting.
So there's part of what is interesting is what I might say or what Nate might say or what Daniel might say.
But I think what's really fascinating is what we didn't say, but what actually formed and connected and tissueed in you.
Just a follow-up.
While you were speaking, I'm going to make a concerted effort that in the future, unless I'm at an important governmental thing,
instead of using the word climate change, instead of using the word global warming, which is a euphemism,
I'm going to start using the word global heating, which is an exact description of the mechanism that's happening.
And it's not used, but it's a good description.
So I'm going to try to use that more.
I'll jump to the question about how do we stop developing people that have world-steering sociopathic orientation and do they disproportionately come from the U.S.?
The answer is kind of, but also kind of not, in the question of who's the most powerful person in the world.
It's a weird question, but if one wanted to ask that question, Xi Jinping would certainly be one of the contenders, and he's not from the U.S.
And interestingly, when I mentioned Kissinger, who's definitely architected the U.S. system, he is not from the U.S.
It was him and Zbigniew Brzezinski and a few of the people that actually architected the post-World War II system in the U.S.
were Austro-Hungarians who were brought over, who had a history of fighting the Ottomans and a unique geopolitical advantage.
When you look at Operation Paperclip and all of the Jewish, German, as well as Nazi-German scientists the U.S. brought over,
obviously, Werner von Braun, who built the Apollo Project, was a Nazi rocketeer, and most of the people at Los Alamos were Jewish scientists from Germany.
There was this long-standing joke that whether the U.S. or USSR would win the Cold War was which one got the better Nazi scientists,
because they each got over a thousand of the scientists, and that is why Germany was roughly 30 years ahead of both of the other countries going into World War II.
If you go back to, as we were mentioning, Genghis Khan or Alexander or whatever, you can see that the world is at different power centers at different times,
and so if you have an Elon Musk who's born in South Africa, of course Silicon Valley is the place to go currently.
But Deep Mind was founded in U.K. and is the most advanced commercial artificial intelligence org.
So what I would say is that there are places where power is concentrated, and those places attract people who want to play those particular games of power
and will be able to play those games of power well.
Increasingly, the top tier of the game of power is not national.
It plays between nation-states but is not really sovereign to nation-states.
How do you stop incentivizing it is a very interesting question.
If there wasn't unbounded private property ownership, the incentive would mostly be gone.
If there wasn't a fungible currency with which you could get everything and with financial services where pools of the currency continue to just make more money on themselves, much of the incentive would be gone.
If you think about a world before fungible currencies where you just had to have real, or just say before currencies, and you had real commodities,
a little bit of lumber is useful.
As you get more and more lumber, you get a diminishing marginal value on the lumber because you can't use it.
You can't move it fast enough and it starts to just become like a big pain in the ass.
The same is true for ore or anything, so you get kind of a diminishing return curve on the unit value of the thing.
But if I can sell the thing in real time to the market for currency, which is an optionality token for any other kind of value,
and then I put interest on that where that thing not only can be converted instantly to any other thing that I want, but it goes up exponentially just by sitting on it.
Now there is an infinite incentive to acquire more. There's never a diminishing return on acquiring more.
And in fact, if I don't acquire more and the other guy does, he's going to beat me.
So as long as you have a situation where you have a fungible currency with interest in financial services and the primary access to resource mediated by private property,
you will not stop incentivizing this thing.
So those macroeconomic structures have to change. Those are very, very deep.
I didn't just talk about glassy gold and gold backing. I talked about the fungibility of currency itself, private property and interest.
But those are examples that if there is going to be a civilization long term, there won't still be those structures long term.
I don't think we will have a replicator.
Star Trek actually didn't solve the problem. They said, let's have a replicator where there's infinite abundance for everybody.
And because there's infinite abundance for everyone, we don't have to deal with scarcity and conflict.
And nobody actually wants it because there's no differential advantage of having shit because it all just comes out of the vacuum.
But it did allow you to a certain thought experiment, which was nice.
We have to figure out how to do that within still physical scarcity.
I just actually want to thank everybody for coming tonight and riding along with us through this.
And thank you to Nav for hosting us.
Daniel and Anna and Johanna for the beautiful food and all the people who participated in making that happen.
If there's some of you who haven't spent much time at Nav, I would like to really invite you to check out what's going on here.
Because this is another place where I see hope.
I've lived in a lot of communities in my life, different kinds of communities.
I was a California kid in the 70s. Come on, you know, I've done that.
And I would say pretty much 100% of the time that was a fiasco.
And there's something that's happening here that's very, very interesting.
And I always try to get Daniel to talk about it.
How do you do it? What's your secret?
But he won't talk about it.
Because I think there's something that's outside of the how to that makes it work.
Did you ever read that book when you were a kid?
The Phantom Toll Booth.
And in the Phantom Toll Booth there's this character Milo and his dog and they had given this little car and they're trying to figure out how to make the car go.
And they're pushing all the buttons and turning the keys and doing everything.
And then finally they sit there in silence because it turns out that the car goes without saying.
And there's something about Nav that has that in it.
This is not a community project.
This is actually an art form.
So next time we do this we're going to get you up here Daniel and you're not going to be able to hide back there on the screens.
Because so much of what we're talking about is actually happening right here.
So thank you for hosting us and thank you Nate for coming along and being with us.
I like it here. I'd be happy to come back.
Yay, me too.
And Daniel, I know I'm not allowed to hug you but I want to.
And thanks to all of you.
So this is just thank you back to you actually a little poem written here and sitting and listening to what is happening in all of us I think.
So it goes like this.
The blues of our times.
The blues of importance.
It is hard to know where to where the beginning is in what seems like never ending crisis.
And yet the blues causes to be there with and for each other to be in relation to chaos together.
As the institutional structures are criminally insane and suicidally insane.
And what we are facing is invisibly right in our face looking deadly fine.
As we are ghosted by our own love for life.
Being surrounded by ghosts telling us this is how it is.
And yet let not be seduced by the alarm bells.
Pay attention.
Drop the certainty.
Gain the learning through what seems impossible.
We are probably going to fail as species.
Let's quit.
Stop doing whatever is not being existentially rebellious together.
Be careful and stay in love.
What can the human nature do?
Begin to perceive each other in this very serious moment of being alive.
The disorientation is not an easy sale.
Sociopaths run the world winning nothing and everyone is adopting losing everything.
But this orientation is the gift.
Let's have fevers and learns to speak with animals.
What is in it for me does not arise in someone that is in it.
In the membership of the omnirrelational me of all my relations.
In no private property other human properties will be born.
Perceive wholeness as a bodhisattva bonding with the icosidial goal oriented
apart taking hallow way of being as a healing matter of life or death.
See the pathological gesture telling you of its inability to make sense of the world.
And there are graceful invisible magic that can make things and everything happen.
All we need to do and what we can do is to feed the babies the simple sophistication
of changing with seasons with the sense of the spiral anew.
Shifting ways of behaving, daring death without breaking with life.
There are no longer no radical paths ahead.
Learn to capture the system of power.
Without being affected by it for the common.
Build relationships.
Be in the care.
Be anchors.
