Welcome to Nov this evening.
My name is Anna and we have Daniel and Johanna made the soup and this is Shastin and yeah
we're very excited to have you all here and of course Daniel, Nate and Nora.
We have a lot of people on YouTube watching this now and we also have two Nov hubs for the first time.
You can see them there and yeah so I will hand over to you Shastin.
So I will just be a kind of frame holder. I will not have any other function then
actually in the break when we have listened we were going to invite you to talk a little bit
to be able to maybe give some reflections back to you that you could the dialogue can
grasp some of what is happening inside you. But otherwise I don't think that these three people
really need an introduction or we will not do that because I feel you will absolutely talk
to yourself. But we have Mats Kvoshfosh so who will bring us some music first. Welcome and welcome
all three of you.
Yeah so I will, Nora asked me this this morning, can you play?
I said okay.
But I thought so this is a Sweden meeting America again so I'm going to play
one Swedish folk music now or Swedish blues from the 16 1700s and later on I'll do the American one.
Okay enjoy.
I'm super happy.
I'm super happy to be here with you.
Nate Hagens is here with us as well tonight.
All of these wonderful souls are also joining us on this adventure that we're about to go on.
I'm so glad we started with a piece of music.
It's amazing.
Yeah.
Thank you, Mats Korford.
My beloved husband.
It's beautiful.
The arc of the evening or the morning wherever you are in the world is going to be that we're going to do the first chunk of time.
And I'm definitively not giving a number to that.
Whatever the chunk needs to be, it shall be.
Daniel and I will be in conversation.
And then Nate Hagens is going to join us and bring some of his reflections, what comes up for you while we're wandering.
Then we'll take a little break and let you all have some time to think about what has come up.
And then we will have some time for you to be, for us to all be in conversation together in the room.
So that's where we're going tonight.
And I hope that sounds good to all of you.
So let's begin.
It's hard to know where the beginning is, this sort of thing.
I think one thing that I would like to start with is the recognition that our institutions and the structures that our societies are held within
are not prepared and are not prepared to be prepared to respond to the needs of the people in the way that is needed.
This is true not only with health services or with defense services or with food services or with mental health services, economic services, etc.
We've seen several events just in the last few months where fires in Maui or floods in Libya or earthquakes in Morocco or runaway disinformation algorithms, the opioid crisis, etc.
where there wasn't the capability of the existing systems to actually respond.
In the work that I've been doing with warm data, one of the things that I've been most concerned with is how to make it possible for people to be there for each other.
And what does that mean? What would that take? Because you can't tell people to be respectful of each other. You can't tell people they have to help each other.
You can't mandate that. You can't send them to a class for this is how you do this because they don't know what they're going to be facing.
The main thing is can they learn together? Can they meet chaos together? How do we meet chaos together with as much love and care and grace and creativity and improvisation as possible?
So that's where I thought we would start. And you sent me this great message from the car, so I'm really looking forward to hearing what you're going to say.
I just sent the message that she's going to get to meet a very fevered version of my brain tonight. Can you guys hear me?
I'm actually quite ill, but the Tylenol is hiding it. I canceled everything yesterday and today with the exception of this, but I didn't want to cancel this because last time I was here,
this was the community that I felt most connected to in Sweden.
It felt like there were a lot of people here really earnestly trying to do the most important work they could. Pella I met last time is working on making Ecoside an actual crime against humanity at the ICC.
It's like an incredible project. There are people here working on planetary boundaries.
And so I really wanted to be with everybody and I just want to apologize for not being all that coherent tonight and for not being here early to get to greet and talk with everybody.
And I probably won't be able to stay late, but I wanted to show up.
I also say take everything I say with extra grains of salt tonight.
You were saying how do we be with chaos together and we're going to get a chance to find out soon.
And you were saying that the institutions aren't prepared to handle it and I would say the most powerful institutions that run the world are criminally insane.
It's not just that they're not prepared to handle it or they're slightly antiquated.
I don't think we've had a war in a long time, at least since World War II, that the US has been involved in that wasn't a false flag war.
We know that there were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, but we actually know that Cheney and Rumsfeld knew there were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
Four and a half million people were murdered as a result of the activities that started.
And the banks and financial services groups that require exponentiation of the monetary supply, venusifying the planet and driving biodiversity loss and all those things like this is not just unprepared to deal with the moment.
It was suicidal, omnisidal, criminally insane.
And yeah, that's it.
So what was on my mind is that there's a cognitive dissonance because when the things that are threatening global catastrophic risk are mostly invisible.
You can't see them.
They're hyper objects.
You can't see climate change.
You can see weather, but there was always weather.
But to know that the extreme weather is statistically worse and worsening, you have to do math and you can question the math if you don't know how to do the math properly.
And you can't see species extinction and you can't see the rate of AI growth and you can't see synthetic bios total vulnerability landscape.
All of these are radical abstractions of complexities.
And what you see looks pretty fine.
In fact, it looks more convenient than ever.
Amazon just delivers stuff to your door.
And so in the past, when a civilization would face a catastrophic risk, it was either because there was a imminent natural disaster coming that everybody saw, or there was war coming that everybody saw.
And in that place, people were ready to mobilize in the presence of an attacking army.
You stopped focusing on quality of life and competing with the neighbors and started focusing on survival.
Right now, what is at risk is radically more than all previous catastrophic events combined and it's invisible.
And so there's this cognitive dissonance if we actually need to be in something much more like wartime mentality.
But everything looks fine.
And then people will say, you know, don't you need work life balance and shit like that that is totally not cognizant of the actual world we're in.
And there are a lot of, I think, people who are not necessarily criminally evil working inside these institutions at the bottom, teachers, doctors, people working in various parts of the system that are trying, believing they're trying to help people in some way and are earnestly doing their best.
And they can't.
So this is something that I see all the time is that if if you're talking about.
Well, you can start anywhere.
And the issue is never just one thing.
So you end up with somebody who is suffering from a diagnosis of some mental health thing and you figure out that well there's also there's also a lack of food and there's also a lack of family and there's also all sorts of other things that are happening in that that are producing these symptoms that are consequences of many complex systems coming together.
And I would suggest that probably in this room there's not very many people who don't have some kind of crisis in their life.
And how do we actually get through the day together continuing to keep life as usual going when life as usual is is deadly but stopping is also deadly.
And this is the double blind.
If you if you if we stop all this systems, then we don't have work we don't have money we don't have a big egg we don't have big farmer we don't have all of these these functional institutional processes.
We can't do that.
But if we keep them going.
We're like lemmings.
And they're in contradiction.
So, in many cases, if you're dealing with, you know, a teenager at risk, that's going to be a story of a legal crisis to the eyes of the law.
Is this is this person behaving according to the law or not according to the law in terms of the education system.
That this person is defined in terms of how are they doing in school, what are their grades and what is their class behavior.
In terms of their technological usage, we can see what where they've been surfing around their family sees perhaps how they're different.
How they're behaving differently than than the father or the mother did when they were young.
But who saw the kid.
So there's a perception also of the complexity that leads us to responses that enhance the problems that we're in.
If we're responding to one fragment at a time, we end up creating responses that are also within the logic of that fragmentation.
And that's the key. It's the logic itself of that.
So you can't just make a quick fix.
We'll just have a systemic approach to this.
And this is what it's going to look like.
Because likely, even in the thinking of the systemic approach is the logic of perpetuation.
Yeah, I don't think there really are any problems in the world.
We talk about the distinction between problems and predicaments or problems and we get problems or whatever problems admit a full solution.
And I think that those mostly don't exist outside of very narrow engineering applications.
And the way we define problems is at the heart of all the problems we create.
Because the problem is too much CO2 in the atmosphere.
So we can create an approach to sequester CO2 that involves putting more nitrogen and phosphorus runoff into waterways.
Or an approach to, you know, there are so many ways to solve a particular problem and end up externalizing harm to other areas.
And in general, when we think about the way we define a problem, we define a problem where the solution is going to be measurable.
So we can assess if we're on track or not with a small number of metrics or KPIs.
And where the effect of how we're trying to solve the problem is usually a first order effect.
We're creating a technology or a law or a business to have a first order effect on a small number of variables.
But it'll also, whatever we create, we'll have second and third and fourth order effects on a very large number of unknown variables.
It is epistemologically harder to ensure that you aren't causing problems in a lot of other areas than it is to just look at how to solve that narrow problem.
So sometimes people say to me that they have ideas and they're excited about their idea.
And then I say, here's the types of harm that are likely to come from them doing that, that's agency damaging.
And I'm okay being agency damaging if it would be like the AI risk right now is mostly being accelerated by the companies that were created to solve AI risk, right?
Deep mind was further ahead in AI.
So open AI was created to try to solve AI risk.
And then open AI is the one that takes it to market after getting acquired by Microsoft and getting forced to do so.
And then anthropic broke off from open AI to be more focused on AI risk and then took 300 million from Google.
And now there's a full on commercial arms race advancing AI as fast as possible where the ones at the front were the ones supposedly trying to solve the problem.
And that's mostly the nature of how it works.
So if humanity just stopped, that would be much better.
And so I want people to feel a sense of agency of how to move forward, but a sense that acknowledges the real complexity of things, which means that you have to look at for whatever problem you're trying to address.
What are all the upstream causes of that?
What are all the perverse incentives? What are all the externalities of institutional choice making architectures?
What are all the social traps at play? What are all the mindsets at play?
What is the rest of the technological ecosystem driving that thing?
And if it's expressing as this thing and you remove that thing, does it just express somewhere else?
And then if you change this thing, what are all the downstream effects of that?
So there's a certain kind of meta agency that is how to not feel agency because you feel confused and overwhelmed, but to stay with it and to keep trying to learn more until you come to a place where some clarity emerges.
That's not the agency of I know what to do, but it's the agency of I care enough that I can't do anything other than inquire about what might be worth doing until something comes clear.
I'm so glad to hear you say that because I think there's a fear that if complexity and contextual process turns into determinism, that there will be some loss of free will and that there will be this agency vacuum.
And really what's lost there is a sense of morale, is a sense of membership and participation that could be potentially replaced with a despair and apathy even.
But one thing that I have found in my own work is that the more people are able to perceive contextual and transcontextual process, which sounds complex, but actually it's easier than you think.
The more there is this other kind of agency that steps in, that comes in, and it's agency not to first order action. It's agency to end order action. And it looks so different. It looks almost incoherent because it isn't a response that looks like the problem.
It's not matching the problem, it's meeting the problem. And that meeting is of a totally different order and aesthetic and cadence of response.
I have met a few people in my life who were just very good at that. And many people who, like myself, who keep trying, it's a practice though. It's really a practice. It's recognizing whatever it is that comes up in front of you that you're facing.
No matter how, you know, it's some issue at home or some issue with your partner or big global issues, there's much more happening around it. And that practice of just every time recognizing, I'm not going to be seduced by the alarm bells of this very exciting moment, whether I'm angry or thrilled or in love or whatever it is.
I'm going to, like you said, take the time, pay attention to what's going on around behind. What are the mindsets? There's so many ghosts moving through us.
Ghosts of this is how it is. This is one of the most seductive ideas. This is how it is. And once you get caught in the this is how it isness, it's very difficult to talk yourself out of it.
To see another is. And we have to get our kids to school because they've got to go to school because they've got to get jobs because they've got to take part in the system because this is how it is. Or whatever else, there's a million versions.
We have to win the arms race because if we don't build the weapon, we'll lose and they're building the weapon. And we have to provide this much IRR to the, if we want to do impact to the investors, because otherwise we won't have enough money to do anything meaningful.
I had a friend just the other day who was proposing that we make a public-private partnership to solve the AI synthetic bio issue where the companies themselves that are advancing the synthetic bio AI technology are the ones that write the legislation to bind themselves.
And I'm like, are you fucking kidding? Like, are you being honest that you really are proposing this? And he's like, well, that's how it works in DC. You always have revolving doors. And I'm like, that's why we're going to go extinct. And but that's how it is. That's how it is. And that's how it is in the world system.
Human made world system is on an eminent in your lifetime extinction path.
So learning the how biology is and how physics is and how ecology is and figuring out how to change the world system.
The criminally insane world system to be compatible with it is the only chance for there to be an is at all for humans continuing.
I want to plug something real quick. How many people here have done Nora's worm data? Not as many as I would have thought, maybe a third. Okay.
You know, in the doubt a chain, it says, in the practice of the Dow, every day, something is dropped. And the acquisition of knowledge every day, something is gained. And those don't have to be incompatible. They can actually dance together.
And I see that what Nora figured out how to do with warm data was really the dance between those where someone is dropping the rigid ways of seeing things while learning to see things a lot more ways.
So they have a lot more complexity with less certainty at the same time. Right. They're dropping certainty.
But they're getting lots of new insights, which means there's a lot of new possibilities through what had seemed impossible.
And one of the things that's so interesting about it is that it looks like a elementary school activity. It looks like some really fucking benign thing.
But when she asks, what is music in the context of the financial media production industry?
Or what is music in the context of culture? Or what is music in the context of healing? Or what is music in the context of family? Or what is music in the context of death ritual?
And someone gets to think, wow, it's so many different things. They stop thinking what is music is a reasonable concept. It's in what context.
Across enough different things, they stop thinking of anything as a static thing.
And thinking of everything as something embedded in lots of different contexts, which means there have to be lots of different ways to see anything, or you're just radically reducing the world.
So I will admit that I would like, I will admit that I think we're probably going to fail as a species pretty soon.
And that I would like that not to happen. And for it not to happen, I would like a really intense call to action where people stop being comfortable and focusing on the shit that they normally focus on.
I would love to see Stockholm have something that is like, extinction rebellion is the right type of framing, right?
If you are working on the most important thing you know to serve some aspect of the continuity and thriving of life, I would like you to just deepen your passion for that and your skills at it.
If you are working on anything else, I would love for you to quit what you're doing.
Seriously, downsize your life, you don't need as much stuff, quit what you're doing, and really think about how you could make your life possibly in service to the most important time that has ever been for life.
I would love to see a movement here happen where people are meeting regularly, talking super serious conversations.
Did everybody see the Stockholm Resilience Center's new report that came out two days ago?
So, you've all seen, it's here in Stockholm, the Planetary Boundaries report, but the new one, there were a lot of areas that didn't have data, they have data now.
And it's not that we are coming up on Planetary Boundaries, it's that we've surpassed almost all of them radically. It may be too late no matter what we do.
I don't think so. I think that biology is amazingly regenerative, but only if we start doing like everything right as rapidly as possible.
And so yeah, I would love to see, I would love to see this not just be a weird form of entertaining conversation that gets forgot about in your lives are the same tomorrow, but regular meetings happening to say what could we actually do to shift this.
And I would love to see people getting trained and warm data as part of it because Nora's right here in Stockholm, one of the, and I think, I think being able to bring this as a subversive technology because it looks like some cute org dev activity.
Two halls of power that start opening up possibilities to then be able to direct more pointed things into that space.
It's always funny to me when Daniel describes warm data because actually he does it better than I do.
Because reality is, the Tao Te Ching says the Tao that is speakable in words is not the eternal Tao, nor is so attuned to that thing that she mostly uses words as poetry to try to evoke a sense of that which is beyond pure denotation.
So I'm trying to just add also denotative clarity to the thing because it's not your orientation and it shouldn't be.
Thank you.
I love that.
I need to just stay with you always, I think.
Because there is something when we were first talking about having this conversation, we were thinking about all the ways in which change making and the urgency of this time becomes explicit.
There is a lot of structural change.
There's a lot of big furniture moving to do.
And there are calls, calls for community, calls for collaboration.
But you can't have community and you can't have collaboration if you don't have communing.
There is no plan that can be implemented upon the peoples of the world that are so divided and hate each other right now.
There's no master plan, there's no model that can hold this aspect of what it is that we can actually do together, who we can be together.
And the structures and the implications of the structures, right down to the little things.
The water comes out of the faucet in your house.
Your tax number is your tax number, your electric bill is your electric bill.
We don't meet at the water, we don't have to help each other create things.
