but it's not good at picking the right goals.
And if it doesn't have something binding what the right goals are that is perceiving life widely in the process of being very good at goal achieving with narrow goals,
it'll harm a lot of things.
And then in the process of harming things, other people will have to do comparable stuff to deal with those people.
And then you get an arms race, you get an exponential curve, and you get Molok.
I think our capacity for recursive abstraction led to a degree of science that gives us the Large Hadron Collider and the ability to split the nucleus of an atom, right?
But it also gives us the ability for the prayer of the Bodhisattva that says, I want to bind myself to all sentient beings throughout all time, space and history.
So if that property, that capacity for perceiving wholeness and having our goals bound to that, that has to bind the goal achieving.
That would be wisdom binding power.
If we get that at the level of not just some people, because then of course you always have a situation where someone can do the sociopathic thing and win,
and then everyone has to race to do the sociopathic thing or get taken over.
So it's not just within some people the master has to bind the emissary.
It's that also holistically everyone has to ensure that no one is pursuing advanced goal achieving in service of life harming goals.
And because we have this capacity to see the world and model it and do science and then because of science do applied tech.
And because of that we can build powerful enough systems to destroy this thing.
Because we have that ability, the other ability, the Bodhisattva ability has to be developed enough and bind that thing or we do self-terminate.
So that's in all of us.
I would not say there's an even distribution of it in everybody.
We started doing a research project recently on what the equivalent of sociopathy and dark triad traits in indigenous cultures were.
And we haven't finished, but this is something I'm very interested in.
And for the most part what we've seen so far is there was radically less of that trait because there wasn't an evolutionary niche for it.
Because in a small Dunbar tribe, if you lied, everybody knew you lied.
And if you fucked somebody you were fucking the people that your life depends upon.
And so in that small environment there was just not a niche for it.
The niche came later.
I did talk to a Lakota scholar who said in the Lakota tribe if a kid had the traits that they referred to as the equivalent of sociopathy the whole tribe worked to heal it in them.
And if they didn't heal it in them at the rite of passage ceremony of puberty where they become an adult they were killed.
Because they said that if that didn't happen those people when they grew up always caused war.
I think there's not an even distribution of traits.
There's definitely some roots of the metacrisis that live in everybody.
I want to go to this question of where do you see hope and tie it into what you're saying.
So probably my favorite work that I've seen besides the two of you, of course, is with the clinic in Italy that works on paralysis.
Now I first became interested in this clinic, paralysis and terminal pain.
So I became interested in this with the early researchers of the Bates Institute, one of which was Rex who went with me to this clinic.
And our question that we went with was how do systems get unstuck?
We were interested in stuckness and paralysis is stuckness.
It's not a good question because it depends on where you draw the edge of the stuckness.
If you're not careful and you say the system is stuck what you're not seeing is the wild compensatory processes that take place around the edges to maintain a stuckness.
If you have a stuckness you're only looking in one part of the system.
So it's not a good question but nevertheless it was a good starting place.
And we went to this clinic and what I saw there was without question the most beautiful systemic work I've ever seen to this day.
And what they did required no beeping things, it required no injections.
It required a fascinating process in which for example the practitioner would offer a small wooden block with a spiral in it and ask the patient to describe what it would feel like to run their finger around that spiral.
So I'm inviting you into this because I want you to notice all the cognitive processes that are necessary to do just that.
That's visual, that's memory, that's verbal, that's tactile, that's relational, that's cultural.
There's a whole lot just right there.
What they didn't do was go up to that frozen arm of the person in paralysis and try to open it, massage it, acupuncture it, treat it, stretch it, open it.
They didn't do that.
Then they would give the block again and this time run the finger of the good hand if there was one around very slowly.
And at the end of that movement around the spiral ask the question, not what did you feel, but what's the difference?
And in that question, what is being required for a response is actually three versions.
They felt the first time, what they felt the second time and what the difference was, so that's complicated.
And then it's also visual, tactile, temperature comes in with this one.
Measurement, movement of arm, like when you move your finger around a spiral, there's measurement happening, how far is it around?
Speed, balance, again, speech, etc.
So what's happening in this process, and this is where the inspiration for the Warm Data Lab came from,
is that these different aspects of cognitive learning are actually informing each other.
And they're doing so inside the individual in a way that is absolutely free to move in the way that it moves according to that person.
That's cool.
And obviously I wouldn't be that impressed with it if I didn't see that it was also working.
So what I am leery of is this idea that it's ever remotely beneficial to tell people what they should think, what they should do, or how they should feel.
And what I love about that process is the way in which there is a wilderness of connective processes that are shaping and informing each other.
So I asked them, because I noticed they weren't going for what I would call the pathology, the paralysis, they didn't go for the thing.
It wasn't a first order corrective.
This is an example of an enthorter response.
We've been talking about enthorter agency tonight and how it doesn't look like what you think it's going to look like.
This is an example.
So of course what happens is that not only do these people change in terms of their possibility of how their body moves and understands their world,
their whole personality opens into new curiosity, new artistic creation, all sorts of things happen.
Capacities for emotion, capacities for all sorts of things that maybe they didn't have before they were paralyzed actually.
So what's pathology?
What's pathology?
And when I asked them this, I asked it because I realized that the thing I saw wasn't what they were seeing.
And what their response was, was that pathology is the organism's inability to make sense of its world.
That's a really interesting definition of pathology.
So what is happening in that exercise is that there is a multi-sensorial, multi-cognitive process that is given an opportunity to reconnect,
to make new formations of sense making of what it is to be in the world.
They're not healing them, they're not putting them back how they were, they're not reconstituting, they're not at all.
So we changed our question to how do systems learn, not how do they get unstuck.
And there's a whole lot of work on that, but you asked what for me was the most hopeful and it was that because of this incredible insight there
for the potential for things to make connection that are not necessarily doing it explicitly.
We talked about implicit change and when is it?
And it's an interesting question because when is it?
And suddenly it happens.
And you don't know how far you are on the X line before you have one more minute and suddenly there's a shift, there's a learning.
And for me this also ties into the question around orgs and how can organizations do better, which I'm just paraphrasing what you said,
which for us, for what I'm interested in with that is working with organizations and when we do warm data work with organizations
we don't allow for there to be a closed system.
There is an illusion that an organization ends at the edge of the organization.
This is part of the problem.
So when we do warm data labs with organizations we ask them to be sure that everyone who comes invites people from their life,
their family, their friends, people from the community, so that the membrane is moved.
So that there is a different kind of accountability in the room.
So that people can actually be in another way besides just tacitly protecting their employment,
which is one of the dangers of doing development workshops with organizations is that they don't really want to develop past that point where they could lose their job.
It's a problem.
Yeah, okay, so that was just a few.
Let me build on that and then circle back to the question about hope.
So what I've learned from you, among other things, is you can't just look at the thing.
You have to look at the thing in the context of other things.
And this has origins in biology, multi-level selection.
It's not just that we're competitive creatures, but we're also cooperative creatures and those things were both locked in our history.
But applying it to my work and your work, Daniel and I met a few years ago and I'm working on energy ecology, human behavior,
and Daniel's working on existential risks, AI and things like that.
And we became friends and we started to interact our contexts.
And a couple things happened, three things happened, at least three things happened.
One is we actually constrained each other's stories because he didn't really know about my stuff and I didn't know about his stuff.
So we were both like, oh man, things are worse than we thought because I didn't know about your stuff.
The second thing that happened is we became friends and we supported each other and then we introduced each other to other people
and the network expanded and there was an emergence there.
And the third thing that happened is we're influencing a conversation and there's an emergence that is unknown.
And we're shifting the conversation in a small way, but that's what's happening now that gives me hope.
Is there hundreds of thousands of humans that are starting to pay attention to this conversation?
And I am in my role as a podcaster or whatever, I'm increasingly more comfortable not knowing what to do
because I always used to feel if I say these are the problems, I felt guilty leaving the room without having the solutions.
So a year ago I started to use the word responses instead of solutions and now I'm even more comfortable just trying to set the table
and it was really unexpected to me that, oh yeah, last year I started a podcast because I know a lot of people like Daniel and Nora
and I wanted to listen to what they had to say, but it's changed me.
I'm trying to share knowledge with other humans. I am learning and changing in the process.
And I just want to broaden this conversation to more humans to have this emergent thing with the meadow in the context
and I feel that it's actually happening and that's what gives me hope is the better side of humanity.
Pontus, you said should we kill it? We are at a unique time.
Okay, going back to your thing I'll add a depressing fact, but there's a reason.
10,000 years ago for every human that was on the planet there were 15,000 pounds of mammals, wild mammals.
By the year 1800 for every human on the planet there were 200 pounds of mammals.
During that 10,000 years it was largely that human population went up that drove that.
But since 1800 we've gone from 200 pounds to 5 pounds of mammals per human alive.
That is an increase in human population but it also is a decimation of nature.
So what we're doing this equicidal tendency that we're having, this has been in play for 10,000 years.
What's different now is the scale of it and this room full of people and others who are actually aware of it,
aware of where we came from, how we got here, what we're doing, what we actually need and having these conversations.
So we are aware of it now. Is our awareness in a Heisenberg sort of observing science to change it?
Are we aware of the superorganism or mollock or whatever you say?
Is that enough to change it in an emerging way, to steer it, to shrink it, to transform it?
Is a question I think about a lot.
But runaway.
I mean there's a runaway.
And I remember the first time I went to sort of a disclosure of an IPCC report and I looked at all the details and I said,
yeah, but what about the runaway? Where's that part of this?
And they said, oh no, we don't do that.
And I was like, oh, wait a minute.
So we have all this bad news and you haven't done the runaway.
I think this is really incredible because that's the part where the math goes into chaos math.
It's not even calculable at that point.
It's you do it for understanding but not for calculations.
And what I want to bring in is that there's an importance to this coming together of learning and studying
and playing music and eating and having babies.
We need to do this.
Understanding that what we are actually responding to at this point is runaway.
Which is really a different kind of response.
And what I keep perceiving is that there's this grabbing need to pull one issue at a time.
And it's in motion now.
We're in runaway. We're in it.
So how do you respond to runaway collectively is actually also with runaway.
But runaway of another kind.
Like runaway.
Like people meeting people, meeting people, meeting people.
The way in which if we have a conversation here and you guys all go home
and you have a conversation with somebody, that that conversation will be a little bit different.
And then that person talks to someone and it's a little bit different.
That something has, this is the implicit part.
That something has shifted.
And maybe it's like really not the thing you thought.
Maybe it's recognizing and those guys got up there and they were totally off script and they were actually in conversation.
We don't see that very often.
But maybe it's that, I don't know, that Daniel came even though he was sick.
But seriously, that's an act of love. That's a gift.
So just recognizing how potent these nth order responses are in runaway.
Because that's what we're dealing with.
So I just wanted to bring that word in the room because I feel like it should be here.
I had something I was feeling to share about the question of hope, optimism.
There's a tremendous amount of like, I guess you can call it hope, it's more like warmth and joy that I feel.
Every time I go to an animal shelter and watch the people take care of animals.
Every time I watch a teacher or a nurse who really puts in discretionary effort to care for the kids and the people they're caring for.
When I see people who run orphanages, like all the people who have just extremely high care, I mean, it's like, that's the species I love.
That's the human species I love.
What do I feel optimistic about in terms of something converging to the appropriate scale and speed of the metacrisis?
I can say what I sense that it can be, but I don't see it happening yet.
I mean, I love a lot of the work in regenerative agriculture and permaculture and things like that, but overall, the total number of global catastrophic risks is increasing each year and the probability of all of them is increasing.
So we're not on track. We're not converging.
One thing I wanted to say, though, is my partner, Summer, you can ask her if you want to.
Dispositionally, just as a person, I'm pegged almost as far to the optimistic side as somebody can be, which you might actually think is funny, given the nature of my work.
But in almost all personal situations, I'm like, oh, we'll figure it out.
There's a solution. We'll figure it out. No problem.
And so that's my disposition.
I actually trust people who do catastrophic risk work who have an optimistic disposition more, because otherwise they might just be catastrophizing.
I know a lot of people who are actually exceptional in catastrophic risk work because they just catastrophize all the fucking time.
But I really don't think I have a catastrophizing disposition.
I run the dialectics on all these things, and it's just like, damn, the trajectories are pretty clear.
I think if you haven't studied it, most people here don't have a clear sense of how much one person who really learns strategy
and implements it intensively can affect the world.
Like, I don't think many people here understand how much Henry Kissinger actually architected the world.
But study it a little bit. You'll be fucking mind blown.
I don't think most people have a sense of how much one George Soros or Bill Gates affects the world relative to an average person.
But it's so many orders of magnitude. It's not like a hundred times more or a thousand times more.
But when I see the people who run animal shelters, when I see the Jane Goodall's, they don't learn how to do what Kissinger knows how to do or what Soros knows how to do.
They don't learn how to capture the financial systems or the political systems or the media and mindset of the people.
If you want to know the thing that I feel hopeful about, it's people with Jane Goodall's heart learning how to do Kissingerian stuff.
Learning how to actually capture and change the systems of power without being affected by them.
And there's a particular kind of priesthood or whatever you want to call it that someone has to take to enter that, not for self-will.
