So we believe that there is ignition already in the young baby.
At set, certainly at 12 months, we see also it very clearly,
and I think this is the data from 12 months,
but perhaps much earlier, probably, maybe even very close to birth.
The earliest evidence we had in this experiment was at five months.
So it's a basic architecture of the system.
We can see it many times.
We have a new tool now to look at these things,
which is multivariate decoding.
And this has been a very strong contribution of Jean-Rémy King,
who did his PhD in the lab.
What we can do is we can take a slice of time coming from these EEG nets,
or from the MEG that you can see here,
and using all of these sensors and this slice of time,
we can try to build a decoder for what the subject has been presented with.
For instance, decoding which image you have seen.
Is it a face, a house, an object, or a body part?
And this is actual data showing that,
of course, before the stimulus, you can't decode.
After the stimulus, there is a period where you can't,
and then you can decode the stimulus.
But what's great about this is you can also use the pattern
of generalization across time
to illuminate the organization of the system.
Think about it.
If there's a chain of processors, they each have a specific code,
then you could train on a given time,
and you could decode at the same time, even with new data,
but you could not decode at a different time
because the activation is gone onto a different code.
But if there's a stable, sustained, ignited code,
then you could train at a given time
and still generalize to a different generalization time.
Using different data from a different time point
because the data is stable.
And it's not just theory
because this is what we see in the actual data.
So this was the work of Sébastien Martin.
You can see here when we flash a picture,
we do see a sort of diagonal pattern of decoding,
which means we train at a given time,
we can mostly decode at about the same time,
and then the information moves to another coding scheme.
But later in time, you can see this late,
much more stable pattern,
and I will outline it for you here.
So you can see there's this much more square pattern,
which means that the neural activity has become stable in time,
and we can decode it.
And it seems in our hands that this diagonal phase
corresponds much more to non-conscious processing,
and this more stable phase to conscious processing.
So one way to see this is to use this decoding
in this masking experiment.
So here is our masking stimuli.
What we decode here is just the presence of the stimuli.
Can we distinguish between a stimulus,
which is present, like the D9 here,
and a stimulus where there was no digit at all, just the mass?
We can make this distinction.
We can make it even when the stimulus is extremely short,
like 17 or 33 milliseconds here.
And this is a subliminal stimulus below the threshold,
so you can see that it creates a whole pipeline of activation.
But notice what happens when we cross the threshold here.
There's this much more intense activation building up,
and then suddenly there's this intense square pattern,
stable pattern of activity,
which, if we simply take the same exact stimulus
and separate unseen trial, nicely separates these two categories.
You can see that there is much more stable activity
on the scene case.
And this has been proposed as a notion of metastability.
It's not that the activity is no longer changing.
It's still changing, but it's changing much more slowly.
The system has reached a much more stable state of activity,
which we claim is associated with broadcasting.
Jean Rémi has been replicating this pattern many times.
Initially, our experiments were criticized
because we were using symbolic digits,
so we did them again with grids, you can see here.
And in this experiment, also, it's a long delay
before the subject sees a probe
and has to decide whether the probe is tilted left or right
compared to the target.
You have to make this choice even if you don't see it.
It's very interesting that you can be above chance.
So even after a long delay like this,
or close to one second, you can still use some
of the subliminal information provided by the target.
But of course, you're much better
when you cross the threshold.
Information becomes much more stable in your mind.
When we decode this situation, we see once again
a sort of diagonal pattern for the unseen trials here.
So we see a trajectory in neural space.
And surprisingly, we can continue to decode
the unseen stimulus for a long time.
But still, you can see that the non-conscious trial
is evoking decaying activity in blue.
The seen stimulus is evoking much more stable activity,
sustained through time.
And even though it's not a perfect square,
it continues to evolve through time,
it's much more stable, much more broader in its matrix
compared to the more diagonal pattern
evoked by the unseen stimulus.
So you think this difference here.
So this is what we call ignition.
It's not just a stable pattern, it's a stable trajectory.
And this notion that conscious and unconscious processing
can be seen as a divergent dynamic trajectory
has been a point that has been made by others,
for instance, multi-sulty or so.
What they see here is the same as we see.
The seen trials, even for a fixed constant stimulus,
the seen trials diverge very quickly from the unseen trials.
If you measure the speed of divergence,
I saw this was a very clever trick here,
just measure the speed with which
the magnetic fields in the MEG change.
You can see that suddenly they start to change
very quickly for the seen trials compared to the unseen trials.
That's what we call nonlinear radiation.
Now, can we go beyond this simple observation of ignition
to what it does?
What's the computation?
Our idea with Jean-Rémy,
and we proposed that in this paper in 2014 very formally,
is that the computation is one of the posterior.
Think of my original example.
You have to compute the posterior distribution of light,
the probability that this is white or dark,
as opposed to based on all of the information on the seat.
So it's a perceptual decision following
a long unconscious influence.
We wrote this sentence, which I still like,
what we call a subjective report,
may simply be the brain's best attempt
at solving a difficult perceptual decision problem
with myriads of potential classes,
each with different costs and prior probabilities
that depend on the subject's prior experience.
So the subjective report is not random at all.
Subjective is a computation,
but a computation of a posterior.
In order to test this idea,
Jean-Rémy and Gabrielle Améad did a very recent experiment.
It's not published yet.
But the idea is that we can manipulate the evidence
by masking,
but in order to separate it better from the posterior,
we can also manipulate the prior.
So we have a masking paradigm here.
We flash a digit.
There's a mask.
We vary the SOA, the delay between the digit and the mask,
but we also vary the prior here by having two blocks.
You can see them here.
There's one block where most of the trials are invisible,
because we present all of these short duration trials.
Most of them are invisible.
And your prior is that you're going to get a trial
where you don't see the stimulus.
And then in another block,
we present some of the same durations,
but also longer durations,
so that the prior is that you're going to see
most of the trials.
And if you look at the behavioral data,
this is sufficient to shift as predicted
by the model, the subjective reports.
The subjective reports of seeing integrate the prior
and shift the second block towards more visibility,
even though it's the same stimulus
and even though the objective discrimination
as predicted by the fact
that this is based on unconscious computation,
the objective discrimination.
If we look at what happens at the MEG level,
we once again replicate this idea of a trajectory
for unconscious stimuli,
which gets broader for when the stimulus is seen.
And if we contrast unseen versus seen stimuli,
simply based on this middle stimuli,
where the stimulus is the same,
and one of these durations here.
So for a fixed SOA,
we have this distinction between seen and unseen stimuli,
which creates this region of significant difference here.
Amplification of the activation
followed by this very late metastable phase.
But now we can dissociate it from SOA.
We can do multiple regression.
This is what Jean-Rémy did here,
to predict the outcome of this detector
for present versus absent trials.
And we can see that the early stages
are dominated by the SOA,
by the objective evidence,
