is distributed in the space of the cortex.
It's much slower, typically after 300 milliseconds,
200, 300 milliseconds.
And it creates this very broad decoding ability.
It's a sustained state.
If you decode it at a given time,
you can see it at later times.
And we've seen that this one disappears
on the unconscious situation.
We've explored a lot this paradigm
to show this dissociation between the local unconscious
versus global conscious response.
And we've done it in the monkey as well.
This has been done by Beshear Jaraya and Lynn Urik
in the lab.
We've been able to do fMRI of the monkey
to see that there is a global workspace
in the monkey as well.
There is this distributed system of areas
that come up only for the global response.
And in recent research, we've seen that the global response
can disappear suddenly during anesthesia
when we fall asleep, regardless of the type of anesthetic.
And it will reappear.
And this is perhaps the most interesting aspect
from a clinical point of view.
It will reappear if we stimulate using deep electrodes
the centromedial nucleus of the thalamus.
This is still unpublished work by Jordy Tasseri.
I hope soon to be published.
So what we have here is a system that is essentially
a reflection, a signature of consciousness.
If you have this novelty response
that is high level of processing, which
integrates all of the five sounds together to say,
this is my expected melody and it's been violated,
then this is a conscious level of processing.
And you only get this response if the animal is conscious.
Now that we have this paradigm, we
can go back to our electrodes and ask
what is being coded in the prefrontal cortex of the monkey.
Can we see these global responses?
Can we see a code for what the monkey is seeing?
So you know that with these Utah arrays,
we can see several single neurons.
And this setup has been provided by Fanny Spanagio de Ropoulos,
Timo von Kerkule.
And this is the beautiful work of Marie Bellet here.
So what do we see here?
First of all, we see that we can decode from prefrontal cortex
neurons the identity of every object in a sequence.
We move to a visual presentation because we
record more neurons that respond to vision in the monkey.
But this is a small difference, so bear with me.
So we can see the identity of the stimuli here.
Blue, blue, blue, blue, orange, orange, orange, orange,
et cetera.
We can decode the identity of the stimuli.
I've already told you this.
So if the last item is different,
well, we can decode that the identity of the object is changed.
But in fact, we can decode every single bit of knowledge
that the monkey has of the sequence.
And that's exactly what I told you at the beginning.
There should be a code in the prefrontal cortex
for every single bit of information
that the monkey has, every single bit of conscious information.
So I told you we can decode which picture just appeared.
Is it picture A or picture B?
This is running blocks, so you can get decoding even
before the stimulus appears.
But of course, it gets amplified.
And we don't have to run these experiments in blocks.
We can decode identity.
But we can also decode the ordinal position.
There's something clicking in the monkey's head.
And in our head, when we go through the stimulus,
it says, well, this is the first sound.
This is the second sound.
This is the third sound.
And when it comes to the fourth sound,
maybe I should expect something different.
Because it's the end of the sequence.
And I know it's going to end differently.
So we can see this.
We can see neural codes that have first been described
by Andreas Nieder that care about the ordinal position
of the stimulus.
Because we don't vary the SOA for the moment,
and this is, again, unpublished data,
we cannot really tell whether this is number of time.
But we think it's a mixture of both and also some notion
of first and last in the sequence.
You can see item 1, item 2, item 3, and 4.
There is a mixture of identity information
and ordinal position information that tells you
where you are in the sequence.
And then there's much more than that.
There is, is the last item different?
If the last item is different, it creates this huge mismatch
response, which can be seen in different contexts.
And of course, the monkey knows consciously
that the last item is different.
And interestingly, we also see this numerical response here.
You can see something that says, oh, it's
like the first item.
It's like a new group of one.
This light item is different.
So it's a little bit like one.
We can also decode the global deviants.
So we have other neurons that allow us to build this decoder
here, which is expectedly slower in time,
and tells us, did I just see an unexpected sequence?
I expected that it should end with a different sound,
and it didn't.
So I get this global response here.
So there's something in the prefrontal context that says,
I'm surprised.
I should work more.
And what's very interesting is we even find neurons
that before the onset of the sequence encode,
what should I expect?
The monkey knows, as we know in this paradigm,
that ease in a block where it should end with a different sound.
So we can decode that from the beginning,
from specific cortical populations.
So all of these neurons are intermixed together.
And we can think of prefrontal cortex
as having multiple vectors that each code
for these dimensions of experience.
But the entirety of experience is reflected
in prefrontal cortex.
And I insist that this is in a non-reporting.
Monkey, there is no report here.
Just passive listening to these sequences.
So I promise to go very quickly to the clinic
just to say that this local versus global response is just
one of the tools that we have currently in the clinic
to decide, whether to help decide whether a person is
or is no longer conscious.
This is a very difficult clinical problem
of deciding whether someone with vegetative state
or minimal consciousness, so-called unwakeful,
sorry, vegetative state is now
responsive wakefulness syndrome, UWS here,
or minimal consciousness MC.
How do we decide?
It seems that some of these patients
in apparent vegetative state are actually still conscious.
Well, we can have them listen to this paradigm.
And as shown by Jacobo said, this is one indication
that they might still be conscious
if they still get this global response.
The local response we know we can get from comatose patients.
It's not the only tool.
And from global workspace theory,
we have several additional tools.
We can simply look at the amount of sharing
of information, especially in the theta band here,
in the long distances of the cortex,
the more there is sharing of information,
the more likely the patient is to be conscious.
And we can also look at fMRI,
and this is something I won't have time to describe at all,
but just the resting state activity in fMRI
has become a very interesting cue
to the state of the subject.
If there is variation in the resting state activity,
as you can see, these matrices
of functional connectivity varying through time,
then there is the high likelihood
that the patient is conscious.
This is a signature that we found in the monkey first
and translated to the human.
So by combining these signatures,
we can begin to have automatic classifiers of patients.
Using multiple EEG markers,
we can classify much better than chance,
whether a patient is or is not still conscious.
I will not have time to describe
all of the specific measures here,
but from a clinical point of view,
it does not matter.
Of course, it matters from the theory.
What are these signatures?
But from the clinic, the important thing
is that we can begin to help classify these patients better.
And very interestingly, inside the vegetative state,
it seems that we don't always agree
with the clinical classification,
which is provided by the doctor, the classifier,
the machine learning may not agree.
And in fact, the machine perhaps predicts better
at least sometimes because a greater number of patients
that are classified as being conscious
tend to recover as opposed to not improving.
So there is also a pronostic value
from some of these markers.
This has become quite an industry
of decoding of these patients.
