the duration of the stimulus before the mask.
And this is the visibility, the subjective component,
whether the subject declared that he could see it.
And we can clearly see that this affects
different stages of processing.
What about the prior?
We can also identify your modulation by the block,
which the subject is confronted.
Is it a visible block,
where most of the trials are visible?
Or is it an invisible block?
And this prior affects the entire trajectory of processing,
but primarily affects the beginning,
even prior to the presentation of the stimulus,
as should be expected, perhaps from the term prior.
So this is the key figure.
If we put together all of these influences,
we can see the successive effects
of the prior, of the evidence,
and of the posterior, the visibility ratings,
on the decoding of the presence
versus absence of the stimulus.
And I hope you can see these chains of processing,
which go through time here.
Each of these is a slice of the decoding.
So this is a decoder trained at 120 milliseconds
to decide whether there was or there was,
or there was not a stimulus.
And you can see that the decoder is first influenced
by the prior, then by the evidence,
and finally converges to the posterior.
And we see that multiple times.
I think this is consistent with the idea
of a chain of processes
that all have the same sort of computation,
the same style of computation at different levels.
And eventually, when you reach the last level here,
by 300 milliseconds, you're completely dominated
by the visibility, the subjective,
final posterior of the subject.
Now, all of these MEG data is very nice,
but as you can see, I'm showing it to you in decoding space.
We can also do source modeling,
and we can see that prefrontal cortex contributes to this,
and this is a distributed response.
But the best, of course,
is to go to animal research
in order to be able to pinpoint
the neural basis of this ignition.
And so we started doing this,
first of all, in collaboration with Peter Ruth-Semmastien
in this recent science paper,
we had a monkey model of a flash stimulus
crossing or not crossing the threshold.
So the paradigm was even simpler than before.
We just flashed a little bit of light
with a variable contrast,
and sometimes there is no stimulus at all,
so zero contrast.
And if the monkey sees the stimulus,
he has to make a saccade to the item.
And if he doesn't see the stimulus,
he has to make a saccade to a fixed out
to report not seen.
And once again, we have behavior
which is characterized by this nonlinear threshold function.
There's a threshold contrast for a given animal
below which you don't perceive the stimulus
even though it's present
and above which it becomes very easy to perceive.
And there are some ambiguous stimuli here.
So we could ask in monkeys,
how does the firing of cells in V1, V4,
and prefrontal cortex
varies as a function of seeing or not seeing,
including for the first time here,
the presence of a large number of missed stimuli
that is to say stimuli that are present.
There is a contrast on screen,
but the animal reports not seeing them.
And what we saw is very clear.
I think you can see it by yourself.
The visual areas V1 and V4
cannot be the basis of conscious perception
because they can be very strongly activated
both by seen stimuli but also by missed stimuli.
So it doesn't really matter much to these areas
whether there is going to be subjective perception
of seeing or not.
On the other hand, the prefrontal cortex,
as you can see here, ignites
whenever the monkey reports perceiving a stimulus.
It does so on seen trials.
You can see the green curve here.
And it also does so on false alarm trials
where there was no stimulus,
but the monkey thought that there was a flash of light
and made a second.
Most important, I think,
is the divergence between the red curve
and the green curve here.
They're the same stimuli,
but in one case, you missed the stimulus.
The monkey reports not seeing the stimulus.
And you can see that there is what we call failed ignition.
There's a beginning of a wave reaching prefrontal cortex,
but then it converges to the low state
which corresponds to the one
when the monkey reports not seeing.
So we really have a sort of dynamic system here
diverging between two possible states,
the high state for the monkey reports.
Yes, I saw the stimulus and the low state.
This is just about reporting because it's not reporting.
So it's really a sort of neural correlate
of signal detection theory here.
But according to the theory,
we should be able to go further than that.
And really, we should see that there is a detailed
neuronal code for the consciously perceived contents
and that this has nothing to do with report.
It should be seen even in no report paradise
where the monkey doesn't have to do anything.
So this has been a beautiful work
by a fanis Panagiotaropoulos,
first in Nico's Logothetis lab,
which pioneered all of this work on consciousness in monkeys.
And then now in Neurospin in our lab.
So what he's doing is using a no report paradigm
binocular rivalry situation
where the nice trick is that if the rivaling stimuli are grids
and in one eye they're moving up,
in the other eye they're moving down,
the two stimuli rival.
So even if you're a subject, you're a human subject,
you see one stimulus and then you see the other.
The stimulus is constant,
but your subjective perception alternates.
But you don't have to ask for a report
because you see it in the eye movements.
The eyes track the visible stimulus
and if you perceive movement towards the top of the screen,
for instance, you see slow movement followed by nystagmus
to return to the initial position.
And then you know that the subject is seeing the top stimulus.
So using this trick,
Fanis has been able to show that there are neural populations
in the prefrontal cortex that encode
which stimulus the animal is seeing,
even when there is no need to report at all.
And in fact, even when there are no eye movements at all,
just these states of the prefrontal cortex switch
and they switch in correspondence
with the perception of the animal.
Whether it's physical switches
or whether it's binocular rivalry
and the switches are purely subjective,
there is no switch in the actual stimulus.
Now this is just for up motion versus downward motion.
So you could argue this is a very poor
contents of consciousness.
The contents of consciousness should be much richer than that.
So can we go to much richer stimuli?
Well, that's what Joachim Bele and Fanis are doing
here at Neurospin.
We have these Utah arrays that allow to record from
close to 100 neurons in the ventrolateral cortex of the monkeys.
And we can see what happens
when you just submit them to a passive viewing paradigm
where they see an object.
And can we use the firings of the cells in prefrontal cortex
to decode where the monkey is seeing?
Well, yes, we can.
And not only that,
but we can decode every single picture that he is seeing
out of a large set of pictures, such as 10 or 15.
So there is a neural vector that suffices
to provide a lot of information
compared to chance about the identity of the picture.
And we can decode each of the successive pictures
even in a relatively fast stream where the subjective impression
is that there is a very fleeting view of the image.
If you're just submitted to this as a human subject,
you say, oh, I can see almost every picture.
They are going very, very fast.
They keep changing each other.
What we see in the prefrontal cortex,
if we look at the decoding matrices,
is this sort of very short diagonal followed
by cutting by the next stimulus.
So for the last stimulus,
you can see there is longer decoding.
And the matrix is actually longer
and leads to this more stable state here.
But we also have the same state.
This is the same decoder in the horizontal slice here.
So the same brain state
allows to decode the identity of the picture
only for a shorter duration
when the picture has been presented inside
