language areas, but also mass responsive areas
or theory of mind regions,
giving rise to the extraordinary complexity
of human conscious experiences.
This second part here, what's special to the human brain,
I would argue, is not yet well captured
in artificial intelligence.
It's more like system two that Joshua Benjio was discussing.
So we might have a discussion about that there.
With that, I will leave you with these two books
and thank you very much for your attention.
Unknown?
No, I know.
Yes.
Yes.
Thank you so much.
It was an impressive talk.
As expected, that was wonderful,
mind blowing, a lot of beautiful data.
The cognitive experiments are just so mind blowing
and amazing and it nicely complements
all of the work we've been looking at today.
We do have time for questions
and we have to take questions and just weigh so many questions.
So I'm just going to pull up here the questions
and see those that have been uploaded most.
And maybe we can go through a few of them.
And again, we'll have time later in the panel.
So I'm going to ask the first one.
So the first question, you probably see it also stand
on the Ask a Question tab.
The first one is by Elif Miller,
who's asking in the global network space,
in the GNW theory,
does consciousness require control-oriented
interceptive inference
as advocated by Anil in his talk this morning?
So the way to incorporate interceptive inference.
Yeah, I don't think so.
I think that there is a lot,
but I may not fully understand the concept
that Anil has been proposing,
but I think the theory that I'm proposing
is that we can be conscious of many different things
and this does not necessarily require
any sense of self or any notion of interoception.
So all it requires is an internal system
for both casting information.
It can be very abstract.
So think of what you are doing
when you're doing mathematics.
But I'm not sure I fully understand
also the particular proposals here.
So fair enough.
We should discuss that later.
Yeah, we can get back to it.
So I'm going to take a question
by Andy Dykstra,
who's asking,
how do you address the work of Michael Pitts,
Steve Hilliard, and others that claim
that the P3B is post perceptual,
rather than perception, actually, per se?
Yeah, I think it was a little bit wrong
to claim that one particular wave,
which of course varies from paradigm to paradigm also,
is can be a universal signature of consciousness.
So that has been clearly refuted, I think.
What is still clear is that
if you have another stimulus,
one which is not expected,
then the P3B is not a bright sign of consciousness.
But as soon as the stimulus becomes habitual, expected,
you don't necessarily get it.
And also if the stimulus does not require
a lot of post processing,
as being said in the question,
then it can be severely reduced.
That does not, I think,
depart from the fact that you have ignition.
The ignition phenomenon is still present,
as I showed, I think,
especially in the new neural recordings,
in the prefrontal cortex,
you have very brief activation,
but still crossing the prefrontal cortex.
And if you don't need to hang on to it,
because you're just passively looking,
then you get it and then it's gone.
It flies by, basically.
So it will not create this very global wave
that you can detect from the outside,
which is called the P3B.
The piece review will be seen if you are surprised,
or if you have to actively report all the stimulus.
Thank you.
I'm going to switch to a question by Andrea Brevelli.
So Andrea is asking,
so from Marseille,
he's asking differences in eye movements,
be it saccades or micro saccades,
may exist between conscious,
so seen and unconscious,
unseen processing of visual stimuli,
which may lead to different responses,
for example, with MEG,
in the prefrontal cortex,
starting from 400 milliseconds.
So the question is,
can you exclude such potential confounding effects?
We typically do.
We typically always record eye movements in MEG.
It's also the case, of course,
in the monkey experiments.
And we can analyze and show
that there is no detectable difference.
So you could always argue that there are micro saccades
that are still present,
of course, below the resolution
of the particular scanner.
But I think there are enough paradigms now
that we can exclude this interpretation,
in particular in the auditory paradigms.
I see no reason why there would be
a contamination with eye movements.
Okay, so maybe one last question here
before we move on later on to our panel discussion.
This is a question by Hikaru Tsujimura,
and basically it relates to linking the global neural workspace
to default mode networks.
So the question is,
what is the core difference between the global neural workspace
and the default mode network,
especially the advantage of the global neural workspace
to explain mechanisms of consciousness or awareness?
That's an interesting question.
First of all, I think that in science,
it's often the case that we name
same things with different names,
and then we see the bridges later on.
So this could be a case.
However, I think that the global neural workspace is broader
than the particular default mode network
just typically pointed out in some studies.
For instance, you get a different network
within the global workspace.
You get different topologies of the network
depending on the contents of what's being accessed by the subject.
And default mode networks seem to relate more
to verbal contents, perhaps,
although it's bilateral,
so in the right initial is more than that.
But we can also get slightly different network
if you think about mathematical concepts, in a sense.
And then it's clearly a different network.
So I think that this relates
to what I said in the introduction.
There's a style of processing
which is associated with conscious processing,
but it's not necessarily a fixed set of areas
that are always coming up when you're conscious.
It's the style of activation, the ignition,
the fact that the subset of prefrontal neurons
are being activated and the others are being silenced,
which tells us that the subject was conscious
of a piece of information.
Awesome. So I will take one last question
because this one's the most upvoted one.
So you can probably see it at the very top of the list.
So the question is, in the global neural workspace,
an important role is described, the prefrontal cortex.
But the question is, what about the hippocampus,
which sits on top of the cortical sensory hierarchy
and has important roles in obviously association,
memory, of course, and space and time.
So how do you see hippocampus?
This is a great question and very important one.
There is the hippocampus.
There is also the thalamic nuclei
that are connected with the cortex.
And of course, in a human,
we tend to study mostly the cortical responses
and also in the monkey,
now that we have access to PFC recordings.
But I completely agree with the notion of the question
that this is a linked system.
And I think it's often the case that what gets recorded
in episodic memory has to be conscious first.
So I think there's a sense in which it's highly likely
that what gets stored in the hippocampus
in episodic memory was first a cortical content
that was ignited.
And in this sense,
there would be a very important relation between the two.
It works also in the opposite direction.
When you access consciously a memory,
you can search your memory
and suddenly it pops into your consciousness.
This is ignition.
It comes from the hippocampus.
