by understanding how these repetitions behave.
Do you switch from A to B or not?
Once you have that, the length of the compressed expression
is the direct predictor of how complex the sequence is to remember.
So there is something in the mind of humans
that compresses the information.
Can monkeys do this at all?
The evidence is that they can't.
In fact, they may be missing some of the most basic mechanisms
in order to integrate information as we do in humans.
Here's a nice experiment by DB1 when he was in the lab,
where the idea was we should ask,
how do subjects really understand the local global sequence
that I showed you earlier?
So let me have you listen to the pattern.
Okay, I hope you perceive that even though there is variation now
between the tones, there's a lot of regularity.
It's always three identical sounds,
and then there is a different one.
Can monkeys understand that?
Do they have something in mind just like us?
They would say it's three tones X and then another tone Y.
This seems to be a sort of minimal expression
that humans will use in order to compress this information.
Do monkeys have this at all?
In order to test it, we had several violations.
You can change to a new set of tones,
but still keep the same rule.
So it's new examples of the same rule.
Or you can violate the number.
You can have only two or maybe six items.
Or you can violate the sequence itself.
You expect that the last one is going to be different,
but it's not.
Or you can have double deviants, double the violations.
It's the wrong number and also the last item is not right.
We scan monkeys and we scan humans during this task.
It's a complex set of results,
but I will summarize it very briefly.
This is the activation to the violations in number.
And this is the activation evoke to the violations of sequences,
the last item rule.
And this is the intersection in yellow.
You can see that the monkey has both.
He has regions such as the inter-parietal cortex,
which we know cares about number and reacts to number of violations.
And we find that in a human as well.
We have a number sense, ability to react to number.
We also have responses to violations of sequences in the monkey.
You can see that in green, in particular,
in the inferior frontal cortex.
What we don't have in the monkey is the areas in yellow.
In humans, there is a whole set of areas
in the inferior frontal gyrus, Broca's area here,
and in the PSTS in both hemispheres
that react to the violation of both rules.
And that seemed to encode a single formula
for the entire rule that the monkey or the human
has been remembering.
And we really see this as a strong dissociation.
Humans show a similar pattern of activity
for number of sequence change,
as if they had a single representation.
Sorry about that.
Monkeys show a negative correlation.
So if a voxel activates for number,
it does not activate for sequence.
So monkeys don't have the integrated representation
that we suggest is present in humans,
and may be present, in fact, around Broca's area
and around the inferior prefrontal cortex.
In several areas of the human prefrontal cortex,
we find evidence for this integration according to rules.
So monkeys may simply not be able to integrate
the information consciously in the same way that we do.
If I still have a few minutes,
I would like to show you this in yet another form,
which I think is a nice challenge
for artificial intelligence.
This is a drawing undoubtedly from humans,
not from any ape, not from any non-human ape.
You can see the evidence of drawing an animal,
but you can also see geometrical shapes here,
a rectangle or a series of dots.
Is this unique to humans indeed?
Would a monkey ever understand this sort of shape?
I like this joke which appeared in the New Yorker here.
We have these humans watching a hunting scene and they say,
we have to record this or no one's going to believe us,
because what they see is not the actual animal,
they see the shapes, they see the abstraction,
just like the artist that wrote this in Moscow.
Can we test this?
Can we test the idea that even when we look
at a very simple geometrical form,
we are compressing it using its regularity?
We are seeing regularities.
So this is the work of Matthias Sablé-Meier in the lab.
What we do here is we present you a very simple display
like this one here,
and you have to spot the oddball, the outlier.
And I hope you've seen that this one is the oddball
because these are five rectangles
and this one is not a rectangle.
We do this for every possible shape that is displayed here
from highly regular square or rectangle
to completely irregular shapes that have no way to be compressed
other than remembering the specifics of the particular shape.
And we find that regularity has a dramatic effect
on subject's ability to detect the outlier.
This is another example.
It's a bit harder to detect the outlier, I hope, for you
until you find that this one has a displayed corner.
We always displace the corner.
This is important by the same amount.
So it's not the amount of displacement that counts.
It's the regularity of the shape.
The more regular the shape is, the better you are.
But you are super good at detecting
violations of the square or rectangle.
You are very, very poor at detecting
violations of an irregular shape.
And the other ones, they fall in between
as a function of a degree of regularity.
So the humans may have this special notion of a square
as something which is regular, particular.
It is a complete human universal.
I don't think I have time to explain to you
all the replications of these effects
in different paradigms.
Just subjective ratings, again,
we have a notion of introspection.
We have a conscious introspection
for the complexity of these shapes.
We can even present them as sequences.
It doesn't have to be a shape.
So that's a little bit of a challenge for, let's say,
CNNs, convolutional neural networks,
because here the humans resist to the presentation
of the shapes as a sequence of the four corners.
But even preschoolers or the himba here,
adult people who have very little access to education,
they live in Namibia outside of the normal
Western environment, they still show this regularity effect.
So it's a complete human universal in our hands, at least.
It doesn't depend on education,
or at least it's present already
in a sort of simple form in the absence of education.
So what about monkeys?
We were able to test it in baboons.
This is a wonderful facility in the south of France
with Joël Fago running this facility
where the baboons can access these booths at any given time,
and they can get video games.
This could be at two in the morning.
You have a monkey entering,
and he's recognized by the system,
and he has access to a video game.
The video game is, of course, the one that we designed.
We don't start with the game.
I'm getting angry.
Okay, Mr. Panda, I'm closing.
So I think you get where I'm getting.
Baboons can learn the outlier task.
They can detect the oddball flower here.
They can generalize to all of this stimuli.
So they are able to learn the oddball task,
but what they don't do is show a shape regularity effect.
They're completely different from the last.
And you see that they're essentially flat.
They detect the outliers regardless
of whether it's a square or a very irregular shape,
which serves as a base.
And we claim that CNNs capture very well
in multiple regression the behaviors of baboons,
but that they don't capture what's happening in humans, not at all.
And that a completely different model
is needed to capture what's happening in humans,
a model which lists the internal properties of the shapes.
I think I will just go to my conclusion.
I think that human consciousness is special.
Of course, there is a conscious global workspace
in all primates and perhaps in many other animal species.
There's a beautiful paper by Andreas Nieder on corvids
showing the same sort of thresholds and ignition in the crown.
I think we also share with many other primates
the same core concepts, for instance, the concept of number.
Of object, but also of space, of person, and so on.
The basic concepts are there in other primates.
But maybe, according to this new hypothesis,
only humans possess an internal language of thought
that discretizes, first of all, the concepts
into mental tokens or symbols
and combines them recursively into mental programs
whose complexity determine
whether we are going to be able to remember them.
And my argument is that something happened during hominization.
Our brain architecture must have changed.
In a way that facilitates the acquisition of recursive languages.
And this happens in several brain networks,
