in this scenario, the tragedy of the commons, these multipolar traps. And we'll come back to this.
I was on capitalism, but I'm going to come back to this multipolar trap. So please remind me to do
it. One of the things we have to solve at a generator function level is multipolar traps as a
category, meaning all instances of them categorically, because a multipolar trap basically means
where the local optimum for an individual agent, if they pursue it, leads to the global minimum
for the whole. But if I don't make the nukes or the AI or take the tree down, I'll get fucked
right now. If I do it, I don't get fucked right now. But as we all do it, we all get worse fucked
later. So you made a scenario where the incentive of the agents, short-term locally,
is directly against the long-term global well-being. That is the world writ large right now, and
capitalism is inexorably connected to that, because it drives these rival risk dynamics,
and rival risk dynamics are the basis of multipolar traps. And so I could just sound depressing,
except there are actually solutions to all of these things. There is a basis for how we deal with
physical stuff. It is not you owning some scarce thing and removing my access. We all know examples
of it. We know that when you go to the grocery store and you use a shopping cart, you don't bring
your own shopping cart that you own, which would be a major pain in the ass. And I don't do that.
You have access to a cart where there's enough carts that during peak hours, the busiest hours,
there's enough carts for everybody, and enough leftover for repairs. So your access to the cart
does not decrease my access to carts. So I'm not upset that you got a cart. We're not in any competition
over carts. And because I only need enough for there to be enough during peak time, which is maybe
200 people, I only need 200 carts, 220 carts. Even though that store might service 10,000 people a
month. So think about 200 carts versus 10,000 carts, how much less resource it is from the
environment, how much more efficient it is. So now you start saying, all right, well, let's look at
other places where this thing could happen. We say, well, we've owned cars as a good. And when you
own a car, I no longer have access to it. But then you're mostly just going to leave it sitting and
hardly ever use it. You'll use it now and again, but it's going to spend 95% of its life just sitting
places. And as a result of that, there's a lot of fucking cars to not provide that much transportation.
And that's a lot of metals taken out of the earth and a lot of plastics and a lot of, you know,
actual environmental costs to be able to make those to have most of them never in use.
Now you start to say, okay, well, we look at car sharing like Uber and Lyft and whatever,
and we start moving there from a possession of a good to an access of a service. That's pretty cool.
And we still got to pay for it. It's still kind of shitty because there's not enough of it to have
given me good access everywhere. But it's pretty easy to imagine that that thing takes over, right?
And then you use something like blockchain to disintermediate the central company that's pulling
the profits out of it. And so now it's cheaper access for everybody and puts more resource back
into the quality of the transportation. And then it becomes self-driving cars. So it doesn't actually
even have that cost. It's just a self-maintaining dynamic. And you say, okay, now it takes a tiny
fraction of the metals coming out of the earth to provide higher quality transportation units for
everyone, where you having access to transportation as a Commonwealth service does not decrease my
access to transportation as a Commonwealth service. But when you use transportation to go to school and
learn stuff or to go to a maker's studio and make stuff or go to a music studio and make stuff,
you're going to make stuff that also becomes part of a Commonwealth and riches the Commons that I
have access to. So we move from a rival risk ownership of scarce goods to an anti-rival risk
access to shared Commonwealth resources. Now we went from rival risk, not just to non-rival risk,
meaning uncoupled, right? And in rival risk, we're anti-coupled. Your well-being is directly
against mine. But now to anti-rival risk, which is a coupled good, where as you have access to more
resources that make you more generative, what you generate enriches the Commons that I have access to.
So I am engendered. I am incented to want to give you the maximum to support you having the maximum
access to generative resources. Now I'm not explaining all of what the future of the economic
system looks like right now, but to just start giving a sense that when we think about the problems
of capitalism, there have been problems associated with it forever. But the scale of the problems is
just more catastrophic now. But I'm also sharing examples of ways that we can start shifting some
of the things that we couldn't shift previously, some of the things that neither Mark nor Smith
had available to them. And this is very interesting. We have to shift off these systems and we can at
the same time. And this is to me a very interesting developmental insight when I look at biology in
particular, is that if we look at the 40 weeks of a baby in utero, it can't actually, we've talked
about this before, but I'll bring it up again in this context, it couldn't be born much earlier.
It would be pre-mean and without an ICU for whatever it would die. But it also couldn't stay
much longer. If we get too big and never be able to be born, kill the mom and kill itself,
it comes out in a pretty narrow window where both for the first time can, it actually now has the
capacities and has to can't stay in the nail longer. And it's interesting that this, it's got 40 weeks
on one growth path, right? It's growing the whole time. There's a growth curve. It's not going to
stay on that growth curve forever. If we tried to forecast its future and just continue the progression
of 40 weeks, around 50 weeks, it kills itself in the mom, right? So that's not the thing. It goes
through this discreet non-linear phase shift that if I had never seen it before, I'd have no idea how
to predict. And out of the birth canal, umbilical cord cuts, respiration through the lungs, stuff coming
in through the mouth rather than the belly button, everything's different. And it does it in a way
that's unprecedented to the whole 40 weeks of its existence previously. So if I tried to plot the
curve of what has been, it is not bad. And it does it both when it has to and can. And if we look at
any type of developmental phase, chicken developing inside of an egg, if it tried to come out earlier
is still goo. If it tried to stay in later, it starts. If we look at a caterpillar to butterfly
through chrysalis, same thing. If it tried to just keep eating, it would eat itself to extinction.
If it tried to go into the chrysalis earlier, it doesn't have enough resources to make a butterfly,
it would die in the chrysalis as partial goo. This is really interesting that when we look at
discrete nonlinear phase shifts where there's one phase, right, the caterpillars getting bigger and
bigger and bigger, eating everything in its environment. And if I just forecasted, it keeps
being that I forecasted eats all the environment and it does. So that's not what happens. It does this
really different thing that is not an extension of the previous curve. And so when we try to take
our capitalism curve, our nationalism curve, our science and tech curve and keep extending them,
it's just fucking silly. And that's why we come up with silly stuff like it asymptotes into infinity
with the singularity. It's just, you know, on one side, if we take all the things that seem like
they're good, then we asymptote into a singularity. If we take the things that look bad, then it just
goes into self extinction. It's neither of those curves, right? Because shit is getting exponentially
more powerful, which means better and worse at the same time. But that means it's neither of
those curves. That means that this phase is just coming to an end. It's destabilizing. The things
that are getting exponentially worse will end the phase before the things that are getting
exponentially better will change the nature of those things. But that means that what we're
actually going to get something altogether other if it is other than extinction. And
it's very interesting that we're at the place where these types of dynamics both have to change
right now because we have catastrophic level tech that we never had to have the same things that
always sucked be unsurvivable and can change because we actually have the level of insights that
make possible, things that are different at a deep enough axiomatic level that it's kind of like
when you've got a bunch of cells competing against each other and then there's this metamorphosis
where now they're inside of a slime mold and they are part of a multi-celled organism where
they're participating together as part of a shared identity. That's like a really deep level of
reorganization and people going from that shift as separate, rival-risk, competitive agents,
modeling themselves as apex predators, trying to compete with each other to be the most apex
predator and predate the environment. So we modeled ourselves as apex predators, right? That was an
easy thing to do. We look around at nature and we're like, we're kind of more like lions than
gazelles. We look a lot like chimpanzees. They're kind of badass hunter apex predator. They coordinate
et cetera. So we're like that. Cool. We'll do the apex predator thing. So we both want to see where
we can get in the dominance hierarchies. We get to add the prestige hierarchy, but
how we do within our tribe, then our tribe as a whole, our species as a whole relative to the
other species is in this kind of apex position. There's a reason why we cannot think that way
anymore. And again, we felt this way forever and we cannot think this way anymore. When I say we
felt this way forever, I don't mean every indigenous tribe felt this way because they didn't, right?
They had a web of life and were merely a strand and in types of thoughts. But the ones that thought
this way became more apex predators and killed those other people. And so it was effective to
try and do this apex predator thing up till now, but now it also destroys everything. So again,
the thing that has been adaptive is now anti-adaptive, which is why the thoughts that have made us win
are the thoughts that make us extinct now. And so if I think an apex predator, how its ability
to be a predator, its ability to kill other things and compete with the other predators for
whose most badass is pretty fixed and it's pretty symmetrically bound with its environment. So
lions can't get better at killing faster than gazelles get better at running. And so they
co-evolve where the lions slowly get a little bit better at some things and the gazelles also get
better at other things because if the lions just rapidly got way better, they'd kill all the gazelles
and then debase their own capacity to keep living and then they'd be extinct. If great whites could
make my alone drift nets and just take all the fucking fish out of the ocean and reproduce at
an exponential rate like they would have already self-induced their extinction, but they can't.
All the years, the great whites never got a drift net, but we have drift nets and we have
nuclear weapons and we have D9s and we have the ability to technologically extend our predatory
capacity and to do so in a way that is exponential and that makes us completely asymmetric with the
environment that we depend on. So again, I come back to the lion and I say, all right,
the most badass lion or the most badass gorilla is not like 10x more badass than the next most
badass gorilla. It's like marginally better, right? Like marginally can win at a fight and only for a
pretty short period of time before the next guy takes him. But then you look at like a Putin
or a Trump and you say, how much military capacity does that one person have to bear if
they wanted to or economic capacity compared to say a homeless guy? And you look at the
spread and you're like, oh, this is a very different distribution of power than any other species has.
Other species did not have a million X power dynamics within the same species or billion X,
like it was freaking tremendous or that much more power relative to their environment. So if the
lions could get technologically more advanced in their predation faster than gazelles could,
it would debase the stability of the entire ecosystem. The thing to realize is like,
if a cancer cell starts replicating in a way that's good for it, it's actually getting more
sugar and replicating faster inside the body. If it keeps doing that, it kills its host and kills
itself. It is ultimately suicidal. Its own short term success is suicidal. Viruses that kill people
too quickly don't propagate for very long because they kill their host and they don't get a chance
to propagate. The viruses that are less lethal end up being the ones that get selected for over a
longer period of time because they get a chance to propagate. So if there was a species that was
so good at hunting that it killed everything in its environment, then it would go extinct.
So it's not the most competitive advantage that makes it through. It's self stabilizing ecosystems
that make it through. This is such a way more complete understanding of evolution, which is
individuals within a species don't make it through because they wouldn't have survived without the
whole species. And species don't even make it through because they wouldn't survive without
other species. Whole evolutionary self stabilizing niches make it through. That's fucking important,
right? Yeah, this whole idea of survival of the fittest is kind of challenged with this concept
because at no point is survival of the fittest taking the whole system into account going forward
and infinitely. It has to go through that phase shift. Yeah, survival of the fittest was something
that had a local truth but was not the only global phenomena that was operating because there was
also a tremendous amount of cooperation that was happening and cooperation within members of a species
with each other and between species and interdependence on each other. But again, it was like almost
the idea of competition, it's a hypernormal stimuli. It was like an early hypernormal stimuli
hijack like sugar and porn and airbrush pictures and likes on Facebook because in an
evolutionary environment, fights stand out even though they're not mostly what's happening,
right? Like mostly if I am in a forest, there's a gazillion interactions happening every second of
aerobic and anaerobic soil bacteria having a relationship with each other and gas exchange
between me and the plants. It's just boring, but it's like almost everything. But then I see a
couple lions fighting and like, oh shit, that's really interesting, right? Survival of the fittest.
So there is this hypernormal stimuli that made us actually misemphasize what was happening
as a part of the phenomena that was not all of the phenomena,
misemphasize it. Now there's also this thing that is we're moving forward right now.
The way we have been applying that thinking, which is that some individual agents or some
in groups, countries, companies, races, whatever, some in groups can be more fit to survive than
others through better militaries or better economic extraction tech or better info and
narrative tech. That has always been true. I'm not criticizing that that was always true and
even necessary because if one tribe killed another tribe and their life got better because now the
other tribe wasn't competing for pigs with them and now they got all the pigs and they got like
all the stone tools that their tribe had made, whatever they're like, oh shit, I realize that
this like killing other tribes thing is actually a pretty good evolutionary strategy. Now all the
other tribes have to build militaries or die by default. The win-lose game becomes obligate.
So one, the win-lose game worked. It actually worked if you were good at it and two, it was
obligate, which is if you didn't do it, you got killed by Genghis Khan or Alexander the
Great or whoever the fuck it was. When we look at cultures that did not focus on militaries but
focused on the arts and humanities and education and healthcare and et cetera that out competed
the other cultures in terms of quality of life, but that wasn't where the thing actually got decided.
They all got murdered and the really effective murdering cultures combined and combined and
made it through and that's us today. And yet the tools of murdering and the tools of environmental
extraction are going up and up until we're at a level where the playing field just cannot handle
that game anymore. You can't keep extracting more stuff from the environment when you've already
got peak resource, when you've got the biodiversity issues and species extinction issues and et cetera.
You can't keep polluting an environment when you've got dead zones in the ocean from nitrogen
runoff and CO2 levels in the air and et cetera getting to the point of cataclysm and you can't
keep doing increasing military tech following exponential tech curves where then non-state
actors can have fully catastrophic level tech and you can't even monitor it. You just can't keep
playing that game. And so this is the gist is that the thing that has always defined the game is that
it's always been a rival risk game theoretic environment and the rival risk game theoretic
environment if it can produce tech that keeps increasing will always self-terminate at a point
and we just happen to be in the eminence of that point. So this is the first generator function of
ex-risk. Now we tie this all the way back to the beginning of the conversation and I obviously got
long-winded. The beginning of the conversation we said why are we focusing on risk? Well if we're
focused on how do we design a civilization that is actually good, it's beautiful, it's desirable.
Those are hard terms and we'll get to that in a minute. That starts to get to some of the inadequacy
of the thing we call science right now and it's incommensurability with ethics and we'll get to
that. But what does beautiful civilization look like? Well the first thing we can say kind of
easily is that it doesn't self-terminate. If it self-terminates we can mostly all agree that's
actually not a desirable thing. So if it is inexorably self-terminating it is structurally
self-terminating not just kind of like one little accent that we can solve but over-determined through
many vectors because of underlying generator functions that's not a good civilization design.
So the first design criteria of an effective civilization is that it's not self-terminating.
So then we say well what are the things that cause self-termination and what we find is that even
though there are a gazillion different ways that it can express, ways that it can actually happen,
