back in the 1940s. This is a cross section through a kidney tubule in a in a newt. And what you see
is that there's eight or 10 cells that cooperate together to build this kind of this kind of tubular
structure. Now one thing you can do is you can you can force the cells to be much larger. And when
you do that, when the cells get larger, the newt stays the same, the same size. So so it has a
regulative regulative ability. And remarkably, then, just a fewer number of cells are being used,
but they make the same structure. And the most amazing thing happens when you make these cells
so enormous, that what it does is one cell will bend around itself to to form a to form the exact
same structure. Now what's remarkable about this is that this is a completely different
molecular mechanism. This is cell to cell communication and tubular genesis. This is
cytoskeletal bending. So what you have here is a nice example of top down causation. In the service
of a large scale anatomical goal, making a proper tubule of the right shape and size,
different molecular mechanisms will get called up, in this case cytoskeleton bending, in this case
cell to cell, cell to cell interactions, different molecular mechanisms get called up to to to serve
this this high level anatomical goal. And so we can see this this kind of multi scale. So this is,
of course, very, very much what what cognitive architectures do, right? You have you have high
level on high level executive function of some sort, and that that eventually feeds down to
physiological processes and making your muscles move and so on. And and this is this is another
really nice example, which we discovered a few years ago, which is which is this that these again,
this is a tadpole. So the eyes, the brain and so on, these tadpoles need to become frogs. And in
order to become frogs, they have to rearrange their face. So the jaws have to move the eyes have to
move everything has to move around. And it was thought that this was a hardwired process, meaning,
meaning every organ just moved in the right direction, the right amount, and then you go from
a normal tadpole to a normal frog. So we decided to test the idea that that this process was had
very low intelligence and basically just was a was a hardwired set of movements. So what we did
was we scrambled all of the initial starting position. So we made this the these Picasso what
we call these Picasso tadpoles, where all the organs are in the wrong place. And what happens is
that actually, they still make pretty normal frogs, everything moves around in novel paths.
Sometimes they go too far and they actually have to come back, but everything moves around
until they get to their normal position, and then they stop. So this is very interesting,
the system is not just a set of hardwired movements, it can actually do the same,
it can reach the same goal despite this, this, this perturbation. And what the genetics gives you
is is not a hardwired machine, what it gives you is an error minimization scheme. It gives you a
system that executes a very flexible program that can start off in different starting positions
and still get to where it needs to go through novel actions that are not normally taken
through development. So this kind of navigation of morphospace with different
competencies is exactly what we're looking for as an invariant across really diverse problem
solving systems. So we started to think about this process as this kind of homeostatic loop,
like a simple homeostat on that initial scale that I showed you from Wiener and colleagues.
So the idea is that this here is the typical developmental story that you get in textbooks
where you have gene regulatory networks, the genes turn each other on and off and you get
some proteins that interact according to the laws of physics. So this is a kind of a complex
dynamical system. And then through the magical process of emergence, you get a complex outcome,
you get something like this. And that's true, all of that does happen, but the more amazing part
of it is that actually, this is not a purely feed forward emergent process. What you actually
have is a set of control loops that will be activated if you deviate from this target state.
So so that means injury, mutation, teratogenesis, whatever, if you cancer, if you deviate from
the state, then both at the level of transcription at the level of physics,
actions will be taken to try to get the system back to where it needs to be. So basic homeostasis.
Now, here's the thing in biology and medicine, we're very used to homeostatic circuits. So
so that's that's no big surprise for temperature and pH and things like that. However,
two things are unusual here. One is that in those kind of systems, the set point is the
parameter is a scalar, it's a single number, you know, pH, temperature, something metabolic state,
something like that. But here, what we're saying is the set point is actually some kind of
coarse grain anatomical descriptor. So the set point is complex here, it's not a it's not a
single number, it's a shape descriptor. And so that's unusual. And the other thing is that
because this has this has the cybernetic flavor of error minimization, it's very much a goal
directed system in the in the formal engineering control theory sense of a goal. It's a state
towards which the system can repair, use energy to try to get back to that state despite perturbations.
And so so that's kind of unusual because because in molecular biology and and feels like that,
you're not supposed to talk about goals, you're only supposed to talk about feed forward
emergence. And I think that's a big that's a big miss for for for those kind of approaches.
So this way of thinking this unusual way of thinking about it makes a couple of very strong
predictions. The first thing it says is that, well, if this is true, it has to have an explicit
encoding of the goal state. Every thermostat has a set point to be recorded somewhere.
And in order to have this kind of homeostatic circuit, you need to be able to know what the
set point is. And so somewhere you have to store the actual memory of what the correct
salamander looks like. That's quite unusual. And and if that's true, the prediction is is
twofold. First of all, that you should be able to find it, you should be able to decode it,
and you should be able to rewrite it. And the other big thing about this is that if you do that,
that's a completely different way of controlling the system than the traditional bottom up
molecular biology approach. Because if this was an emergent system, then your only hope was was
to somehow figure out what to do down here. Which genes do I alter? So so for example, if we decided
that we wanted more more fingers or we wanted this to have three fold symmetry instead of bilateral
symmetry, can you figure out which genes need to be changed to make that happen? And the answer is
we have no idea how to do that. But but there's potentially another approach. Let's leave this
let's leave the hardware alone, the way you would do with a thermostat and change the set
point, can we decode that set point and get the exact same cells to build something completely
different. And so what I'm going to show you now is is our efforts, our efforts to do that,
because we've basically uncovered the idea that the informational medium for this collective
intelligence, this these groups of cells that do these amazing things and repair and and and so on.
There is there is a kind of cognitive glue that allows them to do that that binds the
individual cells into a single agent that has goals and morpho space and that glue is
but perhaps not shocking because that's what that's what happens in the brain.
That mechanism is developmental bioelectricity. So let's so let's look at let's look at brains as
an example of a biological system in which this kind of problem solving capacity exists. How do
brains solve problems in three dimensional space? Well, the hardware looks like this. So it's a
network of cells connected to each other. Each cell has these little ion channel proteins that
allow the cell to maintain different voltage potentials. And that electrical state can be
propagated to the neighbors through these little electrical synapses known as gap junctions.
And and so that kind of hardware is known to support an amazing kind of behavioral software.
So you see this here this this this group made this amazing video of electrical activity in a
zebrafish brain and a living zebrafish brain as fish think about whatever it is that fish think
about. And this drives a this drives a process of or a project of neural decoding. So the idea is
that if we record all of this activity, and we learn to decode it, we will be able to read out
the the the the mental states, the goals, the preferences, you know, everything else about
this about the the the mental life of the system, because it is a commitment of neuroscience that
all of the cognitive content of the of the of the organism is is stored and implemented by the brain
physiology here. So it turns out so so so that's the that's the that's the standard neuroscience
story. But it turns out that neuroscience is actually applicable way beyond neurons, because
all of the cells in your body have ion channels, most of them have gap junctions to their neighbors.
And so what we've started is the this idea this parallel idea of non neural decoding,
where we can take a look this happens to be a frog embryo developing same same technology
imaging the electrical conversations that these cells have with each other.
We should be able to decode this. And from there derive all of the protocognitive capacities
that the system is using to navigate anatomical space and becoming a proper embryo. What does
the collective measure what does it remember what does it know what errors does it try to minimize.
All of these things we should be able to discover if we knew how to crack this bioelectric code.
And so so the interesting thing is that it's extremely this this this architecture of brain
and behavior, right, where where the DNA specifies the the the the electrical components, and then
you have this this excitable medium that with with certain architectures that then supports
behavior which you can you can affect not not just by editing the DNA but with experience
with with with with with electrical signals through the through sensory organs with drugs.
And what it does is it controls your muscles electrically to move the body through three
dimensional space. But of course this system is evolutionarily ancient this was used long before
brains and neurons appeared even even bacterial biofilms already knew how to do this. What it does
is the is uses the exact same exploits the exact same computational capacities of electrical
networks to make decisions collectively that move your body shape through anatomical morpho space.
So it controls your journey not through physical space but through anatomical space
before you have a brain and muscles and and all of that and this is this is not only evolutionarily
ancient but developmentally extremely extremely early. So there's a really strong isomorphism here
because evolution of course likes to likes to reuse things and and we think that what it did
was was simply pivot the same set of tricks into different effectors and thus into different problem
spaces. And so here are some tools we developed. We developed these these voltage sensitive dyes
that allow us to track all the electrical states of for example in early embryo so here's the
time lapse taken by my colleague Danny Adams. We do a lot of computational modeling to link
it to the molecular biology of these ion channels to figure out which channels and pumps
are responsible for the states of individual cells and then of course is the hard work of
doing the systems of physiology of figuring out what the patterns mean. So I'm going to show
you two examples of these patterns. This is a voltage movie taken of an early frog embryo
putting its face together and you can see here that this is one frame out of that movie that
basically we can now read out the pattern memory that these cells have of what a normal
face looks like. So before all the genes come on and all the cells become rearranged and everything
this is you can already see the tissue nose here's where the mouth is going to go here's
where the first eye is going to go the second eye comes later here are the placodes you can we can
already read out these pattern memories. Now this is we know these are instructive because if you
change this using optogenetics or various other techniques I'm going to show you in a minute
everything goes go everything that downstream is changed the gene expression is changed the
the position of the organs change and so on this is the this is the reference point
that serves as the representation for for for making the this this embryo. Now that's that's
the native one required for normal development here's a pathological one and and I'll talk a
little bit about more about this later but but basically the idea that that what we can do is
we can inject human oncogenes into these tadpoles they make little tumors but even
before the tumor becomes morphologically apparent you can already see the bioelectrical changes
that happen as this this oncogene causes these cells to disconnect electrically from their
environment and go off and live as amoebas treating the rest of the body as just external
world so it breaks the connection of these cells to this global bioelectrical pattern the collective
intelligence is is is broken here so to to to do these functional experiments to manipulate these
things we've developed two kinds of tools basically just everything stolen from neuroscience and
appropriated to other cells and that's a very important point none of the techniques of neuroscience
distinguish between neurons and other cells everything works all the concepts from from
active inference to a by step above perceptual by stability to a rewrite ability of memory all
all these things work and and the the actual tools work so we use all the same all the same
techniques we use optogenetics we use neurotransmitter drugs ion channel drugs all the same stuff
works now now keep in mind in the things I'm going to show you there are no electrical
fields being applied there are no waves or magnets radiation nothing like that all we do
is control the native interface the native bioelectrical interface that these that these cells
exposed to each other to allow them to program each other's behavior and that interface of
course are these gap junctions in these ion channels so we use drugs we use we use some
light as an optogenetics we can change the structure of these channels and so on and so
it's to change and so what we're trying to do is change the resting potential and in particular
the spatial pattern of resting potential this is not a single cell phenomenon this is a network
phenomenon so what happens when you do this well one thing that can happen is that if we if we put
in if we inject into the early embryo an mRNA encoding a specific ion channel that will
cause a pattern that's similar to the pattern that we saw in the electric face that I just showed you
we can induce those cells to form an eye and so we can make an eye anywhere not just in the anterior
norectoderm which is where the textbooks will tell you the only tissue competent to become an eye
are so that's not true if you go go far upstream of master eye genes like pack six and set the
correct electrical state you can convince any region of the body to make an eye for example the
gut here okay and so if you section these eyes they have all the same components that normalize do so
so here are your lens your retina your optic your optic neural of that is here and and so
so notice notice a couple of interesting things first of all this this shows you that these
bioelectrical patterns are instructive they don't just make they're not just epi phenomena they don't
just make defects they're actually instructive force for large-scale pattern also notice the
modular control this electrical state that says build an eye here is basically a subroutine call
we don't provide all the information needed to to make an eye it's a very simple electrical state
that's that's a that's a simple state downstream all the complexity of actually carrying it out
does not have to be micromanaged that's very interesting and they have an interesting capacity
that is seen for example in ant colonies which is recruitment if i only inject a small number
of cells not enough to make this whole lens this whole thing is a lens sitting out in the tail of
a tadpole somewhere if i only inject a few cells what they do is they recruit their neighbors so
the blue cells are the ones whose voltage we changed these other cells we never targeted them
they're completely wild type they become recruited to this process of making this very nice lens so
they have the ability to recruit their neighbors to handle a task that there's not enough of them to
do that that's a that's an interesting capacity of collective intelligence what can you what can
we make well we can make um ectopic hearts we can make legs so here's our six-legged frog
we can make ectopic four brains using this technique we can make inner ear organs or
odysseists we can also make fins now that's kind of weird because tadpoles aren't supposed to have
fins that's more of a fish thing but i'll show you what's what's going on here in a minute
so so so whole whole organs can be re-specified again we're we're we're programming the collective
we're not telling individual stem cells what tissue to be we're telling a whole region you
should be an eye and or or a leg or something else and and what is an eye or a leg individual cells
don't have any way of representing that but collectives do and the way they represented is
through these electrical signals now now biometrically of course we're using this now to to
to try to achieve certain goals in regenerative medicine so here's our leg regeneration project
so frogs normally do not regenerate their legs unlike salamanders if you amputate 45 days later
there's at this stage there's basically nothing but what we've done is we've created a bioelectrical
cocktail that when you apply to the early wound shifts the decision making of that
collective towards a leg regenerating goal and there and and then so so it's just a
single day treatment and then you get about a year of leg growth and by 45 days already here
here's this msx1 uh uh uh blastema marker that the the blastema genes are turned on
