Okay.
Hello. Good evening all. Welcome back to the last talk of the conference.
Professor Michael Delinis-Ribble, and he is a professor of biology, University of Duff, USA.
And he also holds one year push there.
He's also the director of the lab.
And also the director of discovery center at the University of Duff, USA.
And he's the co-founder and principal investigator of the Institute for Computational Design for Organisms from 2020 onwards.
And he's also a senior research investigator.
Forces Institute Harvard of the Department of Molecular Engineering, Establish.
From 2018%.
He is going to deliver a lecture titled as Diverse Intelligent, Understanding and Relating to Unconventional Biological Engineering and Hybrid Agents.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much.
And I appreciate the opportunity to share some thoughts with you. I will do my best. It's 5am here this morning. I will, I will try to be a coherent.
If anybody is interested in the details of the things I will talk about today, you can find me and all of the primary papers, the data sets, the software, everything is here at this, at this website.
So please, please do get in touch if you're interested in any of this.
And the traditional picture is shown here. This is a famous painting of Adam naming the animals. And it's this, this old idea which is really prevalent in a lot of thinking today, even among scientists that
are humans and human kind of minds and then there are many other, many other creatures, and that these are distinct, discrete natural kinds, they're just, they're just sharply different from each other and humans have all sorts of cognitive capacities and if you try to look for these
aspects where in the natural world, this is often called anthropomorphism. And so some sort of inappropriate attribution of this of these magical qualities outside of the human organism.
But if we take developmental biology and evolution seriously, we realize that both on long phylogenetic timescales as well as developmental timescales, we all share a continuity of much, much different kinds of beings.
And so, so, so this is, this is really a slow, a slow continuum and any sort of special properties that we have, you have to ask, where did these properties come from.
And to what extent did they exist in our various ancestors and when did they begin or end if you think that these are but discrete categories and so on.
And actually, even much worse than that, which is that now, because we now have the ability to replace components of a living system at all scales. So at the cellular scale tissue organism and so on, we can replace biologically evolved
components with all kinds of chimeric engineered materials. So whether this be a nano nano materials or edited DNA or various inorganic components, we can we can make very novel organisms and so
laterally you can see that there's a potential chain of beings, which are an increasingly will be realized, where not only through through biological changes but also technological hybridization.
There are a very wide range of different types of creatures and then once again you have to ask what kind of minds do they have.
I have this this framework that I've been working on it's called tame TAME stands for technological approach to mind everywhere. And the idea is simply this we need to be able to create and relate to truly diverse intelligences regardless of what they're
doing or how they got here. And so that means that we would like this a single framework on which we can compare and and understand the kinds of cognitive systems that exist in familiar creatures so we so humans primates,
birds octopus or these kinds of things, but also really unusual creatures colonial organisms swarms and in synthetic biology so new engineered life forms software artificial intelligences, and maybe someday exobiological agents
realizing that the earth, the all of the examples on earth are just an end of one.
We really have to we really have to understand broader than that.
Now, a number of people have have tried for such a thing and so, so this was a very nice beginning by Rosenbluth Wiener and Bigelow, who created this kind of scale that that shows you through some examples of great transitions, all the way from passive behaviors,
all the way up to what we would call human level cognition with, you know, a second order of metacognitive kinds of processes and so on.
And what's interesting about the scale it's very cybernetic it's doesn't say anything about neurons or brains or, or really embodiments what it what it talks about is, is functionality and ways in of processing information, and that makes it compatible with all of these
things and I think that's a that's a that's a that's the right approach.
So, what what I'm interested in is developing a framework like this, that really is picks out what are the symmetries what are the invariance among all of these different kinds of agents to give us new capabilities in the laboratory and to move experimental
forward. Now, this is this is a nice quote from Searle which says that that we have to allow ourselves to really examine things that that that are generally taken for granted and this is the most common one.
It's a really magical process in in in science it's it's developmental biology, all of us take this amazing journey across through the Cartesian cut we start as just physics so this is an oversight.
So this is a, yes, an Excel prior to fertilization, it's a sort of a blob of a blob of chemicals, and you know you would look at it then you would say that it's it's basically just physics there's not there's not any or not much cognition going on there.
Eventually, we become one of these organisms and maybe something like this this this human organism that will make statements about being a unique and and and having a kind of inner perspective and so on.
And the important thing to realize is that this process is extremely slow and gradual. So step by step developmental biology offers no sharp line at which boom prior to that it was just chemistry and physics.
Without now you're a cognitive being that there are no sharp lines in developmental biology. So everything is continuous and somehow this process results in mind, emerging from matter and so this is this is maybe one of the most interesting questions that that that that that exists.
And there have been a variety of ways to think about this. In particular, there's this idea of collective intelligence and so people will sometimes say, well, ants and colonies of bees and the birds and things like that are perhaps a collective intelligence.
But, but we, we are a unified intelligence we're not like a swarm of events we are a collective intelligence like we have we have a we have a brain and then centralized, and Descartes wanted to find a center in the brain that was was was was specifically specifically connected to this unified
experience that we had. But of course, we are also made of parts and in fact all intelligence is collective intelligence. So let's see so so so here we are here's the brain. And of course, the brain is also made of parts it's made of cells these neurons inside of each cell is an incredible
number of things that that are that are all operating under various rules to give rise to the collective behavior. And so, the real trick to all of this is to understand the scaling to understand how the physics and computation of lower level
components gives rise to a cognition that appears to be unified. So, so we are also collective intelligences and so and so how does collective intelligence work.
Well, let's just take a look at what what our pieces are. So, this is a this is a cell. This happens to be a free living organism but all of us were once free living organisms.
This is a lacrimaria. So there's no brain, there's no nervous system.
There's no cell to cell communication there are no stem cells this is just a single cell doing everything it needs on its own. So you can see it's handling it's physiological it's metabolic its behavioral goals at the level of a single cell.
So if you look at the the the ability to to it's feeding it's eating a bit bacteria and other things in its environment. This is, you know, the envy of soft soft soft robotics and other kinds of engineering we have nothing that's of this level of sophistication.
Each one of our cells was an independent organism. And this this this makes it really important to understand how these capacities these competencies of of our subunits add up together to give us what feels like a unified cognitive experience.
One very interesting thing is that so Alan Turing needs no introduction of course was really interested in intelligence in different embodiments for intelligence in computation these very fundamental things that he wanted to understand the mind and it's in its most general case.
But one other thing that he did which some some people are not aware of is that he was also interested in developmental biology he he he wrote a very, very early paper on morphogenesis the appearance of order the spontaneous generation of order in chemical in chemical systems.
You might wonder why somebody who was interested in intelligence would also be interested in in morphogenesis and in chemical models of developmental biology.
And I think Turing although to my knowledge he didn't write much about this I think that he saw quite clearly being the genius that he was I think he saw quite clearly that these are fundamentally the same problem.
Deep way this is true. I think the secret of developmental biology and morphogenesis is really if we understood it properly would would would really open up all of the mysteries that we're interested in for for cognition I think I think it is the same problem.
So today what what I'd like to tell you today is this. First of all, I would like to tell you that biology uses this kind of multi scale competency architecture, I'll show you what that is of nested problem solvers in diverse problem spaces, and navigating
problem spaces is a central concept and I think it's a concept that binds together diverse fields from engineering and autonomous of autonomous vehicles, all the way through to cognitive science and developmental biology and
I use the notion of goal directedness and I will define that shortly as a kind of invariant to recognize, create and control or communicate with agents and unconventional embodiments and I'm going to show you this this cognitive boundary model for the scaling of cognition.
I'm going to spend some time talking about a specific example I want to take apart and detail a specific example of an unconventional intelligence and how do we work with something like this.
I'm going to talk about the collective intelligence of morphogenesis of cells groups of cells navigating anatomical space.
I want to show you that bio electric networks are a kind of protocognitive medium, which is also the ancestor of brain function, and this has this has huge impact on on biomedicine that I think is going to allow us to do something very different than today's molecular medicine approaches.
And then a close with pointing out again that synthetic bioengineering is giving us an enormously large option space of new bodies and new minds which are going to exist and some of them already do.
These have no standard evolutionary backstories and this has many implications for not only understanding evolution and biomedicine but also AI robotics and ethics are very importantly.
So in my, in my framework, one of the things we focus on this is a very engineering based approach because I want to be close to experiments I want all of these philosophical ideas to be testable empirically I want them to generate new work and so this is, this is an engineering approach
is simply this, that we can place all these, all these diverse beings on a continuum that exists with respect to persuadability, meaning what technology or approaches or techniques or strategies would you use to control the system right so
that's that's the engineering approach. And so you can see immediately that all kinds of diverse systems land on this on the spectrum so you can have very simple mechanical systems like like a like a mechanical clock that are sort of on the left of that continuum and the thing is that if you want it to control this system.
You will not program it to you will not convince it of anything all you can do is modify the hardware.
And then you have more interesting systems like like homie static systems where actually you don't need to rewire the hardware but you can reset the set point, and then this thing will will have different behaviors.
And then you can move from that to systems whether living or non living that are able to learn, and you can train them with rewards and punishments and various behavioral paradigms and then eventually you get the systems that you don't even need to reward and punish directly you can communicate with with with reasoning and and
perhaps get them to do things and so you can see as as we move from from this idea that that that here's hard that here's modification at the level of hardware to eventually you get to something that that sure it's hardware but but really the most efficient way of dealing
with it is basically through some something that in the human terms looks like psychotherapy which is just very very high level of communication to try and try and control what happens.
Okay, so the first thing I'm going to do here for the next few minutes is try to show you some unusual biology to really reinforce this idea that that that everything lives on a continuum, and that we have to understand how agents change along that along that
So the first thing I want to talk about is this so.
So here is a is a creature this is a caterpillar caterpillars live in a two dimensional world of surfaces they crawl on on these these flat structures and they eat, they eat the leaves, and they have a particular brain that's highly specialized for doing that.
So let's turn into this this kind of creature which is completely different this this one lives in a three dimensional world. It doesn't care about the leaves at all it drinks nectar and it has a different life and it has a different brain.
That's the well well suited for its for its environment.
So what we get from here to there is through a process of metamorphosis and during this process. This guy basically dissolves its brain so so most of the connections are broken many of the cells die.
The brain is then reassembled from this state to this state and to two interesting things from from from this process. The first is that, you know, in philosophy one on one you might be challenged to ask what's it like to be a butterfly or what's it like to be a caterpillar.
So this is the next sort of meta question which is, what's it like to be a caterpillar slowly changing into a butterfly. Right so this is a this is a radical change of your embodiment of your existence in the physical world that occurs during your lifetime not during evolutionary
scales but literally during your, your, your lifetime. So, so that's that's kind of an interesting question what happens to you. But now the other important point because you might be tempted to say well you disappear and then there's a new creature so basically there is no transition.
I think that's that's not the case because under the most common criterion for personal identity which is memories to retain retaining your personal memories.
It turns out that memories are retained through this process so there's there's pretty good evidence that that caterpillars that learn something that are trained the the the moth or butterfly remembers the original information.
So to some extent and this is this raises interesting philosophical puzzles. So to some extent it is in fact the same organism in a new body so this is this is a an interesting kind of rebirth but but of the same organism in a new body.
This is even in these animals this is even this is even even more more apparent that these are plenty area these are flatworms which I'll talk about more in the rest of the talk but the key feature of planarians is that they regenerate so if you cut them into pieces every piece
will give rise to any worm, and they have a brain up here, a true centralized brain with the same neurotransmitters that you and I have, and you can cut off the head and they will regenerate.
It's an amazing thing, and this was discovered in by James McConnell and we replicated his work using modern automation in 2013.
What he discovered is if you train this animal, then you cut off the head, the tail sits there doing nothing for about a week they eventually regrows a new brain, and when it regrows a new head and brain you can show that they remember the original information.
So they learned they learned that food is to be found on these on these little on this little laser edge discs.
Now, this allows you to to to perform an experiment again from from philosophy of mine which is called the malfunctioning transporter.
So the idea that you know let's say let's say there's a transporter that somehow transports you from here to there but it's broken down and so once it's transported you it fails to remove the original copy so now there's two of you and so so which one is the original
person so so in the planarian you can actually do that we can cut them into pieces and now you have multiple individuals that are basically copies of the original as far as the content of their of their brains are concerned.
So you can see this this amazing plasticity that where where the the ability to change the body in this case to regrow ahead or to metamorphose and rebuild a brain is is deeply connected with the cognitive content of that of that creature's mind.
And, and this this plasticity of plasticity of the body extends to vertebrates. So here's a tadpole of a frog. So here are the nostrils the mouth, the brain, the gut here and this is the tail back here.
And so what you'll notice what we've done here is we've created a tadpole in which the prize the eyes are missing so there's no eyes up here, but we did create an eye on its tail, and I'll talk later about how we do that.
But these animals when you create this eye without long periods of evolutionary adaptation, they can see they can see out of this eye and we know that because this device that we've built and it's the same device that we use to train to test to train and test the planarian during their behavior studies, we can show that that these
these animals can be trained on visual tasks and to stay away from particular moving lights and things like that. So, so this is this is this is amazing because the brain dynamically adjusts its behavioral programs to accommodate a completely different body architecture.
So, and this has this has many, many implications for evolution that that we can talk about later if people want to, but but that that plasticity of, you know, how is it that cells, I precursor cells implanted onto the tail, not only make a perfectly
normal eye even though they're in a weird environment with muscle next to them and so on, they make a perfectly normal eye but they figure out how to connect and they don't connect to the brain they connect here to the spinal cord, for example.
And that information is able to be picked up by the brain so so so that that competency of the parts is is really quite quite quite remarkable. And so what this gets us to is is this that biological organisms are not merely nested dolls structurally so we all know you know we're
not just not not just structurally but functionally each of these independent layers is is solving problems it's an independent, it's independently competent and solving various problems, and, and this is happening simultaneously at all scales of organization.
Now what are these problems that it's solving well, we're pretty used to recognizing intelligent activity in the in the three in three dimensional space. So our cognitive and sensory structures are prime to look for medium sized objects moving at medium
three dimensional space, and doing clever things like like like this crow that's learned to pick up cigarette butts to receive a reward.
But imagine if we had the innate sense of really feeling every all the all the parameters of your blood chemistry, for example, if we had an innate feeling of that, much like we see the outside world.
So I think we would have no problem recognizing, for example that our liver, our kidneys are various organs are performing very interesting intelligent behaviors in adjusting to all these circuit to all these novel circumstances in physiological space.
There are numerous other problem spaces that we're simply not not used to. But, but these, these spaces are ones in which intelligence can be manifest in exactly the same way that it can be manifested in three dimensional space we just have to learn to think about these.
So what are these spaces so there are spaces of physiological physiological parameters there are spaces of a transcriptional meaning gene expression right so a separate dimension for every gene and then you have this huge dimensional huge dimensional manifold
space in which in which every cell is navigating as it as it changes its its transcriptional states, and we have this which is sort of my favorite and what I'll spend the most time talking about which is anatomical morphospace, the space of all possible shapes
for example the possible the parameter space that defines different shapes of planarian heads. So before we launch into into more space I want to give you one example of transcriptional and physiological space that we discovered a couple years ago.
So here's our planarian. And what we've done is we take this, we take this flatworm, and we put it into a solution of barium barium chloride barium is a is an interesting chemical barium blocks all of the potassium channels.
When you block all the potassium channels cells, which rely on potassium flux to manage their physiology become extremely unhappy. In fact, the, the planarian head has so many neurons that require this, the whole head explodes literally they just over overnight
and explodes they lose their head. But the amazing thing is that if you keep them in barium, what they will do over over the next week or two is they will grow a new head, and the new head is completely adapted to barium has no problem with barium whatsoever
And so we asked a very simple question. How is that possible? What is this, what is this head doing that's different from the original head that allows it to
So it's a, it allows it to maintain its function in barium barium barium. I'm sorry, could somebody mute? There's a lot of noise from somebody.
There we go. Thank you. So we, what we did was we compare the transcriptomes. So we just looked at all of the genes that are expressed in these in these normal heads versus the ones that are expressed here, and we asked what's different. So what's what's transcriptionally different about these
about these animals. And what we found is really a very small number of genes that were turned on to allow them to adapt to barium. Now, here's the amazing thing, planarian never encounter barium in nature. So there, there has never been evolutionary pressure for being able to deal with with barium exposure and for knowing what to do with these
How did these cells know exactly which genes to turn on to deal with this new physiological stressor. So you can sort of imagine this problem. It's because because they're, I don't know, 20,000 genes or however many there are, you can imagine it's like you're in a
a nuclear reactor control room. It's it's melting down. There's a big problem. How do you know what to do. In fact, you can't. There's no time to just start flipping genes randomly on and off. There's no time for that. The cells don't don't turn over like bacteria. So there's no time for some kind of
You know, random change where everything dies in the one successful cell, it repopulates the head. And so there's this real, real problem of understanding how do these cells navigate to the correct region of transcriptional space they have to have to take this walk from
kind of random change where everything dies and the one successful cell repopulates the head.
And so there's this real problem of understanding how do these cells navigate to the correct region
of transcriptional space. They have to take this walk from this state to this state and it's not
known how they do that. So that's an example of problem solving in physiological space.
What I'd like to do next is to really focus on morphogenesis and problem solving in anatomical
space as a kind of collective intelligence. And so let's talk about this for a few minutes.
We all start life like this as a ball of embryonic blastomers. So this is kind of an early stage
in these cells. Eventually build something like this. This is a cross section through the human
torso. And you can see the amazing order here, the structure. Every organ and tissue is in the
right place, the right size, the right position relative to each other. Where is this structure
specified? Where is this order specified? Now, people often will want to say, well, it's in the
DNA, but we can read genomes now and none of this is directly in the DNA. What the DNA specifies is
the micro level hardware of each cell. So the proteins that every cell gets to have. But it's
the physiology and the dynamic behavior of these cells that then gives rise to the right number
of fingers, eyes, and everything else. So we have to understand how do cells, groups of cells,
know what to make and when to stop. As workers in regenerative medicine, we would like to know,
well, if a piece of this is missing, how do we get these cells to rebuild again? And as engineers,
we would like to ask a further question, which is, well, that's fine to regenerate this, but
actually, what else can we make? So can we ask these cells to build something completely different?
I'll show you that towards the end of the talk. So I like to think about the end game of this field,
specifically of regenerative medicine, with a concept of an anatomical compiler. An anatomical
compiler is an aspirational future system, where what you should be able to do is sit down in front
of a computer and draw the animal or plant that you want. It could be anything. It could be a typical
one. It could be some sort of hybrid. It could be anything you like. And if we knew what we were
doing and we understood we had a mature science of morphogenesis, what the system would be able
to do is output a set of stimuli that you could give to a group of cells and they would build
exactly what you asked for. So an anatomical compiler. Now, notice that I'm going to argue
that an anatomical compiler is not a 3D printer. You are not micromanaging the positions of individual
cells and trying to print it. What it really is deeply is a communication device. It's a translator
from your desired three-dimensional shape to the signals that need to be given by the cellular
collective to cause that collective to build it in exactly the same way that it normally builds
something else. And so now why do we need this? Well, we need it because most problems of biomedicine
with the exception of infectious disease, most problems of biomedicine boil down to
the control of shape. So birth defects, traumatic injury, cancer, aging, all of this would be solved
if we knew how to convince a group of cells to do what we want them to do.
So now we have molecular biology and genetics. So isn't that enough? What else do we need?
Well, here's a very simple example. This is an axolotl larva. So these are salamanders and baby
axolotls have little legs. This is a tadpole of a frog. Frog tadpoles do not have legs. And in our
lab, we can do something like make a chimeric called a frogolotl. So we can mix the early cells.
We can make a chimeric embryo called a frogolotl. Now, I ask a simple question. Will the frogolotl
have legs or not? We have both genomes. You have the axolotl genome. You have the frog genome.
Can you tell me if the frogolotl is going to have legs? The answer is no. We have absolutely no
frameworks currently to be able to determine this kind of anatomical information, even though
you have the full genetics for both animals. And so where we are now is this. We're very good.
Molecular biology and medicine are very good at manipulating pathways, so cells and molecules.
But we're really quite a long way from controlling form and function, which is what we want.
And my argument is that in biomedicine, we are basically where computer science was in the 40s
and 50s, that it was still basically stuck at the hardware level. Everything is about pathways
and molecules and genome editing. And this is all at the level of hardware. But we really have an
opportunity, which is to exploit something remarkable that exists in biology and also in
some computer systems, which is higher level information processing. And in biology, we call
this agency. And so I want to give a definition of what I'm talking about. And I like this William
James's definition, which is for intelligence is the ability to reach the same goal by different
means. Somebody else put it, and I wish I could remember who said this. Somebody else said that
it's the continuum of different capacities that make the difference between two magnets
trying to get together and Romeo and Julia trying to get together. It's the degree of
sophistication you can expect from a system in meeting a specific goal, which looks like maybe
energy minimization in very simple systems. And it looks somewhat different in complex systems.
So how does intelligence work out in morphogenesis? Well, here's a simple example.
So we know that development is extremely reliable. So almost all of the time, an embryo will give rise
to a proper human body. But actually, it's reliable, but it's robust. It's not hardwired.
So if we take an early embryo and we cut it in half, you don't get two half bodies, you get two
perfectly normal monosygotic twins. And development in general has this ability to reach the same
goal, meaning the same state in anatomical morpho space from different starting positions.
And despite various perturbations like these local maxima where hardwired systems would simply
get stuck, the way two magnets trying to get together would just be forever stuck. If you put
a barrier in their place, they're never going to walk around it. They're just going to try to get
together in the direct path. Development isn't like that. And regeneration isn't like that either.
So here's a salamander. This guy, this is called the axolotl. And these guys will regenerate their
legs, their eyes, their jaws, various internal organs. So if you amputate, for example, anywhere
along this the slim, they will grow exactly what's needed. And then they will stop the stopping is
the is the most amazing part. When do they stop? They stop when the correct large scale anatomy
is complete. So the system as a whole knows exactly what a salam what a normal salamander looks like.
And and anywhere you cut, it'll grow just the right amount and it'll stop at the right time.
So this is an example of anatomical homeostasis, or the the ability to return back to that region
of anatomical morpho space when it's been perturbed away from it. I should say that this is not just
some weird capacity of lower organisms, human human livers are highly regenerative, human children
will regrow their fingertips, and deer regrow large amounts of bone, innervation, vasculature,
and so on every year. So so there's all kinds of capacities for that regeneration. But one of the
one of the most amazing and one of my favorite examples is this and this was this was discovered
