You think that there's an aspect where we're expecting the physician to step into the role
that a shaman previously inhabited and that maybe physicians aren't really,
they may be more medically skilled, but that a lot of the impact is not at the level of
needing it.
There's a need for physician education programs, absolutely. I know that
field trip, which I think is rolling out in Toronto, LA and New York over the next year,
they're combining physician education programs with physician clinics for things like PTSD and
trauma using plant medicines or using ketamine. I think we're going to see this strange hybrid
physician shaman type of model where folks are actually educated in clinical management,
medically educated, but also have a working knowledge of things like Amazonian medicines and
integration and useable to facilitate as well. I think the music is huge. I think that when you
look at, I was even toying around with some apps because I love to play handpan and guitar and
ukulele and there are somatics apps that you can download that will translate the music into
recognizable geometric patterns. I think that the use of music in conjunction with some of
these therapies can elicit almost like a vibratory response within the cell that's based on a
response of these sound frequencies that can enhance a journey or take it to a certain state.
I don't know about the cell. You really think there's like a cellular level for music?
I think there's a cellular level and I'm not speaking based on science or research or anything
like that, but I suspect that we are actually impacting our cells with sound frequencies
and that these geometric patterns that we're seeing that you can visualize that music is
producing and like an app are actually occurring within our bodies as well.
Have you looked at these hands from the perspective of frequency analysis?
No, but I can tell you that I feel amazing. I have a handpan that I'm learning to play right
now. I place it in my lap each night and they're impossible to sound poorly on because they're
all tuned to a specific scale like mine is in a B scale. I can strike it anywhere and it sounds great
and it's very calming in the evening. I try to look at this and my understanding is that if you
think about steel drums, steel drums have that very muddy kind of sound and that with the hang
which is sort of the great innovation in this area coming out of Switzerland,
the problem is that a two-dimensional metallophone doesn't have good harmonic discipline relative
to a one-dimensional media so that if you think about a flute or if you think about a vibrating
string that you would have, let's say on a violin or a guitar, the harmonics have to sort of line up
in some well-defined fashion because of the one-dimensional nature of the medium that's
vibrating. When you have a two-dimensional medium, everything is off and what the Swiss did was to
figure out how to get enough precision to get the two-dimensional medium to sound at least for the
first few harmonics as if it was a one-dimensional medium. I don't know if I exactly have that right,
but that's why it's impossible to sound bad because you're hearing something that effectively would
never be found in nature by just taking a metal plate and banging on it.
Yeah, that makes sense. I was always under the impression that it was simply the
tuning of the instrument itself in that each place where you strike, where each of the
different locations, for anyone listening who hasn't seen a handpan, usually there's
eight or nine different locations that you strike, it's basically all tuned to the same scale.
You may have a pentatonic scale or something like that where it's hard to find a wrong note.
Right. Or tuned to the same root, I guess I should say, in this case, B.
Well, I think you could tune it to any.
Oh yeah, you can tune it to C, you can tune it to D, but once you buy a pan,
you're buying a pan that's tuned to a specific frequency and you can't play and sound good
a pan that's tuned in B with someone who's got a pan tuned to C, for example.
What can you leave my audience with as the best way for somebody who's not
familiar with a lot of the words that you've used or concepts we've discussed,
but they're realizing that the processed food that they're eating might not be good for their
lipid layers. They know that their sleep is off, their stress is too high. They don't know enough
about physiology and anatomy to understand everything that's being said. What is the best
way of handing off from the show to somebody who wants to enter a kind of more mindful and
intentional space and feels unsure that they have what it takes to digest the information and
confusing signals that are coming out of this?
I have two thoughts. The first is be patient and wait when it comes to this self-quantification
piece because as we discussed, I think we're in an intermediate phase and I think it's moving
quickly and I don't think that the frustration and confusion is going to be around much longer
as we roll out tools that allow for easier self-quantification and interpretation of that data.
For now, I would pay attention to eight things. The first would be regardless of the exercise
program, just regular low-level physical activity throughout the day. We know this concept of neat
non-exercise activity thermogenesis regardless of whether you go to the gym just moving throughout
the day as much as possible. That's the first thing. The second would be of all the diets that
I've seen out there in terms of good research. I think one of the best ways to eat would be some
semblance of a relatively low-carb Mediterranean diet. I think that that's the one that seems to be
the best for most people because it controls glycemic variability, introduces you to some
elements of fasting, has lots of herbs, spices, supportive oils, etc. I would be out in sunlight
frequently because we know that photons of light are very healing to the body and there's this
amazing new concept of human photosynthesis and our ability to create electrons and ATP in response
to photons of light. I'm immersed in a few books right now on that and it's absolutely fascinating.
In the same way, I would be outside barefoot or touching the ground every day.
This is four or this is still three? This is four. We have low-level physical activity.
We have some kind of a low-carb Mediterranean type of eating approach, exposure to sunlight,
being outside barefoot or in touch with the planet, which allows for, if you look into the
research on earthing or grounding, a great decrease in inflammation and improvement in a wide
variety of health parameters. These fingered, vibrant type? These are not grounding shoes,
but going outside barefoot without big rubber-sold shoes on. Introduce heat and cold. We know from
Finnish longevity studies, for example, that sweating or being hot on a frequent basis is
very good for the body and we know that cold thermogenesis, cryotherapy, cold showers, things
like that are wonderful for things like weight stability, nitric oxide production, blood flow,
etc. Low-level physical activity, some kind of a low-carb Mediterranean diet, sunlight,
grounding earthing, heat, cold, and then finally good clean water and minerals like a good salt,
good trace liquid mineral, anything like that. I would say that if you address those eight parameters,
the movement and the relatively... Let me see if I got it. Okay. All right. So low-level physical
activity. Regardless of the exercise program. Regardless of the exercise program, a low-carb
Mediterranean diet, then there's going to be sunlight, then being barefoot, and alternating
hot and cold regime. Heat and cold would be five and six. Oh, five and six, okay. Didn't realize
I had two there. Yep. And then minerals and... Minerals and water. Minerals and water are seven
and eight. Yeah. Okay, now I got it. And largely, and I know we're running a little short on time,
but largely the idea behind those latter six, photons of light, negative ions from the surface
of the earth, the movement of electrons via heat and cold, and the carrying of electrons with water
and minerals essentially treats the human body as a battery. And because each of the cells operate
on electrochemical gradient of a negative charge inside and a positive charge outside,
one of the best things you can do to charge your human battery is light earthing, grounding,
heat, cold, water, and minerals. So that's where I'd start. All right. This is pretty intense. Ben,
we would love to have you come back and potentially we'll pair you with somebody
who is more up to your level of knowledge of the human body as the amazing machine.
Would we decide to call it the deathmatch? Yes.
The portal deathmatch? Well, health UFC for the moment. Do you have anything you'd like to
tell people so that they can come find you and get some more wisdom if they're hungry for more?
Other than the Ben Grid Greenfield podcast? I would take a dive into my new book.
It's called called Boundless and you can get it anywhere. Fantastic. All right. You've been
through the portal with Ben Greenfield. Thanks for tuning in. Remember to subscribe on Apple
Spotify, Stitcher, Cast Box, wherever you listen to podcasts. Also, meander over to our YouTube
channel and remember to both subscribe and click that bizarre bell icon so that you're notified
whenever we get around to dropping the next video episode. Thanks for being with us and be well.
