finding is that the public wants to listen in on conversations between people who are talking
almost in tongues. And then because they have the ability to slow it down and annotate,
like right now, there is a Discord server that pours over every episode that I release of this
podcast, and these guys dissect everything that gets said. They hyperlink it, and they teach
each other. They're forming reading clubs and the whole thing. And the audio is searchable now too.
Well, Google is searching audio. I use an app called Cast Box. It's fantastic. I use it for
all my podcasts, not only because it's got good smoothing algorithms where you can play one,
two, three, and four times speed, and it still sounds good, but I can use the search function
on that, and it will search the audio. Let's say I want to learn about some random health concept,
like small intestine bacterial overgrowth. I can search. It'll scrape not just the show notes
and the title and the description, but the actual audio itself. And I can go directly to the timestamp
where that discussion begins and jump right in. If the fidelity is high enough, it depends what
the nature... I don't know how the fidelity feeds into it, but it's... No, sorry, the fidelity of
the transcription. Right, right. No, it's not searching the transcription. It's searching
the actual audio. It's an audio search engine. So, if you say something that's technical, I mean,
I guess I'm just confused as to how you're saying it. No, what I'm saying is that let's say someone
is searching for glycemic variability, a term that I've already used two or three times,
and whoever's producing the show notes for your show or the title or the description isn't actually
typing glycemic variability. It's not scrappable by a search engine in terms of the text that the
audio is now being searched as well. And that phrase will be picked up on the audio and display
in search results. Okay, but it has to have... So, if you put in the search as a sound and then it's
looking for some comparable sound. Right, exactly. But it may miss in a highly technical speech. I
don't know that we're there, that it's 100%. Yeah, I don't know the level of accuracy, but I've found
it to be of great utility. So, leaving that aside, I mean, the point that I was trying to get at more
was just that if you had like health UFC, where experts go at it with each other.
Well, it's what's the old MTV, the Death Battle? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, those claymations.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, like that. Exactly. Well, but I think that's what people want. And they believe
in some sense that once they can hear a group of experts sort of handle their concerns, it's...
They don't have to be the one filtering what's durable, what's ephemeral, what's a fad,
what is fairly solid. I think that's the great appeal of listening in on an expert conversation
when you have a community that's actually dissecting it and is able to do more with it.
Yeah, I think as long as people are aware of any pre-existing bias,
because there's everything from the investments that that expert might be involved in to the
supplement companies they might own to the dietary books that they wrote five years ago
that they're still married to, even though research has changed because those diet books have
served them quite well from a monetization standpoint. I mean, there's a lot of kind
of backend issues you got to pay attention to, but yeah, I mean, it would be interesting at least.
Let me do something dangerous for my own podcast. I have a few products that have
health implications that some of which I've come to really like. Are you familiar with any of these
cooling systems for mattress pads so that you don't wake up in a pool of your own sweat?
Yes. The bed jet, I'm familiar with that one which uses air to cool. And then I personally use
one called the Euler. My wife has one as well. I don't think it's ever been flipped on, returning
to your illusion to the bizarre health practices that spouses sometimes don't adopt. But I think
about the Euler system because you and your wife don't have to have the same set.
Yes. And I find it useful. I can set it at 55 degrees. I would say just when you look at a lot
of the wearables out there, one of the sleep metrics that people struggle with the most is
deep sleep. During which a lot of the nervous system repair and recovery is going to take
place. I mean, memory consolidation and learning. That's a short term to long term.
Things like that would occur during dreaming, during the lighter REM sleep stages. But deep
sleep is particularly important for recovery and seems to be the one that people struggle with the
most. And the two things I have found to impact deep sleep the highest are sleeping in a cool room,
sleeping on a cool surface. If I've done anything to heat the body, such as a heavy meal or a heavy
exercise session within three hours prior to bedtime, some kind of cold walk or cold shower,
something to cool the body back down and wearing wool socks to bed. When you wear socks to bed,
it actually cools the rest of the body. So that and higher dose CBD have been the two things that
have increased my deep sleep the most. So yeah, I sleep on one of those pads. So that's, by the way,
that's the spawn, the one that you sleep on is my sponsor, which I did, which I didn't mention.
Yeah. Yeah, I'm still confused about whether they're calling it the chili pad or the cooler,
but it's I think they have two different products. But that was my favorite find of 2019.
Because I didn't know. And I again, I like the pad really cool. Yeah, I like the
comforter to be really warm. I don't even know what it is that I'm interested in.
It's interesting because there's actually a couple of interesting things.
A, I think it is at Stanford that they have researched now that cooling the forehead is
particularly helpful for sleep latency, meaning shortening the time that takes you to fall asleep.
So they've just developed this company called, I think it's EB. I'm not financially affiliated
with them at all, but it's a it's a headband that cools the head as you're falling asleep.
And and it's similar to the chili pad, except you wear it on your head.
And then the the the other piece, the wives into this. What's that?
Do wives think this is attractive looking? Please say yes. No, no, not in the least.
The the chili pad can be set to to switch to a warm setting at whatever time you want to wake up.
So slowly warm the bed as you wake. I haven't messed around with that function at all. I just
set it at 55 degrees and pass out. But it's useful. So so I would say yes, there's something
to the idea of sleeping on a cool surface. Absolutely. I remember the other thing I was
going to say is, you know, people talk about sleep hygiene, you know, absence of light,
presence of cold, a silent room, red, blue light. Right. My my entire bedroom is red incandescent
light bulbs, because you don't have any suppression of melatonin levels when you flip off the lights
at night to pee or when you're getting ready for bed at night. But I think one thing that folks
neglect in sleep hygiene is safety, right? This comes all the way back to the vagus nerve, an
activation of the parasympathetic nervous system, the same reason that you would take three deep
breaths and chew your chew each bite of food with with pretty high frequency. If you are sleeping
and your brain is convinced you're in a safe environment, you sleep much better. You know,
this is why so many people struggle with sleep when they're traveling.
I have found one of the best things aside from never having my laptop in the bed,
because if my brain associates the bed with work, you get sympathetic nervous system activation
and lack of safety. Bigest battle that I can't stand bumping into the middle of a laptop. Even
if I'm in a small hotel room, the laptop, I just don't allow it near the bed. It's always
somewhere else in the room. If I want to lay on my stomach and work on my laptop, it's on the floor.
But the other thing is a gravity blanket. I don't know if you've ever used like high
compression 20 to 25 pound like breathable cooling gravity blankets. But what I do is I
have the chili pad underneath me. I pull this gravity blanket over top of me and it feels like
you're just blanketed in safety. It's amazing. I totally believe in this madness that you're
one of the best sleep hacks I've adopted over the past year. Okay, another one of my sponsors.
I'm curious. I hate mushrooms like with a vengeance and a passion that you can scarcely
believe the one way in which I can get mushrooms is this a psilocybin experience in college or
no, no, no, no. This is a experience with my parents growing up, putting things in my spaghetti.
I don't think it was psychoactive spaghetti. I actually love this company that puts mushrooms
and coffee and tea and because I'm able to get it in. I think that it has some kind of
psychological impact. I can't prove it, but I believe that mushroom chemistry is incredibly
powerful. Are you a devotee of any of these particular like chaga, lion's mane and other
mushrooms? The cognitive piece I find particularly intriguing because if you look at this idea of
the doctrine of signatures, it's this idea that the way that things look in nature indicate the
biological impact they might have on the body. So we know that we know wall nuts have
high amounts of choline and DHA in them and they're good for your brain. We know that pomegranates
are good for cardiovascular functions or tomatoes and when you cut them open, they almost look like
the ventricles in the atria of the heart. This is a serious marine county thing.
Crack it open in a pan. It looks like an eye and we know that the lutein in the egg is good for
the eyes. When you see lion's mane mushroom in nature growing, it looks like a cluster of axons
and dendrites and it turns out that it's chock full of nerve growth factor, which is actually
wonderful for neurogenesis and neuroplasticity and cognition. So yeah, there's something to be
said for lion's mane for cognition. Some of the beta-glucans and say turkey tail have been demonstrated
to be anti-carcinogenic and anti-angiogenic to tumor growth. So that's another useful one.
I use Rishi mushroom for relaxation. Cordyceps is good for pre-workout. Yeah, there's all sorts of
interesting blends out there. So yeah, I'm a fan of mushrooms. I think they have a lot of utility.
Are you a fan of psychedelics? And I'm happy to unask the question if I should.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, psilocybin, particularly when combined with lion's mane in small doses,
I'm a fan of that as a neutropic blend. My concern with psychedelics is that they have become,
it seems, of late so culturally acceptable and also culturally acceptable and more and more
accessible that I think there's some rampant abuse going on that is now justifiable. Whereas
whatever, dropping into a k-hole or doing ecstasy on the weekends, you can now say you're using
ketamine to manage some mild depression issues and using MDMA for some self-therapy work that
you're doing for PTSD or you're using LSD with great frequency. You know, many people using
that as a microdose every day. And the problem is you look at something like ketamine or MDMA,
which people are using a lot of. That's neurotoxic. And if you look at something like...
That's one of those things that I keep hearing going back and forth.
The neurotoxicity?
How neurotoxic MDMA.
It is in a trip dose. It's definitely neurotoxic. I would say a microdose of ketamine for something
like managing mild depression or anxiety is relatively safe, but there are people using
a lot more than that. I mean, I know people who are addicted to their ketamine nasal sprays and
their ketamine trokies now and using those. I think there was an initial issue that a lot of the
sort of Schedule 1 treatment of some of these drugs was so preposterous given the twin criteria
that are supposed to define what goes on Schedule 1, that a high propensity for abuse when
LSD is weirdly self-limiting, for example, and that the high degree of harm. And in fact,
the... I was shocked to find out that I had been propagandized and that the harm had been
exaggerated.
The lethal dose of LSD is through the roof.
Well, nobody's ever found it, I think.
Yeah. I think the one elephant that they were able to kill and find a lethal dose of LSD for,
it turned out that it was actually the drug they were co-administering with the LSD.
Some kind of a... It was some kind of a tranquilizer or something like that.
I didn't want to think about this.
Keep the elephant from berserking, but my concern is potential for
neurotransmitter depletion and imbalances due to overuse of psychedelics,
as well as potential for neurotoxicity.
Let me just clarify the question so that it isn't...
My guess is that we've gone through... There was an initial lie.
The lie was found out to be a lie. Then there was a new lie that was told by those using the
psychedelics that effectively these are not that dangerous, that the load is quite modest.
There are ways in which that might be true and there are ways in which that's not true,
even for something where the physical load is modest.
I mean, I don't think we know how we're reordering the mind,
even if you don't find a strong physiological impact of something like LSD.
Yeah. That's my concern is serotonin imbalance, dopamine imbalance, dependency.
There is a biological impact that I think a lot of people do not take into account.
To reply to your initial question, yeah, I'll microdose occasionally with psilocybin.
I wrote a fiction book last year and I'd write every Friday on a microdose of LSD.
I will... What's a microdose for you?
For LSD, about 20 micrograms.
It's a fairly large microdose.
I tend to have high tolerance.
And on a quarterly basis, I will journey with my wife, actually.
We do couples therapy every quarter and our facilitator uses a variety of different
Amazonian medicines. There's always a great deal of preparation going in,
a great deal of integration going out.
And even then, this is actually fresh on my mind because I have a journey coming up in six days.
I take vitamin C. I take 5-HTP. I take methionine donors or methyl donors like SAM-E.
I use NAD, IVs, and injections. I completely prepare my cells for the toxic...
You need to be careful not to be unnecessary.
...overload they're going to experience exactly.
And then I supplement going out with everything I know my neurotransmitters need to
replete themselves. Dopa-macuna and more 5-HTP, more vitamin C for the toxicity.
So there's a great deal that I do to reduce the biological impact that I know even a single
journey can produce.
Is this a DMT-based journey or is this more of a mescaline?
This would be similar to something like MDMA, ayahuasca and psilocybin over the course of
anywhere from 10 to 20 hours.
And the ayahuasca would be isolating though, wouldn't it?
Well, it's a similar feeling. It's not ayahuasca that's being used. It's actually
the person who facilitates this for me. They're using a series of injections and pills that
because of legal reasons, they actually won't tell me what they're using, but I can tell you
it's similar to the same type of feeling as you'd get from something like a 5-MEO combined with
ayahuasca or MDMA or psilocybin.
5-MEO is the extract isolated from the Sonoran Desert.
Yeah, the Sonoran Desert Toad, yeah.
But what concerns me are the people doing their 38th ayahuasca treat and some New York
City loft with their personal shaman and just completely abusing in terms of frequency of
these things and not taking them as seriously as they should.
What do we do about explaining quickly to the government that it's in everybody's interest
to stop bullshitting about schedule one designation and to start talking about really coming up with
some regulation that is beneficial, that recognizes the health benefits? Seems to me that we've got
sort of a wrong new culture in place around the abuse of these things to compensate for
the wrong culture that we have at a legal level.
I think Johns Hopkins and the MAPS Foundation, they're beginning to roll out good research
that's actually being paid attention to. I think academic institutions are doing good
service for that. I think that the implementation of physician-
Or shut it NYU at the same time.
Right, NYU physician assisted PTSD and trauma clinics that are using ketamine or what I would
imagine pretty soon will be psilocybin under physician supervised protocols with proper
integration and proper medical management going in and going out. I think that that will be something
that we see with increasing frequency, actual physician overseeing clinics.
