Hello, you found the portal. I'm here today with my guest in studio, Ben Greenfield, down
from Washington State. Ben, welcome to the program.
Thank you. And hello.
And hello, sir. So you are the first health guest, I think that we've had on the program.
We can talk about other things.
But you've had healthy guests.
We've had health.
Just not health.
Healthish.
Okay.
Yeah.
What I wanted to talk to you about is a little bit, this issue of how we sort through our
bodies and our minds as mechanical systems.
What do we do with integrating the tremendous amount of information?
Some of the literature in the biomedical field is almost unreadable and it's extremely
confusing.
In all studies, you don't have a lot of discipline across different fields to keep any kind of
interoperability.
And so I've always been afraid to enter this space, but you've been recommended as one
of the countries or if not the world's top trainers, you've been an extreme athlete.
You've been studying this from an academic perspective and you seem the ideal person
to be our jungle guide into the wilds of what is known about us.
Aside from the extreme athlete piece, I don't think masochism lends any great deal of credibility
to one.
Aside from a little bit of time spent testing things like ketones and carbohydrate mixes
in the trenches and finding out what might give you explosive diarrhea, but I do love
to read.
I love to study this stuff.
I've always been a voracious and curious consumer.
I just figure if we can profit from your pain, that seems like a pretty good deal.
Well, yeah.
Yeah.
Maybe a little bit.
You're right.
It is difficult with closed access to many of these journals and the ability to be able
to review and abstract.
As we were discussing before, we started recording an inability to determine whether or not a
fasting study was done on a male or a female population or whether or not a headline that
might say vilify red meat is actually looking at the lifestyle practices of the people consuming
said meat or the sourcing process versus unprocessed.
There's just so many nuances to take into consideration.
I think the saving grace though is that we live in an era now where the type of self-quantification
that would have been prohibitively expensive 10 years ago is now readily affordable and
available in the comfort of your own home in many cases.
I think that we can delve into this if you would like, the ability to be able to gather
data about your own body and then decide what type of nutrition or exercise or supplementation
protocol would be appropriate for you allows you to bypass a lot of this epidemiological
data that paints with a very broad brush.
These are all great topics.
I mean, one of the great mysteries since you've already brought up explosive diarrhea, we
probably lost half our listeners with that one, is why is my toilet not a laboratory
that is always taking data away from what I'm passing through me?
Right.
Or your toilet paper.
Exactly.
For example, your toilet paper and a dongle on your iPhone.
That's one of the tests that's certainly very helpful.
I think actually more helpful than these newer microbiome companies that are making a lot
of predictions based on biome data collected from stool that don't have a lot of research
behind them such as, you know, we've tested your stool and determined that based on your
biome data, you should be on XYZ probiotic that we are by the way manufacturing and selling.
But there are other tests that you can do that I think are very helpful and we could
start with the bathroom since we're there already.
Not literally.
We don't have to get back to just introducing you, but we're already-
Yeah, we're not actually sitting on porcelain.
These chairs are more comfortable.
There are tests like, you know, I run once a year, a test from Genova Diagnostics.
It's a three-day stool panel and a multi-day collection is important because everything
from parasitic activity to yeast, fungus, bacteria, all that changes on a day-to-day
basis and you can learn a great deal about your gut and inflammatory markers in your
gut, bacterial balance, the presence or absence of parasites or, you know, a yeast or something
like Candida, for example, by simply on a yearly basis, doing a panel like this.
You literally, for three days in a row, just swab and it goes into a little tube.
You keep that much of the chagrin of my wife, typically in the refrigerator until all of
your poop is ready to ship off to FedEx.
And you receive a beautiful PDF in two weeks that's got everything you would need to know
about whether or not you might need to say supplement with a digestive enzyme because
you have low pancreatic enzyme production or whether you actually do need to take that
popular cleansing supplement because you have some kind of a parasitic overgrowth or something
like that.
I mean, I actually want to get back to this issue of your wife because I think the issue
of whether or not your behavior is viewed as bizarre by your family has a lot to do
with whether or not most people can stick to a regime.
I mean, I am someone who believes that in general, institutional wisdom is usually so
polluted by the economic incentives of the institutions that I'm always open to the idea
that the conventional wisdom is exactly what you would expect when institutions have perverse
incentives.
But if everyone in your family or your social environment doesn't worry about these things
the same way you might and isn't sort of willing to take responsibility for, you know, you
break it, you bought it style approach, it can be very difficult to, you know, to get
somebody to go along with putting your stool in the refrigerator as if that was normal.
Let's get to that in a second so I can at least sort of get some background from you.
Can you just give us a very quick sketch of your academic and non-academic experience
that brings you to being one of the most sought after fitness experts?
Yes.
Academically, I attended University of Idaho, not necessarily known for its rigorous health
and medical program, but I studied exercise physiology and biomechanics there because
for most of my younger years I was most interested in exploring the boundaries of human performance
and how to maximize human performance, which in retrospect is a far cry from enhancing health
or longevity. And there are many people who are, you know, fit on the outside, but once you take a
look at blood and biomarkers and some of the self-quantification we were talking about earlier
it actually can often fly in the face of longevity to be operating at peak performance.
However, I studied that at University of Idaho and competed in tennis and in bodybuilding
and water polo and volleyball. I just played a lot of sports and progressed from there to
almost 20 years of competing in professional endurance sports and doing things like Ironman
Triathlon and Spartan Racing, obstacle course racing and adventure racing and just all sorts of
kind of masochistic multi-day type of events, which were interesting to me just from a pure
physiological standpoint because those are really sports of attrition, right, where you must have
pretty robust management of everything from macronutrients to things that would affect fatigue
more dramatically than say, you know, baseball where you might be, you know, sitting in the dugout
and if you stop moving, you know, in many cases you're still going to be okay. And that was a
great playground for me to explore a lot of the nutrition and the performance and the recovery
concepts that I've been toying around with and still utilize. But I also am just a voracious
consumer of content, you know, I pour through research every morning, I read a lot of journals,
I read, try to read a book every day, you know, typically it's in the health or the performance
or the nutrition realm and I podcast, blog. Can we plug your podcast? It's just the Ben
Greenfield Fitness podcast, horribly narcissistic title that doesn't lend itself well to branding,
but that's my podcast and I write books. I just finished a 650 page book on all things,
anti-aging, longevity, gut immune system, hormones just kind of delved into every nook and cranny
of human physiology. Heart rate variability. Quite a bit in there in heart rate variability.
That's an interesting topic that you bring up. Is that something you're interested in?
You must know June Young of Palo Alto Partners, who is a physician turned sort of hedge fund
manager. I do not. So we were talking about how to make radical longevity a normal part of health
and physiology. And because it had this sort of bizarre patina of, I don't know, a quixotic
desire to find the fountain of youth, there was a period of time where it had to be
de-risked by Silicon Valley. So it was sort of almost seen as being immoral to pursue radical
longevity as a research program and Arbery de Grey and Peter Thiel and various people were
instrumental in kind of taking the slings and arrows from the outside world, said,
oh, this is rich people trying to live forever on the backs of everyone else. But June was
instrumental in trying to work through the system by giving some money for the Palo Alto Prize.
He asked me to give the keynote. And it was a lot about talking, and we were talking a lot about
if you strip off things like environmental insult or the burden of disease or self-harm or all of
these other things that one can die from, are you left in the end with trade-offs between cancer
and aging? It's an essence. And do we understand the essence? And so June's perspective was that
heart rate variability was the best concrete marker to target, to proxy for improving longevity
in a meaningful way, because his theory was about homeostatic capacity. Can you get back
to homeostatic? Absolutely. I would say pushing aside some of the more fringe markers out there
that you can track for longevity, let's say something like telomere length or a
Horvath methylation clock or any of these things that are... It's called as fringe. I would say
that they're just bad proxies in some sense. Yeah, they're poor proxies. They're less available
and less scalable and less affordable for the general population compared to...
So they're just knob-a-peel. Yeah, compared to what I would consider to be three very
useful markers to track overall health and longevity. And that would be glycemic variability.
And how often is the blood sugar fluctuating throughout the day? And to what extent is the
sugar remaining in the bloodstream versus transiently passing due to physical activity or good
insulin sensitivity or good blood sugar management? Something that can be measured
via a $20 to $30 blood stick from CVS or Walgreens or something. I wore the entire year last year
and gleaned a great deal of actionable data from a DEXCOM G6 continuous blood glucose monitor,
which allowed me to see everything from blood glucose response to a cup of coffee to
plate of green beans to exposure to heat versus cold. And I learned some very interesting things.
For example, the blood glucose rises dramatically in response to a cup of coffee,
which is actually what you'd want. It's mildly hyper cortisolic and it gives you a surge of
energy and that sugar, assuming that the coffee is black and doesn't have a lot of calories in it,
that sugar is mostly glycogenalysis. It's released from the liver and it's a short spike in blood
glucose and doesn't contribute a great deal to glycemic variability. But I found it interesting
how high the blood glucose rises after a simple cup of black coffee in the morning.
So it was a narrow peak?
Narrow peak. I also found that my blood glucose responded quite dramatically to green beans,
of all things, which were kind of a staple in my diet. And so because of that, I went out and
got what I would consider to be one of the gold standard food allergy tests out there that doesn't
give you a laundry list of false positives. It's called a Cyrex food allergy panel, CYREX.
And it turns out that one of the only foods that I produce a significant immunoglobulin reaction
towards is green beans. And the blood glucose response that I saw after eating a vegetable
was actually my body mounting an inflammatory autoimmune-based response to the vegetable.
But it gave me a clue that I was able to dig more deeply into. I also found something very useful
and quite useful for us since we're sitting in a cold room right now. The best thing I could do
to lower glycemic variability and keep my blood glucose stable the entire day was a brief bout
of cold in the morning, just two to five minutes, cold shower, cold soak, jump in a cold river,
dramatically controlled blood glucose the rest of the day. So glycemic variability would be one
thing that I think is important to measure. Inflammation would be a second. Inflammation is a
little bit trickier because it does require a blood measurement that typically right now
requires you to go to a lab to do a blood draw. But I'm talking about getting a measurement of
something like HSCRP to see if your C-reactive protein is low. There are other inflammatory
markers like fibrinogen or homocysteine or cytokines that you can measure. But doing
something like a quarterly measurement of just your HSCRP levels, that's a $30 to $40 lab test
that you can run. That also is because inflammation is so tied to stress and a variety of other
health conditions. You see that responded as something like dairy? It can respond to food
allergies, it can respond to stress, it can respond to, and this is something to be careful with in
terms of the timing of when you run the test. Exercise can elevate it significantly, which is
why sometimes if someone does a hard weight training session or run, then does their fasted
lab test the next morning. The results come back, show elevated CRP, and a doctor wants them to go
in for a heart panel and spend a whole bunch of money when their CRP was just elevated due to
exercises that they prior. This is one of the continuous monitoring, is that it has really
shown us just how inadequate it is to pick some random moment and then decide that that is where
your body is because your body may just be passing through that value of whatever it is.
It needs to be precisely controlled, and when you look at hormones, it's even more important
because if you look at the gold standard right now for hormone measurement, at least what's used
predominantly, then we can get back to heart rate variability, which I would consider to be the
third measurement to look at in addition to glycemic variability and inflammation.
But when you look at hormones, for example, most tests are running a fasted blood draw
in the morning of testosterone, estrogen, DHEA, what have you, but hormones fluctuate
widely throughout the day. And because of this, I think that that a urinary measurement for
hormones, you know, there's another test that that I think is great for self-quantification.
It's called a Dutch panel to drive urine test you pee on a stick five times during the day,
and you get a running value of where your hormone levels are fluctuating throughout
the entire day so that you can see if you're truly whatever high cortisol, low cortisol,
high testosterone, low testosterone, etc. And furthermore, urine test will show you the upstream
and downstream metabolites of a hormone. And the reason that's important is because many people
will, for example, get a blood measurement of their cortisol levels and see that they have very,
