let's say very low cortisol and some functional medicine doctor, naturopathic physician or
something like that will tell them to have adrenal fatigue, your adrenals are pooped out,
you're not making cortisol, you need to stop exercising and go to a vipassana retreat for
10 days or whatever. And it turns out that, for example, a highly active exercising individual
who is producing cortisol just fine, cortisol gets turned over very quickly. And you aren't
going to see this on a blood test, but on a urine test, you would see high levels of cortisol
metabolites, meaning that cortisol is being produced just fine by the adrenal glands,
but it's being cleared very quickly. And so paying attention to the actual, the fluids being used
to run the test is important as well. So something like hormones should be tested via urine,
but for the inflammation piece, just running like a quarterly blood panel to see if your
inflammation is staying under control, I think would be the second most useful measurement
that is low hanging fruit for a lot of people, in addition to the blood glucose. And then the
final would be heart rate variability. You said more about that given that we started
to fully define it. So heart rate variability, you know, I wear, for example, a ring to track it.
There are wristbands that track it. Bluetooth enabled heart rate strap is a little bit more
of a gold standard, more accurate measurement, but it is simply a measurement of the delta
between your heartbeats, you know, the inter beats variation from heartbeat to heartbeat,
which should display mild variations from beat to beat, meaning that your vagus nerve,
which innervates the sinoatrial node of the heart and monitors or controls to a certain
extent the electrical activity of the pacemaker cells of the heart by feeding into the sinoatrial
node, that should be giving good sympathetic fight and flight and parasympathetic rest and
digest information to the heart. And if someone is able to control stress well,
is in a relatively low state of inflammation and a high state of health, well rested, etc., and has
good vagal nerve tone, the heart rate variability tends to be high. And I originally became interested
in heart rate variability because it is an excellent predictor of injury and illness in
athletes, meaning that if you're, if you're training a team or an individual athlete and the
heart rate variability begins to drop, typically you can predict injury or illness about two to
three days later with surprising accuracy. And so that's a situation in which you would adjust
the training program and give someone a rest day or recovery day. Well, in a, in a person who's
just tracking this for health, maintaining a high heart rate variability and maintaining good vagal
nerve tone is one of the best things you can do for decreasing stress for controlling inflammation,
etc. And, and the vagus nerve itself is just fascinating. I mean, you know, we were, we were
briefly chatting about the gut brain connection earlier and the vagus nerve is largely responsible
for that. I mean, it snakes throughout the entire body, it innervates that. So we should just say
for the listeners that there's two very strange things about the gut. One is that it's a home
to a large number of people who sort of are you, but aren't you? Yes, exactly. In your microbiome.
And the other is, is that it has a very extensive nervous system all its own, which has been called,
it was Gershwin's title, the second brain. Second brain, yeah, the enteric nervous system and the,
the efferent fibers of the vagus nerve will feed from the central nervous system to
wide variety of organs, you know, the pancreas to control insulin, the, the kidneys to control
blood pressure, the liver and the gallbladder to control bile production and detoxification.
And then the afferent fibers will travel from all of those organs, including the biome,
back to the brain. And so there's this constant interplay occurring between the gut and the brain,
which is why for anyone who wants to, to maximize cognitive performance, you know, care for the
gut is actually very important. And vice versa, for anyone who wants to limit things like gas,
bloating, gut motility issues, et cetera, paying attention to the, the hypothalamic
pituitary adrenal axis, the amount of stress that you're putting on yourself, the, the HPA axis,
the amount of stress that you're placing on, on your central nervous system affects digestion
quite dramatically. You know, that's, that's why when we have family dinners at our house,
we all take a deep breath in through our nose, through our mouth three times and we prepare
our parasympathetic system for digestion. We're activating the vagus nerve and settling down
stress from the central nervous system, which would impact the, the enteric nervous system.
And when you look at research done on vagal nerve tone, there are a variety of things that tone
the vagus nerve that increase heart rate variability because a lot of the vagus nerve travels through
some of the muscles around the throat and the neck chanting, singing, gargling.
So how much of our religious and cultural traditions are cryptic health programs that
we throw over at our peril? They, they are indeed. I mean, that fasting originally was,
was a religious practice, not a, not a weight loss or a ketogenic fad, you know, it's tied into,
for example, the Mediterranean diet. That's the often neglected thing that people don't bring
up when they talk about the health impact of the Mediterranean diet is if you look at the way that
say the Orthodox church practices the Mediterranean diet, there's a great deal of fasting. There,
there are periods of time spent in protein restriction. You know, we know that
catabolism in the cellular cleanup of the, what's called the autophagy that takes place
during those periods of protein restriction. That's what has life extending properties and,
and fasting is a, is a big part of that diet as well. It's not just about, you know,
unlimited breadsticks and goat cheese and, you know, oodles and oodles of extra virgin olive
oil. I mean, there are other components of that diet tied into the religious aspect.
And alming, you know, such as in, in meditation or the, the breath work in yoga, these things can
tone the vagus nerve, cold water, the mammalian dive reflex that, you know, when a baby is first
born in, in many cultures would splash cold water in the baby's faces or for several months,
dunk a baby in cold water to tone the vagus nerve, to activate digestion, to activate the
building of that biome we talked about. All of these things are wonderful for the vagus nerve,
breath work. And so you can, you can train and control heart rate variability. And I really
like that because it's so easy to track in real time. And I would say if you're tracking
glycemic variability, inflammation and heart rate variability, those would be, those would be the
three biggest things when it comes to health and longevity. Well, that's very helpful that you're
narrowing it down to three things that many people will never have heard of or thought about.
But that are easy. But the thing that I want to get at, and maybe this is a good place to break,
most of us don't know how to think about these things. I can't tell you the number of times
I've been walking down the street and somebody says, wow, would you look at the nerve tone on that?
I mean, nobody, nobody talks about these things. The vagus nerve on that baby. I know.
Um, that, we, we don't know how to think about all of the messaging chemicals, all, you know,
the, if you ask people to break down the body into three layers, how many people would come up with
cytology, histology, physiology and anatomy. We don't, we don't remember all the cranial nerves.
We don't, can't quite keep straight with the pancreas, the gallbladder and the liver up to
cranial nerves. Yeah. Um, I remember that the, the, the pneumatic on old, the pneumatic on old
olympus power tops of fin and German views, some hops. Hey, I never get a chance. Just don't ask
me to name them all. Yeah. Yeah. That's funny. I had thought about that all the time. Um,
we don't know how to think about our bodies and prioritize these things. In other words,
if somebody says, look, I don't want to get this deep into what it is that you're talking about
here's my time budget. Here's my mental budget. What can I afford to think about without feeling
lost? Because I think one of the things that I find very off-putting is that there seems to be
kind of a Rubicon. Either you go in for this health thing and it becomes a large part of what you
discuss every day with your health friends, or you're sort of frozen out on the other side of
this thing, not quite sure of yourself. You know, in some ways people feel the same way about this
as they feel about mathematics. They're lost. Yeah. I don't necessarily think that you need to be
immersed in the data of self-quantification. I think that there is a great deal of value
if you do want to learn about your body and do something like a yearly comprehensive blood panel.
A yearly gut panel, heart rate variability tracking, measurement of inflammation.
I've done some of these things. I get it back. I scratch my head. Somebody tells me what something
means. I start doing that thing to rectify the situation. Somebody else says, well, that's not
what that means. Right. And so my question, I mean, here's my ideal. I'd like to get the 10
sharpest minds in the field, into a room, and then ask questions and watch them duke it out
intellectually. So somebody can say, well, you know, that's true in general, but if you condition
on this variable, then that's no longer true because that's just part of this natural response.
And some, you know, fair or not fair. Well, that study, you know, really only looked at a very
small sample. That's the tricky part is the biochemical individuality. And Roger William,
I believe, was back in the 60s, wrote a book that dictated the 12 different shapes of a liver
and a stomach and a pancreas and the fact that some people have extremely robust vitamin D
excretion rates and should therefore get plenty of sunshine and perhaps even supplement with
vitamin D, whereas other people would get arterial calcification from supplementing with vitamin D.
Some people have very high rates of oxalic acid and uric acid excretion and can eat,
you know, nuts until the cows come home and other people will get gout and pain in their
big toes from having a few handful of almonds each day. So it varies widely from person to person.
That's the variability of the person under study. I'm saying that's part of the whole
quantified self thing, which is understanding which particular machine you've inherited and
what you can do with it and what you can't. But then there's the other issue, which is
sort of sensitivity analysis for information. That is, if there is a slight change in our
understanding of something, does the prescription flip wildly or does it move a small amount?
You know, and then just to get really into where I think a lot of these problems go wrong,
I want to hear many more of these things talked about in terms of trade-offs where, well, this is
good for you in this regard, but probably bad for you in that regard, whereas a lot of the advice
is phrased in terms of that's a great thing for you. And I just don't even believe in general.
The ketogenic diet is a perfect example of that. Say more.
Say more. Many of the studies on it myopically focus upon weight loss,
or sometimes upon lipids, your cholesterol values. When you look at the ketogenic diet that may have
helped your neighbor to lose 20 pounds, putting coconut oil and butter in their coffee every
morning and having some kind of ketogenic fat bomb after dinner every night, some people have,
for example, an FTO gene that would predispose you to very high levels of inflammation, which we
talked about earlier, in response to high amounts of saturated fat, particularly the levels of
saturated fat that exceed 10% of total daily intake of fat, which on a standard modern
ketogenic diet, it's common to eat 30, 40, 50% of your total fat intake from saturated fat.
Others have familial hypercholesteroemia, which would dictate your cholesterol values.
And this would be, I don't necessarily think LDL cholesterol is indicative of cardiovascular
risk, but in people with FH, it actually is. So very rampantly high levels of cholesterol in
response to a ketogenic diet. Other people have poor liver and gallbladder function, which would
dictate that they're going to have horrible bowel movements and a great deal of digestive
distress in response to that diet. But if you look at a meta-analysis of ketogenic diets that
say that this is favorable for the general population, in many cases, they're looking at
weight loss, not inflammation, not bowel function, not lipid panels. And so the problem
could sometimes be the value being measured. Right. What I'm trying to get at is,
I don't see a solution for muggles, for civilians, for the average person who's not a
high net worth individual, not a fitness geek. They want to avail themselves, perhaps,
of whatever the best thinking is, but they don't know what happens when people conflict.
I mean, if I listen to physicists or mathematicians, you can very quickly usually tell
who's talking sensibly. They're willing to give up. Well, that's absolutely,
that's technically true, but in this case, blah, blah, blah. When I listen to health people,
the conversations are usually dyadic. It's usually two health people talking to each other.
And often with a great deal of conflict of interest because there's a diet book or a
supplement company involved. Right. So conflict of interest is terrible within the health
institutions. It's terrible within the anti-institutional experts as well because of
the fact that there are products on the other side of this thing. And then there's this question that
every single biological system I've ever studied is incredibly complicated. If you
look at the Cascades, just from one homologous system to the next, they're totally different.
It's very hard to figure out what we're talking about in trade-off space. You can
measure a bunch of stuff, but even there, if it doesn't lend itself to continuous monitoring
through a relatively cheap device, you can be pretty unclear as to whether or not those values
even really represent you. Right. And from one standpoint, it's a frustrating conversation
because it is such a soft science and because there is so much biochemical individuality.
At the same time, to me, it's an exciting and promising conversation because I believe we're
on the cusp of everything from micro-needling patches that can be slapped on and you forego
the trip to a laboratory, you put an envelope, you mail it off and you have all the data right
there, hundreds of blood biomarkers from the comfort of your own home to iPhone dongles
or anything else that can be used to collect this data. If we were to combine that with AI or
algorithms that can actually feed through that data and produce digestible information that's
understandable to the general public and people can take their health into their own hands using
easy self-quantification combined with essentially using AI and algorithms, which I
have a hunch you know a great deal more about than I do. I think that's the promising future
of healthcare and self-management and longevity. We're in an intermediate state and there are
companies working on this, but I think the difficult piece is curating and collecting
all the laboratory measurements that are going to give the most useful and actionable data because
it can't just be, I said like a micro-needling patch that you could put on your arm, but
we already talked about the urine. We talked about the stool, right? You have to collect more
fluid from the body than just blood. I wasn't feeling like that should be done passively.
What do you mean? My toilet should be a laboratory. That'd be amazing. That'd be absolutely amazing.
I mean if it can have a cold, warm bidet and vibration and wipe your ass for you,
it should be able to collect that. It feels to me like the Japanese have thought about all
sorts of aspects of my comfort and luxury and what I really want to know is my markers.
Yeah. It shocks me that that doesn't yet exist. The ability to be able to more easily and precisely
quantify this and then have it fed into an algorithm that will spit out actionable data that's easy
to understand, but the fact is I should say to my knowledge it doesn't yet exist. I'm pretty
plugged into this sector when it comes to all the different ways out there that one can test
and the different companies that are doing the testing and the information they're putting out,
and there's no platform yet that's doing blood, gut, urine, saliva, heart rate variability,
and some of the other metrics you'd get from a wearable device, then taking that,
putting it through an algorithm, and then pushing out the exact lifestyle, dietary,
and supplementation or medication steps that someone could take to affect the biomarkers
it tested. Well, another thing that I would love to see this coupled to is some sort of a software
product that has the 15 leading health and performance experts talking about the same
data. So just the way you have market analysts and you want to see
whether the market analysts are all talking to each other or whether they're disagreeing,
and then you want to listen in on the disagreements. I mean, one thing I'd love to do is to have you
back with three or four other people in your field who, if you all respect each other,
and say, well, I think that that could easily be misinterpreted or you're taking us too far into
the weeds, or I think that that study has been given far too much weight.
Yeah, and people have toyed around with that. I think Joe, for example, has hosted a meat
plant debate. And there's some chatter like that going on. I personally don't really use my own
podcast as a platform for argumentation or debate as much as exploration of ideas,
but you're right. It would be interesting. I think it might just lend more confusion to the
matter. I don't think so. I think this is a big miss. I think that one of the things that I'm
