forthcoming with how unlikely it is to work for you.
You know, the, the person that they brought in who got you into it, who's now
trying to get us all into it is the top of this pipeline, the top of this pyramid
for you guys.
Um, they're probably not making money on this yet and there's like 40 people here.
You guys are not getting this together.
Speaking of trying to bet your friend $1,000, is that on your list at all?
Uh, betting on stuff.
The willingness to, uh, bet on beliefs.
Yeah.
Um, no, but it should be.
I also don't make as many formal bets as is popularized in the community.
I think I've made one and I'll have to pay out.
I think we'll have the numbers in eight.
I don't know.
I made it with David Spearman about, I think more you that'll vote this election
than voted in the last election.
Okay.
I forget what number I said it was, but, and I think
I, and I think I bet like $220 bucks, like whatever, but I mean, this isn't one
of the ones I was going to burn one of my things talking about.
But yeah, that's, that's one thing we can put out there together, which is, um,
I actually bet very, very rarely.
Uh, it's just not a thing I do very often, both because, I don't know, for a
number of reasons, but the mindset of like, cause a lot of people just have a
hard rule against gambling, don't do it.
It's bad.
And that's actually a good hard rule to have one shouldn't gamble, but I don't
think wagering on beliefs is really gambling.
I think it's more of a way to calibrate how sure you are about the world and,
um, making it actually matter.
And I think have just the mindset of thinking, am I willing to bet on this?
And if I was, how, you know, how much am I willing to bet?
How sure am I on this sort of thing?
What odds would I accept is very valuable to have, even if you don't actually
make the bets.
And those can be really valuable.
Even if, yeah, exactly.
Even if you never put a dollar down.
Um, you know, I, I could imagine, uh, well, I'll leave a political example out
because I was going to just invent it, but I've got a great example from, I
can't, I can never find a link to it because I saw this 10 or 15 years ago,
but it was like, Penn Gillette talking with somebody like during one of his
shows or talking about talking to somebody during one of his shows.
And it was like a card trick and he's like, how much do you want to bet that
your cards on the top of the deck?
And the guy was, or no, excuse me.
The guy was, it was like, Hey, how much do you think your cards in the deck?
And he's like, absolutely.
And he's like, how much do you want to bet that it is?
And the guy's like, now I'm less sure.
And it was either that or like, I'll bet you a hundred bucks.
It's not or something.
And it was like, okay, yeah, never mind.
Um, like, I thought that I was confident, but the second I was asked to actually
put any skin in the game, I'm out, right?
And then when you, when you can go into that mindset, you realize that you're
not that confident at all.
And it helps keep you calibrated, um, even if you're not losing money.
So, you know, as far as the, the one wager I have on the, the discords,
like all witness or bets, barrel witness or whatever, um, it's small potatoes.
If I lose 10 bucks, I lose 10 bucks.
I'm, you know, I'm not going to bet, uh, a large sum, um, certainly because I
wasn't really as confident as I was with my friend at the, you know,
pyramid scheme thing.
That'd have been awesome.
If I made a thousand, the downside though, of course, is that then
she would have lost a lot of money and now she goes to a thousand.
Exactly.
Now I'm, now I'm knocking on her door every, you know, give me my thousand bucks.
I'll send my goons.
Um, so I wonder what the market rate is for good goons.
Um, that's, that's an aside question.
We were talking about the Harley Quinn show, which is worth watching.
Um, very fun show.
There's, uh, it was on my favorites.
I came across this great gem and it was like the most inspiring 10 minutes of
podcasts I'd heard in a while.
Um, and I sent it to you guys, I sent you guys a message about it.
It's episode 200 of Sam Harris's podcast, which has gotten surprisingly better
since, uh, the lockdown and cause now he's just doing like pretty much laid
back conversations with guests.
It's a lot less of like the dumb shit he was doing six months ago.
Um, anyway, episode 200 creatures of habit.
It's a conversation with James Clear and it's at some point in the last 35
minutes of the podcast, maybe, I mean, the whole thing's worth listening to
cause it's just about like what are habits with people?
How do they work?
Where do they come from?
That sort of cool stuff.
Um, but if you want the bit that was really inspiring, I found, uh, one online
or link that I'll put on the podcast, uh, on the, in the notes and the, the, the
short summary of it, and I'll find as much as I can from this to read from
cause it's really, really cool.
Basically in, uh, 2003, the British cycling team, uh, they hadn't won in, I
want to say decades, um, in any like national or read, I dunno, at some point,
Olympics, whatever one is the team sucked and they're like, we want to do better.
The one fact that really factoid that really stuck out from, to me, from
what the link you sent me was that there was a, uh, bicycle equipment
manufacturer who would not sell to them because they were worried if anyone
saw the British team using their products, that it would, uh, lower, you
know, the brand in the eyes of the public.
That's awesome.
And that wasn't in the podcast description or the, the summary that
he gave in the podcast.
Um, yeah.
So they were notoriously bad at the point where some people didn't want
to sell to them.
Yeah.
So you got to suck pretty hard.
And so the question is like, all right, well, how do we do better?
What are the, what are the grades doing that we're not?
And like, obviously they're looking at like what the grades are doing.
And they're like, well, we feel like we're doing all those things.
And so this is the generalizable lesson is that they tried to find, well,
rather they brought in, uh, let me see if I can find them.
It doesn't matter.
They brought in a, uh, a new performance director.
There it is.
Uh, Dave Brailsford.
Um, and this guy was like, look, it's not about shooting to the top.
It's about finding marginal improvements wherever we can.
And when I say wherever we can, I mean places you guys aren't even thinking
to look, um, let's bring a variety of pillows on tour.
And you guys, uh, you sleep with, you know, one pillow a night and decide, and
you guys, whichever one you find works the best.
We're going to use that brand of pillow for you.
You're going to get the best sleep you can before this.
We're going to try, um, uh, let me find some of the examples of things that they
did because like a lot of them are outside the box.
Like they painted the inside of the trucks that they transport the bikes in
white so they could spot dirt and grime that you would otherwise miss in a gray
truck.
Um, because when you're talking about a high performance bicycle, even little
bits of dirt and grime in the gears make a difference.
Yeah.
Like, yeah, he was talking about literally like just anywhere, any little place
we can eke out a 1% improvement, uh, in that one, that one sub area is worth doing.
And, and that's the thrust of the, I think that's the title of the essay.
Like, what is it?
Um, this coach improved every tiny thing by 1% and here's what happened.
God, that's click baby.
Yes.
But, um, the, the 1% improvements, uh, motif is common throughout the, uh,
James Clear's work.
Um, so like, yeah, keeping the bikes clean, um, trying different bike seats, that
stuff, that's, that's, that's easy, you know, low hanging fruit, right?
So like, let's find the, the small hard to find fruit.
And it's things like, uh, they hired a surgeon to teach the riders the best way
to wash their hands, to reduce their chances of catching a cold before, uh,
competitions, like that, that's outside the box thinking, right?
Um, they determined the type and pillow and mattress that led to the best night
sleep for each rider.
They, uh, I mentioned they painted the thing.
Um, there were a handful of other examples, but like the point is, is that, uh, in
just five years after Brailsford took over, the British cycling team dominated
the road and track cycling events at the 2008 Olympic games in Beijing, where
they've won and a sounding 60% of gold medals.
Um, four years later, the Olympic games came to London and the Brits raised the
bar, as they said, nine Olympic records and seven world records.
Like in this, again, this wasn't done through, um, finding the best super
mutant that they could throw on a bike and have him just be, you know, the top dog.
It's like, no, no, we can find all these little marginal improvements.
And so the thing is finding those, and if you're not a cyclist and you don't have
all these ideas to look for now, finding these in your day to day life is, is the
challenge, but it's something that you can totally do.
And it's the thing is that like, I think a lot of people, if you're anything
like me, which probably most people have their stuff together, stuff together
better than I do, um, obvious things like, uh, eat better, eat a little bit better.
It doesn't have to be like jump straight to a insert complicated diet.
Um, I don't eat like complete dog shit, but I, I, you know, I could do better.
It's just a little bit of exercise now and then it's amazing how sedentary modern
day humans are.
Yeah.
Like I, if I didn't put an effort into it, I think I could go literal years
between needing to, uh, stress some of my muscles to their maximum potential.
I remember last time I've done, I mean, maximum potential, I, does that
just mean that's doing as many reps as you can for your arms, fatigue or?
No, I mean, that just means like having to flex it as hard as I can possibly
flex it for one thing of anything.
I see.
Like how much effort does it take to get out of a chair or to, uh, walk
across the room or click a mouse?
Like literally I am never using that muscle to the strongest point that
that muscle can be used for years at a time.
Unless you make yourself do it.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's what you're saying.
Yeah.
I mean, so I work out every day because I recognize that it makes me feel better.
Um, let's see, two or three weeks ago, might've been three or four.
Again, time squishy in these weird times.
Um, I started doing yoga every day and some of them are like, I, I'm not, I
don't have the best, uh, I, I complained about my body before.
My body doesn't like some of them.
So I don't do those ones.
I'm not going to fuck myself up, but the rest I do.
And it's like, it's amazing how like you can hit a small muscle group that
