recording in Brotsky international studios in a couple of months.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's been a while.
It's really nice to be able to like record in person again.
Yeah, we got, I mean, whatever the apocalypse is still happening, but we got
sick of, uh, not seeing each other's faces.
So we're, you know, we're safe distance.
We're both isolating in our real lives.
It doesn't matter.
The exact, that's the thing I was going to say, like, I don't trust some people,
like the people at my work that, uh, I went for one day back into the office
and there were two people that just didn't wear masks.
Don't think they even brought masks.
Uh, I don't trust those fuckers.
And this is why in general I don't trust most people, but like, I trust you to
be responsible for the most part.
And like, you can't completely isolate yourself forever.
If you have a circle of people that you can trust, I feel okay with, um, being
with them because, you know, if you have some non-social distancing with a
couple dozen people, that's not the problem.
The big problem is being in large groups with lots of strangers, like concerts
or sporting events or whatever, where these things spread like crazy.
Or just even the office.
Or even the office, yeah, with people that you can't trust because I don't know,
maybe those people, if they're not wearing masks in the office, how do I know
they're not going out to clubs and concerts and shit?
Well, mainly those places are closed right now, but the point taken, there
was a, there was a thing I saw, I think there's a subreddit.
This is one of those hate ones that I just found and I'll probably leave
eventually, but it's called leopards ate my face.
And it's mainly like people who are fucked, people who are bitten the butt by
like things that they seem like they're advocating for, but then like, oh, I
never thought this would happen to me.
I never thought lovers would eat my face.
And it was like, Hey, everyone.
It was like a cut of a Facebook post where they whited out the person's name.
Hey, everyone.
I just needed to put out there that I tested positive for COVID.
So, um, this is for everyone who came to my barbecue this weekend.
I'm really sorry.
You guys should all be extra careful and get looked at and probably try
in distance.
And it's like, yes, never thought lovers would eat my face.
Um, so yeah, like I had a friend over for a movie last night.
We, uh, you know, we didn't share a glass or anything.
So I'm not, I'm not overly concerned about that, but also he's been at
home for the last six fucking weeks.
Yeah.
Um, I mean, I'm concerned every time I go out to the store, I don't want to get
on this because it is one of those hate trains, but I'm already there.
So I'll jump off and the train, the train in a second.
But I'm at Costco this, what, uh, earlier this week.
And they've got a sign on the door.
Well, yes, this is the afterwear mask and they've limited the number of people
that can come in at a time.
That said, it felt crowded.
I'm not sure if they still have this and there was no line.
It was much less crowded than other times I've been in Costco.
Oh, good.
Well, when I was in there, a couple people, because he can't enter without a mask,
which is tight.
Apparently the only people walking around making people actually fucking wear them.
I passed a number, I never saw a number of people with it sitting around
there, sitting on their, sitting on their, around their neck.
And I'm watching these people just like, I'm doing mouth breathing and just
like sitting there.
I, I, I'm like, and I never, I didn't talk to anybody.
I do the same thing whenever I go to Costco.
I wear headphones and sunglasses the whole time.
So like, I'm, I'm kind of in my own bubble, but I'm just like, dude, this
isn't for you.
We're not trying to tell you what to do.
You're trying to, like, I mean, I'm, I'm passing old people in here.
Also, I passed an old lady wearing it, not covering her nose.
Well, then she's just, she's just doing it wrong.
I don't think she's doing it stupid.
Like this guy was just like, I'm done following the rules.
Oh, you think she just didn't know that's how masks work?
Maybe.
Come on.
If you can drive yourself to a Costco, you know that the mask is supposed to
cover the breathing holes.
Ah, some people are really dumb.
Maybe she's, maybe she's thinking, I'll just breathe through my mouth while I
got this on or something.
I don't know.
Right.
Uh, I, I guess maybe I'm putting too high of a prior on the fact that like,
she's old and in the demographic that could get very, very sick.
You'd think she'd want to be extra careful.
Maybe she wants to die.
Maybe she's like, I am over with this.
Please, Jesus, take me now.
Then just run to the courthouse.
People are having all those fucking, you know, bring your guns to work day and,
and scaring all the, the elected officials.
Just go there and ask to lick some doorknobs.
Like, I don't know.
Um, yeah, I, anyway.
All right.
So got a couple of listener feedbacks to hit.
Right on.
Cool.
So Velcro posted in the discord, not sure if this is the right place, which
first of all, let me stop it right there and say, there is no wrong place.
Like I, for example, saw this feedback and I copied it.
So, uh, that was obviously the right place in retrospect.
On the other hand, all the wrong places are, we won't see them, right?
So there are plenty of, there are a lot more wrong places than right places.
Well, I mean, that's part of the thing about discord is you can't see
everything on the discord.
Unless you're there all the time.
And I know I'm not there all the time.
I know you guys aren't there all the time.
So it's hard to say it, like the discord will get noticed.
The discord will get a lot of other people talking with you.
So the discord is great for that.
And the discord is by its nature temporary.
It scrolls away after a while.
And so you can say things that you probably wouldn't feel comfortable saying
like on a subreddit where it's there for posterity, right?
On the other hand, you know, it won't necessarily be seen and discord
and subreddit is just so different.
So I don't know if it's the right place.
It's certainly a place and it was seen.
So sure, why not?
I like the discord.
I spend more time there than on the subreddit, but I realized that the
subreddit is like a, in theory, better place for feedback type of things.
Yeah.
If you want to guarantee, we'll see something, uh, email us at, uh,
Bayesian conspiracy podcast at gmail.com or is it the Bayesian conspiracy
at gmail.com?
I'll double check.
Okay.
Um, but Velcro's actual comment is Bayesian conspiracy podcast at gmail.com.
Oh, nice.
If you want to guarantee, we'll see something.
I've got it on my phone.
Um, if you want to guarantee, we'll see something, email it to us and there's
a hundred percent chance we'll see it.
If you are okay with us missing it, just post it randomly in discord.
If you want to guarantee that someone will probably look at it, then tag one of the
hosts, don't tag us a ton because I'll start ignoring them, but I get tagged very
seldom and so I see everything I'm tagged in.
Um, I think it could even tag at conspirators.
So like our, our, our, uh, role and we all get pained.
So.
And if you post it on the subreddit, I will definitely see it at some point.
Perfect.
This is about the question about the teacher that, uh, turned the metal plate
around just before the students got in and ask why the opposite side from the
heat source was hot.
Anyways, the Velcro's actual comment was, I think the unfairness of the physics
teacher's question was that it was not a physics question.
It was a critical thinking question or a problem solving question disguised as a
physics question.
If you had asked the question in a philosophy class or a creative writing
class, you probably would have gotten the right answer from a student.
I think that's a fun prompt, like a fun challenge to it anyway.
I like where they're coming from that it does seem like an unfair place
cause they're used, the students are used to being posed the questions they can
answer.
Um, granted this one was in theory answerable, but not with the tools they
were given.
This was a new challenge and it's like, I'm going to throw a curveball at you.
Haha.
You didn't know that word was in Latin or something, you know, whatever, some,
some trick.
Um, it's interesting because they were the only ones that would like be
equipped to answer it so wrongly.
Like if they'd answer, if they'd ask that in philosophy or creative writing, you
wouldn't get a bunch of bullshit wrong answers.
Yeah.
And so in fact, someone might say that makes no fucking sense, but because all
the physicists in this, in this parable have been taught that they had the tools
to answer these questions, they tried to apply their tools and they, they weren't
applying the ultimate tool of like, does this phenomenon even make sense with
what, with what you're trying to do to it?
Which is exactly the lesson I was trying to be imparted.
Yeah.
And also, um, that's what the story being phrased the way it was, it's much more
memorable and made the point.
Eliezer was trying to make.
So even if it was unfair of the physics teacher, it made for a good sequence post.
Yeah.
And I think the key of it was, um, this was the guessing the teacher's password
or false knowledge or one of those.
Yeah.
Um, so like, if it was not in a physics class, they wouldn't have tried to use
their passwords to answer it.
Like a, in a philosophy class, they wouldn't have said, well, maybe because of
heat conduction, right?
So yeah, that puts more, you know, brings more to the light, the fact that it
is about guessing the teacher's password rather than true knowledge.
Yeah.
Because, you know, they were using the passwords appropriate for the classroom
they were in.
Like if this happened in real life and you got a zero for the day and the
