you didn't even know you had.
And you're like, Oh man, that feels cool.
Um, like a little, I don't know.
So I'm, I'm, and it's something I don't mind spending half an hour a day
doing cause we're not doing anything else anyway.
So, um, you know, I don't know, like I, I might've brought this up years
ago on the podcast and this is like the most superficial example, but this,
I remember raising this concern and this is kind of the answer.
So like the concern was, I remembered when I got an Xbox 360, my previous
system before that, the regular Xbox had the, uh, red, yellow and white
cables for video and audio.
And my Xbox 360 came with red, yellow and white.
And then like the green and blue ones.
And I was like, Oh, that's where the HD comes from.
It was those extra two cables cause I didn't know what it was.
And then I'm playing like, uh, Skyrim and, uh, Call of Duty with my co-workers.
And at some point one of my co-workers business and he's like,
why don't you have an HDMI cable?
And I'm like, I thought that's what these were.
He's like, no.
And, and for 20 bucks, I radically increased my ability to enjoy what I was
playing on these things.
And so this kind of, I remember at the time and even like years later, looking
back, I'm like, what else am I $20 away from like a big life improvement?
Granted, playing video games, that's a, you know, very fringe thing, but
just something I was enjoying doing.
And like being able to see your opponents in Call of Duty, when they're not,
you know, uh, Lego pixels in the distance, that helps you win.
And if you're, if you're having fun winning and you can do that better for
20 bucks and like also just improve the quality of whatever you're consuming.
Again, I realized that's a super low stakes example, but, but it, but it's
illustrative of the fact that like, I might be 10 bucks away from a big
improvement in all kinds of areas of my life.
Who knows?
So like, it kind of put me in this little bit of like latent background
nervousness of like, what else am I not optimizing on that I could do really,
really easily.
And it, it, it made me, uh, kind of keep a lookout for those things.
The problem is if you don't know that there's something that can be improved
on, you don't know what to look for.
Right.
So like, you don't know what areas to look into.
Like you wouldn't have known about the, it's my thing.
If you're coworker didn't say something.
Right.
So sometimes it's just like, I, one, one technique that I have tried to
generalize is anytime I'm annoyed by something, like, I'm like, God, I wish
this, this worked better or whatever it is.
I, I'm trying to think of an example, um, uh, again, well, this is again,
the dumbest, lowest stakes example, but it's the first one that came to mind.
There are better examples of this.
I'm sure, uh, the Apple TV remote is a swipe touchscreen thing because
fuck Apple, it can't be buttons.
And we would constantly overshoot what we're trying to hit, especially when
we're trying to type in something in the search bar.
Luckily it knows how much it sucks.
And there's a voice, there's a voice search button, but sometimes you're
scrolling down to a video and you go three past it because the swipe is too big.
And I'm like, this is so fucking annoying.
And so like, I, I had a little flag that goes up whenever I think this is so annoying.
And I was like, okay, what am I annoyed at?
The swipe sucks.
And I'm like, well, hold on, I just jump in the settings, jump the swipe
power down to like medium and it jumps less far.
Like, so that didn't cost me any money.
It took me five seconds.
So if, if you're looking for an actionable piece of advice, I
realized this is so like all my examples are really low ball.
Um,
but that's how, that's how you build up quality of life improvements.
Lots of little things.
Yeah.
And I mean, even like this, this can apply to like boring examples of things at work.
Um, but like, oh, I mean, at my work, I'm sure, you know, other people's work
have more interesting applications of this stuff.
But like my, a lot of, a lot of parts of my job involve like deliberate
optimization.
If you're doing things the slow way, uh, it, it drags things down.
Um, so, you know, but that, that's, that's, that's more like being paid to do it
and less like doing it to increase, uh, quality of life.
Like you said, um, I don't know, uh, I remember at some point, like
whenever light bulb goes out, I started buying like the, like higher, um, like
radiant bulbs or something.
They're the same waters.
They take the same amount of energy to power, but they're like, they're, they're
more, they feel more like more natural light.
And I like those a lot more.
It keeps my mood elevated.
Um, you know, like, I don't know.
So again, these are all really low ball examples, but that maybe that's also kind
of part of the point.
These are all fractions of a percent of improvement, but they lead up to a
better day and that leads up to better weeks and leads to a happier Steven.
Right.
And if that's your goal, um, if your goal is happier, Steven, I'm kidding.
If your goal is a happier you, then that, that look for little things
that you can do to improve your life.
Right.
What if your goal is a more rational you?
I mean, that's a, not the topic, but yes, it's kind of like rational practices
for everyday living, right?
Well, but presumably it's like, do you want your life to be better by it?
Or do you want to just be more rational?
Now, granted, we think those are one in the same.
Right.
That's, that's why, that's why the question, right?
If you can make your life, if you can improve how you're, what your rationality
is like, the improvements will come with that.
Yeah, that was a terrible sentence.
No, it, if you can improve the amount of rationality skill that you have, that'll
improve your life in the long run.
That's the, that's the hypothesis anyway, right?
That's, that's, that's the claim.
Yeah.
In fact, this is also, this episode is partly inspired by our response to an
email we got from somebody who was asking, like, does this actually do anything?
And there's a note in here from Jason, the notes section of our secret
crib notes for these episodes that there's nothing of substance that we can
respond to that it just says, I'd like to address this because it was
definitely responsible for improving my life, my life outcomes.
So we will have to have a footnote on this next episode.
But I do think like life, how it can improve life is a slightly separate
topic of like, what are rational practices that you can do though?
Yeah, because like rational practices you can do.
In fact, this is another one that also improves your life.
But like, I mean, so half the things that I do that improve my life just come
from like the easier part of rationality, like basically like skepticism.
So like being less sold on bullshit, having, having a better
bolster detector is one big thing.
Having clear, having the ability to form clearer positions slash beliefs in your head.
And you get a big one.
I know I've said this before is just having a, a range of probabilities
and your beliefs rather than, you know, I believe this is true or this is false.
Right.
Yeah.
Recognizing that beliefs are confidence intervals and aren't on off switches.
So you don't even have to sit, I've never sat down with a pen and paper
and done a Bayesian calculation before.
I've seen them, I could see the math.
I could, I could plug in chug numbers if I wanted to.
I've never bothered.
The, now that, that's probably not a badge of pride for someone who does a podcast like this.
But the, the takeaway of it is that like the, it's more of a, a framework for
how to view your, to inform your view of the world.
My, my, my beliefs and things aren't binary.
They are confidences.
And that's also just true.
That, does that, does that make sense?
It does.
Yeah, I think, yeah, I think like one of the best rationalist practices you can have,
the one I would recommend more than anything else is to actually be concerned
about if what you believe is true and, and you know, really take that seriously.
Not just like, I want to be right, but I, I want to know what is true, even if that
would prove that what I think is wrong.
You can't do better if you're not right, or rather if you're not, if you're not
getting less wrong, it sounds like that was a really apropos name for this website.
But like, if your goal is to improve something, again, at the British
cycling team to take that easy analogy, if all they wanted, if they thought that
all they had to do was practice more, they wouldn't have been ripping gold
metals away from everybody else.
Right.
Yeah.
It, because it wasn't just about that.
There were other areas to improve on.
And if all they thought was like, we're not, we're just not writing enough, then
like they, they still wouldn't have won.
It's, it's a wide variety of things.
Yeah.
And like, you know, part of the, the low hanging fruit is like getting enough.
And this is, you know, not, not the hard, uh, symbolic logic stuff that you'd
have to pass a test on in college, but like the, the basics of a, a logical
argument and, and while being able to throw down a fallacy flag on someone
else's argument is like an easy go to for an online argument.
If you're not doing it that way, but in a way to a better yourself and realize
like, oh wait, sorry, that was, or, you know, to yourself, you're putting
together an argument and you're thinking, oh no, wait, that was, uh,
that was a slippery slope.
Let me make sure is the slope actually that slippery.
Oh no, wait, that was, that was, uh, um, an ad hominem.
I'm, I'm attacking the person.
I'm not attacking the actual argument or, you know, the hypocrisy thing that,
that's an ad hominem.
You know, again, if you're going to throw down the, the badge with the word on it.
Right.
Um, and there, there are like similar, there's a similar vernacular that again,
you can use to pass as a, you can use as a password on a multiple choice test,
or you can use to perform your life better like planning fallacy.
Um, I tend to be on time for things because I give myself extra time to do
stuff.
Um, it's funny when that doesn't work out, but in my experience, that's mainly
when there are more unknowns in what you're planning.
And that's just the name of the game.
And I gotta say, as someone who is on the receiving end of your punctuality,
because we, um, record in the Brotsky international studios that you have to
drive to, I appreciate it so fricking much.
It is amazing to have someone that like, you'd know, reliably is pretty much
always going to be, uh, at the agree upon place and time.
If you've agreed on a place in time,
the key is to never count on good traffic, but that's just for punctuality.
But I mean, like, and also we should mention this is the first time we're
