Like verbalized preference that I do about my meat eating thing though.
I do basically fuck all to save the, save the world.
Like I would be nice to do more.
You help spread the word.
I help spread the word.
I don't need a little money.
You should probably kind of keep it on the download that you're a hypocrite though.
While spreading the word.
Well, I remember my parents telling me not to smoke.
They've both been smoking and still smoke for 40 years.
I don't know how old they are.
Um, so like they're right.
They're like, don't smoke.
It's bad for you.
Yeah.
The fact that they're saying that, you know, whilst holding a cigarette,
doesn't make their statement wrong.
Okay.
It, it just, it means that they, uh, they have an addiction.
Yeah.
And it means that they, they don't seem to believe what they're saying enough to
actually do anything about it.
Granted, eating meat and not doing, not, not doing enough to Mary isn't an addiction.
Um, it's, it's, it's, there's a week, how you define enough, you know?
There's a, there's a, there's a weakness of analogy there, but like, what have I
done in my advocacy for like animal, uh, what I'm saying is, if Bill Gates did
not care about science and believing things that were true, do you think he
ever would have gone the route of donating money to AI safety?
Probably not.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah.
I know.
I, and I hear what you're saying.
And on a quick aside, I eat way less meat than I did 10 years ago.
Well, actually no, 10 years ago I was a vegetarian 15 years ago.
Okay.
Um, and I, I make an effort to buy like well sourced things that I do eat.
Cool.
Um, so I don't know, like I'm, I'm doing, it's one of the, like, I also don't
believe in like ethical black and whites.
Like if you're, I don't know, if you're donating to charity, for example, you
should be doing what will McCaskill and Steven Pink or Steven, um, wait, I'm
Jesus, he wrote animal liberation.
All animals are equal.
Uh, believe that Steven Pinker.
No, uh, Peter Singer.
Yes, you're right.
Yeah.
Well, who was Steven Pinker?
He wrote the rise and fall or the, the better angels of our nature.
Right.
Okay.
Um, no, it's, we're good.
Uh, like Peter Singer and Will McCaskill both live at, uh, like the
comfortable poverty level.
I think Will McCaskill in, I know he's like the youngest tenured professor, I
think at Oxford.
So whatever you have to make to live in Oxford, I think he lives on the
equivalent of like 36,000 pounds a year and then he donates the rest.
And like, that's great.
Should we, if we buy what he says, which I do, we should all be doing the same thing.
Um, what I do instead is donate a tiny fraction and realize that I'm doing much
better than I would be otherwise and better than most people.
So like it's not necessarily about doing everything all the way, um, pushing it
over to the window.
Yeah.
And, you know, so like, if you're concerned about animal, uh, well-being
and you like eating meat, maybe do one day a week, we don't eat meat.
And you're in this, maybe we'll transfer into today's topic.
Like it, it's, this isn't again, like a kind of thing where I can point to the
sequence where I got this lesson, but like, actually I kind of can, except it
was just Scott, like Xander post.
I think there was a sequence post that was of the, I don't remember where the
exact term was, but it was the don't let perfect be the enemy of the good.
Perfect.
Yeah.
So, all right, maybe that wasn't an internalized that realizing it, but you
can do better without having to shame yourself for not doing perfectly.
And while we're on the note of the sequences, I'll keep pushing through this one.
Okay.
Um, basically, we've kind of hit this one.
Like the, the people who dismiss super AI, but not standard AI aren't speaking
from within a model of cognition.
They don't realize they need a model.
They don't realize that science is about models.
Yeah.
They're, they're just hearing this and they've got it in their head as,
I love that line.
That's really damning.
Yeah.
And I don't realize they need a model.
Yeah.
Um, it's, it's damning only within like the social sphere who has the vernacular
to like get why that's a, a sick burn.
Um, to the rest of them, it's like, I don't know what the fuck you're talking about.
What do you mean models?
I got a transit at home.
And I think, I think that's like, I mean, the namesake of less wrong.
That's kind of the whole point of the, the Bayesian rationality movement, right?
Just to make our models be less wrong over time.
Right.
Cause more accurate models are better in every way for anything you want to do.
And that's, yeah, man, that sounds like a great like way to end the, like core part
of our episode is like the goal is to be less wrong.
So what, what do you do to do that?
And it's like, yeah, you make incremental steps and it doesn't, it's not about perfection.
It's, it's the, the goal is perfection, but the, the path there is to,
be a little more accurate whenever you can.
So anyway.
All right.
Our next post is fake causality.
And it starts out talking about floggestone.
Have we talked about the floggestone thing before?
You know, this is going to be episode one, like 11 or something or 110.
That puts us at like four years almost.
Okay.
I, my answer is that's my longwood way of saying I have no idea.
Probably.
I think we have, but if we haven't, I'll give a quick recap for people who aren't familiar.
I could have sworn there was an earlier sequence about this, but maybe not.
Floggestone was the medieval alchemical equivalent of the Greek elemental fire.
It is how they explained what fire is.
The examples given in the post are that when you burn wood, it turns to ash
because the hot, orangey, burny stuff is floggestone leaving the wood.
And the ash that remains is, you know, the original true material of what would be
once the floggestone is removed.
And if you started burning something in a sealed container, eventually it would
stop burning because the air became saturated with floggestone and couldn't
hold anymore, so it couldn't leave the wood anymore, that kind of thing.
And he points out that floggestone was a fake explanation.
It didn't actually explain anything at all.
The question is, you know, what is the hot, glowy thing that happens when, when
you burn something, and the answer is, oh, that's floggestone.
Like, oh, oh, yeah, OK, that's, it's, it's within stuff.
And then it gets released and goes to other stuff and like, oh, all right.
But, but it doesn't actually explain anything at all because your, your, your
answer is basically a sequence of syllables that points at the thing you were
asking about in the first place.
It doesn't give you any, any ability to predict things, any ability to extend
this knowledge into other areas.
It's, it's less of a model and more of like a sticker you put on that part of
your map.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's like, how do you do that?
Magic.
That's not an explanation.
Because I do it.
Floggestone.
Oh, yeah.
It's into the right mind.
You look at that answer and you're like, that's not a fucking answer.
So unfortunately, and this is something as, as a relevant aside, anyone should,
who's has the least bit of like inclination to do so, read any book on like
the history of science.
I recommend, um, I'm blanking on the author's name.
It's a brief history of nearly everything.
And it's just a summary of how we came to know what we know, the history of
play tectonics, the history of how we know the oral, the earth is round, um, how
we know the core is made of molten iron.
Like all these things are stuff that I believe, but I don't, I haven't directly
observed play tectonics.
A friend of mine was in an earthquake a few weeks ago, but like, who knows what's
causing that could have been one of those, uh, angry gods.
Yeah.
One of those flogging, flogged on things, who knows, right?
Um, so I'm using flogged on its placeholder.
I realized that's not what it was used for in the past, but the takeaway
from it that's really mind blowing is like all the stuff that we were taught
elementary school about like the basic fact of the universe are really, really
new discoveries in history of our species.
Like people in living memory or there's people still alive right now that
had to be convinced play tectonics exists in the original version of Carl
Sagan's cosmos.
Um, it talked about how we don't know what killed the dinosaurs.
Oh, really?
When they re-released it in like 1990, something, um, they updated it a bit
because it was in the mid to late 80s that the, that the understanding, the
understood fact of the meteorite impact knocking them out was widely accepted.
Oh, shit.
Like this sounds like a thing that we've known for hundreds of years.
Right.
Oh yeah.
Astrid meteorite killed the dinosaurs.
Like we've all always known that, but we have not all always known that.
Your parents weren't taught that in school.
Well, I'd be damned.
Isn't that crazy?
That is crazy.
Yeah.
So like it, that, that sort of reflection.
And then you look back on, Oh, our, you know, so you hear about the dumb things
people were doing 300 years ago.
You wonder how could they possibly have been so dumb?
It's like, cause no one had the faintest idea what was going on for the longest time.
And even now, I mean, we've got a great idea.
I hate to be like one of those people like, Oh, we universe is still so unknown.
It's such a mystery.
There's plenty of cool mysteries out there to find and there's lots of unknowns.
