four years old, eating their applesauce or whatever and be like, shit.
And everyone's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, shit, shit, shit.
And even if they're taught that it's bad, I mean, they're going to, this is now a
thing that they know that they, you know, it's naughty to say, right?
Whereas if they accidentally say shit when they mean to say ship and you just,
you know, flow with it, like, you know what they said, or maybe like you correct
them because if when they mispronounce elephant, you're like, no, it's
elephant and within the mispronounce ship, you're like, no, it's ship.
And if you don't make a big deal about it, they don't even notice.
Like it just goes by and often can be the same thing.
Like if a kid hurts themselves, like falls down, knocks his head on something.
If the parent runs up, it's like, oh my God, are you okay?
The kid starts crying like, oh, fuck, I fucked myself up.
But if you just kind of look and see how they react without your reaction, if
there's like, and then keep going back to playing, it probably wasn't that big a
deal and you don't need to make it a big deal.
It's the same kind of thing.
Don't don't draw attention to things because that suddenly makes them really
a really big deal when it doesn't need to be and does the opposite of what you want.
And this is exactly why I am not on Twitter because I have looked at Twitter.
And as far as I can tell, the only thing it's good for is amplifying things
that should be silenced entirely.
I think there are correct ways to use Twitter.
I don't use it, but like, I know that like I'll see I'm on subreddit.
I'll post pictures of some tweets and some of them are really funny.
And I think that's the way to do it.
You find you follow.
I mean, this is my own advocacy.
If I were to get back on Twitter, I would follow comedians and a handful
of scientists and a handful of people of interest.
And that's it.
I wouldn't follow the news.
I wouldn't follow the president to see what shit's coming out today.
I wouldn't.
I would not use it as a rage machine.
The downside is, is like, it's really sometimes nice.
Some people just love that rage machine.
And there's a lot of comedians and scientists you can't follow because
they'll fall into the internet of beefs thing, too.
Yeah, I think and it depends.
Like some of these are just like, you know, I can't think of an example
right off, but like, you know, just a one line joke.
I think Andrew Sulk, Anthony Sulk.
I forget the guy's first name, but his Twitter handle, I still remember
it is the incredible Sulk.
He writes for Family Guy and he just writes jokes.
And there are a lot of jokes that back in the day, back in my day of Twitter,
it was 144, 140 characters, 144, 144, 144 characters.
There are a lot of great jokes.
You can get out 144 characters and like, and there's nothing else to it.
It's just he read it and you're like, this is fucking hilarious.
And then you get to move on.
Yeah.
I know at least I think what Matt Freeman does, who has been on the show
a few times, check out his episodes.
He at some point in the last couple of years, just like went through and purged.
I'm hooked on that word except listening to the mind killers podcast.
Thanks, David.
He's went through and whenever something made him angry, he would just purge
and then follow that person and he's now now Twitter is a positive experience.
Awesome.
And like, that's I think that's the way and this isn't, you know, life advice.
This isn't Steven's life advice corner, but because even I'll get on the hate
train once every few times a week, probably.
Wow.
Like not well, let me, let me, I will watch the hate train go by a few times a week.
I don't get on.
I'm not I don't participate in any of these, but I I'm on a hand that's very different.
Oh, yeah.
That's why I clarified, like I, but I mean, I'm still on
r slash keep track r slash enough Trump's jam.
Just keep track of the Trump thing.
It's yeah, like here's the litany of crimes that have gone on.
You know, like, so for example, they're reducing the sentence on Michael Flynn
at the direction of the Department of Justice, which usually doesn't get involved in this
after Flynn confessed under oath to have lied to Congress.
And it's like, it's one of these insane fucking obvious
travesties of miscarriages of justice.
And yet, like, I'm aware of it and I'm annoyed that I know it.
But like part of me wants to be in the loop.
But I think the real reason is it's like sometimes watching the hate train
go by makes you feel alive.
Right.
I guess.
So some people, I've got a problem.
But, you know, I don't let it bring my day down and I do that on purpose.
The overwhelming majority of subreddits I'm on are things like humans being
bros and like r slash on, which is just cute animals and cats learning to cat.
And, you know, adorable little things to put a smile on my face.
Made me smile is one of them, right?
So like I pepper in the nasty shit.
And if I don't feel like it, I'll skim past it and I'll find the next cute picture
or cat, you know, like some some days you just don't have the energy for it.
And I do want to say before we move on that this isn't always a thing
just for like social media outrage stuff, even though I do also think
that this is a great time to apply this to your everyday life.
But like the original post was about stuff that might actually be bad to spread
either for culture or even for you personally.
And the temptation is just to be like putting it out there and commenting on it.
And oftentimes the best thing to do is stay completely silent and let it go away.
And you'll never know when someone is doing that if they're doing it correctly.
So it is one of those virtues that if it's being practiced, you don't see it.
What was that great line?
It was in that episode of Futurama where Bender meets God.
Sometimes we do things right.
People won't know if you've done anything at all.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Anyway, that was a fun episode.
Yeah. Yeah.
All of my most most of my I think applications of rationality to real life
are kind of more like the meta level.
Most of them are like very general things.
So it's a more general thing that can crop up in day to day life.
I think the most like salient thing that jumps to mind, people get hung up
on thinking about how hard something will be and then they don't try it.
They think about this and they're like, oh, no, I could never do that.
And then they just don't.
And it will sure you sure you can't if you if you don't even look at it.
Like I I think I've I might have mentioned this on this podcast.
It's hard to say.
I have a friend I went to high school with who we weren't that close.
So I don't know if there's something he always wanted to do.
I imagine it was he was always very funny.
But at some point after high school, I think he must have said to himself,
I want to write for S I want to write for SNL or for some comedy show.
Like I want to be a comedy writer.
And he has itchings and IMDB for helping write episodes of Brooklyn Nine-Nine.
Awesome.
Like he I don't know what it took to get there.
I'm sure it's hard, but I doubt it's as hard as most.
Well, I mean, it's it's got to be hard because there's not a million writers
to do this, right?
But the point is he didn't stop at thinking I sure would like to do that,
but I'll bet it's too hard.
He said, I'd like to do this.
I wonder what it takes to get there.
And then he's like, I think I could do that.
And that, I think, is more often in the case than people think.
People give up before even looking at how hard a problem would actually be.
They look at it, assume that it would be very hard.
Sometimes they're probably right, but it's probably less hard than they thought.
There can be a lot of instances where, you know, something looks overwhelmingly
hard to do, and you don't have to look at the whole project at once.
You're like, if I knew someone who had done this thing that I would like to get done,
what is the first step they would have taken along the path to finish this thing?
And if you can look at that first step and then evaluate,
could I do that first step, then maybe you can do the thing, right?
That's the advice I've had somewhere, something like half a dozen people
reach out because I mentioned that I got into programming on this podcast.
And maybe I'll put together like a useful post that we can just put somewhere.
Because like, because my advice isn't very like, here's the 10 things you need to do.
There's a million posts like that.
I wouldn't I haven't read any of them.
I bet most of them are garbage.
Like the main thing that took for me, because I can only speak to my experience
and what I can kind of extrapolate from others.
But like the the main thing that happened to me was I looked at the
like I had considered doing this before and I was like, that's got to be too hard.
There's no way I'm smart enough.
Everyone who's been doing this, I've used this analogy a hundred times.
It's I had this just mental image of people who were like programmers for a living.
They were just like they've been coding their own games since before they could walk.
And there's just this like this black box of arcane knowledge
that I just I I'm 20 years past the boat or past the is that what it's called past the boat?
There's a sure. Yeah, the boat left 20 years ago.
Yeah, like like I'm way too late to try and get on this and I'm just not smart enough.
And then like, but I mean, that that's where I was for at least a couple of years.
Granted, luckily, I was already like in the trying to be in the habit of like
trying to do stuff at that point.
And so I had a friend, another friend of the podcast,
Zeke Iran has been on a couple of times, sent me a book called Automate the Boring Stuff.
It's online for free.
It's a Python tutorial and I didn't get very far in it before I realized I was like,
oh, like I can read this like that you're not writing machine code.
It's not like it's not hard.
Oh, I mean, doing doing hard doing the hard stuff is hard.
But like just learning how to do it is actually easy.
Like you can if you if you pick up a language like any modernish language,
you can just look at it and see what it's doing.
And you don't have to be a programmer to see to recognize, OK,
it's going through this five times and it's going to, you know, add one each time.
It's going to print up to five like that.
Did I ever tell you how I learned the basics of programming?
No. Oh, my God.
So my first computer was the Commodore Pet.
And it was one of these things that apparently does have a hard drive.
It's on tapes cassette tapes, literally.
But it doesn't have like an inbuilt hard drive and you couldn't buy any of the
programs. But along with the Commodore Pet,
I got a book called one hundred and one games for your Commodore Pet,
which was the thing is you literally write the programs you want it to run.
And so this was just, I don't know, like 300 pages of code
printed on the words printed on the page.
And it was like typing these things exactly as you see them on the page
after you're done hit run and the game will play.
And so, you know, the first several, I just kind of typed in things,
didn't know what the hell was going on, like one zero space,
G O T O space, two zero, right?
But I started noticing after a while a trend like, oh, this, this acts.
This is a variable.
