impact of your GPA and your chances to get into college or something, then yeah,
I'd call it unfair.
That's bullshit.
I came here to learn physics, not to be tricked.
Um, I could, I could see that being a legitimate defense in an actual case in a
real school, uh, as far as a parable, I think it's great.
Um, McDamn writes also regarding sea lining, there's a workaround to all of it.
Start by showing you've put in work into figuring it out on your own and that
you're stuck.
Uh, and yes, it's usually us that have to do the rational discussion for both
sides, if the other side is unwilling and if you still want to engage them.
This is actually pretty good advice.
If you do want to engage someone, which a lot of times I just don't anymore.
But, uh, if you do, that is one thing that will help.
I don't know how often I would say at least half the time.
There's times when people are not arguing in good faith and they just don't
want to, um, they just don't want to talk about it at all.
Even if you have put in effort and shown that you're trying to do this, um, and
you'll still get hit with the sea lining thing.
But other times, yeah, if you have actually really put in the work to be like,
really this, how, please help me understand.
And people can see that, then they will, uh, sometimes they will respond to you.
And I guess how often that is depends on the particular community you are in.
Yeah.
I think it's definitely community based.
Like I, I think some communities are more or less susceptible to sea lining.
Um, somewhere we're going to be more or less tolerant of it.
And like there's, I think the other side of the coin is this is an informal fallacy,
um, proof by verbosity.
And so like, if you're to twist that, the, the, the problem is like, you
throw out, you know, you're in a debate, you throw out 30 points.
And then it's like, all right, well, I can't respond to all 30.
And it's like, aha, you, you addressed points one, two and three, but not points,
you know, four through 20, four through 30.
So obviously I win.
Um, that's the informal fallacy.
The, the downside is like, if you were to like, I don't know, if you wrote
just a comment, uh, if you sent us an email and you think we're wrong about
something and you wrote a 16,000 word essay, but all of your research and like,
then it ended with like, and so can you guys answer?
Here's my research above.
I can't guarantee I'll finish reading it.
So there's a succinctness sweet point in there.
You can say, I've looked into this a lot and I, I'm not trying to like give you
guidance on just how to email me, but like, um, yes.
If you had said, Hey, I've looked into this and I'm being sincere.
Here's some places I've looked, but you know, I agree.
I think that's a great way to put it.
I could just imagine my first place to go is like someone technically doing that,
but still trying to like munchkin it.
So they just come in again with this gigantic deluge of like, here's all the
stuff I've looked at and like they just bore you to death and I don't know.
But obviously that defeats the point and that's not what they're getting at.
I'm imagining the troll you wasn't going to put in that much effort.
I think you underestimate some trolls.
Okay.
But well, I mean, that's fair.
Maybe I'm overestimating trolls.
Um, yeah, but that's also not, that's, that's me trying to poke holes and
something that makes perfect sense and it's a very reasonable thing.
If I came, um, uh, yeah, like the polyphasic sleep thing, um, when, when
Jace brought it to our attention and my, my, my immediate thought was like, I'm
pretty sure people need more sleep than that.
Otherwise we'd be doing this all the time, right?
Like we wouldn't just be discovering this and you're like, I've heard about that.
It sounds like it's a bad idea and it hasn't worked out.
And, and Jace was like, I've heard both of those things.
The stuff that I've done, I am following a, a good guideline or a good rubric
for this or something.
It's a little different than what you guys are doing.
So it makes sense to give it a shot and it's like, cool, great.
You got it.
Um, so like if for whatever reason, they were trying to persuade us of it and
they brought us something that anticipated both of those objections and
then, Hey, we're, we're in a good spot.
Right.
Um, yeah.
So yeah, those, uh, come just, I wanted to share by the sea line.
That works.
I do have two, three kind of PSA sort of things before we wrap up.
Sounds like fun.
All right.
First one is, uh, I got this directly from the Savage Love podcast run by
Dan Savage, America's best sex advice columnist.
Um, first sex advice columnist, admire cause sex advice columnist.
There's only the one.
Dan Savage is also a dope name too.
Yeah.
And this is real name.
Yeah.
I tell you, sorry, side note.
Yeah.
Co-worker of mine has a friend named Bruce Carnage.
And I'm like, what is he like a fucking supervillain?
And I figure what this guy does, but like that sounds like a professional
wrestler slash like fighter for hire slash, uh, bodybuilder.
Right.
Um, I, but anyway, dope name, Dan Savage.
It's hard.
It's a, yeah, carries more oomph than Steven Zuber.
Yeah, I don't know.
Depends how you dress it up.
Literally.
Savage isn't in my name.
So, well, okay.
Yeah, there's that.
Yeah.
He just lucked out.
Anyway, so that's my contribution.
We, most of the country has been pretty much isolated for the past six weeks, uh,
varying levels of isolation, but there's certainly been a lot less sleeping around
going on, um, even among people who are normally like, you know, have multiple
partners point being, um, many STIs spread in the pre, um, in the period where they
can't be tested for and they don't have any symptoms, uh, kind of like COVID-19 is
often, uh, spread in the, during the asymptomatic phase.
Um, but now that we've all been isolated for six weeks, just about every STI that
is easily treatable, uh, will be, um, will show up on tests after you've had it
for three weeks.
And if you haven't been having sex with, uh, people unprotected that you don't
know that you have now had more than enough time to be in that window where it
can be tested for, uh, if everybody without like long-term monogamous
partners goes and gets tested now, we can probably find and, uh, then treat a
whole bunch of things, which obviously will not completely eliminate STIs
cause that'll never happen, but could put a serious dent in it for, uh, a decent
amount of time because now we can hopefully catch a lot of them in one go.
So, uh, that is a thing that is recommended to any sexually active folks out
there.
I was about to say sexually active young people, but you know what?
Old people have sex too.
Well, people have a lot of sex and, uh, STDs are rampant in, um, like nursing
homes and stuff.
Yes.
So, but you probably haven't been isolating for your nursing home.
No, no.
Yeah.
So it doesn't apply to this particular case, but yeah.
Um, it's just a, uh, fact that many of us would rather not think about that people
are having sex in nursing homes.
Um, your, your grandma's getting laid probably and they don't have, they often
don't have condos at these places.
So it's weird as it might be, maybe drop a, you know, big box off for the front
desk and say, can you distribute these please?
Um, what a wonderful tangent.
Yep.
So I, I, this is a, in the spirit of our last episode of, uh, asking maybe this
will be a nice Socratic grilling.
Can't you treat like chlamydia with like two pills?
Yes.
Why doesn't, why don't, why don't they just give those pills to literally
everybody over the age of 13 in the country?
Cause they're expensive, I guess.
I don't know.
I mean, I assume at least part of it would be the religious backlash.
Um, but that's a good question.
I've never thought about that.
It sounds like we could just literally eliminate chlamydia then.
Well, that's a good thing to look into.
I mean, I'm not going to fund this, this, this.
And also wouldn't literally eliminate chlamydia because it would come back
into the country through other sources.
Well, yeah, when I, when I thought of eliminate, I just thought doing this
globally, but then, you know, how do you get 14 billion pills into the mouths
everybody on the planet?
Yeah.
Um, there's a logistics problem.
Right.
But yeah, I mean, you could certainly curb it.
Uh, and it's just an antibiotic or something.
Right.
Mm hmm.
Uh, is this the kind of antibiotic that works more multiple times?
What do you mean, multiple times?
Like if you get chlamydia in when you're 19 and you get it again in your 25.
Yeah, it's not like a one time.
Oh, I don't know.
Maybe by the time you get it again, things will have a change a little bit,
but yeah, it's not like you use it one time and it never works again.
Hmm.
Cause yeah, that does sound like the kind of thing that if maybe if you're
really sexually active, you just take this every year and keep yourself
chlamydia free.
Well, I guess you'd be chlamydia free for at least a couple of weeks because
if you're sexually active and doing it the right way, you're getting tested
every six months anyway.
And you aren't, you know, sleeping with new partners without protection
immediately among upon meeting them.
Gosh, I really hope I don't have to actually say these words, but just to put,
you know, make it very clear there's, there's protocols people take to protect
their own health and the health of the community.
But, uh, you know, sometimes things slip through and this, this would be one
way to help cut down a lot of those.
This puts me in mind of, um, some, one of the, like the cool thing that
Sam Harris has been doing on his podcast lately is just like more laid
back conversations and then on the titles that have dates and he's done a
handful of Paul Bloom and one of the more recent ones they were just talking
about, you know, everyone's talking about the state of the world right now.
And Paul was wondering like out loud if, uh, like in the future, if people
would be more cautious about this sort of thing, like, will hookups be more of
a thing than they were, or will they be less of a thing forever?
Cause they're definitely less of a thing now than they were six months ago.
