was a great episode, in fact, we talked about it with Brian Dunning on his
first interview on the show or his first time he was on the show was much
of an interview.
Um, I don't know, like some costs are much bigger than others.
Like, um, I guess what I always go back to is people have a right to be wrong.
I very strongly believe that anyone has the right to be wrong because you can't.
It's not that easy to tell when someone is wrong, but, um, and also people have
the right to use up their own bodies, how they see fit.
And I mean, there's some complications in there.
Like if you have children or dependence, uh, on that are dependent on you.
But for the most part, like I figured this was going to affect Jace's health,
both mental and physical health in a bad way.
But, you know, I said that and Jace wanted to continue.
And I was like, all right, you know, it's your body.
It's your health.
You can do what you want with it.
I didn't change.
I kind of want to push back on both of those.
Okay.
Um, only in some circumstances, like you have the right to be wrong.
Can you expand on that at least before I start hitting at something that isn't
there?
Cause like I, if someone's wrong, I want to correct them and have them be right.
Well, yes.
Uh, but I, I don't want to, um, correct them through force.
I would like to correct them through.
There's, I mean, yes, I agree with that.
You also feel that way, but there's a lot of people out there who, uh, don't, and
we'll say that, uh, I don't care what you think about this.
You have to behave in the way that I think is correct.
Uh, okay.
Yes, you were just saying like, and I, and I also, I guess I'll defend somebody's
right to say something stupid.
Um, they have the right to, to go to Nazi rallies without masks, uh, tomorrow.
If you got planned for your Sunday afternoon, um, go nuts, but they don't
have the right to hurt people of, um, different, well, they don't have the right
to hurt anyone period, but they have the right to think that other races are
inferior, even though I wish they wouldn't.
And I hope that we can persuade them otherwise.
This is not a thing where, uh, there should be force, legal force used to correct
their opinions.
Okay.
So when you say they have the right to be wrong, you mean that we shouldn't
force them into doing the right thing.
And also for like the, the high minded reason that, and that's probably what
you're getting at is that like, we might be wrong.
Exactly.
It's not like we're wrong about racism, but we could be wrong.
Like imagine if they outlawed, um, polyamory.
Or imagine if they outlawed LSD.
Right.
Um, speaking of high minded, uh, like, so, I mean, they, they could outlaw
something that like actually would help people.
I, you know, uh, examples abound.
Um, the other, the other one about even, even like if LSD actually is long term,
uh, bad for your mental or physical health, uh, I mean, we have, we have alcohol
and nicotine as legal drugs.
And I think people who indulge in nicotine, uh, well, or alcohol for that
matter are wrong to do so, even though I am the person who does drink.
I know that that's a bad idea, but I have the right to be wrong about that.
Cause I'm not hurting other people.
Like as long as I don't get behind a wheel or something.
Yeah.
And like the, the other part about like the, the right to wreck your own body,
like I, so the example I was thinking of was from, I forget the number, episode
number, but the Skeptoid episode, uh, I think you can only listen to it now.
If you pay, I think to support the show, cause he had to switch to a semi
paid model, the last 50 are available for everybody all the time.
But the transcript for the episode on Skeptoid.com is despicable.
Vulture scumbags.
It's in the first 50, I think episodes.
And it was just a response to somebody writing in talking about how, and we
talked about this with our episode on Brian, which is free.
If you want to go listen to it, um, somebody wrote in saying like, Hey,
my dad or somebody has ALS and he is dumping in tens of thousands of
dollars into what I know to be a sham treatment.
And it's something like, you know, electrodes and water that he puts his
feet in or some bullshit that'll never cure his ALS.
And he's like, it's, you know, it's his money to do what he wants with it.
I'm not so much worried about him squandering an inheritance or anything.
And I'm playing this from memory.
It was more a concern of like, he could be putting this towards something that
might actually help.
And instead he's giving all his money to this snake oil salesman.
So what the hell do I do?
And in that one, I like, I would push back hard.
I luckily don't have any family with severe health issues that they're treating
with magic, but if I did, I would like to think I'd be very adamant.
And I don't know what, you know, at what point my adamantness would have to
just stop and be resigned, you know, at some point you have to give up.
But like, I'm not going to just like look at it and be like, Oh, well, good
luck to you.
Um,
Well, I think that that is actually one of those really good examples of the
right to be wrong because he is wrong about that.
It is a terrible waste of money and it is supporting con artists, which is awful.
But I think he has a right to be wrong about that and spend his money, how
he sees fit, because I would also like the right to buy Madaphnil if I think
that it will help me for something.
I want to be able to make what other people think are mistakes.
If I think they're not mistakes, whether it be in Madaphnil or LSD or some
new experimental treatment that everyone else is like, this is bullshit.
Don't do this.
And I would be like, I don't know about that.
I think maybe I do want to try the baby food that has fish oil in it or
whatever it is that is not approved.
Yeah, I think the difference is like, if, if I had really good reason to
believe that what you were doing was killing you and you just didn't know
them, or maybe you would hurt them, but disregard me.
That's, that's what I'm saying.
You're right to be wrong.
Doesn't mean that I shouldn't try and make you less wrong.
No, no, no, no, absolutely.
I, if depending on how much you care for me, I would expect you to.
But also it shouldn't be illegal to do those things.
Okay.
So you're talking more about like force of making people.
Okay, gotcha.
Like it's different than, I don't know, watching your, your parents waste
all of their money on some bullshit pyramid scheme.
Right.
You know, like you might go, I mean, I don't know what I would do if my parents
were like, Hey, we've got this great investment opportunity with whatever
some, whatever fruit juice, pyramid scheme, whatever it is.
I'd be like, no, no, fuck you guys, stop, stop, keep your day jobs.
Like I, but I, I can see.
But what if someone was pushing that hard against you investing a thousand
dollars into Bitcoin back when it was 10 bucks a coin?
Um, like, so, but now I'm seeing the distinction you're talking about.
It's one thing to say, like, uh, yes, you should do your best to inform the
people that you care about and everyone else on the best information available.
Um, it's another thing entirely to make buying it Bitcoin illegal.
Right.
Right.
So I see, I ultimately, you have the right to be wrong about Bitcoin's future.
The legal right.
Yes.
Okay.
Now, now I get what you're saying as far as some point, your family will be like,
okay, fine, I'm sorry.
I, there's nothing I can do when, when you say I have the right to waste my
money on maybe not even Bitcoin.
Maybe it's, you know, like what dogecoin, but if in 2006 I had spent $1,000
in Bitcoin, then who'd be laughing, you know, three years ago when I sold.
Um, but if you put a thousand dollars into Bitcoin, when is that $12,000?
Then yes, then I would want, then that's the thing is I'd want my, my savvy
minded friends to be like, no, no, Steven, it's peaking, bubbles poppin.
This, this don't buy now in the fucked.
Um, yeah, but would I want a legal moratorium against making a bad investment?
No.
Yeah.
Okay.
So the legal right to be, to be wrong and the.
And so that's where my, my, you know, belief in the right to be wrong really
extends into the whole allowing, you know, being semi supportive and allowing
other people to do these experimental things.
It's just, whereas before I would be kind of freaking out and being like, Oh God,
don't do that, don't do that.
And now I'm like, well, you know the risks and I wish you well.
I hope it goes for the best.
Even if I am worried that it won't.
I got dragged into a sales mitt or a pitch meeting for a, um, I forget what
they were even selling.
It was some, it was some pyramid scheme.
And the first red flag was that someone on Facebook reached out to me who hadn't
seen since high school and I would have been in my early mid twenties and they
were like, Hey, Steven, uh, some friends and I are working on this really
interesting thing.
I think you should come check this out.
We've got a thing like on Saturday at eight and I'm like, this sounds like I'm
going to be sacrificing a ritual, but I got nothing going on Saturday.
I'll come take a look.
And it, they were really dodgy about answering questions beforehand because
they've been coached to not to answer questions beforehand because I Google
the company, see the word pyramid scheme on the finished Google search.
And, um, and I'm, I mean, I'm filling in the gaps here, but I'm assuming that's
why they're so dodgy about it.
I get there, I watch it.
I read the pamphlet they give me on the back of the pamphlet.
It says that one in 200 people make their money back because it was like $2,000 to
get in and it was in the really small print, but it was in the, it was in the
documentation they give you.
And I showed her that and I was like, there's like 40 people here.
The odds of any of you guys getting your money back is not great.
Um, you're not going to be like the guy in the video.
We had to watch you as a jet ski or a boat or whatever it was, right?
Like you guys are not getting there.
And in fact, I'll bet you a thousand dollars that you're not going to get there.
I would love that bet.
Um, you know, if, if in a year you own a jet ski that you're not making
payments on for money, you may doing this, I give you a thousand dollars.
I really should have done that, but I never thousand dollars to gamble back then.
Um, so what am I getting at here?
Nothing.
It just ties into, I mean, no, well, that's what I did when I left.
I had said, I don't think this will work.
This sounds like a pyramid scheme.
So no, I'm not buying it on you.
I'm sorry, but also I encourage you to get out like, you know, I do your own thing.
I hope it works out, but here look, they don't think it'll work or they're being
