Yeah.
Um, will this, will this stick around like this, this level of kind
of caution around people, um, I, it's an interesting thing to think about.
And I wonder if that would impact, you know, this, this particular kind
of thing about STIs, like if people are going to just be less inclined to hook
up with people, you know, might not be afraid of COVID, but now their mind
is alerted to germs, you know.
At this point, it's only been a few weeks.
I don't think it'll make that big a difference, but depending on how long
it goes on and how severe it is, yeah, it could potentially.
Speaking of which, uh, we have talked a bunch about COVID-19 over at this
other podcast that I'm involved in called the mind killers.
It's a me and two people from the discord.
And basically we talk about like politics and stuff that we shouldn't talk
about generally, which is why we call it the mind killers.
But, uh, if you've been listening to this feed, the last four episodes have
been on this feed over the last eight weeks and the, it is no longer on this
feed, it is on its own separate feed.
So just a quick PSA, if that was anything you were interested in, you
will never hear it here again.
You have to, uh, to subscribe at that feed to get any more of that.
Cool.
I got one too.
I was going to, I'll grab this last one.
Okay.
Anyone who's familiar with Enya's audio rendition of Harry Potter and
Methods of Rationality, which hopefully is all of you, if you haven't, if
there's some possible universe where you're hearing this and haven't heard
of that book, uh, Harry Potter and Methods of Rationality was a, I think
it's the most popular Harry Potter fan fiction on the net.
It certainly was at the time of its writing.
That's true.
I'm not sure if it still is because it's been a number of years, but I mean,
it is at least one of the most popular still.
Yeah.
And at the time of its writing, it was the most popular.
And I think that was gauged by like the number of reviews on fanfiction.net or
something.
It was the standard metric used.
Yeah.
Read that book.
It was great.
I think I'll all of it.
Um, Enya, I should the, it wasn't just an audio book.
I, it was a full on audio production involving a hundred plus voice actors and,
uh, music, some of it original music from people who listen to the book.
Yeah, it was awesome.
It was great.
So anyway, um, I've been doing a podcast.
Oh, well, let me take this in another order.
Um, last year or year and a half ago or so, you published a book called
What Lies Dreaming.
Yes.
Maybe it was two years ago.
Time is again, weird.
It was, I think, July of last year.
Okay.
So at some point before you retired the methods of rationality feed, you did the
first three chapters in audio book form.
Then at some point after that, but before I started my podcast on that feed called
We Want More, which is a, um, I've talked about it before.
Everyone's probably familiar, but, uh, I will say that I like that.
If you guys have tried that, it wasn't your, um, your cup of tea.
It's worth giving another shot.
Just jump into a more, more recent episode.
We should say real quick that we want more as a, like a reaction slash analysis
podcast of, uh, Harry Potter and Methods rationality.
I was going to summarize it long form, but yeah, thank you.
I mean, I was going to and then didn't cause I thought it would take too long,
but you're, you're, I didn't know you could do it this simply.
So yeah, great.
Um, so yeah, it's, it's, uh, another podcast I'm doing comes out on Mondays and
the co-host is not in the rationalist community.
And so like as such, isn't like predisposed to already love it.
And part of me, that's, that's the big value of it, that at the end of this
story, we'll get to talk about like, Hey, did you learn anything that you
like are glad that you learned?
Or did, you know, did you, and also did you have fun?
Like this accomplish its goals?
Yeah.
Um, have you changed your views on things?
I mean, I'm sure he, I know he's heard of rationalists because he's a friend of mine.
Like I wonder what he thought of us before and how, if at all, that'll have
changed after he's read this.
Me too.
Um, and just, you know, more importantly, like we'll, or well, not more importantly,
but, uh, additionally, I'm wondering, you know, will he walk away with, I, I
learned something cool from this book.
I think I'm going to, you know, apply that to my life.
Like if that happens, Hey, mission accomplished, we now have a data point
that this book can reach people outside the sphere, which is cool.
Um, anyway, if people have tried that podcast and stopped listening to it
because he didn't like the discussion, uh, give another shot, we've gotten a
lot better at it.
And Brian hates the book a little less now because it's, it's developed
and went to more of its own thing.
And hate is strong, but I got some of that feedback early on, but I mean, he's
been enthusiastic and enjoying the last dozen episodes.
I don't think he ever hated it.
I know I said this earlier, but do you think he hated it at one point?
No, I think hate is too strong, but I know that he was accused of hating it.
Yeah.
Well, because no one could listen to him talk about the Sanford prison
experiment arc and say, he hates this.
Yeah.
Um, anyway, he comes, he comes at it with a, like, I've gotten a new insight
into how people with different neuro architectures and hours think by listening
to him and like contrasting his reactions to things, to my own, and then
trying to think like, wow, how, how does your brain work that you come to
such different conclusions and like not in a, like, how does your brain work
man kind of way, but like an actual, huh, how does that work?
And like, I feel I have a easier time of understanding people who aren't
like me after having listened to this stuff.
That's a very valuable endorsement.
I think that sounds great.
Um, yeah.
I mean, it's not that I agree with them, but I
understand them a little more.
Right.
It helps that he's articulate and, and, you know, spells himself out.
So I think I enjoyed a lot and it's, it's, it's a fun project for me.
But if you also want, uh, well, the transition to the whole point of this
is that it's not just a sales pitch.
Um, what lies dreaming was, um, that there was an audio book project
started by some, uh, some, some listeners, fans, friends, whatever,
people on our discord, God, whatever came out wrong.
I, it's, it's hard to call them fans.
I guess they're fans though.
It would have to be, it feels weird to have fans.
Like I'm not a person with fans.
I'll, I'll, I'll say it then.
So fans, fans have been in Josh's book and of his work.
We're like, we want to listen to this.
Man, are you going to do audio book with this?
And you're like, I did the first three chapters.
It's a lot of work.
I don't think I'm going to do it.
And they're like, well, we will.
And you're like, all right, I, you know, but on the not unreasonable
chance of that, your enthusiasm waivers and you, and you tuck out on this
cause it is a lot more work than it sounds like, um, I'll make the commitment
that if you guys get halfway through and it looks like it's still going,
I'll start airing them on my, on the method of rationality feed.
Well, between that promise and when they got halfway through it, I had been
on the feed for like, what, three, four months.
You started at the beginning of the year, right?
Yeah.
So five months now.
Geez.
Yeah.
Five or six.
Cause we're on like episode 28, so 28 weeks.
Um, so yeah, we, we are, or anyway, uh, we, we want more comes out on Mondays
and the audio book of what lies dreaming will be coming out on Fridays in the same
feed.
So do check that out.
Yeah.
I hope you guys all enjoy it and, um, eventually we'll be in one big audio
book, but for now coming out one chapter per week.
And the specter of Scott daily just appeared before me to remind you that
this is not a doof media affiliated audio book.
Although I don't think that, uh, I was going to like say something about how I'm
sure he'd love it, but we, you know, I, there's, we're not going to get on his
reading list anytime soon.
Yeah.
Um, but yes, uh, anyway, check it out.
It'll be a lot of fun.
Yeah.
Look forward to that on the methods of rationality feed tool.
And before we go, we must thank a patron as we always do, because the patrons
are what keep us going.
Okay.
We'd like to thank pointless ones.
The person who brought you this episode by their special request.
That's right.
Yeah.
And it's, it's one of those things like, and I know I fell under every time I,
we think the patron, but like, uh, financial support means a lot.
And the, it's, it's not just about, uh, oh, look, we get, we get a check or something.
Like they, much of it goes back into keeping our equipment up, up to par.
I know that, uh, in the last few months, you bought a solid state drive for your
computer, because that's the one we record on.
And for annoying technical reasons, it would occasionally lag on the standard
memory and it, we would lose data.
It would suck.
Um, do we get, I've never gotten an orphan file, I think when opening yours,
where like it has like little bits that it knows are missing and it tells you about
it, it saves everything and nothing gets lost.
Um, ever since we got that one.
Yeah.
So, uh, that came right out of the vision conspiracy's budget and it was
thanks to listeners like you.
So thanks a lot, man.
And it also provides us with a lot of, or I gendered pointless one.
I said, thanks, thanks, man.
But I meant it like in the, I'm looking at my dude, my dude glasses I've got.
I've had someone occasionally like tell me that man is a gender term.
And I'm like, I mean, in some context, yes.
Obviously man is the noun for a, a male of the human species, but like lots of
time when I say man, I don't mean man.
