That's right.
I want to say real quick that this one, um, we're doing this topic because
Pointless One is donating at 69 a month.
Seriously?
Nice.
Oh, nice.
But holy crap.
That's also a lot of money per month.
That is a lot.
Thank you so much for your, I, uh, I know that's on the list, um, of our patrons
that we think, but I, I, uh, somehow forgot the, the number there and that is,
uh, substantial and remarkable.
So, and they requested an episode on rational practices for everyday living.
So tell you how we're going to do that.
I think you get to pick at least two more and join us for an episode whenever you
want.
So also because they, uh, hated, we want more.
What was the rationale there?
Oh, that's right.
Um, they wanted to support, uh, I, I remembered getting this email now.
I forget what their exact phrasing was.
They wanted to support the enterprise of this sort of stuff, but without
supporting that shitty podcast, um, I happened to disagree with their assessment of it.
Pointless one, if you're listening to this, which hope you are, we want more in
my super biased opinion, we'll take Enush's less biased opinion, but still biased
probably, um, it's gotten a lot better.
The first several episodes were rough.
Brian and I didn't have a rapport.
We didn't have, uh, the, like, I don't know if you've listened to any of the, uh,
the podcasts that Matt and Scott do for the doof media network.
Um, I recommend them try them out, but they have, they've been, they've known each
other since if not high school college and they, they, they can go way back.
They, they've, they've, they have a, an ability to just ping pong.
I, you know, Hey, throwing this out there, you catch and do something, throw it back.
And it took me and Brian a while to get there, but we've gotten good at that now.
Like, I think we've got a good flow.
And more importantly, I think for the enjoyment of the audience, Brian's
enjoying the book a lot more now.
And it's not just like now it's been since like chapter 15 or something.
You know, it, it took a while.
Um, but the downside is that people who come to it, they're going to listen and
like, Oh, I don't want to listen to someone hate this book for the next year.
So I'm going to turn this off.
I didn't think he's hated it that much in the beginning.
He was, he was hard on like, you know, this kid sucks.
This is all unrealistic kids don't act that way.
Um, the standard kind of like things that if you're not already in
love with the character, you'll point out that suck.
Um, if that's your take on it.
However, his take is, is different now.
I think he, he very much appreciates lots of stuff that's going on.
So what I'm getting at is try it, jump into one of the, uh, Stanford
prison experiment ones are wrapping up that arc now.
I think that they've been going great.
So, and if you, uh, like it, shoot me a note.
And if you don't shoot me a note, sounds good.
Yeah.
So yeah, we're doing, uh, I guess an episode on things that we, ways that
rationality practices in just our regular day-to-day lives, the way to say
help us really wish Jason was here too.
But maybe we can get some, some from him next time.
And I think we'll probably do like a section on this next episode too.
Just cause there's no way that Jason's stuff to contribute.
So I think if anything, they probably do this in a more methodical way than
you and I do.
And I think you do it more than I do.
So I'm, I'm going to do my best to play, play with this, but I don't, I don't
have a list of things, but I'll see what comes up.
Well, you said, so one of them was not giving a shit about what people think
as much.
Yeah, but that's not, that wasn't like, you know, in the sequences or anything
as far as I know.
I mean, it totally was.
I mean, at one point when he, uh, did the clown suit metaphor.
Oh, sure.
But I mean, this is, it struck me.
I'm not, I'm not going against the crowd and not, I'm not challenging the
crowd because I'm not afraid of doing so.
Like that's more of the sequence inspiration stuff, right?
Yeah.
Like I'm just, just this is nicely summarizing some tweets somewhere that
was like, if someone likes something, like, let's not shit on it.
Cause like life sucks.
The world sucks.
And like, let's not, let's not shit on people's things that they, like the
one, like the things that they find to enjoy.
So I found a way to just internalize that.
And I, and like, so I don't, I don't give shit.
You know, someone is just crazy about, uh, football or something.
Like, go nuts.
That's awesome.
Good for you.
Like I, I couldn't care less about football, but I'm not going to be like, oh,
you like football.
That's so, blah, blah.
Um, and I don't think anyone ever says that to me.
If they don't like, you know, stuff that I'm doing, um, certainly I'll take that,
that criticism to heart if it's something that I can improve on or something.
You know, if it's a project I'm working on, like, you know, the reason that Brian
and I record the episodes and put them out is like people listen to them.
And like that makes it a community experience.
Like it's, it's kind of like writing a web serial, like methods of rationality
where like sometimes what you're working on adjusts as the audience feedback loop.
Uh, you know, informs the author.
I do think that's one of the things I disagree with Brian about.
I don't think that, um, Eliezer was influenced by audience feedback very much.
Me either.
I was thinking more of a ward while it's a wild bow finished, uh, his, I'm not sure
if it's the longest it was his most recent one.
It was the sequel to worm one point, something 1.6 million words, I think.
And, uh, like he, he, after he finishes the story, he writes like, uh, an
afterward, like basically kind of like an autopsy of like, Hey, here's
what happened when I was writing this book.
And he mentioned like there were things that he thought would land better.
And so he pivoted on some things because he's very involved in the community.
And that's, that's just a bad idea.
I think it's part of his writing process.
Like it's, it's, it's explicitly part of the challenge he sets for himself.
And so I, I'm curious what an unfiltered wild bow work would be like.
Um, well, it'd probably be like what worm was, or at the very least the
first half of warm because it took a while to, for it to get noticed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's interesting.
I remember, uh, somebody wrote this skating review, somebody, um, and I
disagreed with like everything that it said, uh, apparently you didn't
disagree with the part where he said he changed the story for the whims of the
audience.
Well, so if he quoted, he quote mind from wild bows afterward and he pulled
out the wrong parts.
He also said something about like how there was enough world building or
something.
I'm like, but the world was built in the first part of the book.
Like I hate reading book seven of a, of a series and they still introduce
things like I haven't heard of it before.
It's like, dude, I've been here.
There was that joke in like one of the pitch meetings for end game and it's
like, wait, are we going to like show Captain Marvel introducing, you know,
introducing to the team and show what she can do.
And it's like, well, uh, no, what do you mean?
It's like, we had the thing in like the after credit, the after part of the last
movie and shadow movie, like, what are we going to do here?
It's like, what about people haven't seen the ones before this one and look at
each other and like, ha, good one.
Yeah, this is the world's most expensive TV series.
We don't care if someone's missed the last episodes.
Like, so I don't want like a whole rebuilding of everything.
And part of that, I think that part of that was intentional.
Like the city they were in wasn't named because it was a recovering
apocalypse city and everything felt transient.
Like it wasn't permanent because everyone was just trying to shove things
back the way they used to be.
It was never going to, that was, that was part of that was intentional.
Anyway, I'm not going to derail on that, that whole thing.
Alrighty.
So, um, did you want to hit ups up with another one or how exactly are we doing this?
I can go ahead with one of mine.
Yeah, go nuts.
Okay.
So I have a thing that you don't see very often because of the nature of it.
Uh, I have internalized the virtue of silence, which I believe is actually
a Scott Alexander post, not, uh, one of the original Elia Zardkowski posts,
but you know, it is still in the sphere of rationality.
And, um, this is the virtue of when something is really stupid and should
not be spread anymore, a lot of people's first reaction is to be like, look how
stupid this is.
And God, that's a lot of Twitter.
That's some YouTube out there is basically people saying like, look at these
stupid people, look how stupid they are, or look at this dumb thing.
And no, no, don't spread that.
That is a giant mistake.
If, if something is better off not shared with the rest of the world, the only
thing you can really do is not share it.
Uh, if you say, Hey everyone, don't share this thing, you're drawing attention to it.
By pointing a spotlight at it and saying, look how dumb this is, you're just
amplifying it.
Yeah.
And charitably through that framing, you're not spreading how, you know, you're
not spreading this misinformation.
I guess you're, you're, you're spreading knowledge of it, but you're not
spreading like this bad idea at face value.
Um, you're, you're, you're spreading it through a lens of saying, isn't this
bullshit, everyone now laugh and retweet and don't forget to like and subscribe.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I will, if I see someone else, um, saying something that's
misinformation like that, I will correct them, but like, I wouldn't share some
misinformation and correct it like that.
The, the analogy that I make is, um, if you've ever seen young kids that are
still learning language, sometimes they will say a curse word on accident.
Um, this is a great analogy.
I already know where it's going.
Okay.
Yeah.
And if everyone freaks out and was like, no, no, no, don't say that.
You can't say that.
The kid right away is like, has that word seared into their brain and will be
unable to resist saying it sometimes because like it suddenly has strong
emotional valence and it elicits a reaction.
So all, all they have to do is just be sitting there at the dinner table at
