They're storing data there and this iterates it.
And like I couldn't get all of it just by
putting things in by hand and making the connections myself.
But after a while, I got the basics.
And then I picked up a programming book to like teach me the actual syntax
and the things that I needed to know.
It was amazing, just like typing in code by hand and looking at it
with my bare eyes.
Just for a while, I put things together.
That is one actionable piece of advice I could give is to actually
write code rather than just watch people do it on YouTube.
When you're watching it, it feels like you're learning it, but you're not.
Pause videos, write it out and tweak with it.
Like if they're going to do something and, you know,
they're going to put in parameter 400, put in 410, see what happens.
The really amazing thing is like, to me, it was almost like writing
in a language I don't understand.
I was literally just transcribing characters on a page to the screen.
But after a while, I started noticing trends.
You were the Chinese room.
And then before you knew it, you knew a little Chinese.
And the thing is like they still used English words.
So GOTO was go to.
And I noticed that like the number afterwards
corresponded to all the numbers in front of the lines that I was typing.
So I could put things together.
Programming has gotten a lot easier and a lot more fun since then.
Yeah.
You no longer have to type out your games before you can play them.
That's right.
And what's cool about that is I'm not sure I doubt that your Commodore
pet could play very complicated games.
But like once you figured out what you were doing, you're like,
Oh, I can give myself more hit points.
Oh, yeah.
I set that up, but I set that online 16.
Like, all right, cool.
I'm going to put a hundred thousand there.
Oh, wait, no, shit, 256 bits.
I'm going to put 250 there.
But we're exceeding eight bits.
But yeah.
The meta lesson of like, if there's something you want to do and it seems
impossible, at least do yourself the favor of spending an hour on the internet
looking what it takes to get that thing done.
I don't know what it takes to, I mean, so I did this, you know, with a career
that didn't pan out because I didn't like it.
I wanted to know what it was like to be a private investigator.
That'd be a lot of fun.
That'd be like Sherlock.
I like that a lot.
Turns out it's not.
And I was like, you know, for a while, I'm like, Oh, I can never do that.
But then I, it was just a matter of, and you don't have to, you know,
quit your job and go all in to try something out.
Right.
That's the cool thing about programming, too, is like, do this for an hour.
Do this for a couple hours a week and see if you fucking hate it.
You know, maybe you do and it's not, it's not your thing.
Like with the, it's just, it's about seeing how hard it is to actually get started.
And I think you will find yourself surprised more often than not at how
easy something, not easy necessarily, but how a lot, how much less daunting it is.
When you see, here's the path to get there.
And you're like, Oh, it's not a million steps.
It's 30.
And I've got 10 of those under my belt.
I don't even know that.
And of course, if you want to write for Brooklyn Nine-Nine, you probably
won't be able to, right?
Just because I doubt, I doubt the show will go on long enough for you to break
into the industry and start writing for that particular show.
But if you want to write for a comedy show, if you want to be, if, you know,
be a chef with your own restaurant, if you want to, I don't know, insert a thing.
Name something.
We'll see if we can, like you.
Oh, me personally?
Oh, I don't know.
If I want to be an actor in a Hollywood movie.
That sounds impossible, right?
That's actually great.
I wish I'd thought of that one.
Like I, I think of it that I'm like, Oh yeah, no, whatever.
I don't look like Chris Hemsworth, but, and yet you look at, you watch movies,
not everyone's Chris Hemsworth, right?
You can pull off Tom Holland.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
I appreciate it.
An old, a slightly older Tom Holland, maybe.
I don't know, man.
You look really young.
He looks 22.
I look 25.
Okay.
Do I look 25 yet?
That's slightly older.
Come on.
My voice is deeper.
How old is he really?
I think he was in his early 20s when he did Spider-Man Homecoming.
Okay.
Cause I was going to say in Spider-Man Homecoming, he actually looked kind of
like a teenager, I thought he was the first, which was this century to look
like a, look like a child.
Yeah.
And if it perfectly, yeah.
Um, like, don't go wrong.
I liked the top of McGuire, Spider-Man.
I even liked the Andrew Garfield ones.
I never saw those.
They, they were fine.
Okay.
Um, that's the best I can say for them.
There were parts that I really liked.
Um, they, they weren't good, but they were, they were more like the MCU movies
than the Spider-Man, the top, the Top of McGuire ones, but Top of McGuire ones
were like written before those movies came out.
And they were much more like, let's make a comic book, a movie, not, let's write
an amazing story with comic book characters.
Right.
But that said, they're still great.
Yeah.
Um, anyway, yeah.
So like, I think about this and like, do I want to be an actor?
And then like, I think my, my immediate impression when you said it was like, I
could never do that.
And yet like, I didn't even think about it.
Well, that was my knee jerk reaction after just, just going out about this lesson.
And so you, you, you've, you pushed back against that, that reaction and say, okay,
well, hold on, what does it actually take?
Should I, you know, do I go to improv classes and get, you know, my anxiety of,
of acting it out of the way?
Um, do I go, do I move straight to Hollywood and live in a van and start
auditioning?
Like, I have no idea, but the problem, the point is that there's steps to do.
And you can look, look at what they are.
I bet you start as extra as in shows and, uh, you know, start getting some lines.
There's a 10 commercials, commercials, maybe.
Yeah.
Um, there's an SNL actress.
I don't know if you call him actress performer, uh, cast member.
Okay.
Um, I forget her name.
I think she might be new this year or last year, but I've seen her in the
background of older episodes for years.
Now she's getting talking bits and some segments.
Like it's just a matter of being present and granted she had to be on the show
first, but maybe that's another thing you have to accept.
Like, Hey, you're going to be in this industry for five years before you ever
say anything in front of the camera.
Who knows?
I'm not, I'm making all these numbers up, but like the point is any one of you
guys can go out and be an actor.
If you want to, right?
Just it, this sounds like I'm getting, you know, thanks for coming to my TED
talk and this will be $50 for that, that life speech, but I, I'm serious.
I think people stop at like, I could never do that.
I've heard people, I hear this all the time and it's like, why couldn't you?
And sometimes there's a good reason more often than not, there's not.
And like, there's more often than not, the reason is I think it's too hard.
And it's like, well, why do you think that?
It just sounds hard.
That's like, that's, that's not a good reason.
I mean, technically it is hard.
Oh yeah.
It sounds exactly as hard as it is.
And if you're not willing to do stuff, that's hard.
Maybe this isn't for you.
Yes.
There will be work involved, but I think it's less hard than it sounds like.
Okay.
Like, I don't think I could be an astronaut, but why do I think that?
Like, maybe if I dedicate the rest of my life to it, I could be.
This would be the kind of thing I would have to dedicate the rest of my life to.
I can't half-ass my way to space.
Do they still require them to be in the military?
I don't think so.
Okay.
Um, no, because one of the Backstreet Boys, uh, he wasn't really an astronaut.
He went into space, which is different.
What's the difference?
Well, and I don't know if he actually made it to space.
I know he went into low, I know, I know that he went through astronaut training
and everything.
Okay.
I think that he was going to go to space.
I'll have to double check this.
I only know this because he was on, uh, TV shows, just watching.
I forget what it was called, but he was hosting like a space camp.
And Rachel explained to me why it was perfect that this guy was hosting it
because he's not, he was training to be an astronaut.
Okay.
I think his sponsorship got polled before he went to space or something.
Like an astronaut actually has responsibilities.
They have to make the shuttle work and do things once they're up in space.
And like, you know, be an actual person that other people's lives are on or lie on.
I didn't know that we were at the point where it was cheap enough to
send people to space who were basically useless.
You know, there's space tourism.
