Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brodsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, and our third
seat is empty.
Damn it!
What happened to Jace?
Jace is, uh...
Dead?
Abducted?
In a different dimension.
Let's go with a different dimension because I just watched Into the Spiderverse yesterday.
Excellent.
Yeah.
And by dead, you know, Jace would never be really dead.
It would be like one of those coming back to haunt us afterwards, sort of dead.
I'm not gonna run out of that joke, I feel like it didn't land.
Oh, okay, sorry.
No, no, I'm not shaming it, it's just, I'm stuck on Into the Spiderverse now.
She's saving, uh, Denver in an alternate universe, um, or they're saving Denver in
an alternate universe.
He's saving Denver.
Jace, I'm sorry.
I am scrambled today.
Okay.
If anyone hasn't noticed in the first 10 seconds, but I'll get it together.
I feel like that's my excuse all the time, and I just need to figure out what my problem
is.
Not enough drugs?
Yeah, that's probably it.
Um, which actually is kind of the focus of today's episode.
How to get one shit together.
Okay.
That's a weird way, that's a bad frame.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, no, that's not how I would have put it, but that's one way of
putting it.
Me either.
Uh, bad segues are one of my pastimes.
Aw, bad segues are tight.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right.
So, I, I was going to get all the way off my back about those bad segues.
Oh, let me get off that thing.
Oh my God, this, this cannot become a fancast of that.
All right.
So we're talking about the pitch meetings on YouTube.
Check those out.
They're wonderful.
So the thing about the pitch meetings, I love them.
There's basically, there's a bunch of like jokes about movies, uh, that the silly stuff
that happens in movies that wouldn't happen in real life.
And then there's 10, I think somewhere between eight and 12 recurring jokes that appear in
every single episode.
I think it's four or five, but I'll take your word for it.
In any case.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Yeah.
I feel like a total dork for just like repeating things.
I like remember being in high school and like loading money, Python at each other.
And like, we thought we were also smart because we had all these money, Python stuff memorized
and nobody else got it.
And so that was how we were the in-crowd, but like looking back on it, I was like, oh my
God, we were just playing the same in-crowd game.
And so I don't want to be like that, but also it's, it's super fun.
But now we're self-aware of it.
So it's less cringy.
I think it's hilarious.
And I love that I've made super easy, barely an inconvenience, a catchphrase at work.
Like with my team, this is something that there was a thing I did, what, I guess time
is weird and squishy now.
It was put them in a couple of weeks ago and it was going to be all big, the complicated
thing.
And like, actually, no, because Django 2.2, the framework we're using is this cool advanced
feature on it.
It's literally two lines.
And while it's the Python framework.
Is it named after the guy who got unchained and then killed people in the Interdino movement?
I don't think so.
Damn it.
But Python is named after Monty Python and like the source documentation has lots of references
to the Monty Python.
Oh, neat.
Okay.
It all comes full circle.
Not named after the snake.
But I was like, oh no, check this out because Django can do this.
It's actually super easy.
And then my, the guy is showing this, he was like, barely an inconvenience.
I was like, exactly.
So it's a little, little in-jokes.
But I mean, it's like, it feels like family guy where they just reference other things
that are funny as opposed to being funny.
And that's a good way to sum up family guy.
But I have so much fun doing it, you know, there's, there's a certain pleasure to it.
When Brian and I did the Doof and Chill for like the Meet the New Doof members on our
first month on the network for that podcast, at the end Scott was like, I don't like this
question because I don't believe in guilty pleasures, but like, what's your like guilty
go-to TV show?
And I was like, I totally agree with your assessment.
There's no such thing.
If you're having fun, who cares?
Yeah.
I don't believe that, yeah, what is it?
People say that I love bad movies or whatever because they're so bad, they're good.
Like I just, I don't understand that mindset.
Either I like a movie or I don't.
And I think I honestly really like Rocky Horror Picture Show.
I think it's a good movie and I understand how like it's campy and it has low production
value and all those other things that might make it bad, but like it makes me feel things
or it did when I saw it, you know, when I was younger and now I have the memories of those.
And like, when people watch the room because it's so bad, it's hilarious, I watch it and
I'm like, this is just bad, man.
I'm never going to see that movie.
It's just bad.
Yeah.
No, fuck that.
I've seen the, I've seen the famous couple clips that are in every joke thing about anything
and then that makes me wonder like, do they actually think Rocky Horror is bad?
Do they, now I'm like feeling all insecure because like I actually like Rocky Horror and
like if we watch it together, are they, are they like the person who's laughing at my
kid's jokes because my kid is a retard instead of because the jokes are funny or that the
kid is cute?
Or let's say to indulge the kid.
Well, yeah, okay.
But no, that's the difference between laughing to indulge the kid as opposed to laughing
because the kid's being stupid and you're laughing at how dumb the kid is.
Are they, are they like...
Is it mean spirited or is it appreciative, I guess?
Yeah, I don't know.
And at the end of the day, I wouldn't worry about it.
No.
I like the things I like and I enjoy them and I give that to everybody, right?
I'm not going to, I'm not going to say someone, they're having fun the wrong way.
They're having wrong fun, but you know, I just, I don't understand it.
Yeah.
Well, I refuse to like accept any judgment anyone throws at me.
I like watching Family Guy and American Dad.
Well, it's my current guilty pleasure show.
It's been years and years since we watched it and they released a couple more seasons
of, it stopped airing a couple of years ago, Cutthroat Kitchen, this cooking show with
Alton Brown.
It's hilarious.
I won't summarize it, but we watched like the first 10, 11 seasons, I don't know, six
years ago and then they put out a couple more on Hulu.
And so now we're rewatching the first several seasons and it's been long enough that we
have forgotten them.
So like I'm rewatching a cooking show that's, that's like, I mean, what, what could be more
of a quote guilty pleasure than that, but I don't give a shit, judge me, try.
Yeah.
Do you, do you realize we haven't even introduced the show's topic and we're already like 10
minutes off topic?
Well, let's see.
I guess it can't be off topic if you never introduced the topic.
But before we reveal what the secret mystery topic of today is, we are doing the sequence
posts because that is what we do.
So starting with science as a tire.
Cool.
And with a summary, not a summary, a quick mention to X-Men.
And this is like always a timeless reference for any geeks, but the X-Men movie had just
came out recently.
So this was something that like anyone in the general American culture would have gotten
even if they weren't a geek.
So do you remember the opening to the 2001 X-Men with Patrick Stewart's voice over like
that neuron little flying sequence with the credits?
No.
It's just like mutation.
It's the, it's the core of evolution.
I forget what it was, but it was, it was, it was exactly this thing that he's talking
about.
Cool.
And it was, it was memorable at the time that you wrote this and it's timeless like
he said.
So.
Yeah.
So as everyone is familiar, you know, you can have a mutation and that gives you superpowers
and one of those potential superpowers is Storm's ability to control lightning.
The quote that I remembered from this post before even having to reread it was, if one
generation of mutation could cause a human being to be able to generate and throw lightning
from the fingertips, that would outright falsify the theory of evolution.
Yes.
And like it's, it's one of those, the.
It's followed by the line.
It would be worse than finding rabbit fossils in the Precambrian.
Yes.
And that was one of Stephen Jay Gould's like comebacks from like, how would you falsify
evolution?
This is obviously, you know, one of those bullshit theories and he just mumbles in the
microphone or you're like kind of grumbles on the microphone and he's like, fossilized
rabbits in the Precambrian.
And it's like, yes.
Like that.
I did Richard Dawkins impression of his voice.
I didn't actually see Stephen Jay Gould do it.
I'm not even 100% positive.
What was it?
Gould?
What did I say?
Oh, it may have been Gould, but the voice you did, I thought I heard Sagan in there.
Oh, I wish.
Okay.
No, yeah.
In any case, I forget if it was Gould or whoever he is, whoever Dawkins is quoting,
