We have a much stronger idea now than a we've ever had in the past.
And we've got a pretty good fucking idea.
Like the standard model of physics is not going to be completely thrown.
It's not going to be completely wrong.
Right.
It's going to be adjusted.
Right.
Might be superseded by like a deeper knowledge, but it's still going to be a
damn good approximation.
Like Newtonian mechanics is still a wonderful approximation of physics for
anything on the human scale.
Right.
And, you know, if you're doing chemistry, you're totally fine working with
like the Bohr model, but like atoms are not little ping pong balls.
And it when you're a theoretical physicist, it's a whole different landscape.
But if you're to this, you know, if you're wondering what will happen when
you're pouring a little oil on the pasta noodles that you're cooking to make it
stop boiling or something, you don't need to be a theoretical physicist
thinking about the wave function of what's happening at the quantum scale of it.
It's like, you just need to know, Oh yeah, oil dissipates the surface
tension and does something else.
I'm not a clearly don't cook either.
So I don't know what you're talking about.
What is this oil that you speak of?
Can you pour a little vegetable oil on boiling water to keep it from like
going completely nuts and boiling over?
I have no idea because I do not cook.
But like I said, I literally have no idea what you're talking about right now.
Well, that's this is an empirical question.
I'll get back to you guys in a couple of weeks.
Okay.
All right.
But the point he makes is that Flogiston was widely accepted for a very long time
because fake explanations don't feel fake and that's what makes them dangerous.
And I don't know if any of our listeners used to be religious.
I was as a child and it like, it just felt like a fact of the universe
that the supernatural beings exist.
None of it ever felt fake at the time because you don't, you don't realize.
Yeah, I've used this analogy before that like when I was a kid, I believed in the
like my parents are vaguely religious to the point that couldn't even tell you
what flavor of Christianity they are if they have one.
Um, like, so I believed in the vague facts of the Bible, just like I kind of believed
that Japan existed, like I'd never been there.
I'd seen it on a map, but I'd seen pictures of Jesus.
Like, so it's like, oh yeah, I'll take your word for it.
And it just falls into the same truth bucket in my head as everything else.
I don't know what age I started putting together a probably bullshit bucket
and a definitely bullshit bucket or a definitely probably bullshit bucket.
But like everything just kind of went, everything as a kid just went to that
same like belief, you know, add this to the things of things, you know, yeah.
I used to think that men had one less rib than women.
And yeah, it because that's, that's not a fake explanation.
That's just a fake belief, but a fake explanation is kind of the same way.
Yeah, like a fake explanation is like, it's, it's a, it seems like it's an answer,
but it's not really.
Right.
And that when you realize that when you realize that you can't make a new
prediction off of this explanation, it doesn't tell you anything.
It, it, it's, it's an answer to a multiple choice question on a test.
It's a lot like a password, but it's in, in many case, or I guess in the case
of, in the case of fakes explanations, it's actually worse than a password
because it's actually wrong.
Yeah.
And the problem is that sometimes it feels like it's knowledge because you
don't most, most of the time, many people are running around.
They don't realize that they need some working cohesive model of how
things are supposed to fit together.
Well, I mean, Flogiston makes the fire hot.
That's knowledge, right?
It feels like knowledge.
I've, I could, cause I can, I can say that as a sentence.
And if you ask me, what does Flogiston do?
I could say it makes stuff hot.
Right.
So it feels like knowledge.
Um, but when, when I ask you, all right, well, when I finished burning
this pile of wood, well, it way more or less than it did when it, before I
started burning it, based, based on your Flogiston theory, what do you anticipate?
That depends on whether Flogiston has positive or negative weight, I guess.
Well, you're, you're the Flogiston expert.
You tell me, right?
Uh, I would have to guess that it would weigh less cause everything has weight,
right?
Well, it's, it's Flogiston going in or out.
You know, it's the other question.
Flogiston's going out because the ash is what would be, what would
would be like without Flogiston in it.
Okay.
So the ash would weigh less than the wood.
All right.
Well, so then like, I mean, so like, I mean, which I'm actually not sure if
ash does weigh less than wood or not.
It, I think typically weighs less, depending on what you burn, I would,
I think weighs less cause you're releasing hydrocarbons when you're
burning it, but like you're getting, you're leaving some of the other stuff.
I forget what wood's made of.
I'm not, it's been a while since I've taken a science class.
I mean, I could see wood weighing less just because a lot of it is blown out.
Typically, you know, as cinders and ash and stuff that get carried out, but,
and all the water in it will evaporate when it's being burned.
Yeah, that's true.
Any water that's left in it, but generally isn't, um, oxidization, the
process of adding oxygen to, to something.
Exactly.
So like, I think if you burn a magnesium strip, it'll weigh more afterwards.
Um, so like, Flodgestone theory wouldn't predict that.
Right.
Flodgestone is stuff leaving the system, not entering it.
Yeah.
Um, it doesn't explain why when you cover a candle, it goes out.
Like if you put lit on a candle with like a candle in the jar.
It did explain it because the air became saturated.
Flodgestone couldn't hold anymore.
Hmm.
It's not something you would have predicted beforehand, but since they knew
that's what happened, they fit the, yeah, they fit the explanation to fit the
model, um, which is science backwards, which gets you fucked up.
Yeah, that's near the end of the, uh, the post says, thanks to hindsight bias.
It's not enough to check how well your theory predicts facts you already know.
You have to predict for tomorrow, not yesterday.
I like that.
That's a good takeaway quote too.
So many of these are good bumper stickers.
Or, you know, maybe not bumper stickers, because that's not going to
entertain anyone on the road, but a lot of these are just great little, uh, sound
bites.
I think you have to predict for tomorrow, not yesterday.
I mean, sounds like an, like a, not a total, a tautology, but like, it's not
how most people run around all the time.
Right.
They say, I totally would have seen, I totally saw that coming.
Yeah.
Not, could you tell me that yesterday?
Yeah.
Right.
No, no, no, no, not, can you tell me tomorrow what will happen?
Cause if you ask, could you've told me that yesterday?
It would have said, yeah, of course I would have told you that yesterday.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
I'd set it backwards.
Yeah.
The real question is, can you tell me what's going to happen tomorrow?
Cool.
All right.
So those were our two posts for today and boy, did we get off on
attention, but hey, it was fun.
That's why we're here.
Exactly.
If we, if we stayed on topic and didn't like ramble a bit, these episodes would
be 90 or 60 minutes long.
And some people would be like, Oh, thank God, please, please give us shorter
episodes for a bi-weekly podcast, we can ramble a bit.
That's true.
And it's more fun for us, which is also important because we were the ones that
have to come back and do this every couple of weeks.
Yeah.
If this wasn't fun, we wouldn't be doing it.
Yeah.
But speaking of fun things, look forward to in the next fortnight.
We are doing three posts.
Brace yourselves, not two, three, because they fit together real well.
We're doing semantic stop signs and the famous mysterious answers to
mysterious questions and the fertility of emergence, which I'm looking forward to.
Those are, those are all great.
This is all part of, I think the map and territory sequence, which is the one
that I remember reading first and having just, this was like all the, like the,
this is so cool moment for me.
And then, like afterwards, you're still reading and learning, but this was the,
uh, this was the really big, this was the first Iron Man movie.
Yeah.
You know, it's like, Oh, this is awesome.
And then you're getting more awesome, but like, this is the first ride up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is the, the zero to one change.
Yes.
As who, was that teal or muskets had died?
I think that was musk, right?
The difference going from zero to one is drastic.
More difference than the, from going one to two.
Hmm.
That's a good, good quote, but I couldn't give it, couldn't give you the
attribution.
Okay.
Alrighty.
So onto our actual, uh, topic.
Let's see if we can segue this in.
So that, that is one, this isn't a rationality technique, but that is one thing
because I, all right, today's topic that we've, that we've been putting off
our ages and we'll probably touch again when Jason's joins us next week or for
next episode, I want to say next week, how do the methods of rationality
improve your day-to-day life?
Yes.
And I'm, so this is a not rationalist technique, but one thing that I do to
improve my day-to-day life is not Carol.
People have to say or judge my stuff.
So if they can judge me for rewatching Cutthroat Kitchen, y'all can shove it.
Yeah.
