Already?
Yeah.
What?
Yeah.
I mean, it takes millions of dollars, but yeah, I didn't know about this.
I thought that right now, everyone who went to space had a critical function.
No, not everyone.
Oh my God.
That is remarkable.
All right.
New life goals, save up and go to space.
Actually, you know what?
Fuck that.
I'm going to wait till it's really easy to get to space.
So you don't have to pay however much it is?
Well, yeah, I'm not going to say the rest of my life to piss it all away when I'm
75 years old to, you know, spend 10 minutes in space.
Also, I have a big fan of adopting like a, let's wait till this, all the bugs
are worked out kind of thing.
Granted, if a passenger plane to space blew up, I think they'd stop doing space tourism.
So I bet that hasn't happened yet.
I'm sure I would have heard about it.
Yeah.
But like, I've, I've, I've joked before, maybe not on the show that like, I'm not
going to be on the first ship to Mars.
I have a friend who wants to be.
And I'm like, yeah, I'll be on the second ship, maybe the third.
Do I know this friend?
Yeah.
He was on my groomsman.
The same guy who I mentioned the, the car.
It doesn't matter.
Okay.
All right.
My friend Brandon.
Yeah.
You know, whatever.
Yeah.
And maybe I'm not sure if he still feels that way.
Also, if he wants to be one of the first people to Mars.
Yeah.
Good for him.
I hope, I mean, if we get a, I think that he said if they're taking volunteers,
he would sign up and I'm like, I'll sign up for a voyage too.
I'll let you guys be the pioneers because I'll let you guys work all the bugs out.
I'm also not going to buy the first, you know, new version of technology,
whatever it is, right?
Even when, even when the stakes are way lower, I don't want to waste my, I'm
not going to waste my money.
I'm not going to risk my life on the cool new thing.
I will say just looked it up.
Space Adventures is the only company that has actually sent paying passengers to
space.
So it's still pretty damn rare.
The first three participants paid an excess of $20 million each for their 10
day visit to the international space station.
That sounds like a really good deal.
If you have 20 million dollars to spare, I was going to roll my eyes and I
thought it was going to be a quick trip to low earth orbit before they circled
back down and they got like a minute of weightlessness.
10 days in the ISS.
Virgin Galactic says it can do the thing where it takes you, like you said,
the low earth orbit for a little while for $250,000.
But again, who cares?
Whereas 10 days in the ISS, that's like legit shit.
That almost brought tears to my eyes.
That is remarkable.
I didn't know we were there yet.
Good for us humans.
All right.
God, that's awesome.
Cool.
Well, that's exciting.
Hell yeah.
So here, here, here's a great example.
We need $20 million.
Well, but like that's the thing is like, how do I go to spare?
And granted, get $20 million is now the harder step in this process.
But I mean, it might be easier to become an actual astronaut.
Right.
But that's really cool.
So sometimes things are a lot easier than I thought.
And I didn't know all you had to do to get spaces, right?
A big check.
That is cool.
All right.
So, um, I also have a more meta thing as opposed to like a single individual technique.
Uh, but I do this on a, not a daily basis, but it's a common thing in my life.
Um, set the stage.
The fundamental question of rationality is what do I know and how do I know it?
And that makes you a bit more secure in your beliefs at first, at least the ones
that you thoroughly investigate and that, um, and that pass your test and aren't
jettisoned with the other ones that turn out to be bullshit or not well supported.
Uh, but the longer you go on in the rationality scene, the more often you find places
where you weren't quite right and you have to adjust your beliefs or some places
where you were like just flat out completely wrong.
And that, I mean, that's good because you're always updating your beliefs.
You're getting a more accurate model and you're learning how to interpret the
world more correctly.
But, uh, the more you see this happening, or at least in my case, the more I have
come to accept that I could be very wrong on things that I am very sure about.
So I am much more live and let live and let people do what they want, uh, as
long as it isn't directly hurting someone else.
So to give the most recent example in our last episode when Jace was like, yeah,
I'm going to do the polyphasic sleep thing now.
I was like, well, that sounds like a terrible idea because everything I've
ever read about it has been about, uh, how it was absolutely the coolest idea ever.
And then someone tried to do it and then it ruined their life for the entire
time they were on it, plus another month or two of recovery afterwards.
Right.
Um, so when Jace mentioned on the podcast, I quickly threw out the disclaimer,
like, Hey, I, everything I've heard about it is that it's a bad idea and it
ruins lives, but go ahead.
You know, maybe you found the right way to do it.
Ruins months, not lives, but yeah, ruins your life for a series of months.
Yeah.
Uh, but maybe you have found the way to do it right this time because that's
what we're all shooting for, right?
How to make the world better.
And you have to try something new to do that.
If every time someone came up with a new idea, you'd be like, no,
that's, that's not going to work.
We've done this before.
Then nothing new would ever get tried.
So I'm like, yeah, you know, give it a shot.
Uh, just as long as you're not hurting really other people when, uh,
on the mind killers, when someone said, God, what do you think about?
I think it was Wes had asked, what do you think about Georgia basically
just completely opening up?
And I was like, well, might suck, but let them try it.
Either a lot of people are going to die and they're going to regret it.
Or, uh, that's not going to happen and we will get some more data.
Either way, we'll learn more and they're the ones that want to take this risk.
So let people take risks if they want to take risks.
Yeah, that's more complicated, complicated because that is hurting other people.
Like, I mean, so if the restaurant you work for is now open and they say
you can come back to work and you're like, I don't want to die.
No, thank you.
Well, then you lose your unemployment.
So it's like, come back to, and I remember seeing like, I think it was
restaurant in Texas, forbidding their employees to our masks.
Forbidding them to wear masks?
Don't wear masks or don't come in.
And because it scares customers or something, apparently.
Now, I think only dumb customers would be, you know, turned off by that.
And the smart ones would be, thank you for not breathing on my food.
Maybe they have a very dumb demographic that they serve though.
And that must be what's going on there.
So, you know, the market will speak to the wisdom of that move, you know,
in a couple of months with how that works out for them.
But like, the Georgia thing is more complicated.
But, you know, as far as personal experimentation, go nuts.
It's the same thing with Midgeish and David that we had on the show.
And like, you know, his, what I consider crazy magic stuff.
I'm like, it sounds like nuts to me, man.
But you're doing your life how you want to do it.
And maybe you'll find some crazy new brain hack that the rest of us can all implement.
So go for it.
Yeah.
And, you know, I'd be more inclined to talk him out of it if like, he's like, oh,
yeah, and I've got this, this guru and only, he only charges me 10 grand a year.
Like, if that was the case, I'd be like, dude, I think you're being, I think
you're being huxed it, huxed it, shiced it.
I don't know whatever you call it.
Both, probably.
Hussled, that's what I was looking for.
I would say the same thing.
But like, if he kept going for it, I'd be like, oh, it's your money.
Oh, I know.
But I would have made an effort to talk him out of it, at least to do some more
homework or something, right?
And like that said, this isn't like an endorsement to try every stupid thing.
No.
But it is an understanding that like some things that are folk wisdoms are
taken by folk wisdom to be stupid are in fact not.
And it's like, we need to do an episode on Eleazar's book, Inadequate
Equilibria at some point, because he opens up with that anecdote, I guess
you can call it, that data point that his then wife had, has whatever, seasonal
effect of disorder, really bad.
And to the point where they were like trying to find a second place to live
during these winter months, because apparently the Bay Area wasn't even
sunny enough in the winter.
Um, and he's, I loved his thinking because he's just like, okay, look,
it's because there's less daylight.
There's a, it's, it's a matter of light, right?
Fuck this.
And I think he spent 500 bucks on light on light strings and just put them all
up around the apartment and alleviated some of her symptoms.
And so it's like, well, if it was that obvious, why wouldn't have anyone tried
that?
And then he goes on, that's, that's more the thrust of the book.
That's why I opened to that analogy.
But like, if someone suggested that to you and you're like, oh, I'm sure that
would be a thing if that was already going to work.
Like, well, maybe not.
Maybe try your own thing, especially I'm also, I'm, I'm way more enthusiastic
about endorsing that sentiment as a whole when the cost of entry is low.
Like I wouldn't say, oh yeah, you know, it only costs, you know, uh, the price
of a small condo, um, I, especially depending on what it is, right?
Because anyone with a sick, um, relative or something, or if you've got, there
