I mean like man, but I, but I totally get how it's much less ambiguous or it's
much more non-ambiguously what it's, it's much more obviously gendered than dude.
So I'll say, thanks dude.
I like, I've, I've literally said, oh man, because I'm, I mean, like,
odd G's, like, oh shucks, you know, like, oh man.
And, and I do not mean it even the slightly gendered way there.
That's fair.
That's the spaying.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Pointless one.
Thanks for everything.
And thanks to everyone else who listens and does stuff.
You can email us at patient conspiracy podcast at gmail.com.
I mentioned earlier that is where we are guaranteed to see what you say.
If you are just wanting to join the conversation in the episode description of
every episode, um, both on the website and in your, in your iTunes or in your
podcast player of choices feed is a link to the discord.
I've had a couple of people message asking how to get on and the links in every
episode and it's on the website, but that's, that's a place where I don't know
any people, a couple hundred people are on there and several dozen actives who are
on there all the time.
So there's always conversation on there.
Um, and if you want to talk to us, you can ping us on there or we're occasionally
floating around, especially in the last few weeks.
Um, there's also the subreddit.
There is the subreddit, which yeah, I check at least every week.
Cool.
So yeah, thank you everyone.
Thank you.
Pointless one for your support.
It really does keep us going.
Yeah.
Obviously, uh, if, if you're, if you're noticing at all any financial strain
during the hardship right now, or ever basically, um, totally cut this from your,
your cut, cut supporting this show from your, your budget.
Yeah.
There's people that are out of work and making no money.
Yeah.
Like we hate to see you go, but you're not going anywhere.
Keep listening and keep enjoying it.
Don't, don't think how am I going to factor in my, my patient conspiracy
Patreon donations?
If you're, if that thought occurs to you, just don't and, and, and lose us.
Um, yeah, this, this, this shouldn't be, this is no obligation.
We appreciate your support, but do not feel bad if like anything gets in the way of it.
So take care of your life first.
Yes, please.
Perfect.
That's I, I need to let you just do stuff.
I, that was like a one sentence summary of the five minute point I was trying to make.
You made it well too though.
I mean, the advantage of summaries is people already have the long thing.
So like, if you just saw the summary, it wouldn't make sense.
So sickness is its own virtue.
Yes.
Well, I mean, it's like the thing, a woman, not a woman girl arrives at a strange
location, murders the first person she sees, then teams up with three strangers
to murder again is a very succinct summary of the wizard of Oz.
Okay.
He's switching back.
Thank you.
That was a very good.
Thanks everyone for joining us and we'll see you in a fortnight.
Sounds good.
Bye.
Puppy, hi, it is.
Am I, am I committing a rationalist?
