high. That is, it can't really be too high, because when we do that, then actually agents
start to listen more to the other agent, which is weird and doesn't make any sense. So
it's also important to understand that these simulations should be understood as taking
generalized synchrony already for granted, because that's what Friston and Frith actually did in 2015.
But our simulations build on that by providing evidence for the premise that the level to which
agents' beliefs converge, or the level of synchrony between their internal states,
is modulated by their sensitivity to model evidence.
This is, I kind of show a cool sort of characteristic of our model compared to other models, and that
is that I show that it's kind of more flexible. So epidemiology models, for instance, they give away
all the influence, all the dominance, let's say, the power to convince to the transmitting agent,
to the transmitting agent, because this agent just simply copies its belief to the other agent.
So, and on the other hand, population memetic models, for instance, they give both agents
this convincing power, but only exactly half, because they assume the cultural transmission
is exactly comparable with the way genetics work, which doesn't leave room for a lot of flexibility.
And here I show that our converged belief, like the end here, can take on any value between zero
and one. So this makes them way more, yeah, it makes them way more flexible, and this is due to
the fact that they have, that there's a lot of parameters that are controlling who gets to sort
of get the upper hand, let's say. Here on the left, you see that on the right, sorry,
you see that the agent holding a blue belief is dominant, and on the left, the agent holding the
pink is more dominant, and the ratio here is 80-20, but it can be really any ratio, and that's what's
cool about this model. Okay, so summing up very quickly our results by conceptually thinking about
transmission as a bi-directional process, as opposed to a one-directional transmission, we
conceptually improve on models like epidemiology that imply a view of the spread of cultural
information that's not really consistent with theories. And by deriving inspiration from
population memetics models in the way cultural elements recombine, or in our model they converge,
we can, in theory, capture the seemingly infinite display of modifications to beliefs during multiple
transmissions. But our active inference model doesn't just derive inspiration from memetics,
it also improves on memetics models by offering solutions for one to the hermeneutic problem
and to the problem of the side of cultural selection. And finally, we provide a proof of
principle for the feasibility of modeling local cultural dynamics of communication
with active inference, and we provide a measurable outcome from communication as the convergence
between these belief states. And what our results indicate is that agent's ability to listen and
to attune to the belief expression of their communicating partner is just limited to basically
the extent that they are responsive to sensory evidence from their environment.
And now, for our simulations of the global dynamics of accumulative culture,
there were a few changes that we had to make in the model when we moved from the local to these
global dynamics, obviously. But a prominent one is that we added a new action which is
meeting selection as opposed to just the belief expression that we also have in the dyadic
simulations. So this is why only in the multi-agent simulations do agents get to choose the agents
that they want to meet at each given time point. And this is kind of a tricky, this is probably
like the trickiest part of our simulations, so this is why I have a whole slide just to explain
that. And this is a notion that it's been talked about a lot in this conference from the talks
that I've heard, this notion of exploitation versus exploration. So specifically, what we've done is
we thought about agents meeting selection as a preferred location on a grid, where each cell
here represents a possible agent to meet. I make a comparison here between what an agent with
confirmation bias might look like compared to an agent with novelty bias. And what we see here is
that agents have the same exact set of options. First, they have the same amount of possible agents
to meet, which is represented as just the cells in the grid. They also have the same amount of
agents they have already met. This is represented as the squares that have all that have the numbers
on them. And the same, they also have like the same level of similarity that they have with other
agents on the grid. And this is represented in the specific values that are shown in the numbers,
so one to 10. And high values here represent the fact that an agent in this location has high
similarity of a belief state with the original agent, and low values represent the opposite. So
all these things are the same. But crucially, what agents do different is the strategy that they
employ for choosing an agent to meet. And this results in different choices over three time
steps. Each choice they make is highlighted in dark gray, and you see that we have three gray spots
here. So what are these different strategies and how did we incorporate those into an active
inference framework? So in active inference, action selection is guided by the expected free
energy. And like we already mentioned, this entails maximizing the expected benefit or
utility of an action. And this is known as pragmatic value in literature. But it also entails
maximizing the potential information gain of future action. This is known as epistemic value.
And I think these constraints to free energy minimization would be best understood
as formalizing, like I said, the exploration and the exploitation tradeoff that we see often in
different learning systems. So epistemic value can be compared with exploration, that is
referring to the benefit that is related to searching over a whole sample space in order to
get a better estimation of promising areas that will then be able to be maximized with pragmatic
value, pragmatic value being compared with exploitation. And a crucial point to understand
is that agents with different preferences here, so novelty bias or confirmation bias,
they don't differ in their ultimate goal, which is their ultimate shared goal is to meet
similar agents to them. And with this, to reduce uncertainty about the agents that they're going
to meet about their behavior. So our agents just differ in the strategy that they employ for reaching
this goal. And when agents have confirmation bias, they're biased towards maximizing this
expected utility and increasing the chances of properly synchronizing with this agent.
And this is why this type of agent will choose to go and meet agents he has already met,
that he knows have high similarity values. On the other hand, agents with high novelty bias would
prefer to maximize information gain by exploring the state space. And what this gives them is the
chance to reduce ambiguity about their future decisions. So this type of agent would all would
want to go to agents that are extremely similar, but he would be willing to sacrifice a little bit
of temporary discomfort of exploring the field, so to speak, to see if perhaps there are other
agents more suited than those you already met. And this is why the novelty bias agent here will
still go and meet again an agent with extreme similarity value 10. But as opposed to the confirmation
agent, he would sacrifice the pragmatic utility or the comfort, so to speak, of seeing another agent
again, a different agent in order to gain more information on the state space, which might
improve the situation in the long run. So finally, these are the simulations that we made for the
global dynamics of cumulative culture. On the y-axis, there's a level of certainty towards the
belief state and on the x is how these beliefs change over time. What we did in the simulation is
we introduced a divergent belief state into the population in time step one to see how it spreads
and how it changes in a population. And what we see is a few cool behaviors. First of all, we see
how these results capture cumulative cultural dynamics. So for our first simulations, we had
these dyadic simulations and basically here they're just multiplied. So when they're
in communication with another agent, when they converge on a shared narrative and these simulations,
what we show here, they represent this accumulation of the modifications to beliefs within a population
of 50 communicating agents. And another cool behavior that we see is that these simulations
show how a divergent belief state spreads within a population and also the effect this spread has
on the population. And what we see here, namely, is that the population here is split into two.
Finally, in the bottom of the slide, we show how novelty bias and confirmation bias modulate the
density of agents in each of these groups. So when novelty bias is high in the population,
by the end of the simulation, more agents hold the new belief, which is the blue belief, than
agents that hold the old or status quo belief, which is in red. But the opposite is true when
conformity bias is high in the population. So we explain this result by suggesting that
agents with novelty bias are basically the ones that push the population towards accepting to
meet an agent with a novel belief. And so without these agents, individuals would be closed to new
beliefs and the status quo would just be perpetuated, which is kind of, I think, a cool thing to think
about when you think about collective behavior. So this is the conclusion, basically, what I
just talked about, that there is a nut so we successfully capture the global cumulative culture
and the spread of cultural information and what it does to a population. But I do, even though
I'm kind of like out of time, I want to share some thoughts that I've had on a possible theory
of innovation that I've been thinking of in relation to the results of our cumulative
culture simulations. So in a recent paper from 2016, which, by the way, it was talked about
quite heavily and yesterday is taught by Aval, Daniel, and Virginia. I'm not sure if they're here,
but anyway. So in this paper, a connection between cumulative culture and innovation
is made. The proposal is that under cumulative cultural network, innovation is interpreted as
the emerging property of a complexity of agents, as opposed to the result of the mental effort of
one exceptionally skillful individual, like we're kind of used to think about this.
So I was thinking a bit about this and I was wondering how it might be possible to think
of an even model innovation in this way. So what I want to do now is share these thoughts with you.
So once again, I'm going to make an appeal to biology because I was thinking about how it might
be possible to learn something from the emergence of new species in genetic evolution and use that
in our understanding of how novel ideas may emerge through cultural evolution. So genetic
speciation in biology occurs in three steps. The first is there is the existence of some
population of a species. Secondly, groups of the same species get somehow isolated from one
another and there's multiple ways where this can happen, but yeah, we'll leave that abstract for
now. And lastly, this isolation encourages the development of each group's own unique characteristic
depending on the constraint of the niche they occupy. So these new characteristics
differentiate the two population groups and these differences then grow larger and larger
as the two groups reproduce separately due to their separate environments. Ultimately,
across generation, genetic differences between the old and the new group become so large that
they're no longer able to create offspring, which is when they are considered to be separate species.
So a classic example is that of the Galapagos Finch where over time there's like
different species of this bird inhabit different locations, different islands in the Galapagos
and over time they developed these different groups, developed different beaks. So one group,
they were very thin and long because those were ideal for probing cactuses and other finches developed
large and blunt beaks which were good for nut cracking. And due to this reproductive isolation
of being on different islands, they developed into separate species with their own unique
genetic features. Sorry. And consequently, they were unable to create offspring. So my point here
in this slide is that a model of speciation could be applied to the way new beliefs emerge in culture
and to make this a bit easier to grasp, I'll give a specific example from the world of religion
to show what I mean and hopefully I'm not going to offend anybody. In the case of Christianity,
for instance, early Christians were separated from other members of their original Jewish group
on the basis of a unique interpretation of Jewish scripture. So according to Jewish scripture,
the concept of the Messiah refers to a Jewish king who will rule the Jewish people and save them
from their enemies. And according to the interpretation of early Christians for the idea of a Messiah,
Jesus was this Messiah and was declared to be the Son of God. But the problem was that the Messiah,
according to Jewish beliefs, is not considered to be a God but merely like a very charismatic leader
of Jewish people. So these two divergent representations of what exactly is denoted
in the concept of the Messiah isolated the different groups within the Jewish population.
So across generations, these differences became so large that the separate streams developed their
own unique set of characteristics, traditions, beliefs and followers, and a new religion,
which is Christianity, emerged. So what I was wondering about is if we wanted to simulate this
process of innovation as cultural speciation under active inference, what would be the conditions
for its emergence? So I thought about it and the first one would be isolation. We would have to
quantify the divergence that occurs in the population due to the introduction of a divergent belief
state. Secondly, speciation. We would have to quantify this convergence of individuals within
the groups. And we would explain that, I think, as a collective free energy minimization under
the active inference framework. But lastly, and this is the most important point, you would need
a novel belief state that naturally emerges from these dynamics. So as I've mentioned in the beginning
that the process underlying cultural dynamics is a circular one where each process naturally
emerges from the last. So to capture those circular dynamics, we would need to think of a new paradigm
for simulating the natural emergence of a sufficiently divergent belief state. So for,
I say sufficiently divergent because it needs to be dissimilar to the status quo belief
to a degree that is large enough that it creates a certain level of isolation
between the different belief groups. Or in other words, it needs to make sure that each group
maintains its integrity. But the difference between the novel belief state and the status quo
also can't be too large because then communication with the first agent holding this belief
becomes completely impossible. And note that this latter condition
is simply the assumption in active inference for the mere possibility of communication, namely
that for agents to arrive at a hermeneutics resolution and to be able to understand each
other, they must employ sufficiently similar generative models. So it would be cool if you
could find a way to create the Goldilocks conditions for a belief state to emerge naturally from the
dynamics of the cumulative culture that we have shown here. If this is computationally possible,
then we might be able to close the circular process of cultural dynamics and show that the
spread of information brings about actual changes to cultural information that with time and with
multiple generations of transmission create divergent traits that create new culture cultures
and beliefs which spread through a population again in a way that perpetuates this evolution
of culture. And yeah, that's it. So thank you very much and I hope you enjoyed it.
