So that's when you become most valuable is when you're at your reproductive years as
a young teen.
Yeah.
Only tangentially related, but it sparked in my head.
Remember in the Bible that verse that any woman who's menstruating has to go off into
her own hut for seven days and cannot be touched by men because she's unclean?
There's something in some...
You guys don't remember that?
I do.
In fact, it's one of the...
There's a fun thing about it, and you can't like sit where they've sat.
In some versions, I'm not sure if it's Christianity or not, you can't be in their shadow.
That one I had not heard.
That's popular in Northern India.
Okay.
There's even a huge disdain for menstruation because it's all big and scary or something.
I mean, it's not...
I'm not trying to...
No.
I have some up a little in it.
It's a stupid thing to believe.
I remember we should get back on topic, but I remember reading that in the more traditional
societies, that probably wouldn't have happened to a woman maybe more than four or five times
What?
Because you kind of start having kids...
Oh, right.
Kind of start having kids right away, and then when you have a kid, afterwards there's the
whole breastfeeding period where apparently you don't have periods either, which I did
not realize.
And then after that, you're kind of back to being pregnant again, and so there's probably
not going to be more than five or six actual week-long vacations.
Yeah.
That's about right.
Week-long in a single hut vacation.
Yeah.
It's not exactly a retreat.
It's more of like, you can't come back until you're done with all that business.
It's sexist bullshit, but I was shocked to hear how uncommon it might have been.
That's an interesting way to look at it, and there's probably something to that.
That's a fun thing to think about.
My question for you guys is, how do you value future lives that don't exist yet?
That is a really difficult question.
Can you be more specific?
Yeah.
So I guess in two different ways, the future lives of people who definitely will exist.
Right?
So 500 years in the future, valuing those lives.
Do you depreciate it by the article that I'm going to share?
So it's 7%.
If you do that in 500 years, the value of a single life is between $100 and $200.
Right?
How is that the case with our nine million now?
Because if you depreciate it's 7% per year.
Oh, 7%?
I thought you meant 7% total after 500 years.
Okay, yeah, I got you.
That's so weird.
I don't know if I've thought of it in those terms.
Certainly, I guess no one would say about 7% less over years.
Surely it depreciates that, right?
Your value of future humans?
On one and two at a level, and I'm kind of spitballing as I think of it,
I identify less with civilization 100,000 years from now as I do civilization a century from now.
And so it's harder for me to feel emotionally that I should care as much about them as I do about my direct ascendance
or the people I might interact with or something.
And yet intellectually, I can't see why that's possibly the case.
Other than the fact that there might be a lot more people in the future,
so anyone that might are a little less,
if that's the way you're inclined to think about things.
Robin Hansen has an interesting point.
I can't wait to hear Robin Hansen's analysis.
No, it's an interesting point that there's two ways we can have lots of people.
We can either have tons of people right now and burn through the Earth's resources quickly,
or we can have only a little bit of people strung out for a long period of time
and burn through the Earth's resources slowly.
Is he not including space travel and M's in either of those scenarios?
Yeah, this is assuming that there's a limited amount of resources
and that we're not going off-planet.
Just thinking of the total amount of people that the Earth can support over its lifetime.
Sure.
And he was wondering why do some people think it's best to have a whole lot of people
in a short time span and others want less people over a long period of time?
Because some people think that innovation is linked to world population.
And the more people there are, the more innovation there is.
Okay.
I apologize for my crying dog.
We obviously do not value that for a child's life.
Or at least her.
Enough to let him into the podcast room.
That's right.
We don't have a lot to add right now.
This isn't the animals episode where you guys can hang out.
Yeah, if there's a strong correlation between population size and innovation,
that's not just like happenstance of history, I'm not aware of it.
Like as it happens, we've had more innovation in the last few centuries
than we did in the preceding several thousand years,
that might be due to other factors.
Not just like the fact that there's more people per square foot or something, right?
Or square meter, whatever.
In freedom units we call them feet.
So I would be somewhat inclined to say let's stretch it out
because the farther we've come from the past,
the farther along we've gotten technologically.
Continuing that trend, the longer we last, the farther that will go.
Whereas if we just, let's see if we can hit 20 billion by the year 2050
and the earth doesn't make it through the year 2300,
that sounds undesirable, right?
I'm also of the opinion that if we have too many people too soon,
we can crash something.
Whereas if we draw it out, the earth can recycle a lot of the waste we put out.
And like the less people we have, the fewer we have to take care of.
So like, you know, assuming that not everyone on earth is self-sufficient,
some people need help.
And like if you're just making as many people as you can for the sake of making them,
you might have...
Can we assume that you have the same percentage of ultra productive people at all times?
Or do you not assume that?
I don't... I guess I'm thinking in the terms of like what we're talking about,
like people who tend to have more kids being highly religious
than I think of like the world's bottom,
billion percent of people who are flourishing,
sometimes in religious cultures or otherwise,
but you know, often without access to child preventative interventions
and thus having more kids.
So like if everyone's producing at the same rate,
then that might be just, we'd increase the number of people who are not living
optimally satisfying lives.
If you do buy the premise that the more people there are,
the more innovation there is, right, the more technological innovation,
innovation in general, would that be an argument for people having children?
It would, because we're on a limited timeline.
We only have so many thousands of years until an asteroid hits earth
or somebody creates an AI or something.
And if we can get more innovation to solve those problems faster,
we can avoid those problems.
Yeah, I would be in somewhat about it,
because I'd use that to directly challenge the premise that we're staying on earth
for the whole time, right?
So if innovation continues to go up,
we won't just rot out on one rock.
We'll expand.
On the other hand, humans have a really big carbon footprint.
One of my favorite bumper stickers is,
my SUV has a smaller carbon footprint than your dog,
because it's true.
The dog?
The dog, yeah.
Well certainly than your honor student.
Well certainly than your honor student, yes, but even the dog.
So we have a couple of ethical questions.
One, overpopulation is an issue.
There are people who are starving, who need homes and resources,
so why have more kids when everybody else is doing it?
Another question is, humans weigh heavily on the earth,
and the impacts of that don't just affect other people negatively,
potentially, but they definitely affect other species negatively.
So is it selfish of me to say that if I were to have kids,
and I am going to say this, if I were to have kids,
I would want them to be genetically half-mine?
Well heck, I'd even like one that's a clone,
just to see if I can do a better job than my parents.
I have a clone.
That's true, you do, but not one that you raised.
That's right.
How's your clone?
He's good.
I have a twin brother, if that was confusing to anybody.
That's very sweet.
I wish I had a twin.
Yeah.
All the rumors about us being able to read each other's thoughts are true.
But is that selfish?
I don't know.
That's what I'm trying to figure out.
Okay.
What's his name's first law, which I don't even know is an actual law,
but that all traits are at least partially heritable.
And I would like to see, when you asked if I am happy,
there's not the term used, you used whether it should be morally required
for people who are awesome to have children.
But I do want people with traits that I like to have children
because I want to see more of those in the world.
One of my goals is to make the world more the way I like it
and having more people in it that have traits that I like
is one of the ways that that can happen.
Why do you want your kid to be half yours then?
You can choose potentially two other people who are super awesome
and combine their genes and then...
Okay, here's the thing.
First of all, my parents don't listen to this podcast,
but if ever in the future, my parents go back and listen to these,
Mom, Dad, please don't listen to the rest of this episode.
Stop right now.
Okay, good, we're clear.
So Mr. Mr. Borsky is just still with us.
There's no way that turned you off.
Seriously, no, they should stop listening right now.
Like give me a call or something and we can talk about this instead
of just hearing it on the episode.
But one of the reasons I don't want to have kids
