Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Eni Ashbrodsky, I'm Steven Zuber, and I'm Katrina Stanton.
At one moment while I remember my last name, today this episode is about choosing the kind
of family structure that you want.
I was going to call it should you breed, but that sounds much more...
We might be focusing a little bit more on childbirth, and should you do it, or should I do it?
But I think we should prefer to do it also just in general terms as well.
I mean we're not here to analyze just your decision.
Although while we're talking about it, you recently were thinking quite a bit about whether to have children or not.
Yeah, for the past five years or more.
Oh, should I? I didn't realize it had been that long.
I spent a lot of time thinking about this and going back and forth and being a fence sitter.
I originally wanted to have kids, and by the time my husband and I got married, we thought,
oh yeah, we're going to go through the process of pregnancy and popping out baby,
and we also want to go through the process of adoption.
And that way we can have two kids and we can have all the experiences, not all of them,
but at least those two.
So you originally wanted to have a kid, why did you want to have the kid back then?
I just always thought that I wanted to raise a child and have that kind of family structure
with kids involved, and I have had a privileged upbringing.
I have cool parents. I think I'm pretty cool.
I think we think you're pretty cool too.
I think I'm a pretty nurturing person. I always thought I'd raise a kid, and then some things happened.
I dated a few people who were definitely vehemently child-free.
I had a friend who had a kid who I did not like the situation that she was in
to the point that I was worried that it would happen to me too.
It was a lot of discussions, and so for a while I was thinking that I probably wasn't going to,
and then that changed again in the last couple years, the last few years.
So, yeah, and I'm here, of course, with Kinga Ash and Stephen who are both child-free
and intend to stay that way.
Yes. Originally I could go either way. I was like, yeah, sure, I could have kids.
As I've gone on and thought about it more, I've realized I do not want kids,
and I do not think I would be the kind of person that could.
If I was stuck with a kid, I think I could figure out how to raise them pretty well,
but I wouldn't want to. There's enough else that I want to do with my life
that I don't think I could be happy giving up all that time and dedicating it to a child instead.
My thought process was similar.
I don't know if there was ever a point where I was actually a thinking adult,
where I was like, let's have kids, but, you know, growing up,
you kind of just, that's like the normal, you kind of imagine that's where your life will go.
Somewhere down the line, I don't know, I think I might be an okay parent.
I think it's not so much that I'm worried that I would be distracted from doing other things that I would like.
It's that I know that what I would want to do would be completely rewired upon becoming a parent,
and that, like, suddenly I find nothing more fulfilling than pushing my child on a swing
as opposed to, like, doing something that if I wasn't a parent, I'd find more fulfilling, right?
Yeah, I don't know why you would. Why do you? Well, I guess that's part of the reason that I didn't want to
in the first place, because I watched my friend, well, she always wanted children, badly.
She got pregnant, she had a baby, and then everything changed.
She used to be super adventurous and go out and travel around the world all the time.
She used to paint, she was very highly creative, and I would come over and ask her what she'd been up to,
and she'd been, oh, mostly staring at my baby.
Did she say it like for lonely, or like she had a great time doing it?
It's all she wanted to do. That's what I'm saying, right?
But I was like, I don't want that happening to me.
Right. But I also don't think it would, because I don't see how I would find fulfillment
in staring at a sleeping baby all day, every day.
There's some people, I guess, who don't have that radical of a change when they have kids, but it's a risk.
I've said that evolution has killed you once, and it can do it again.
And obviously, I only say that to people who have gone through puberty, because...
What? I get it, I get it.
Yeah, I cannot relate to, I can sort of relate to my prepubescent self,
but I know that my prepubescent self would not relate to me at all.
He would be thinking, why are you wasting all this time and energy going after girls,
because they're not all that special anyway, and what's the big deal?
And it was a radical personality shift, and I can see how, if hormones in my body
changed me to the point where I am happy spending hours just smushing my face against the girl,
that I could possibly see hormones coming along and changing me again,
where I could spend hours just looking at a baby googling, or doing that googling,
you know what babies do, they're like, hey, how do I teach?
What is the world?
But I could see myself having a dramatic value shift when I have children,
and I don't want to do that, I'm very happy with the way I am right now.
For me, that change...
Well, very happy in quotes.
You seem like a pretty happy person.
I have my moments.
Okay, for me that change has already kind of happened,
so part of me kind of realizing that I do want to go back to original plan
at the time of marriage and have a kid again, is because I really want one.
So for a while when I was thinking I wasn't going to go through the process and have a kid,
I was wistfully kind of thinking, well, maybe I'll meet someone who has a kid.
Maybe I'll meet someone and I'll have an awesome kid and I can be their stepmom.
And I was like, just admit to yourself that you want to have a kid,
and also maybe be a stepmom, I don't know.
I'm also thinking it's nice to kind of hold that card in reserve.
You know when you like a video game a lot and there's an expansion for it that has come out,
but you aren't done with the original video game yet,
so you're holding off on getting the expansion?
I think maybe that's what having a kid is like.
Like right now, I am very happy with my life,
but if it ever gets to the point where I'm bored with what I'm doing,
I can always pop into having a kid expansion and see how that works out.
It's a good fallback plan for something fun to do.
Well, here's the other part of that.
You talked about spending so much time on kids and not being able to spend time on other aspects of life.
Maybe traveling, maybe going out and having adult time.
I don't know, climbing rocks, whatever.
You can do that with a kid, but it is a pain in the butt I've seen it.
Rock climbing with children? Oh my goodness.
They're so small and weak.
They are. They're awful at rock climbing.
So my plan, and I don't know if it'll work out, is to get more parents involved.
That sounds like a way to kind of offshoot some of the dedication required, right?
Well...
So it sounds like we are about to talk about living in larger group settings before we do that.
Do we want to talk about the pros and cons of actually having children?
Yeah, sure.
So yeah, before we talk about being poly or fusing families or that kind of stuff and having kids,
let's talk about all of the struggles that I've gone through even thinking about procreating myself instead of adopting, for example.
Well, even before that, how about happiness?
Right.
That's probably what you're getting at, right?
That is one of the things I'm getting at.
Yeah, that it seems to be somewhat out of style to have children in nationalist communities,
and out of style is not really a good way to say it.
But it's something that doesn't happen nearly as often as it does in the general populace.
And it's not looked down upon.
There's quite a few people who are having kids, but it's not the default life course.
Nor should it be.
Right.
And I think one of the reasons is a lot of people have hesitation about bringing new beings into the world
when we don't really understand how to make the beings that we're bringing into the world have a happy existence.
It seems like an overwhelming responsibility to create a life and then maybe have that life be miserable.
I didn't know you were going that way.
I thought you might have been going the way that turns out that being a parent makes you less happy on average.
Maybe.
Well, some research indicates that you consistently score your happiness less than you did pre-baby until like 20 years later.
Hadonic index is definitely lower, but people generally also feel much more fulfilled in their lives when they have children.
So it's offset with a different type of happiness.
You mentioned that evolution killed you once, it can kill you again.
I liked that quote.
For me, agreeing to become a parent would be a lot like signing up for a software upgrade where you're not quite sure what you're getting.
Right.
And the software is your brain.
And so it could just completely rewrite your values in a way that you wouldn't have liked a year before.
But now that you're there, you're like, well, I'd never want to go back, right?
So that isn't super appealing to me since I'm somewhat happy with the way that I am now.
And just kind of throwing dice on it doesn't sound super attractive.
And based on, you know, what we've observed of all other humans, it's probably not going to be catastrophic.
Oh, yeah.
Like, I mean, that that's not really the concern.
I guess it's just I wouldn't want my values to shift so much that I couldn't really identify it with my past self.
Like, I don't think I'd ever, I can't imagine going through so much of radical change that I would be completely incomprehensible to my past or future self,
on which way I was looking at it, but just not a way that I would find desirable.
For me, the happy middle ground would be being a close uncle.
So like when I was living in Fort Collins with my brother a few years ago, he had a dog and I had all the fun of being a dog owner minus most of the responsibility.
And so I think that level of parenting would fit me perfectly.
Because I like the idea of helping young person grow cognitively and, you know, have experiences and that sort of thing.
But making that a full time job sounds like a drag to me.
So that nice middle ground would be perfect.
If I can if I can land that somehow that's that's that'd be a good way to go.
Every now and then you run across articles on the internet that have titles like women who don't have children have empty meaningless lives and I'm not ashamed to say it,
which, first of all, is insanely insulting.
And I want to stab the person who said that.
But the fact that someone could write an article like with that sort of title, well, maybe just means they want clicks.
But it also I'm assuming means that they have had a rather dramatic value shift since they had the children that they're able to say something like that.
My friends with a difficult child.
Oh, I didn't mention that he's also in addition to she's obsessed with him.
He's also a really difficult child.
Unusually so.
She she keeps telling me over and over again that she she wants childbirth for me.
It's such it's such an amazing experience.
It's such an amazing thing to go through.
She specifically said that she wanted me to breastfeed.
It's like she wants me to have the joy and closeness.
She's like I've never loved someone like this before.
It's like an alien infestation has come taking over her brain.
Now she's trying to spread it to more people.
It's exactly what I was picturing at the end of Three Worlds Collide where they merge with super-happies.
And it's like afterwards you'd be talking to your friends who didn't merge like this is great.
You should really try it.
There's not going back.
But trust me, you'll like it.
I was pretty cool with the super-happies.
So that makes me feel a little bit better about it.
There's interesting articles about how the fetus is actually competing with the mother's body for resources.
And so it does latch on and start feeding into hormones and kind of like a hostile takeover to preserve itself.
So that's the exact opposite feeling that you were describing.
It's true, but also I think pregnancy is really cool and it's brutality.
I would agree with the brutality.
I'm not sure I would agree with the cool part.
I think it's really neat.
Katrina was also the one who talked about how cool it was to host a parasite.
It's really right.
And she's the one who owns Death Stalker 4, so we know she's into the brutal shit.
I'm pretty sure that's Tim's.
Okay, well, it's in your house.
We have a lot of great movies in here.
Katrina's like, watch what my uterus can do.
Watch what my body can do.
It's amazing.
It is actually pretty.
Gotta put it through its paces.
Maybe that's part of why.
I mean, obviously I wouldn't be going through childbirth directly, but I'm also about kind of like taking things easy.
So I like the relaxed path more.
Not like let's push my body to the limit.
That doesn't super appeal to me, but I can see how it could to some people.
I'm not sustaining that point of view, but that's not also something that attracts me.
It is interesting that a lot of people I meet who don't want children are the kind who are somewhat unhappy with their own lives.
I wouldn't say unhappy, but went through emotional difficulties.
