Certainly not a weekend project though.
Just know them and then a couple more years to kind of make sure that that situation works before adding a kid to it.
Unless they already have a kid.
Then you start.
Then we're good to go.
Yeah.
So there's that.
But I think, you know, if that doesn't work out, there's, I don't have to be, we could just find friends and see if anybody's into a family merge that way.
Yeah.
I don't have any polyamorous or romantic ties in that people are doing that and that seems to be working pretty well.
Although I feel like I'd have better luck roping somebody into staying if I could make it.
If they're romantic ties in mostly if it was their genetic offspring.
Anchor baby.
Yes.
Exactly.
I don't want to get us too far from this, but there was one important thing that I forgot to bring up in my decision to become a parent.
Yeah.
I think I'm much too, I'm not neurotic as the right word, much too pessimistic, isn't it either?
I'll describe it and you guys can tell me what it is.
I would be too constantly freaking out about whether or not the kid was like hurt or dying at any given point, right?
So, you know.
You would be one of those hover parents.
I wouldn't even necessarily like necessarily hover, but like.
Just curl up in a corner and just be like.
Exactly.
Right.
Back in your fingernails.
I like hard and example.
Let's do the heavy hard example first.
Like my mom told me several years ago that when we were little kids, the elementary school I went to kind of had this the street on one side of it that you could access by the short path that came down from the school.
And she parked down there and we'd be picked up there after school.
And she told me a few years ago that she would sit there and have panic attacks most days.
And wonder like, I kind of filled in the blank for her and I was like, I totally get what you're going from where you're going to.
You were sitting there thinking today's going to be the day that they're not going to come down.
I'm going to freak out eventually get out of the car and there's going to be a crime scene at the school and two dead kids.
And that would be costing my mind pretty much every day.
And so like Harry mentioned in methods of rationality when Professor McGonagall offers to help him pay for an owl as a pet.
He's like, I had a pet rock once it died.
I think the owl I'd be constantly freaking out about whether or not I feed it, whether or not I fed it and whether or not it was slowly starving to death in its cage and whether it was all my fault.
Wondering where its dad was or that kind of thing.
So I still have dreams about that, about walking in realizing that I haven't fed my pets in a year and that seeing all these pet carcasses.
They're mostly dead, but some of them are alive.
But they're just starving and it's horrible and they've been anguished for all this time.
I don't mean to paint that mercenaries for anybody with that vivid description, but that is something that is definitely a factor in the sense that I don't know
if I could ever relax.
And relaxation, as I hinted earlier, or as I said explicitly earlier, is very important to me.
So the idea of me sitting there constantly trembling in agonizing fear is not super appealing to me.
I do think we have been talking quite a bit about how children are all this time and all this energy and money that we should at least mention the counter argument by...
Brian Kappel?
Maybe.
Maybe.
It was one of the Economist's...
Economist?
Economist.
Economist.
Economist.
So Brian Kaplan published a book about why having kids is easy and you shouldn't worry about it.
Okay, that's the one.
Is that what you're talking about?
Yes.
He went around on a book tour.
Is he the one that does marginal revolution?
I don't know.
Okay.
He was billed as the anti-tiger bomb because the super strict mom book also came out at the same time and she was also on the interview circuit.
And his argument is basically that having kids is not that big a deal.
They seem to get very little changes to their life outcomes based on parenting and other environmental influences.
Within reason.
Within reason, yes.
As long as you don't abuse them and give them the basic resources they need.
He referred to twin studies.
Yeah.
So kids, when they grow up after a certain age, they somehow revert back to their programming and they are likely to make the same amount in income.
Regardless of how much you poured into them when they were small.
Mm-hmm.
And so his argument is, you know what?
The genes are going to out in the end.
Just have as many kids as you want.
Don't freak out too much.
Let them go play outside.
Let them do whatever they want.
Have fun.
They'll be fine.
Yes.
Have fun with your kids.
That's his basic argument.
Yeah.
You can afford to have six, seven kids if you want for less than what most people pay to do one kid nowadays.
I'm glad you guys are on me with that because that's something else I wanted to bring up.
I heard about it through, oh jeez, Jonathan, a professor of psychology at Yale called, sorry.
Jonathan Colton.
It's going to drive me insane.
It's my favorite professor.
Did he go to Yale?
Did he?
Or Princeton.
I get them confused.
Oh shit, I didn't know.
Well yeah, John Hodgman talks about how they went to school together.
I never know if I should believe John Hodgman though, or if that's part of his character.
Oh, I guess that's possible.
Was it like an actual series that didn't interfere?
Nope, this was his book, which is all false knowledge and lies.
Right.
That's a scary book to put out there.
Anyway, I heard about exactly what you guys are talking about, and I can't remember who he cited, but Paul Bloom mentioned the same thing, that more or less your kids are going to turn out, how they're going to turn out, barring obvious, you know, tying them in a basement kind of thing, genie style, right?
As long as they get a bare minimum okay upbringing, they're going to turn out basically however, so they don't need to freak out too much.
Which is reassuring for people who might be concerned, so you're already, you know, whether or not you'll be a good mom.
I think that, honestly, if you're worried about that, you're probably going to be a better parent than many parents, who that thought never crosses their mind, or at least not until they've already had kids.
Some of us might know people like that.
So, you know, giving that level of content beforehand, I think, is a huge boon.
But also, they're basically going to be fine no matter what, you know, just don't starve them, let them, you know, teach them to read.
Or maybe they won't be fine, but you haven't done it to them, unless you're really terrible.
Don't be really terrible.
Don't be really terrible.
That's a good life lesson.
And maybe don't, but it doesn't matter if you force them to play piano at the age of four or not.
So, continuing talking about cohabiting families, there is a recent popular article that I think people are kind of excited about.
People in California, they got a big mansion, and it's a mansion for single parents.
So, a bunch of different single parents can live there with their kids, and that way they get the benefit of having other parents around.
That is cool.
To look after the kidlands, and the kids have the advantage of having siblings, having other kids around.
The only issue is that it's not necessarily a permanent setup, so people come and go, or at least they can.
So, I guess my goal would be to have something as permanent as possible, at least while the kids are growing up.
That sounds really intriguing.
If that kind of thing were more easily attainable, and I guess more common, which might make it easier to get, I'd be more inclined to have kids, I think.
Because, like I mentioned, the idea of being a nearby uncle is super appealing to me, and not like I would delegate completely,
but the idea that it's not necessarily going to take up 100% of my time every day for 50 years, or at least 20, is more appealing than the alternative, right?
Well, there's some great benefits to that.
You're not as tired when you're spending time with the kid.
So, you have more time to pay attention to them, instead of more just being present while they're doing whatever.
And they also have more role models, more different parenting styles.
There are people who can deal with different situations better than others.
So, you're adding a lot, I think, by having more co-parents, or certainly more adults.
That's that I did talk to somebody who grew up in a commune, and she said it was terrible for her.
Why?
Nobody took primary responsibility for the kids.
So, while there was always an adult around, she didn't really have...
It was like a bystander effect for parenting?
Yeah, it was a bystander effect.
So, there were parents who were just really completely focused on raising certain kids.
There were people that she could always absolutely rely on and know that she was going to be with them, and they weren't going to peace out or go somewhere else.
Can we elaborate on the word commune in this context?
When I think of it, I think of the fenced-in area where you're not allowed to leave that recent movie that Hermione was in.
So, I'm assuming that's not what you meant, because there's no...
No!
Communes are like the hippie farm where everyone...
There are a bunch of different kinds of communes that you can have.
I'm assuming she was at a hippie commune.
Well, I mean, I've definitely known.
I had a friend growing up who was in a commune, and they had bought out development with a bunch of townhouses,
and they would share in the work of doing a community garden, a community vegetable garden,
and they would have community dinners and rotate cooking at the community center.
Yeah, that is fucking awesome.
And they would have the kids with babysits.
If I were to ever live in a non-by-myself situation, I would want to do something like that,
where I'm in a large group, like a commune sort of thing.
I think that would be my ideal.
I would love to try it at any rate, because I really idealized that,
and it just seems like that's a more healthy way to live.
But I don't know, I haven't actually tried it, so I can't say for sure.
Her setup, the friend I'm talking about when I was a child,
but they also had, they were definitely in separate families.
It wasn't that they were all one blended family, and the adults took turns looking after the kids,
but no one really took responsibility.
There were definitely, her parents were her parents, right?
And responsible for taking care of her, like the bookstop there and discipline and stuff like that.
They also had all of these other benefits of other adults being in the community.
That's a separate situation from this other new friend that I have,
who was saying that her upbringing in a commune was terrible,
because nobody took primary responsibility for her.
Some of that sounds attractive.
Yeah, that's interesting.
I don't know, it's like a group home.
I know that there's a number of those around the country.
Various nationalist groups have created something like that.
I wonder if there's another number for it,
because group home sounds like kind of like a quarter of the way house,
not like a half way house, but the place where, you know,
so yes, I'm familiar with those as well in the nationalist context,
where it's a big house or a set of condos or something where everyone kind of just does their own thing.
That sounds somewhat appealing.
I don't know, part of me is too anti-social to appreciate that maybe, but...
There are also setups for poor single mothers,
oftentimes, you know, who are pregnant as teens,
where they are put into living situations in communities with senior citizens,
and they have kind of a work exchange,
where when the moms go to work, the seniors can stay with the kids and read to them
and teach them in exchange for the moms getting groceries for the seniors
or driving them to and from doctor's appointments
and kind of helping each other out.
That does sound cool, except with the fact about leaving your baby with somebody you barely know,
but assuming you get a chance to meet them and hang out with them before,
it's like, alright, well, watch my kid, I'll be back in eight hours.
I hope you guys are both still here when I get back.
Again, see, that was the first thing that came to my mind.
That's why I can't be a parent.
People are going to steal my kids.
I didn't mean for it to go there.
My first thinking is, I would come back and something terrible would have happened.
