is because I see the amount of time and effort my parents put into me
and the payoff that they got, which is basically shit.
What do you mean shit payoff?
I have abandoned their religion.
I don't see them very often.
I don't feel like I have very much in common with them.
Really, my relationship with them really took off
once I moved out of the house and didn't see them for six months.
And then I could go back and visit them, you know,
every month or so is a good time for me
and I don't talk to with them on the phone much.
I know this hurts them because they've actually said it to me.
They say, we think you're distancing yourself,
but I just, I don't have that much in common with them.
I still harbor some resentment towards them
and I have the distinct impression that if I were to have kids,
there's a decent chance that the same kind of thing would happen.
Would you be unhappy if they became hyper-religious
and you didn't have a lot in common with them
or in your imagination land?
I would much rather invest that time and money
in building relationships with friends
that I have a lot in common with
and that I can actually share my life with
than putting it into a child who's going to abandon me
when he turns 18 and go off and do his own thing
because I'm the old geezer that he has nothing in common with.
So do you feel like your departure from what your parents' values was a bad one?
No.
If your hypothetical offspring had a departure from your values
in a way that was just as positive as yours was from your parents,
even if it didn't align with what you wanted,
wouldn't that be desirable?
It would, in my opinion, not be a positive departure
because if I thought it was positive,
I would have departed towards that myself.
See, I've had this weird sense,
even as a kid, I would identify with my future self
in a way that I'd be like,
well, I don't think future Steven will ever think that I'm a complete idiot
because he'll understand that I tried.
And so, I mean, that only tangentially relates in the sense that,
you know, in the sense that a child is a continuation of yourself
in some way, like it was genetic.
I wouldn't want them to do just what I did because I did it
if they had an existence that,
but what if it was like, damn, what should I have thought of that?
Right.
But I feel like I have so much more in common with people
that I share intellectual space with,
that I share memes with rather than my parents
and my siblings that I share genes with.
I think that's okay.
I think, so from my perspective,
if I have a kid and they are diametrically opposed to me
on all sorts of different things,
as long as they are happy and having a good life
and a good presence in other people's lives,
then that's a win.
Even if they leave and don't want to talk to me and think I'm lame and...
I just imagine them like holding hands with their monogamous spouse,
like with you at dinner,
like eating a red steak just glaring at you.
Their monogamous opposite gender spouse.
That's the picture in the head that they painted,
like somebody was opposite of you.
I'm picturing all the things that I can't picture you doing.
And I am already pretty fine with those people.
Right.
And so I think that part of it is,
as long as they didn't go down in ways that made their lives bad
or the lives around them bad.
Being sociopath, that's kind of a risk you have to take,
but it's also not super likely.
It's not as likely as the other,
as them not being sociopath.
It's something like a 1 in 100 chance of having a psychopath.
There's probably some factors that increase or decrease that.
But how much better off would my parents have been
if all that time and energy they put into me,
they had put into cultivating friendships with other people instead?
Have you ever asked them how they felt?
No.
I've never asked them that,
even though both me and my brother,
we definitely in different ways turned out
not what they expected or necessarily wanted,
or not what they proved of.
But Dad said at no point did he wish ever
that we were different people than who we were.
Well, I'm going over tomorrow for one of my monthly dinners.
Yeah.
I'll ask them then.
I mean...
I hope that they'll say that they're happy that you're you.
That's exactly...
I've always felt like a huge disappointment.
That's almost exactly what I was going to say,
that I hope that they would say.
And I don't want to go out too far and say that they're lame
if they don't say that, but their values should be...
It's okay.
I can say my parents are lame.
It should be something along the lines of,
look, Inyash, we're...
Of course we wish that your values stayed aligned with ours,
however there were versions of saying that is,
but we're happy that you are who you are and we wouldn't,
you know, whatever, something, insert thing.
But that's a kind of heavy topic.
Yeah.
Well, that's the conversation I had with my parents recently.
Right?
It's like, I think I want to go through with this.
I think I want to have a kid.
But here's what I'm worried about.
I'm worried about the environmental impact of having a kid.
I'm worried that my kid will turn out a shit.
Like, they'll be horrible and hurt people all the time.
And that's when my dad said, you know,
at no point did I regret having kids
and at no point did I wish that you were different people.
So...
It's pretty solid.
Yeah.
So I thought that was nice.
To hear that from him because I hadn't before
and I wasn't even sure that that was the case.
I get the distinct impression I'm not going to get that answer.
Then fuck him.
I mean, I'm not just saying that just make you feel better,
but that is, I'm prepared to say that it is incorrect of them
to think that, no, we'd rather you be unhappy and be with us.
Well, I'm sure they'd rather that he be happy and be with them.
Right.
Which is probably what they think.
If only he would come back to the fold
and Jesus would make him happy again.
And my parents would really rather that I just stopped by every other day
and just tea with them and ask them about their lives.
But I don't do that.
They live two blocks away from here.
Like every day they walk by the house to see what's going on.
Kind of give it the yellow hairy eyeball.
Right.
And my mom owns this house and I pay rent to her
and she gave me an amazing deal to get me to live close to them.
Ah, tricky.
Honestly, I would take that deal.
I mean, just for two places to live.
I took it.
Yeah.
Fuck yeah.
This is a nice place.
I would not take that deal from my parents because they have way too much of a wanting
to control your life sort of thing.
Oh yeah.
My parents don't.
Yeah.
It would be a thing.
They would be like, well, you're staying in our house under a great deal.
So you're going to do this.
Oh yeah.
Fuck that noise.
I would rather live in a shit house apartment.
There's been a bit of that.
Yeah.
But now it's seeming like a good idea because if I pop out a kid in four years.
It's true.
They can watch it.
They can help take care of the kid.
And if I get more parents in, more co-parents in this house.
Yes.
Did we want to move on to that particular subject?
No.
I wanted to talk about the morality of adding somebody with a huge carbon footprint.
I mean, we talked about the value of human life.
Humans have a great deal of value to other humans.
But when it comes to the rest of the world, do we have a negative, I mean, it seems pretty
clear to me that we have a pretty negative impact on the world of the non-human part
of the world.
Someone's going to figure out how to get all that carbon out of the atmosphere, right?
Might as well be your kid.
You're like, Timmy, you have to become a scientific genius.
I'm going to shop around hardcore for sperm because I do not have, I do not have a sperm
source yet.
That's what I was going to say is that you could adopt, you could adopt Elon Musk's
and you could adopt some scientific savants kid that they don't have time for.
And you can just donate sperm, right?
So if you're concerned about your genetic material getting out there, there's other
ways to go about doing that.
Maybe the best thing Elon Musk can do for some humanity right now is not try to find
better batteries, but just donate sperm two or three times every day.
How old, how old is he?
I'm not sure.
That's a good question.
Let's see what the phone has to say.
He's right past the age where it starts to sour.
That's why he's got to do it three times a day.
He's only got a limited time left.
