This would be like the one psycho in a movie and so whatever.
Yeah, I'm not a parent because of that reason.
Alright, well, I hope that everybody's not judging me too horribly for thinking that I want to have a kid in four years.
I don't think anyone's judging me.
I think that there's a lot of hurdles, so I don't know if it'll happen or not,
but definitely there's something that I'm leaning towards.
No one should be judging for that.
You're a very responsible and articulate person.
Oh man, certain ex-boyfriends have.
Well, I mean, there's reason they're ex-boyfriends, right?
We don't have to name names other than the fact that if they didn't think that way and I thought the opposite way,
they might not be exes, so screw those guys.
That's my...
Alright, there we go.
Alright, I'm not alone in being a dick to strangers.
Strangers are the best people to be dicks to.
Alright.
Hey, let's do some listener feedback.
It's the feedback time!
I'll go first really quick.
We got an email from Westward101 who had lots of ticked separate paragraphs,
so we'll just cherry pick a couple of those.
One of them said,
See, zoob, may I call you zoob?
First of all, interjecting, off text.
No?
We don't know each other that well for nicknames,
and even give me a real name so I can't give you a short-hand nickname.
Westy.
In any case.
No, I'd prefer not, but I won't stop you.
So, you said that you liked the burning building discussion,
dropping down the rabbit hole into the value of a painting versus a baby.
That's interesting to me.
No one mentioned grabbing the painting because it has more value.
I wouldn't, but some people would choose to remember it.
You can always make another baby.
That is a line of questioning that we didn't really consider.
I think mainly because I don't give objects really any value.
They have value because people like them,
whereas to some different extent, humans have value innately.
You know, however, all the fuzziness around that, you kind of get run going.
So, yeah, the idea that like,
well, this painting is worth a lot, so,
baby's with his manufacturer, but this Mona Lisa is the only one in the world.
I mean, I never really cared about that, but maybe someone would.
I can see how they'd make that argument, but that seems like a weird place to go.
But rarity.
Rarity, does that matter to you at all?
I mean, when you're talking about, I don't know,
maybe compare paintings to paintings.
Yeah, sure.
I mean, if there were literally a million copies of the Mona Lisa
that were hand-painted or something and they were all identical,
then they would be less valuable.
Does it matter if they're hand-painted?
I mean, I think people care less about...
Yeah, because there are already tons of prints.
Yeah, I think people care less about the prints or less expensive.
Do they matter if they're hand-painted by Leonardo da Vinci?
Because...
Some people think so.
Okay.
So there is an interesting point.
It was like, if a painting can be forged well enough to fool experts,
it makes me wonder why the original is so valuable.
But apparently it is to some people.
I don't really get it, but I don't get art.
Also, pretty soon here with laser, 3D laser mapping and X-rays,
we would be able to reproduce the original in an exact perfect format.
But it's not the same.
Some people would say.
Okay.
Yeah.
No, I agree.
I mean, I would take a picture of it.
I don't care.
Just like two humans aren't the same.
Well, not just like two humans aren't the same.
Yeah, but two humans are actually different.
Whereas an exact reproduction of the Mona Lisa,
even down to the thickness of the pigments on the canvas,
would be basically...
I mean, if you were to cover them both up
and then do the magicians thing where you switch back and forth,
so no one can figure out which one is the real one,
would it matter?
Some people would be pissed.
I think it would be funny.
Well, certainly something would be pissed, yeah.
Wait, so does that mean that if there are two copies of Steven,
Steven and his twin?
What's his name?
Scott.
Steven and Scott, it wouldn't be as big a deal
if one of them were exterminated.
No, because genetic information is only a small part of what makes them unique.
True.
Yeah, I think there's an important distinction between like...
There's a two completely unrelated people.
Um...
No.
No.
Because, I mean, like, to whatever makes me valuable,
and the extent that some of that comes from our genetics,
that also makes Scott valuable.
You know, excluding all the stuff that is epigenetic.
Whereas, like, a painting,
if it is molecule for molecule as close as it can possibly be,
that's kind of all there is to the painting.
There's no...
There's nothing like...
There's nothing that it's like to be the painting
that we'd be losing if one was lost.
There was an interesting experiment done some years ago
where you could even ask, like, secularists and atheists,
you know, would you give...
I would give you $10,000 to take your wedding ring,
make an atom for atom copy, and then destroy the original.
Would you be okay with that?
And most people were like,
well, no way, this one's sentimental, it's magic.
I was like, no, we're gonna duplicate it, like,
in a Star Wars-esque or Star Trek-esque copier.
I'd be fine with that, it's just a ring.
Right, but some people have, like, a sentimental value.
Intellectually, I'd be fine with that,
but I would still feel a little twinge that I wouldn't admit to anyone.
Yeah, kind of the same, right?
So, like, I would take the money, but I'd be like, ah.
But I can see where they're coming from,
but I think that there's an obviously correct answer there,
that, like, the thing doesn't have an important aspect to it
that you're losing by duplicating it.
There is, yeah, there's definitely a correct answer.
It just making your emotions line up with that answer
is a hell of a trick.
Also, the painting doesn't give a care.
You know, speaking of the burning building and the painting thing,
I was listening to a Radio Lab episode
where it was recorded in, I think, Haiti after a major earthquake.
After the major earthquake?
I'm not sure if it was the major one.
I actually don't even know if it was Haiti.
I think it was definitely some developing country, though.
There was, it was an episode about triage,
and there was an old lady with emphysema who was dying slowly,
who had to have oxygen every day,
and after this particular disaster,
the oxygen was running low,
and they needed it to help younger people
who were going to live longer anyway.
The old lady only had maybe a few months left in her,
but she was the sweetest old lady in the world,
and everyone loved her.
And at one point, they were transferring her to a different hospital,
and she just had her one oxygen tank,
and they were like, this is the last one for her.
She doesn't get another one, we need it to help other people.
And in the episode, they were recording it live in the ambulance
as she was running out of air and gasping for more oxygen.
And I was like, I know this is the correct answer on utilitarian terms,
but motherfuckers, someone give her some fucking oxygen.
I cannot listen to this.
Maybe you didn't sign up for the feels on a radio live episode.
That sounds kind of too heavy just to throw at you.
Yeah.
Why didn't they bring oxygen?
Uh, this story continues,
and I'm going to leave everyone in suspense,
and they can hear for themselves whether or not she lived through this.
Great, then you can talk to the episode.
Yes, I will.
It was, it was really,
it was really an interesting thing I learned about myself
because I had always been of the opinion,
this is the right thing to do,
even though we don't know how many lives may be lost by,
by giving the oxygen to this old lady that only has a few months anyway,
it's the right thing to do to let her die,
and I could not freaking do it.
And I wasn't even there.
I was listening to a pre-recorded episode that had happened months ago,
thousands of miles away, and I was freaking out.
Damn.
That reminds me.
So why couldn't it just give her oxygen?
Because resource distribution is sometimes tough,
which we brought up overpopulation in the episode,
and right now on earth, people,
some people I don't think anyone really worth listening to
is talking about like,
oh, the earth's already overpopulated,
and it's like, no, it's not.
There's plenty of stuff.
There's plenty of people worth listening to say that.
Uh, okay.
I will, I'll take your word for it.
I guess I don't, for me, like,
it's not like there's too many people,
