they just resource distribution's hard.
So like, in the extent that they're going to qualify it in that way.
Yes, that's what people mean when they say there's too many people.
Well, or they're like, they're just, you know,
I tend to hear it in less articulate forms.
So let me take back what I said about no one worth listening to.
Unless they're going to qualify that statement with some further reasoning,
they're not worth listening to.
But yeah, right now, it's not like there's just too many, period.
There's too many because.
And the main thing is like, yeah,
we just need to find an easier way to get stuff to them.
I want to finish up the westwards email really quick,
and we're going to skip around a little bit.
How do you pronounce Bayesian?
Is it Bayesian or Bayesian?
And I say it both ways.
You're asking Bayesian Bayesian Bayesian Bayesian.
I say it both ways.
I, if there's an official ruling,
I think that there's probably second preference and it's whatever one is the other one,
and you can probably go either way.
Yeah, do whatever you want.
And then two, two quick facts that I thought were interesting
that we didn't bring up during our animals episodes.
Lots of animals are granted rights, not just companion animals.
There's individual versus species issues again,
but endangered species lists are an example of animals given protective status,
which is kind of interesting.
Like, yeah, we'll stomp around and not really care until they're almost gone.
It's like, oh shit, we need to get our shit together,
which is, you know, at least we're doing that.
So sometimes.
And so depending on the animal,
they no longer provide any ecosystem services because there are so few of them.
Yeah, sometimes I think it'll be tough,
but at least there's some interpretation about just wiping a species off the planet today, most cases.
And I didn't know this, assuming this is true.
There are more tigers and private ownership in the continental U.S.
than exist in the wild world, than exist in the wild worldwide.
I've certainly heard that before.
I think it may well be true.
Does private ownership it conclude like ones that are like live on wildlife sanctuaries
or like ones that live in people's backyards?
I believe it would be sanctuaries ensues as well.
Oh, okay, then that's not nearly as bad as my first interpretation.
Well, how do you think they get to the sanctuaries?
Right, from people's backyards.
But I'd prefer more be in sanctuaries than in backyards.
Right.
What do you mean as composed to out in the wild where no human is responsible for them?
Yeah, that's a bummer.
Tigers are fucking awesome.
Guys don't pay to take pictures with tigers.
It's always a bad situation.
Yeah.
PSA.
Unless like, you know, it's a selfie through a fence.
It's a selfie through a fence?
Yeah.
Okay.
What about the white tigers that they have down in Vegas with the two guys who love the tigers a lot?
Roy and Siegfried and Roy?
You mean one of them got horribly mauled by one of the tigers?
I do.
Yes, he did.
Yeah.
Tiger loves him so much, right?
That's because I'm not going to go into this right now, but I'll go ahead and put up some resources on the site.
So those tigers are also not terribly well treated?
Well, one of the issues with well performing animals in circus type situations kind of like that are not well treated because it's really hard to treat a tiger well in captivity like that.
Also, you know, making them work and but it also encourages people to try to get tigers as pets.
One.
Yeah.
As much fun as it would be to have a giant cat as a pet, they're just not for it yet.
Yet.
Growth mindset.
We can make them later.
We almost have the technology.
All right, you're up.
So continuing from what we said earlier about having a hard time making emotions line up with what we have decided is the right decision or what we hope is the right decision based on analysis anyway.
Mr.
Oliver says that when he's confronted with information about this on our politics is the mind killer episode.
He tries to.
Political pitfalls is the name of the episode.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Political pitfalls.
Yes.
We should know this.
We should.
We were the ones that recorded it.
That he tries to get his news from unbiased sources to counter the the normal bias that he encounters.
And he says that he thinks he falls into overcompensation bias and favors candidates more equally than perhaps I should on an emotional level.
He says I'd like to have my emotional reaction to a candidate be the same as my intellectual reaction to them, which would be a fair analysis of the policies utility to me.
But I think that is a good point.
And I have, I don't know how to do that because to to really analyze something intellectually, you kind of have to emotionally distance yourself from it, right?
I'm not sure if you have to have to.
Like, sometimes they, I guess it depends.
Like we mentioned, sometimes they don't match up.
But if you have, if you come into something emotionally, you're generally pulling in some sort of bias with you, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you start that way.
So if somebody has an abhorrent position on a policy issue, then why not feel angry about that?
Right.
If they have power.
Exactly.
But if you really want to analyze it, you then have to kind of suppress that anger for a while and really give it a fair shake while you look into the details and see their argument, whether it really is abhorrent or not.
Because you don't know, you can't base just on your emotional reaction.
I don't know about you, but I get kind of tired of all the scandals and don't want to listen to them anymore.
And I, I think to myself, well, I should really look into this and see what, what the real, what the truth is about this.
And then I'm just like, I don't even want to click on it.
I don't want to have to change my mind again.
It's an endurance thing.
Politics is an, is an endurance sport.
Yeah.
I'm the same way.
I, I can't really do it, but this season's almost over.
Right.
No, I, I try to do that, but I, I get where he's coming from because then afterwards it's hard to make.
Once you've decided, no, this really actually is terrible and we shouldn't exterminate all the Jews.
It's, or whatever the situation may be, it's harder to get your emotions back up to that point again where they're, where you feel it viscerally, right?
No, I know.
You don't think so?
No, not in a particular circumstances.
This is what I refer to as the, you make a excellent case for infant, infanticide problem.
Right.
That you, you, if you stop and you really consider the situation and you're like, okay, no, you're still wrong.
But now it's no longer a emotional gut reaction, like go to hell for even suggesting it.
It's now you're just, you're wrong and I reject your position and you have to remember what, what rejecting it means rather than feeling it emotionally.
Right.
I don't think you have to get really upset about it again.
No, I think you should get really upset about it if it's something like exterminating all the Jews.
Again, that's really easy to get upset about again compared to some other stuff.
Yeah, I happened to watch the third debate with a bunch of super liberal nonprofit leaders, which was cool.
But I also found myself kind of thinking, why are they complaining about people's hairdos so often and how they look and, you know, someone walks in and someone says, oh my God, he's so fat.
I'm like, the fatness of Mr. Trump should, should have no impact on how you feel about this.
I agree.
I would not want to pull that emotion back in.
And there was somebody else who was saying, I can't believe that anybody with half a brain would support this candidate and like, okay, so this is, I think that that's not a healthy way to look at it because obviously people with full brains do.
So the question is why and what are you missing and what perspective are you, do you need to understand better?
That's exactly right.
That if you literally, if you say something along the lines of I literally can't imagine what they're thinking, then you're not, you're, you have a poor imagination or you're not trying for enough.
There's some internal narrative to somebody who's going to vote for the candidate that you don't like that makes sense to them.
And that is probably comprehensible to you if you had explained or just thought it through really well, right?
Yeah, or at least you would understand why even if you deeply, deeply disagree with them.
Yeah.
But I guess that's kind of easy for me to say, because I don't have the depths of that immediate emotional reaction.
It's easy for me to kind of overcome that.
I don't know, I, of course, have not overcome that, but it's easy for me to ask the question, why do people feel this way in a meaningful way?
That's not just their idiots.
I think it's a good question.
But then your problem is, once you've asked, so people who feel this way are not idiots, why do they feel this way?
You have problems getting back to the fire in your belly that you had when you were railing against the stupidity before you, before you thought about it a little bit more.
No, I mean, I don't know.
I think you do.
And to me, that's a good thing, and that's one of the intended consequences, is that once you understand where your opponent is coming from, it's hard to think of them as mindless idiots.
Or obviously wrong, or obviously half-brained, or whatever the words are, right?
Well, I don't want to get to the point where I'm throwing firebombs into the RNC offices anyway.
Right? Because that is just not, that is what that level of emotion can lead to.
It's not productive.
And no, it's not. It makes the whole thing worse.
That's not what I was advocating for, was it?
No, no, no.
I think I was arguing for the opposite.
Right.
I'm not even a fan of vandalizing, like, signs in people's yards.
You know, like people have their free speech, you know, let them vote for whatever they want, let them talk about who they like more than, that's kind of the whole point.
To the extent that you value democracy at all, that's kind of the point.
Either get on board with people who are like, no democracy sucks, or just accept some people will disagree with you.
Or get angry about people being stupid, but don't bomb things. It's terrible.
Please don't bomb things.
If you're that angry, you're probably not trying to, you're probably not imagining your opponent's position well enough.
They almost certainly aren't worth bombing.
Also, you're being counterproductive. If you're that angry, do something that is actually productive.
What about the argument that we can think that way because we're privileged, and we're not the people who are directly affected.
We're not going to be deported if so and so gets into power.
We're not going to be, you know, denied these basic rights.
Right.
You still sort of don't think that murdering strangers is your best way to go about getting your position here.
No, there are limits, right?
I mean, there are other ways to campaign for what you prefer.
And I mean, let's turn it up to 11 and go back to, you know, kill all the Jews, right?
Like, at that point, maybe it would be worth it to start just murdering the people who are, you know, for exterminating you.
But I'm not really prepared to dive down that rabbit hole.
Okay, definitely not in the listener feedback section.
All right, well, thank you for joining us.
No, because that is where it gets interesting, but that's also where I'm more confused and less willing to take any sort of stance.
The safest stance to say is to say, don't ever resort to actually killing people.
Moving on, I can't find this comment again, and it might have been in an email that I can't find or something.
So from Westward, when we were talking about what gives an entity moral worth, and I said that if I can talk to someone and recognize them as a person, then I'm willing to extend them the rights.
Westward 101 says, just whether an entity would pass a Turing test doesn't cut it for me.
That's a pretty limited skill set and one I bet could happen in the next decade.
And my reply to this is that obviously the Turing test is not foolproof, like any other test that can be gained.
But if I'm talking to someone, and I can't tell if that person is my lover or a really good copy of my lover,
I am not willing to take the risk that it's a non-conscious copy and it's okay to take away their rights or kill them or whatever.
If it's gone to the point where I can't tell the difference between a quote, real person and this person that I'm talking to,
I am more than willing to say, I'm going to err on the side of not murdering people, potential people, and stripping them of their rights and treat it as a real person.
The thing I like about that reply is that it's generalizable and that's valuable to me as far as general rulemaking.
So yeah, that sounds good to me.
