Oh, if you couldn't hear the phone said he's 45.
Yeah, the phone said he's 45 and on our subreddit we had a little discussion about how sperm
quality goes down markedly after the age of 40.
What if they only wanted to do it the old fashioned way?
Is it worth having Elon's kid if that was the only way to get it?
Yes.
You'd have to meet the guy first.
I'd have to meet him.
I would have his kid.
You may be a much bigger fan though.
I have one person who I think is listening who I'm sure was shouting that so I had to
get it out there.
You're welcome.
As far as the impact that people have, I mean, it's weird.
I'm on more on Katrina's side of the fence as far as considering the rest of the world
and yet that's not an externality that I'm particularly concerned with and I might be
a failure of intuition there, but especially I think part of me predicates most of my
thinking on this in terms that humanity isn't going to spend the next thousand years on
Earth.
We'll probably have people hanging out here but probably a lot less than we'll have elsewhere.
I was going to backtrack quickly because we were talking about the impact on Earth and
if I spend time making sure that people who want contraception and family planning are
able to access that and I can help prevent unwanted pregnancies, does that mean that
I can morally slip a pregnancy of my own in there?
I'm going to say yes because I like you, but that seems kind of like the opposite of the
murder offsets where if I save three people's lives I'm allowed to kill one.
Well, I was just thinking about, you know, vegan arguments, right, where if it's difficult,
if you really, really want to be eating meat then it makes sense to get other people not,
right, so to donate money towards a vegan advocacy group, an effective vegan advocacy
group and that can really help farm the animals more than just you not eating meat.
I think that's completely legit offset.
And it's in keeping with my philosophy that people who don't want to have kids shouldn't
have to have kids.
So you can help people who don't maybe have the resources or desire to raise kids.
I don't think you have to necessarily feel guilty about having kids at all.
How can I offset it?
Also, although consider if your goal was to help as many people have access to child
preventative interventions as possible, imagine how much more successful you could be at that
if you didn't spend a bunch of time being a parent.
Mm-hmm, yep, that's the other issue is all that money and all that time that you spend
being a parent, wouldn't it be great if you donated it to the Against Malaria Fund?
Yeah, things get slippery when you go that way.
It's tough to think about.
They do because there are so many things that you're totally wasting your time doing when
you could be making more money to give to the Against Malaria Fund.
And why are you out having fun when you could be so...
There's a level of which that breaks down, right?
Or like maybe where it doesn't.
So, at least as far as I haven't read any of Peter Singer's stuff that he's written
in like the last several years, but for the most part he kind of just bites the bullet.
And he's like, yeah, unless you're living at the level of the people that you're helping,
you can give more.
I can trust that with like, Will McCaskill of the Center for Effective Altruism is kind of like,
you know, as long as you're doing something, you're doing better than almost everybody else.
So, by all means, go forth and have some fun.
And what if you have...
And what if you are an altruistic person?
You have altruist kids who have altruist kids.
And then they can spend so much more of their time also helping with human causes.
Wait, are we poor or against propagating memes to reproduction?
Right, that's what I was about to say.
Peter Singer, I don't know how many kids he has, but assuming that even if he had zero...
Even if he had 10 kids, he has done much more to help altruism through his memetic contribution
than his genetic contribution.
Yes, but genetically, we were talking about different contributions.
So genes seem to be what, up to 0.8 in extreme cases, or we don't know, between 0.5, 0.8.
I mean, how many kids...
Of somebody's personality.
Assuming, first of all, that Jesus was a real person that existed, how many kids did Jesus have?
Who knows?
We're going to go with 0.
Because we're already assuming that he existed, so let's give him some liberties here.
And yet, his ideology has had more impact to the world than his genes ever could have.
Yeah.
And I read somewhere that one-third of the men in China are descended from Genghis Khan,
which, at that point, I'm like...
You don't call him Genghis?
Not ever since listening to the Hardcore History Podcast where Dan Carlin corrected me.
Oh shit, I bet Dan Carlin's got it right and I've been saying it all my whole life.
Well, most people have.
All of us have.
Yeah.
I think he started more than one-third of people, not more than one-third of people.
I thought he was, maybe that was the number, but it was some ridiculously large percentage of people.
Are now descended from him, yeah.
But at that point, his contribution doesn't really matter anymore, right?
It's so washed out with everything else that's happened in the intervening centuries that...
What difference does it make how many kids he had?
The political system, the political change that he brought, made a much bigger impact.
So I don't think having kids is really any sort of way to change the world at all.
Having kids is like a personal decision, in my opinion, and if you want to change the world, you go for means.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I think that there's also something to consider that there's a great chance that none of the three of us will be of the scale of Genghis Khan or Elon Musk or Peter Singer or Jesus, right?
Mm-hmm.
We won't be world-changing figures that people will be talking about in 5,000 years, probably.
Maybe we should have the kids and keep the human race going.
Something like that.
Okay.
Someone's gotta do it.
I'm not endorsing that argument, but there's something to be said about it.
Well, someones are doing it.
Many someones are doing it.
There's another...
So we don't have to.
You certainly don't have to be the one to keep the human race going.
I was trying to make a joke.
I hear that.
Okay.
When we make the transition to family dynamics, I want to hint that there is one other way to keep your memes going in a way that's valuable to you, and that's just to not die.
Yes.
So...
Put it there.
That is the goal.
Maybe that's popular among child-created people.
So I'm not gonna have...
I don't plan on having kids, but I also don't plan on my beliefs and memes dying out with me because I'd like not to die.
The best way to influence the far future is to be around to influence it.
I like that.
Good luck, Stephen.
I don't get good luck.
Good luck, Enya.
I think she was more confident that you were gonna make it.
She's like, Enya, she don't need luck.
You got this cut for it.
You got this cut for it.
So that's a topic for another day, but that is something that I imagine someone bringing up and that cost my mind as well.
So I just wanted to put that out there that that will be talked about eventually.
So what other reasons do you have for having kids?
Because I want one.
That's a very good reason.
I want to do it.
I like the idea of raising kids.
I like the idea of having children and going through that process.
And I don't know, it's really hard to say because a lot of it's a biological imperative with me.
Where I'm just like, I walk around and every day I see people with children and I get a craving for having a kid.
And that's a weird thing to be going through.
And I get sad.
I have broken into tears when I thought that I wouldn't be able to have a kid.
And I still might not be able to.
Because there's so many obstacles to get through before I can do that.
I mean, I guess there's some, but statistically the chances are good.
I don't know.
Well, so things that I have to be able to do, I have to find a dad.
Statistically the chances are good.
I have to find a dad.
Unless you're really picky, which it sounds like you might be.
I am.
I'm very picky.
And the people who I have to pick from.
She's like, oh, I know, are you fuckers?
Why don't you guys stop being so shitty?
Well, so I think.
And sire my offspring already.
And be worthy of sireing her offspring already.
So, so newsflash.
Although Inuyasha already knows this one of Inuyasha's partners.
She and her husband.
Is that right?
Mhmm.
Moved in with a partner and their other partners.
So they, they merged families with children.
And as soon as I saw that, I was like, now I know someone who's done it.
Awesome.
I know it can be done.
I, I want to have, um, but I want to have more, more co-parents.
So people who are absolutely permanently dedicated to whatever kids are involved.
I think that is a really toxic failure mode of modern, modern nuclear families that it's just the parents in a house on their own in the suburbs.
Whereas it used to be an entire tribe was there to help you raise your children.
Parents would go off and do whatever parenting they had to do and the old people would stay back or however they work things out.
There was much more of a community and a social net to help with children.
And now it's just the two parents and maybe if they can open a grandparent or if they hire a nanny or something.
Mhmm.
Yeah, that sounds like a whole other, uh, much more isolated.
Right.
And nannies, nannies are not forever.
Yeah.
Nannies are going to leave at some point.
Right.
Which is because you can't pay them to just hang out in your, in your home with your children forever.
But you can delegate some of like the responsibilities to like not make it so that you have to do everything or that you and your one partner have to do everything as in like some dynamics, right?
Yeah.
And that sounds like a recipe for disaster as well.
So there are, you know, potential grandparents living two blocks away, as I mentioned.
Yeah.
Um, I think ideally, and I've talked about this with, with my spouse, um, ideally we would,
I could find somebody who I could be in a romantic relationship with like a serious long-term community relationship with who would live with us if they have another partner, that person too.
But of course we would all have to get along, which is one level.
Yes.
We would all have to kind of want this kind of relationship thing.
I would have to, in the situation, have a romantic relationship with one of those people.
And they would have to be a fit genetic parent for my eugenics project.
So you're right.
That is, that is quite a number of things to clear.
It is.
Yeah.
It's pretty, that's pretty weighty.
It's not insurmountable though.
Not insurmountable.
The way I see it, I have a couple of years to meet said person or people.
