I'm sorry, do or do not?
I do not want children.
I had a very difficult late high school and early college period.
And I don't know if I want to put someone else through that and seeing as I had that that means I am genetically likely to pass that on to my children, somewhat likely anyway.
And yes, I know there's triggering events and not everyone who has the genes will experience that kind of thing.
But I don't feel right knowing that I would be creating a being that might go through that sort of thing.
Okay.
That makes sense.
The person who would otherwise be the obvious choice for genetic other parent of a kid I would have has chosen not to do it for reasons like that, not to pass on genetic, various genetic diseases that a kid might pick up.
I can think of a few better reasons to not have kids, right?
If you say the phrase bad parents, you tend to get people throwing things at you.
But I think it's the bad parent who says, you know what?
I have all these problems, but I want to have lots of kids, which means you want to probably create more people with the same problems that you had.
Even if you lived a life that you wouldn't have chosen for yourself, you're going to choose that for other people.
That seems kind of like a bad decision.
Here's my philosophy.
People who don't want to have kids should be empowered to not have kids.
People who do want to have kids should be empowered to have kids or raise them.
Eliezer is very, as far as I can tell, psychologically healthy.
He seems to have a great time with life, but he has chosen not to have children.
And he said until humanity can create new life from scratch and know how to make it work well, it would be morally irresponsible to just roll the dice and bring something new into the world.
There's a somewhat popular version of that argument that gets circulated.
I'm not sure what the full version is.
I was going to look into it and then didn't find time slash desire.
I'm sure someone's heard of it out there.
Feel free to write it in that people born today on average don't have the best possible lives of people who've existed in the past.
Really?
Which is a weird argument to make, but there is some coherent version of it that I've read about and I've read philosophers talking about it.
Can you find links and put them in the short description?
Can you tell me why?
Because at the outset, I'm thinking that we probably have better lives than our ancestors in many different ways.
I think so too.
I think the example they write up was something like Cleopatra versus the average kid today or something.
Didn't she kill herself with snakes?
How do you kill yourself with snakes?
She did.
She took snakes and she's like bite me and then they did and then she died.
Maybe it wasn't Cleopatra, maybe it was some general pharaoh.
I feel like Egypt was involved.
But in any case, I will find a better version of it and post it.
But the idea that by some measure you're producing people that maybe like Eleazar was saying that they're not as happy as possible because that seems like a fuzzy goal and a high bar.
But who might have lives that are less inclined towards as much well-being as is usually attainable or something.
Like I said, there is some stronger version of that argument I think and I don't know what it is.
There's also the idea that...
It's been a number of years since I read what he wrote so I really hope I'm not misinterpreting him or misrepresenting him rather.
I really got the feeling that it was just the moral negligence of not knowing if you're going to create a happy person or an unhappy person.
That you don't want to take that sort of risk on creating a new being.
Yeah.
Or you know, there are people who might subscribe to something similar to Jason's mindset which we talked about or which we talked to him a while ago.
Yeah.
That all life is negative.
Or you know, you could even take like a less extreme version but to say that yes, you'll make somebody that has a somewhat happy life,
but they're going to increase the aggregate amount of suffering in the world because they won't have a perfect life.
And that's an inherently bad thing.
Isn't this maybe, well, not Jason's argument, but Eleazar's argument as Eneash has described it.
Isn't that a good argument for personal eugenics where you try to stack the dice in your favor?
Like, I'm happy with my life.
I love the world.
I love being in it.
I love doing things.
Maybe I should be looking out for somebody else who has similar characteristics and is just a happy person in that way.
It could possibly work.
That does something stacking the deck in your favor and that I think is the responsible way to go about it.
If you're going to have children anyway.
Right, exactly.
I mean, so I like the idea of empowering people on both sides, whether they choose to not have children or have children.
And yet my inner totalitarian says that not everybody should be allowed to have as many kids as they want.
And that again gets you some looks and some garbage thrown at you.
It's fair though because there's an argument that in the long run the crazy religious fanatics who say,
breed, breed, breed, breed as much as you can are going to take over the universe because the rest of us are going to constrain our breeding
and eventually we will be outbred to such an amount that they will, if we go and colonize Mars, who's going to go?
If even 2% of them are the crazy religious fanatics, they're going to own all of Mars.
I don't think that's fair.
I mean, one, that's where my husband came from.
Right, Mars.
Crazy religious fanatics family.
I know, I came from two actually, although they were not into the breeding as much.
Yeah, and I'm really happy that he exists.
And I'm happy that you exist.
Oh, thank you.
I don't think that you would be terrible choices for colonizing Mars.
And I think that everybody has something really special to offer to the world.
The counter argument is that those sorts of religions tend to have a low retention rate, that they may spawn a lot of people,
but not all of them stay in the religion.
The way I've always looked at it is, if your way of perpetuating your ideology is just to bang out as many kids as possible,
you might have a shitty ideology.
The quiverful movements.
Yeah, that maybe you should let your ideology stand up and fight in the ring of ideas rather than on the battlefield of who can have more kids.
It would be uncharitable to say that if these people acknowledge the truth of that statement, they know that they would lose,
so they choose not to take that avenue, right?
Right.
And yet there might be something somewhat to that.
And you know, it also doesn't really matter, because in the end, regardless of how high-minded my ideals are,
if I lose, I lose, and they take over the universe.
So do you think that there is a moral imperative for people who you think there should be more of to pop out more kids?
I'm always happy when people that I think high of have kids.
And less happy.
I'm not going to go forth and say that there's a moral imperative for them to have kids, but I encourage it.
You know what I was looking up before you guys came today?
What's that?
The value of a human life.
In terms of?
The economic value and how different agencies have valued it.
So it was, I think, the EPA, it was over $9 million per.
Wow.
And the Department of Transportation, about $6 million per.
Still oppressive.
At the lower end.
I want to read what you were reading.
That sounds interesting.
I thought it was like $900,000.
No.
No.
That was about maybe a decade ago.
People were, they were trying to figure out how people valued their own lives and came to around a million dollars based on the decisions that people make, the risk that people will take.
But there's all sorts of other things to consider, right?
It sounds like not all lives cost equal though.
No, they don't.
There's a range.
And that kind of makes a lot of sense.
And there can be lives that have negative costs.
For example, people who go around murdering other people.
They're just, that's $9 million every time.
If you rack up enough of those, you're really in the red.
Let me, let me qualify my statement that some people are worth more than others.
If me and the President of the United States are in a burning building together, one of us values, one of us is, should be valued more to someone who can only run it and save one.
The person who, the country depends upon who's, you know, whatever, maybe not even the President, somebody more important.
You're right.
Presidents are known murderers.
If me and Elon Musk were trapped in a building, you should probably save Elon Musk.
He'll probably do a more net positive impact on the world than I will.
Well, and he is, he is literally economically worth more.
He's just simply has more, more money in the bank.
But you see the co-host of the podcast?
I think not.
That's right.
And we don't want to just put it in that who has more money in the bank account either.
Because that'd be pretty calculus.
No, no.
But I think that probably enters into it because how much money can, how much money can they spend?
Right.
Like, what's the net worth?
Plus, how many years of productivity do they have?
Right.
Plus, how much good do they do for other people?
How many networks are they attached to?
You know, we were talking about how to value animals and a lot of that's actually a lot more codified when it comes to humans.
Okay.
So how many life years do you hinted at?
It's another thing to really anticipate there.
You know, me versus 119 year old, they've got maybe a few months left, right?
So hopefully they'd pay me.
If they've made it to 119, they may never die.
They might never die.
They might never die.
250.
250.
What about, what about a toddler?
Yeah.
So like, you don't want to just, I'm not, I want to read more about what you were saying
as far as the worth of people.
Because I am not used to thinking of it in terms like that.
People are inclined for good and bad reasons to prefer children over adults.
As far as like, if I can only say one scenarios, right?
From a traditional perspective, it's obvious you go with the child because you need to
keep replenishing the human population since we die off and we're older.
Right.
That's, I think, one of the reasons we're...
But from a more economic perspective, the child has only had, or the toddler has only
had a few years invested into it, whereas if you get someone who just came out of college,
you've spent 24 years, maybe 22 years, investing tons of energy and tons of money into training
this person, and they are about to hit their productivity and start paying society back
for all that.
And so they, they would be the one that you want to save more, probably.
If you're not thinking in terms of your apish hindbrain, right?
Right.
So if I were going to...
If you're entirely in terms of economics.
We, our apish hindbrains really prefer 13-year-old women.
Do you know why that is?
I was actually going to bring that up.
What?
Are 13-year-old women the most expensive?
It's because in, in the olden days, and I mean the really olden days, that was when
you got married.
People start having kids themselves.
Yeah.
So yeah, it turns out that there was an experiment done where they asked parents at what age...
Just people.
Oh yeah, well, I mean, in the one experiment they asked parents where they...
Okay.
It was something along the lines of, at what age, if your kid died, and I don't think they
did it like a range per family, but they asked a bunch and gave different age ranges.
It would be the most devastating if your kid died.
And it turned out 13 to 16 years old was like the most devastating range, because that's
right about when they're about ready to have, well, the...
They did it, they did it for cultures all over the world, I think.
And anyway, the theory is that in hunter-gatherer societies, that's when they start, you know...
Getting ready to procreate.
Exactly, procreating.
