is people observe something on Earth,
say oxygen in the atmosphere or an amino acid in a cell.
And then they say, let's go look for that on another planet.
Let's look for oxygen on exoplanets
or let's look for amino acids on Mars.
And then they assume that's a way of looking for life.
Or even phosphine on Venus.
But there's all these examples of let's look for one molecule.
A molecule is not life.
Life is a system that patterns particular structures
into matter, that's what it is.
And it doesn't care what molecules are there.
It's something about the patterns
and that structure and that history.
And if you're looking for a molecule,
you're not testing any hypotheses
about the nature of what life is.
It doesn't tell me anything if we discover oxygen
on exoplanet, about what kind of life is there?
Just oxygen on exoplanet.
It's not, I guess I think like,
when you think about the question,
are we alone in the universe?
That's a pretty frickin' deep question.
It should have a frickin' deep answer.
It shouldn't just be there's a molecule on an exoplanet.
Wow, we solved the problem.
It should tell us something meaningful about our existence.
And I feel like we've fallen short
on how we're searching for life
in terms of actually searching for things like us
in this kind of deeper way.
But how do you do that initial kind of,
say I'm walking down the street
and I'm looking for that double take test of like,
like what the hell is that?
Like that initial,
like how do we look for the possibility of weirdness
or the possibility of high assembly number?
Well, yes.
Like what would aliens look like
if they don't have two eyes and are green?
If I knew, I wouldn't probably always solve the problem.
Right, there's another Nobel Prize in there
somewhere I think actually.
Yeah, somewhere in there.
Well, I think it's kind of,
so there is a bias here, right?
So we've evolved to recognize life on Earth, right?
Like I, you know, children at a very early age
can tell the difference between a puppy and a plant
and then the plant and a chair, for example.
You know, like it just, it seems innate.
And so I think, and also because we're life,
you know, I think like there's this implicit bias
that we should know it when we see it
and it should be completely obvious to us.
But there are a lot of futures of our universe
that are not completely obvious to us.
Like the fact that this table is made of atoms
and that I'm sitting in a gravitational potential well
right now.
And I guess my point with this is I think life
is much less obvious than we think it is.
And so it could be in many more forms than we think it is.
And I guess let's go back to the point
about being open-minded that we may not know
what alien life looks like.
It might not even be possible to interact with alien life
because maybe something about, you know,
our informational lineage, it makes it impossible
for information from an alien to be copied to us.
Therefore, there's no, you know,
so to speak communication channel.
And I don't mean, you know, verbal communication,
just it's not in our observational space.
Like, you know, like, you know,
there's fundamental questions about why we observe
the universe in position rather than momentum.
But we also, you know, observe it in terms
of certain informational patterns and things.
Like that's what our brain constructs.
And maybe aliens just interact
with a different part of reality than we do.
That's wildly speculative.
But I think, I think-
But it's possible.
And I think it's consistent with the physics.
So I think the best ways we can ask questions
are about life and chemistry and asking questions
about if information is a real physical thing,
what would its signatures be in matter?
And how do we recognize those?
And I think the ones that are most obvious
are the ones I've already articulated.
You have these objects that seem completely improbable
for the universe to produce because the universe
doesn't have the design of that object in the laws.
So therefore, an object had to evolve.
We talk, we call it evolution,
but had to be produced by the universe
that then had all of the possible tasks
to make that object specified.
I mean, there's some, like,
there's an engineering question here of,
are there sensors we can create that can give us a,
can help us discover certain pockets
of high assembly's aliens?
Like, I mean, there is a hope setting dogs and chairs aside.
There's a hope that visually, and we could detect, like,
because our universe, I mean,
at least the way we look at it now,
like this three-dimensional space time,
we can visually comprehend it,
it's interesting to think like, if we got to hang out,
you know, if there's an alien in this room,
like, would we be able to detect it
with our current sensors?
Not the fancy kinds, but like, web cams.
Yeah, let's say standing over there.
Yeah, standing over there,
or maybe like in this carpet,
see there's all these kinds of patterns, right?
Yeah.
I don't know if, I don't know if this carpet is an alien.
Well, so, I see what you're saying.
So assembly theory is pretty general,
like, I mean, we've been applying it to molecules
because it makes sense to apply it to molecules,
but it's supposed to explain life,
you know, like the physics of life.
So it should explain, you know,
the things in this room in addition to molecules.
So I guess, and you can apply it to images and things.
So I guess the idea, you know,
you could explore is just looking at everything
on planet Earth in terms of its assembly structure,
and then looking for things
that aren't part of our biological lineage.
If they have high assembly,
they might be aliens on Earth.
I mean, that is a very kind of rigorous
computer vision question.
Can we visually, is there a strong correlation
between certain kind of high assembly objects
when they get to the scale where they're visually observable
and some, like when it's, say, projected onto a 2D plane,
can we figure out something?
I'm glad you brought up a computer vision point
because for a while I had this kind of thought in my mind
that we can't even see ourselves clearly.
So one of the things, you know,
people are worried about artificial intelligence
for a lot of reasons, but I think it's really fascinating
because it's like the first time in history
that we're building a system
that can help us understand ourselves.
People talk about AI physics,
but when I look at another person,
I don't see them as a four-billion-year lineage,
but that's what they are, and so is everything here, right?
So imagine that we build artificial systems
that could actually see that feature of us.
What else would they see?
And I think that's what you're asking.
And I think that would be so cool.
I want that to happen,
but I think we're a little ways off from it,
but yeah, we're going there, I hope.
Okay, let me ask you, I apologize ahead of time,
but let me ask you the internet question.
So you're a physicist, you ask rigorous questions
about the physics of existence
and these models of high-assembly objects.
Now, when the internet would see an alien,
they would ask two questions.
One, can I eat it, and two, can I have sex with it?
Yes.
So the internet is-
All the existential questions,
those are very important.
The internet is very sophisticated.
It really is, it's got in our basal cognition pretty good.
So you kind of mentioned that it's very difficult,
it's possible that we may not be even able
to communicate with it.
Right, I think the internet has more hope than we do.
Yeah, it's a hopeful place, yes.
Do you think in terms of like interacting
on this very primal level of sharing resources,
like what would aliens eat, what would we eat,
would we eat the same thing,
could we potentially eat each other?
One person eats the other, or the aliens eat us,
and the same thing with not sex in general and reproduction,
but genetically mixing stuff.
Like would we be able to mix genetic information?
Maybe not genetic, but maybe information, right?
And I think part of your question is like,
so if you think of life as like this history
