or physics of optimism in there too.
Yes.
Because that seems like also,
I mean, optimism does seem to be a kind of engine
that results in innovation.
Yes.
So why the hell are we trying to come up with new stuff?
Oh, so I made this point about thinking life
is the physics of existence,
and it's not just the physics of existence,
it's the physics of more things existing.
So I think one of these drives of like-
Creativity.
Yeah, creativity.
Like optimism, so if you like, people like entropy,
I don't like entropy as it was formulated in the 1800s,
I think it's an antiquated concept,
but this idea of maximizing
over the possible number of states that could exist,
imagine the universe is actually trying to maximize
over the number of things that could physically exist.
What would be the best way to do that?
The best way to do that would be evolve
intelligent technological things
that could explore that space.
So okay, that's talking about alien life
out there in the universe,
but you've also earlier in the conversation mentioned
the shadow biosphere.
So is it possible that we have weird life here on earth
that we're just not,
like even in a high assembly formulation of life,
that we're just not paying attention to, we're blind to.
Like life we're potentially able to detect,
but we're blind to.
And maybe you could say, what is the shadow biosphere?
Sure, sure.
Yeah, the shadow biosphere is this idea
that there might have been other original life events
that happened on earth that were independent
from the original life event that led to us
and all of the life that we know on earth.
And therefore there could be aliens
in the sense they have a different origin event
living among us.
And it was proposed by a number of people,
but one of them was Paul Davies
that I mentioned earlier as my mentor.
And he has a really cute way of saying
that aliens could be right under our noses
or even in our noses
with a British accent, it sounds better.
But anyway, so the idea is like,
it could literally be anywhere around us.
And if you think actually about the discovery
of like viruses and bacteria,
for a long time we didn't,
they were kind of a shadow biosphere.
It was life that was around us, but invisible.
And, but this takes it a little bit further
and saying that, all of those examples, viruses, bacteria
and everything that we've discovered so far
has this common ancestry
in the last universal common ancestor of life on earth.
So maybe there was a different origin event
and that life is weirder still
and might be among us and we could find it.
We don't have to go out in a star's look for aliens
just here on earth.
Do you think that's a serious possibility
that we should explore with the tools of science?
Like this should be a serious effort?
I think yes and no.
And I mean, yes, because I think it's a serious hypothesis
and I think it's worth exploring
and it is certainly more economical
to look for signs of alien life on earth
than it is to go and build spacecraft
and send robots to other planets.
And that was one of the reasons it was proposed is,
well, if we do find an example
of another original life on earth,
it's hugely informative
because it means the original life is not a rare event.
If it happened twice on the same planet,
that means it's probably pretty probable
given conditions are right.
So it has huge potential scientific impact,
not to mention the fact that you might have like biochemistry
and stuff that's informative for like medicine
and stuff like that.
But I think that the thing for me that's challenging about it
and this really comes from my own work,
like thinking about life as a planetary scale process
and also trying to understand sometimes what I call
like the statistical mechanics of biochemistry
but large scale statistical patterns
in the chemistry that life uses on earth.
There are a lot of regularities there
and life does seem to have planetary scale organization
that's consistent even with some of the patterns
that we see at the individual scale.
So if you think life is a planetary scale phenomena
and the chemistry of life has to be sort of not just,
it's not an individual is not necessarily
the fundamental unit of life, right?
The fundamental unit of life is these informational lineages
and they're kind of, they intersect over spatial scale.
So everything on earth is kind of related
by that common causal history.
So it's hard for me based on the way I think about the physics
and also some of the stuff that my group has done
to really think that there could be evidence
or there could be a second sample of life on earth.
But I think there are ways that we need
to be more concrete about that.
And I have thought a little bit about like,
you know, like you can represent the chemistry
in an individual cell as a network.
And then those networks, something my group has shown
actually scale with the same property.
So ecosystems have the same properties as individuals
as planetary scale.
And then you could imagine
if you had alien chemistry intermixed in there,
that scaling would be broken.
So if there's some robustness property
or something associated to it
and you get alien chemistry in there,
it just breaks everything.
And you don't have a planetary ecosystem functioning
and individuals functioning across all these scales.
So I guess what I'm arguing is life is not a scale
dependent phenomena.
It's not just cellular life.
So if you have a shadow biosphere,
it has to be integrated with all of these other scales.
And that would lose the meaning
of the word shadow biosphere.
I think so, yeah.
So it's an open question, right?
And I think it would tell us a lot.
So there has been very minimal effort of people
to look for a shadow biosphere.
But then the question, it could be possible
that there's like sufficiently distinct planets
within one planet, meaning like environments
within one planet.
Like, I don't know.
I've been looking recently because of having a chat
with Catherine DeClerc about Io, the moon of Jupiter
that's like all volcanoes and volcanoes are badass,
but like imagining like-
Io's badass.
Imagining life inside volcanoes, right?
Like it seems like sufficiently chemically different,
like to be living in the darkness where there's a lot
of heat and maybe you can have different Earths
on like a planet.
Yeah.
Or like if you go deep enough in the crust,
maybe there's like a layer where there's no life
and then there's suddenly life again.
And maybe those, you know, lizard men
or whatever they have people dream about
are really down there.
I know that's a little flippant,
but really like there could be like chemical cycles
deep in their crust that might be alive
and are completely distinct in chemical origin
to surface life.
Right, that wouldn't be interacting with each other.
Yeah, and that's one of the proposals
for the shadow biosphere is like sometimes people talk
about it as being geologically or geographically distinct
that it might be, you know, you have no life
for this region and then a different example.
And then sometimes people talk about it
being chemically distinct that the chemistry
is sufficiently different,
that it's completely orthogonal
or non-interacting with our chemistry.
It seems to me at least the chemistry
is a more powerful boundary.
Yes.
Than geographic.
It just seems like life finds a way literally to travel.
Yeah, yes.
What do you think about all these UFO sightings?
So to me, it's really inspiring.
It's yet another localized way to dream
about the mysterious that is out there.
Yeah.
So I've actually been more intrigued
by the cultural phenomena UFOs
than the phenomena UFOs themselves
because I think it's intriguing
about how we are preparing ourselves mentally
for understanding others
and how we have thought about that historically
