that we don't understand yet
that have something to do with
how information interacts with the physical world.
I don't know exactly what I mean even when I say that
because we don't know these rules.
But it's a little bit like, I like to use analogies.
You give me time to be like a little long-winded
for a second, even in essay.
But sort of like, if you look at the history of physics
for example, this is like, so we are in the period
of the development of thought on our planet
where we don't understand what we are yet, right?
There was a period of thought in the history of our planet
where we didn't understand what gravity was.
And we didn't understand, for example,
that the planets in the heavens were actually planets
or that they operated by the same laws that we did.
And so there has been this sort of progression
of getting a deeper understanding
of explaining basic phenomena like,
I'm not gonna drop the cup, I'll drop the water bottle.
Okay, that fell, right?
But why did that fall?
This is why I'm a theorist, not an experiment specialist.
I could have gone wrong in so many ways.
I know, I could have, especially if I did the confidence smash.
Anyway.
So if you take this view that there's sort of
some missing principles, I associate them to information.
And what the sort of feeling there is,
there's some missing explanatory framework
for how our universe works.
And if we understood that physics,
it would explain what we are.
It might also explain a lot of other features
we don't associate to life.
And so it's a little like people accept the fact
that gravity is a universal phenomena.
But when we want to study gravity,
we study things like large scale galactic structures
or black holes or planets.
If we want to understand information
and how it operates in the physical world,
we study intelligent systems or living systems
because they are the manifestation of that physics.
And the fact that we can't see that clearly yet
or we don't have that explanatory framework,
I think it's just because we haven't been thinking
about the problem deeply enough.
But I feel like if you're explaining something,
you're deriving it from some more fundamental property.
And of course, I have to say I'm wearing my physicist hat.
So I have a huge bias of liking simple, elegant explanations
of the universe that really are compelling.
But I think one of the things that I've sort of maybe
in some ways rejected my training as a physicist
is that most of the elegant explanations
that we have so far don't include us in the universe.
And I can't help but think there's something really special
about what we are and there have to be some deep principles
at play there.
And so that's sort of my perspective on it.
Now, when you ask me what life is,
I have some ideas of what I think it is,
but I think that we haven't gotten there yet
because we haven't been able to see that structure.
And just to go back to the gravity example,
it's a little like in ancient times,
they didn't know, I was talking about stars
and heavens and things.
They didn't know those were governed
by the same principles as that starting to experiment.
Here's where I was going with it.
Once you realize like Newton did that,
heavenly motions and earthly motions
are governed by the same principles
and you unify terrestrial and celestial motion,
you get these more powerful ideas.
And I think where life is,
is somehow unifying these abstract ideas
of computation and information with the physical world,
with matter and realizing that there's some
explanatory framework that's not physics
and it's not computation, but it's something that's deeper.
So answering the question of what is life requires
deeply understanding something about the universe
as information processing, universe is computation.
Sort of.
Once you come up with an answer to what is life,
will the words information and computation
be in the paragraph?
No, I don't think so.
Oh, damn it.
I know, it doesn't help, does it?
I know, actually I hate this about what I do
because it's so hard to communicate with words.
Like when you have words that are ideas
that have historically described one thing
and you're trying to describe something
people haven't seen yet and the words just don't fit.
So what's wrong?
Is it too ambiguous the word information?
We could switch to binary if you want.
Yeah, no, I don't think it's binary either.
I think information is just loaded.
I use it, so the other way I might talk about it
is the physics of causation, but I think that's worse
because causation is even more loaded
word than information.
So causation is fundamental, you think?
I do, yeah.
And in some sense, I think the physics,
so this is the really radical part.
Some sense, like when I really think about it
most deeply, what I think life is,
is actually the physics of existence.
What gets to exist and why?
And for simple elementary particles,
that's not very complicated because the interactions
are simple, but for things like you and me
and human civilizations, what comes next in the universe
is really dependent on what came before.
And there's a huge space of possibilities
of things that can exist.
And when I say information and causation, what I mean is,
why is it that cups evolved in the universe
and not some other object that could deliver water
and not spill it?
I don't know what you would call it.
Maybe it wouldn't be a cup, but it's a huge,
it's, you know, people talk about the space of things
that could exist as being actually infinitely large, right?
I don't know if I believe in infinity,
but I do think that there is something very interesting
about the problem of what exists in its relationship to life.
So do you think the set of things
that could exist as finite is very large,
but like if we were to think about the physics of existence,
like how many shapes of mugs can there be?
Like is it an initial programming?
I should go to the math department for that.
So that's not a topology question.
I just mean, maybe another way to ask is,
what do you think is fundamental to the universe
and what is emergent?
So if existence, I was supposed to think of that
as somehow fundamental, you think?
So there's a couple of problems in physics
that I think this is related to.
One is why does mathematics work
at describing reality so well?
And then there is this problem of we don't understand
why the laws of physics are the way they are
or why certain things get to exist
or what put in place the initial condition of our universe,
right?
There's all of these sort of really deep and big problems
and they all indirectly are related,
I think to the same kind of thing that,
our physics is really good if you specify
the initial condition at specifying
a certain sequence of events,
but it doesn't deal with the fact
that other things could have happened,
which is kind of an informational property,
like a counterfactual property.
And it's not good at explaining this conversation right now.
It's just, there are certain things
that are outside the explanatory reach of current physics
and I think they require looking at it
from a completely different direction.
And so I don't wanna have to fine tune
the initial condition of the universe
to specify precisely all the information
in this conversation.
I think that's a ridiculous assertion,
but that's sort of like how people wanna frame it
when they're talking about,
the standard model is sufficient
if we had computing power
to basically explain all of life in our existence.
An interesting thing you said is,
the way we think about information and computation
is by observing a particular kind of systems on earth
that exhibit something we think of as intelligence.
But that's like looking at,
I guess the tip of an iceberg
and we should be really looking at the fundamentals
of like the iceberg,
like what makes water and ice
and the chemistry that,
from which intelligence emerges essentially.
We can't just couple the information from the physics
and I think that's what we've gotten really good at doing,
especially with sort of the modern age
where software is so abstracted from hardware.
But the entire process of biological evolution
has basically been built,
like been building layers of increasing abstraction.
And so it's really hard to see that physics in us,
