on the planet and what information has been doing
for the last four billion years is probably very informative
to asking questions about what's coming next.
And I don't, one is planetary scale transitions
are really important for new phases.
So the global internet and sort of global integration
of our technology, I think is an important thing.
So that's again, life is a planetary scale phenomena,
but we're an integrated component of that phenomena.
I don't really see that the technology is gonna replace us
in that way.
It's just gonna keep scaffolding and building.
And I also don't have an idea
that we're gonna build AI in a box.
I think AI is gonna emerge.
AI to be is a planetary scale phenomena
that's gonna emerge from our technology.
Planetary scale phenomena.
But do you think an AI is not distinct from humans?
Where the whole package comes as a planetary scale phenomena.
And that goes back to the fact that like,
you were asking questions about you as an individual.
Like what are you as an individual?
You're like a packet of information
that exists in the particular physical thing that is you.
We're all just packets of information.
Some of us are aggregates in certain ways,
but it's all just kind of exchanging
and propagating and processing.
Is your packet of information
that you've continually referred to as Sarah
afraid of the dissipation of the death of that packet?
Are you afraid of death?
Do ponder death?
Does death have meaning in this process of creativity?
I think I have the natural biological urge
that everyone has to fear death.
I think the thing that I think is interesting
is if I think about it rationally,
I'm not necessarily afraid of death for me
because I won't be aware of being dead.
But I am afraid like for my kids
because it matters to them if I die.
So again, like I think death becomes more significant
as a collective property, not as an individual one.
Yeah, but isn't there something to fear
about the fact that the way like the creative,
the complexity of information
that's been like created in you.
Yeah.
The fact that it kind of breaks apart and disappears.
It doesn't, but I don't think it disappears.
It's just not me anymore.
Right, so you're, but that process of you
it being not you anymore, that doesn't scare you?
Of course it does.
The mystery of it.
I mean, the...
But I guess I'm heartened by the fact
that there will be some imprints of the fact
that I existed still in the universe after I leave it.
Yeah, but there'll be a, well, okay.
And also that has to do with my perception of time, right?
So, I perceive time is flowing,
but that might not be the case.
I mean, this is standard physicist's comfort
is every moment exists and there's no,
and the flow of time is just our perception
of us changing.
So you can travel back in time and that's comforting?
Like from a physicist's perspective?
No, no, no, I'm not talking about traveling back in time.
I'm just saying that the moments in the past still exist.
Now, whether the moments in the future exist or not
is a different question.
That's not comforting to me in terms of death.
The flow of time does not...
I think there's no comfort in the face of death
for what we are.
Because we like existing.
And I think it's especially true if you love life
and you love what life is.
Do you think there's a certain sense in which
the fear of death or the fear of non-existence,
maybe fear is not the right word,
is the actual very phenomena that gives birth to existence?
Like death is fundamental.
It just feels like freaking out, oh shit, this ride ends.
That's the thing that gives birth to this whole thing.
That it's constantly,
it's matter constantly freaking out
about the fact that it's gonna be the most...
No, I think things like to exist.
I think they wanna exist.
Yeah, there's a desire whatever to exist.
Yeah, there's a drive to exist
and there's a drive for more things to exist.
I guess, yeah, I like existing.
I like it a lot.
And I don't know it any other way.
See, I don't even know if I like existing.
I think I really don't like not existing.
Yes, yeah, that's you.
Yeah, maybe it's that.
Some days I might like existing less than others.
Yes, but I think those are like surface feelings.
There seems like there's something fundamental
about wanting to exist.
I think that's right, but I think to your point
that that might go back to the more fundamental idea
that if life is the physics of existence
and maximizing existence, individual organisms
of course wanna maximize their existence
and everything wants to exist.
But I guess for me, the small comfort is
my existence matters to future existence.
Speaking of future existence, is there advice
you can give to future pockets of existences,
AKA young people, about life?
You've had, you've worn many hats.
You've taken on some of the biggest problems
in the universe.
Is there advice you can give to young people
about life, about career, about existing?
Maybe not about the last one.
You know, a lot of people ask me this question
about like working on such hard problems.
Like how can you make a successful career out of that?
But I think for me, it couldn't be otherwise.
Like I have to be fulfilled.
You have to work on things you care about
and that's always kind of driven me.
And that's been discipline, department
and sort of superficial level problem and dependent
because I started at community college actually
and I was taking a physics class
and I learned about, you know, magnetic monopoles
and we didn't know if they existed in the universe
but we could predict them and we could go look for them.
And I was so deeply intrigued by this idea
that we had this mathematical formula
to go look for things.
And then I wanted to become a theoretical physicist
because of that, but that actually wasn't my driving question.
I realized my driving question is the nature
of the correspondence between our minds
and physical reality and what we are.
And that question is very deep
so you can work across a lot of fields doing that.
But I think without that driving question,
I never would have been able to do all the things
that I've done.
It's really the passion that drives it.
And usually when students ask me these kind of questions,
I tell them like, you have to find something
you really care about working on
because if you don't really care about it,
A, you're not gonna be your best at it
and B, it's not gonna be worth your time.
Why would you spend your time working
on something you're not interested in?
So find the driving question.
Yeah, find the driving question.
Find your passion.
I mean, I think passion makes a huge difference
in terms of creativity, talent and potential
and also being able to tolerate all the hard things
that come with any career or life.
Yeah, I've had a bunch of moments in my life
where I've just been captivated by some beautiful phenomena
and I guess being rigorous about it
and asking what is the question underlying this phenomenon?
Like robots bring a smile to my face
and forming a question of like,
why the hell is this so fascinating?
Why is this specifically the human robot interaction question
that something beautiful is brought to life
when humans and robots interact, understanding that deeply?
Yeah.
I was like, okay, so this is gonna be my life work then.
I don't know what the hell it is,
but that's what I wanna do.
Interesting.
And doing that for whatever the hell gives you
that kind of feeling, I guess is the point.
Yeah.
Am I allowed to ask you a question?
Sure.
Okay, on that point,
because I like, I had this colleague that suggested the idea
that like consciousness might be contagious.
And so interacting with things.
You know, it's an interesting idea, right?
So I'm wondering like sort of, you know, the motivation there,
is it the motivation that you want more of the universe
to appreciate things the way we do
and appreciate those interactions
or is it really more the enjoyment
of the human in those interactions?
Like is it, is it, I don't, do you know what I'm asking?
