Yeah, yeah.
I think consciousness is created
in the interaction between things.
Yes.
Yes, I agree.
So the joy is in the creation of consciousness.
I see.
I really like the idea that it doesn't just have to be
two humans creating consciousness together.
It could be humans and other entities.
Yes.
We talked offline about dogs and other pets and so on.
There's a magic, I mean, I've been calling it love.
It's just this beauty of the human experience that's created.
And it just feels like fascinating
that you could do that with a robotic system.
Right.
And...
Right.
There's something really powerful, at least to me,
about engineering systems that allow you
to create some of the magic of the human experience
because then you get to understand what it takes,
at least get inklings of what it takes
to create consciousness.
And I don't get this, you know,
philosophers get really upset about this idea
that sort of the illusion of consciousness is consciousness.
But I really like the idea of engineering systems
that fool you into thinking they're conscious.
Right.
Because that's sufficient to create the magical experience.
Right, because it's the interaction, yeah.
It's the interaction, yeah.
Right.
And this is the Russian hat I wear,
which is like, I think there's an ocean
of loneliness in the world.
I think we're deeply lonely.
We're not even allowing ourselves to acknowledge that.
And I kind of think that's what love is
between romantic love and friendship
is two people kind of getting a little bit,
like alleviating for a brief moment.
That loneliness?
That loneliness, but we're not,
it's not the full aspect of that loneliness.
Like we're desperately alone.
We're desperately afraid of non-existing.
Right.
I have that kind of sense.
And I just wanna explore that ocean of loneliness more.
Right.
When engineering, like create a submarine
that goes into the depth of that loneliness.
So creating systems that can truly hear you.
Right.
And truly listen.
Make the universe a less lonely place.
Exactly.
Let me ask you about the meaning.
You've brought up why.
The physics of why.
What do you think is the meaning of our particular planets,
set of existences, and the universe in general?
The meaning of life.
Yes.
Someone once told me as a physicist,
I'm not allowed to ask why questions,
but I don't believe that.
So I think what we are is the creative process
in the universe, I think.
And for me, that's the meaning.
The ability to create more possibilities
and more things to exist.
What does the Yeski has the saying,
beauty will save the world.
What is, is there connection between creation and beauty?
I think so.
So is that like, is beauty a correlate of creation?
It might be, I don't know.
I mean, why is it, you know,
a lot of people have asked these kind of questions,
but like, why is it we have such an emotional response
to intellectual activity or creativity?
And that seems kind of a deep question to me.
Like, it seems very intrinsic to what we are.
So I do have an interest in the questions I ask
because I think they're beautiful
and I think the universe is beautiful.
And I'm just so deeply fascinated by the fact
that I exist at all.
And so maybe it's that intrinsic feeling of beauty
that's in part driving, you know,
the physics of creating more things
so they could be deeper related in that way.
Well, I don't think there's a better way to end it.
I think this conversation was beautiful.
Thank you so much for wasting all your valuable time
with me today.
I really, really appreciate it, Sarah.
This is an honor.
I hope we get the chance to talk again.
I hope, like I mentioned to you offline,
we get a chance to talk with Lee.
You guys have a beautiful intellectual chemistry
that's fascinating to listen to.
So I'm a huge fan of both of you
and I can't wait to see what you do next.
Thanks so much.
Great to be here.
Fun.
Thanks for listening to this conversation with Sarah Walker
and thank you to Athletic Greens, Nutsweet,
Blinkist and Magic Spoon.
Check them out in the description
to support this podcast.
And now let me leave you with some words from Robert Frost,
one of my favorite poets.
In three words,
I can sum up everything I've learned about life.
It goes on.
Thank you for listening.
I hope to see you next time.
