versus like, what is your subconscious brain
actually processing and doing?
And sometimes there's conflict
between your consciousness and your subconsciousness
or your consciousness is a little slower
than your subconscious.
And intuition is a really important feature of that.
And so a lot of the ways I do my science
is guided by intuition.
So when I give fast answers like that,
I think it's usually because I haven't really thought
about them and therefore that's probably telling me something.
Let's continue the deep analysis of your tweets.
You said that determinism in a tweet,
determinism and randomness play important roles
in understanding what life is.
So let me ask on this topic of free will,
what is determinism?
What is randomness?
And why the heck do they have anything to do
with understanding life?
Yeah.
And you threw free will in there.
You just thrown all the stuff in the bag.
Are they not related to-
No, no, they are related.
No, no, I'm sorry, I was being unfair.
You didn't even capitalize the tweet, by the way.
It was all lowercase.
I must have been angry.
Oh, that was, was that,
can you analyze the emotion behind that?
Is it frustration or-
Yeah, maybe.
So I already argued that I don't think that can happen
without that whole causal history.
And so I guess in some sense,
the determinism for me arises because of the causal history.
And I'm not really sure actually about whether
the universe is random or deterministic.
I just had this sort of intuition for a long time.
I'm not sure if I agree with it anymore,
but it's still kind of lingering.
And I don't know what to do with this question.
But it seems to me,
so there's, you asked the question, what is life?
But you could also, why life?
Why does life exist?
What does the universe need life for?
Not that the universe has needs,
but we have to anthropocentrize things sometimes
to talk about them.
And I had this feeling that if it was possible
for a cup or a desk ornament or a phone on Mars
to spontaneously fluctuate into existence,
the universe didn't need life to create those objects.
It wasn't necessary for their existence.
It was just a random fluke event.
And so somehow to me it seems that it can't be
that those things formed by random processes,
they actually have to have a set of causes
that accrue and form those things
and they have to have that history.
And so it seems to me that life was somehow deeply related
to the question of whether the underlying rules
of our universe had randomness in them
or they were fully deterministic.
And in some ways you can think about life
as being the most deterministic part of physics
because it's where the causes are precise in some sense.
Or more stable, so like-
Most stable, yes, most reliable.
Most reliable for our, for how we, for the tools of physics.
But what-
Right, well-
Where's the randomness come from then?
Okay, so you were at speaking with-
I've gone in a tangent,
so I'm not sure where we are in the, yeah.
All of the universe is a kind of tangent.
So we're embracing the tangent.
So free will, you believe-
Yes.
At this current time that you have free will.
I believe my whole life I have free will.
What is illusion?
Not just kidding.
I still believe it.
You still believe it.
So at the same time, you think that
in your conception of the universe,
causality seems to be pretty fundamental.
That's right.
Which kind of wants the universe to be deterministic.
So how the heck-
Because I'm a determinist.
Do you think you have a free will
and yet you value causality?
Because I depart from the conception of physics
that you can write down an initial condition
and a fixed law of motion
and that will describe everything.
There's no incompatibility
if you are willing to reject that assertion.
So where's the randomness?
Where's the magic that gives birth to the free will?
Is it the randomness of the laws of physics?
No, in my mind, what free will is,
is the fact that I as a physical system
have causal control over certain things.
I don't have causal control over everything,
but I have a certain set of things.
And I'm also, as I described,
sort of a nexus of a particular set of histories
that exist in the universe
and a particular set of futures that might exist.
And those futures that might exist
are in part specified by my physical configuration as me.
And therefore, it may not be free will
in the traditional sense.
I don't even know what people mean
when they're talking about free will, honestly.
It's like the whole discussion is really muddled.
But in the sense that I am a causal agent,
if you wanna call it that, that exists in the universe.
And there are certain things that happen
because I exist as me, then yes, I have free will.
No, but do you, Sarah, have a choice
about what's going to happen next?
Oh, I see.
If the universe, could I have, if I run this?
Yes, I think so.
You have a choice.
Where's the choice come from?
Is it?
I think that's related to the physics of consciousness.
So one of the things I didn't say about that,
I don't know, maybe this is me just being hopeful
because maybe I just wanna have free will.
But I don't think that we can rule out the possibility
because I don't think that we understand enough
about any of these problems.
But I think one of the things that's interesting for me
about the sort of inversion of the question
of consciousness that I proposed
is one of the features that we do
is we have imagination, right?
And people don't think about imagination
as a physical thing, but it is a physical thing.
It exists in the universe, right?
And so I'm really intrigued by the fact that, say,
humans for, another physical system could do this too.
It's not special to humans, but for centuries,
imagined flying machines and rockets,
and then we finally built them, right?
So they were represented in our minds
and on the pages of things that we drew
for hundreds of years before we could build
those physical objects in the universe.
But certainly the existence of rockets is, in part,
causally caused by the fact that we could imagine them.
And so there seems to be this property
that some things don't exist.
They've never physically existed in the universe,
but we can imagine the possibility of them existing
and then cause them to exist,
maybe individually or collectively.
And I think that property is related
to what I would say about having choice or free will
because that set of possibilities,
that thing, those set of things that you can imagine
is not constrained to your local physical environment
and history.
And this is what's a little bit different
about intelligence as we see it in humans
and AI that we wanna build than biological intelligence
because biological intelligence is predicated completely
on the history of things that's seen in the past,
but something happened with the neural architectures
that evolved in multicellular organisms
that they don't just have access to the past history
of their particular set of events,
that they can imagine things that haven't happened
are on their timeline.
And as long as they're consistent with the laws of physics,
make them happen.
So this is fascinating.
It's trippy physics, but it exists, so there you go.
I mean, in some sense, if you look at like
general relativity and gravity morphing space time,
in that same way, maybe whatever the physics
of consciousness might be, it might be morphing.
That's like what free will is.
It's morphing like the space,
just like ideas make rockets come to life.
It's somehow changing the space
of possible realizations of like whatever's.
Yeah, okay, but that's-
Life is kind of basically, if you wanna think about it,
like life is sort of changing the probability distributions
