and what the sort of modern incarnations of that are.
It's more like I want an explanation for us.
That's my motivation.
And having some, you know, streaks across the sky
or something and saying that's aliens.
It doesn't tell you anything.
So unless you have a deeper explanation
and you have, you know, more lines of, you know,
where is this going to take us in the future?
It's just not as interesting to me
as the problem of understanding life itself
and aliens as a more general phenomena.
I do think it's just as he said,
a good way to psychologically and sociologically
prepare ourselves to sort of like,
what would that look like?
Right.
And very importantly,
which is what a lot of people talk about politically.
There's this idea from the,
so it came from the Soviet Union of like the Cold War
and we have to hide secrets.
There's some way in us searching for life
and other planets or our searching for life in general,
the way we've done government in the past,
we tend to think of all new things
as potential military secrets.
So we want to hide them.
And one of the ways that people kind of look
at UFO sightings is like,
maybe we shouldn't hide this stuff.
Like what is the government hiding?
I think that's a really, you know,
in one sense it's a conspiratorial question,
but I think in another,
it's an inspiration to change the way we do government
to where secrets don't,
maybe there are times when you want to keep secrets
as military secrets,
but maybe we need to release a lot more stuff
and see us as a human species
as together in this whole search.
Yeah, the public engagement part there
is really interesting.
And it's almost like a challenge
to the way we've done stuff in the past
in terms of keeping secrets.
When they're not, so like the first step,
if you don't know how something works,
if there's a mysterious thing,
the first instinct should not be like, let's hide it.
Let's put it in the closet.
So that the Chinese or the Russian government
or whatever government doesn't find it.
Maybe the first instinct should be, let's understand it.
Perhaps let's understand it together.
Right.
No, I think that's good.
And something I realized recently
that I never thought was gonna be a problem,
but I think this actually helps with quite a bit
is because so many people nowadays
believe we've already made contact
that as an astrobiologist,
if we actually want to understand life
and make contact, we kind of have to deconstruct
the narratives we've already built from ourselves
and kind of untie ourselves
that we've learned about aliens and then reteach ourselves.
So there's this really interesting sort of dialogue there
and making it open to the public
that they actually have to think critically about it
and they see the evidence for themselves,
I think is really important for that process.
Yeah, that aliens might be way weirder than we can imagine.
Yes.
Yes, I'm pretty sure they're probably weirder
than we can imagine.
Okay, we've in 2020 and still living through a pandemic,
setting the political and all those kinds of things aside,
I've always found viruses fascinating
as dynamical systems.
I was gonna say living systems,
but I've always kind of thought of them as living,
but that's a whole nother kind of discussion.
Maybe it'd be great to put that on the table.
One, do you find viruses beautiful slash terrifying?
And two, do you think they're living things?
Or there's some aspect of them
per our discussion of life that makes them living?
I mean, living in a pandemic saying viruses are beautiful,
it's probably a hard thing,
but I do find them beautiful to a degree.
I think even in the sense of mediating
a global pandemic,
there's something like deeply intriguing there
because these are tiny, tiny little things, right?
And yet they can essentially cause a seizure,
handicap and entire civilization at a global scale.
So just that intersection of between
our perceived invincibility and our susceptibility to things
and also the interaction across scales of those things
is just a really amazing feature of our world.
Most technology, whether it's viruses or AI
that can scale in an exponential way,
like kind of run as opposed to like one thing makes
another thing, makes another thing,
it's one thing makes two things
and those two things make four things.
And then like that kind of process
also seems to be fundamental to life.
And it's terrifying because in a matter of,
in a very short time scale,
if it's good at being life, whatever that is,
it can quickly overtake the other competing forms of life.
And that's scary both for AI and for viruses.
And it seems like understanding these processes
that are underlying viruses.
I don't mean like on the virology or biology side,
but on some kind of more computational physics perspective
as we've been talking about,
seems to be really important to figure out
how humans can survive along with these kinds of,
all this kind of life.
And perhaps becoming a multi-planetary species
is a part of that.
Like there's no, maybe like we'll figure out
from a physics perspective is like, there's no way
any living system can be stable for a prolonged period of time
and survive unless it expands exponentially throughout.
Like we have to multiply.
Otherwise anything that doesn't multiply exponentially
will die eventually.
Maybe that's a fundamental law.
Maybe.
I don't know, I always get really bothered
by these Darwinian narratives that are like,
the fittest replicator wins and things that I don't,
I just don't feel like that's exactly what's going on.
I think like the copying of information is sort of
ancillary to this other process of creativity, right?
So like the drive is actually, the drive is creativity,
but if you wanna keep the creativity that's existed
in the past, it has to be copied into the future.
So replication, like if you, so that for me is,
so I had this set of arguments with Michael Lachman
and Lee Cronin about the like life being about persistence.
They thought it was about persistence
and like survival of fittest kind of thing.
And I'm like, no, it's about existence.
It's like, cause when you're talking about that,
it's easy to say that in retrospect,
you can post-select on the things that survived
and then say why they survived,
but you can't do that going forward.
That's really profound.
That survival is just a nice little side effect feature
of maximizing creativity, but it doesn't need to be there.
Yeah.
That's really beautiful.
I like that.
Yeah.
Like I said, I like optimistic theories.
Well, I don't know if that's optimistic.
That could be terrifying to people because,
because a system that maximizes creativity
may very quickly get rid of humans for some reason,
if it comes up with some other creative forms of existence.
Yeah.
Right, this is the AI thing.
It's like the moment you have an AI system
that can flourish in the space of ideas
or in some other space much more effectively than humans,
and it's sufficiently integrated into the physical space
to be able to modify the environment.
I think we'll just be like the core genetic architecture
or something, we'll be like the DNA for AI, right?
It's like we haven't lost
the past informational architectures on this planet.
They're still there.
Yeah, so the AI will use our brains in some part
to like ride, like accelerate the exchange of ideas.
That's the neural link dream,
is that, well, the humans will be still around
because you're saying architecture.
Yeah, but I don't even think they necessarily need
to tap into our brains.
I mean, just collectively we do interesting things.
What if they were just using like the patterns
in our communication or something?
Oh, without controlling it, just observing?
Well, I don't know.
In what sense do you control the chemistry
happening in your body?
Hmm, yeah.
I mean, obviously I don't know.
I'm just, like the way I look at, like people look at AI
and then they look at this thing that's bigger than us
and is coming in the future and is smarter than us.
And I think though that looking at the past history of life
