over what can exist.
That's the physics of what life is.
And then consciousness is sort of layered property
or imagination on top of it
that kind of scrambles that a little bit more
and like has access to, I don't know.
It's kind of, we don't know how to describe it, right?
Like that's why it's interesting, but-
But it's probabilistic,
so you do think like God plays dice, so let me-
No, I think the description's probabilistic.
I don't necessarily think the underlying physics
is probabilistic.
I think the way that we can describe this physics
is going to be probabilistic and statistical,
but the under, like when we take measurements in the lab,
but the underlying physics itself
might still be deterministic.
I don't know, maybe I'm,
it's hard to know what concepts to hold on to.
So I find myself constantly rejecting concepts,
but then I have to grab another one
and try to hold on to something from intellectual history.
Well, it's possible that our mind is not able
to hold the correct concepts in mind at all.
Like we're not able to even conceive of them correctly.
Maybe the words deterministic or random
are not the right, even words, concepts to be holding.
But maybe you can talk to the theory of everything,
this attempt in the current set of physical laws
to try to unify them.
Is there any hope that once a theory of everything
is developed, and by theory of everything,
I mean in a narrow sense,
of unifying quantum field theory and general relativity,
do you think that will contain some,
like in order to do that unification,
you would have to get something
that would then give hints about the physics of life,
physics of existence, physics of consciousness.
Yeah, I used to not,
but I actually, I have become increasingly convinced
that it probably will.
And part of the reason is,
I think I've talked a little bit already
about these holes in physics,
like these, the theories we have in physics,
they have problems, they have lots of problems,
and they're very deep problems,
and we don't know how to patch them.
And some of those problems become very evident
when you try to patch quantum mechanics
and general relativity together.
So there is this kind of interesting feature
that some of the ways of patching that
might actually closely resemble the physics of life.
And so the place where that actually comes up most,
and actually we just had a workshop
in the Beyond Center where I work at Arizona State University,
and Lee Smolin made this point,
that he thinks that the theory of quantum gravity,
when we solve it, is gonna be the same theory
that gives rise to life.
And I think that I agree with him on some levels,
because there's something very interesting where,
if you look at these sort of causal set theories of gravity,
where they're looking for space as being emergent,
and so space time is an emergent concept from a causal set,
which is also sort of related,
I think to what Wolfram's doing with his physics project,
it's the same kind of underlying math
that we have in this theory
that we've been developing related to life
called assembly theory,
which is basically trying to look at complex objects
like molecules and bacteria and living things
as sort of, as basically being assembled
from a set of component parts,
and that they actually encode all the possible histories
that they could have in that physical object.
So mathematically, all these ideas I think are related,
I think a lot of people are thinking about this
from different perspectives,
and then constructor theory that David Deutch
and Karen Merledo have been developing
is a totally different angle on it,
but I think getting at some similar ideas,
so it's a really interesting time right now, I think,
for the frontiers of physics
and how it's relating to maybe deeper principles
about what life is.
So short answer, yes, long winded answer, rewind.
Can we talk about aliens?
Anytime.
So one, I think one interesting way to sneak up
on the question of what is life
is to ask what should we look for in alien life?
You know, if we were to look out into our galaxy
and into the universe and come up with a framework
of how to detect alien life,
what should we be looking for?
Is there like set of rules?
Like it's both the tools and the tools
that are service sensors for certain kinds
of properties of life.
So what should we look for in alien life?
So we have a paper actually coming out on Monday,
which is collaboration.
It's actually really Lee Cronin's lab,
but my group worked with him on it
and we're working on the theory,
which is this idea that we should look for life
as high assembly objects.
What we mean by that is,
which is actually observationally measurable,
and this is one of the reasons
that I started working with Lee on these ideas
is because being a theorist,
it's easy to work in a vacuum.
It's very hard to connect abstract ideas
about the nature of life
to anything that's experimentally tractable.
But what his lab has been able to do
is develop this method where they look at a molecule
and they break it apart into all its component parts.
And so you say you have some elementary building blocks
and you can build up all the ways
of putting those together to make the original object.
And then you look for the shortest path in that space
and you say that's sort of the assembly number
associated to that object.
And if that number is higher,
it assumes that a longer causal history
is necessary to produce that object
or more information is necessary to specify
the creation of that object in the universe.
Now that kind of idea at a superficial level
has existed for a long time.
That kind of idea as a physical observable of molecules
is completely novel.
And what his lab has been able to show
is that if you look at a bunch of samples
of non-biological things and biological things,
there's this kind of threshold of assembly
where as far as the experimental evidence is
and also your intuitive intuition would suggest
that non-biological systems don't produce things
with high assembly number.
So this goes back to the idea like a protein
is not gonna spontaneously fluctuate into existence
on the surface of Mars.
It requires an evolutionary process
and a biological architecture to produce a protein.
You generalize that argument,
a complex molecule or a cup or a desk ornament
in this sort of abstract idea of assembly spaces
as being the causal history of objects.
And you can talk about the shortest path
from elementary objects to an object
given a elementary set of operations.
And you can experimentally measure that with a mass spec.
And that's basically the sort of the idea.
That's really fascinating.
I can't get out of my head.
I'd start imagining Legos
and all the Legos I've ever built and how many steps.
What is the shortest path to the final little Lego castles?
Yeah, so then like asking about going to look for alien life.
The idea is, you know, most of the instruments
that NASA builds, for example,
or any of the space agencies looking for life in the universe
are looking for chemical correlates of life, right?
But here we have something
that is based on properties and molecules.
It's not a chemical correlate.
It's agnostic.
It doesn't care about the molecule.
It cares about what is the history
necessary to produce this molecule?
How complex is it in terms of how much time is needing?
How much information is required to produce it?
So when you observe a thing on another planet,
you're essentially, the process looks like reverse engineering,
trying to figure out what is the shortest path
to create that thing?
Yeah, so most, yeah.
And I would say most examples of biology or technology
don't take the shortest path, right?
But the shortest path is a bound on how hard it is
for the universe to make that.
Yeah, and I guess you and Lee are saying
that there's a heuristic, that's a good metric
for like better perhaps than chemical correlates.
Yes, because it's not contingent on looking
for the chemistry of life on Earth, on other planets.
And it also has a deeper explanatory framework
associated to it as far as the kind of theory
that we're trying to develop associated to what life is.
And I think this is one of the problems I have
in my field personally in astrobiology
