The following is a conversation with Sarah Walker,
an astrobiologist and theoretical physicist
at Arizona State University and the Santa Fe Institute.
She's interested in the origin of life,
how to find life on other worlds,
and in general, the more fundamental question
of what even life is.
She seeks to discover the universal laws
that describe living systems on Earth and elsewhere,
using physics, biology, and computation.
Quick mention of our sponsors,
Athletic Greens, NetSuite, Blinkist, and Magic Spoon.
Check them out in the description to support this podcast.
As a side note, let me say that my hope for this podcast
is to try and alternate between technical
and non-technical discussions,
to jump from the big picture down to specific detail research
and back to the big picture,
and to do so with scientists and non-scientists.
Long term, I hope to alternate between discussions
of cutting edge research in AI, physics, biology,
to topics of music, sport, and history,
and then back to AI.
AI is home.
I hope you come along with me
for that wild, oscillating journey.
Some people messaged me saying to slow down
since they're falling behind on the episodes of this podcast.
To their disappointment, I have to say
that I'll probably do more episodes, not less,
but you really don't need to listen to every episode.
Just listen to the ones that spark your curiosity.
Think about it like a party full of strangers.
You don't have to talk to everyone.
Just walk over to the ones who look interesting
and get to know them.
And if you're lucky, that one conversation with a stranger
might change the direction of your life.
And it's the short life, so be picky with the strangers
you talk to at this metaphorical party.
This is the Lux Friedman podcast,
and here is my conversation with Sarah Walker.
How did life originate on Earth?
What are the various hypotheses
for how life originated on Earth?
Yeah, so I guess you're asking a historical question,
which is always a good place to start thinking about life.
So there's a lot of ideas about how life started on Earth.
Probably the most popular is what's called
the RNA world scenario.
So this idea is probably the one
that you'll see most reported in the news,
and is based on the idea that there are molecules
in our bodies that relay genetic information.
And we know those as DNA, obviously,
but there's also sort of an intermediary called RNA,
ribonucleic acid, that also plays the role of proteins.
And people came up with this idea in the 80s
that maybe that was the first genetic material
because it could play both roles
of being genetic and performing catalysis.
And then somehow that idea got reduced to this idea
that there was a molecule that emerged on early Earth
and underwent Darwinian evolution,
and that was the start of life.
So there's a lot of assumptions packed in there
that we could unpack,
but that's sort of the leading hypothesis.
There's also other ideas about life starting as metabolism,
and so that's more connected
to the geochemistry of early Earth,
and it would be kind of more focused on this idea
that you get some kind of catalytic cycle of molecules
that can reproduce themselves
and form some kind of metabolism.
And then life starts basically as self-organization,
and then you have to explain how evolution comes later.
Right, so that's the difference between
sort of energy and genetic code.
So like energy and information,
are those the two kind of things there?
Yeah, I think that's a good way of putting it.
It's kind of funny because I think most of the people
that think about these things are really disciplinary bias.
So the people that tend to think about genetics
come from a biology background,
and they're really evolution focused,
and so they're worried about
where does the information come from,
and how does it change over time?
But they're talking about information in a really narrow way
where they're talking about a genetic sequence.
And then most of the people that think about metabolism,
origins of life scenarios tend to be
people like physicists or geochemists
that are worried about what are the energy sources
and what kinds of organization
can you get out of those energy sources?
Okay, so which one is your favorite?
I don't like either.
Okay, can we talk about them for a little bit longer though?
Yeah, no, that's fine.
So okay, so there's early earth.
What was that like?
Was there just mostly covered by oceans?
Was there heat sources, energy sources?
So if we talk about the metabolism view
of the origin of life,
like where was the source of energy?
Probably the most popular view for where the original life
happened on earth is hydrothermal vents
because they had sufficient energy.
And so we don't really know a lot about early earth.
We have some ideas about when oceans first formed
and things like that,
but the time of the origin of life is kind of
not well understood or pinned down
and the conditions on earth at that time are not well known.
But a lot of people do think
that there was probably hydrothermal vents
which are really hot chemically active regions
say on the sea floor in modern times,
which also would have been present on early earth
and they would have provided energy and organics
and basically all of the right conditions
for the origins of life,
which is one of the reasons
that we look for these hydrothermal systems
when we're talking about life elsewhere too.
Okay, and for the genetic code,
the idea is that the RNA is the first,
like why would RNA be the first moment
you can say it's life?
I guess the idea is it could both have persistent information
and then it can also do some of the work
of like what, creating a self-sustaining organism?
Yeah, that's the basic idea.
So the idea is you have in an RNA molecule,
you have a sequence of characters say,
so you can treat it like a string in a computer
and it can be copied.
So information can be propagated,
which is important for evolution
because evolution happens
by having inheritance of information.
So for example, like my eyes are brown
because my mother's eyes were brown.
So you need that copying of information,
but then you also have the ability to perform catalysis,
which means that that RNA molecule
is not inert in that environment,
but it actually interacts with something
and could potentially mediate, say a metabolism
that could then fuel the actual reproduction
of that molecule.
So in some ways, people think that RNA gives you,
the most bang for your buck in a single molecule.
And therefore, it gives you all the features
that you might think are life.
And so this is sort of where this RNA world conjecture
came from is because of those two properties.
Isn't it amazing that RNA came to be in general?
Isn't it? Yes, that is amazing.
Okay, so we're not talking down about RNA.
No, no, I love RNA.
It's one of my favorite molecules.
I think it's beautiful.
It's just not step one.
Yeah, I think the issue,
it's not even the RNA world is a problem.
And actually, if you really dig into it,
the RNA world is not one hypothesis.
It is a set of hypothesis.
Hypothesis, sorry.
And they range from a molecule of RNA
spontaneously emerged on the early earth
and started evolving,
which is kind of like the hardest RNA world scenario,
which is the one I cited
and I get a little animated about
because it seems so blatantly wrong to me,
but that's a separate story.
And then the other one is actually something I agree with,
which is that you can say there was an RNA world
because RNA was the first genetic material
for life on earth.
So an RNA world could just be the earliest organisms
that had genetics in a modern sense
didn't have DNA evolved yet.
They had RNA, right?
And so that's sort of a softer RNA world scenario
in the sense that it doesn't mean
it was the first thing that happened,
but it was a thing that definitely was part
of the lineage of events that led to us.
So if life was like a best of album,
it would be on the,
it'd be one of the songs on there.
Yes. One of the early songs.
Okay.
