the set of undefined set of other things that could exist.
So can I ask a weird question, which is,
so let's look into the future.
I try that every day.
It never works.
So say a Nobel Prize is given in physics, maybe chemistry
for discovering the origin of life.
No, not, but not the historical origin.
Some kind of thing that we're talking about.
What exactly would,
what do you think that like,
what do you think that person,
maybe you did to get that Nobel Prize?
Like what would they have to have done?
Cause you could do a bunch of experiments that go like
within the aha moment.
Like you rarely get the Nobel Prize for like,
you've solved everything.
We're done.
It's like some inkling of some deep truth.
Like what do you think that would actually look like?
Would it be an experimental result?
I mean, it will have to have some kind of experimental
maybe validation component.
So what would that look like?
This is an excellent question.
I want to, sorry, I'm going to make a quick point,
which is just a slight tangent, but you know,
like when people ask about the origin of mass, you know,
and like looking for the Higgs mechanism and things,
they never are like,
we need to find the historical origins of life in the early,
although those things are related, right?
So this problem of origins of life in the lab,
I think is really important,
but the Higgs is a good example
because you had theory to guide it.
So somehow you need to have an explanatory framework
that can say that we should be looking for these features
and explain why they might be there
and then be able to do the experiment
and demonstrate that it matches with the theory,
but it has to be something that is outside sort of
the paradigm of what we might expect based on what we know,
right?
So this is a really sort of tall order.
And I think, I mean, I guess the way people would think
about it is like, you know, if you had a bacteria
that climbed out of your test tube or something
and it was like, you know, moving around on the surface,
that would be ultimate validation.
You saw the original life in an experiment,
but I don't think that's quite what we're looking for.
I think what we're looking for is evidence of when
information that originated within the balance
of your experiment and you can demonstratably prove
emerge spontaneously in your experiment,
wasn't put in by you,
actually started to govern the future dynamics
of that system and specify it.
And you could somehow relate those two features directly.
So you know that the program specifying what's happening
in that system is actually internal to that system.
Like say you have a chemical thing in a box.
Well, so that's one Nobel Prize winning experiment,
which is like information in some fundamental way
originated within the constraints of the system
without you injecting anything.
But another experiment is you injected something
and got out information.
Yes.
So like you injected, I don't know, like some sugar
and like something that doesn't necessarily feel
like it should be information.
Yeah.
So I actually know, I mean, sugar is information, right?
So part of the argument here is that every physical object
is well, it's information, but it's a set
of causal histories and also a set of possible futures.
So there is an experiment that I've talked a lot about
with Lee Cronin, but also with Michael Lachman
and Chris Kempfys who are at Santa Fe
about this idea that sometimes we talk about
as like seeding assembly, which is you take a high complexity,
like an object that exists in the universe
because of a long causal history
and you seed it into a system of lower causal history.
And then suddenly you see all of this complexity
being generated.
So I think another validation of the physics would be,
say you engineer an organism by purposefully introducing
something where you understand the relationship
between the causal history of the organism
and the say very complex chemical set of ingredients
you're adding to it.
And then you can predict the future evolution
of that system to some statistical set of constraints
and possibilities for what it will look like in the future.
You know, I'm a physical structure, obviously,
like I'm composed of atoms, the configuration of them
and the fact that they happen to be me
is because I'm not actually my atoms.
I am a informational pattern that keeps
repatterning those atoms into Sarah.
And I have also associated to me like a space
of possible things that could exist
that I can help mediate come into existence
because of the information in my history.
And so when you understand sort of that time
is a real thing embedded in a physical object,
then it becomes possible to talk about how histories
when they interact, and history is not a unique thing,
it's a set of possibilities, when they interact,
how do they specify what's coming next?
And then where does the novelty come from
in that structure?
Because some of it is kind of things
that haven't existed in the past,
that can exist in the future.
Let me ask about this entity that you call Sarah.
Yes.
I talk to myself about myself in third person sometimes.
I don't know why.
So maybe this is a good time to bring up consciousness.
Sure.
It's been here all along.
Well, has it?
So, at least in this conversation,
I think I've been conscious most of it, but maybe I haven't.
Well, yes, so speak for yourself.
You're projecting your consciousness onto me.
You don't know if I'm conscious or not.
No, I don't.
You're right.
Is that, you talked about the physics of existence.
You talked about the emergence of causality,
sorry, you talked about causality and time
being fundamental to the universe.
Where does consciousness fit into all of this?
Like, do you draw any kind of inspiration or value
with the idea of panpsychism
that maybe one of the things that we ought to understand
is the physics of consciousness?
Like one of the missing pieces in the physics view
of the world is understanding the physics of consciousness.
Or like that word has so many concepts underneath it,
but let's put consciousness as a label
on a black box of mystery that we don't understand.
Do you think that black box holds the key
to finally answering the question of the physics of life?
The problems are absolutely related.
I think most, and I'm interested in both
because I'm just interested in what we are.
And to me, the most interesting feature
of what we are is our minds
and the way they interact with other minds.
Like minds are the most beautiful thing
that exists in the universe.
So how do they come to be?
Sorry to interrupt.
So when you say we, you mean humans.
I mean humans right now, but that's because I'm a human.
But you think there's something special
to this particular?
No, no, no, no, no, I'm not a human centric thinker.
But are you one entity?
You said a bunch of stuff came together to make a Sarah.
Like do you think of yourself as one entity?
Or are you just a bunch of different components?
Like is there any value to understand the physics of Sarah?
Like, or are you just a bunch of different things
that are like a nice little temporary side effect?
Yeah, you could think of me as a bundle of information
that just became temporarily aggregated
into our individual.
That's fine.
I agree with that view.
I think that is a compliment actually.
But nevertheless, that bundle of information
has become conscious
or at least keeps calling herself conscious.
Yeah, I think I'm conscious right now,
but I might not be, but that's okay.
Or you wouldn't know.
So yeah, so this is the problem.
So yeah, usually people when they are talking
about consciousness are worried
about the subjective experience.
And so I think that's why you're saying,
I don't know if you're conscious
because I don't know if you're experiencing
this conversation right now.
And nor do you know if I'm experiencing
the conversation right now.
And so this is why this is called
the hard problem of consciousness
because it seems impenetrable from the outside
to know if something's having a conscious experience.
And I really like the idea of also like
the hard problem of matter
