but it's much clearer to see it in molecules.
Yeah, but I guess I'm trying to figure out
what do you think are the best tools to look at it?
What do you think?
An open mind?
Is that a tool?
What's the physics of an open mind?
I think if we solve that, we'll solve everything.
I'm saying an open mind
because I think the biggest stumbling block
to understanding sort of the things
I've been trying to articulate or,
and when I talk also with colleagues
that are thinking deeply about these same issues
is none of it is inconsistent with what we know.
It's just such a radically different perception
of the way we understand things now
that it's hard for people to get there.
And in some ways you have to almost forget
what you've learned in order to learn something new, right?
So I feel like most of my career
trying to understand the problem of life
has been variously forgetting
and then relearning things that I learned in physics.
And I think you have to have a capacity
to learn things,
but then accept that things that you learned
might not be true
or might need refinement or reframing.
And the best way I can say that
is just like with a physics education,
there are just certain things you're told in undergrad
that are like facts about the world.
And your physics professors never tell you
that those facts actually emerge from a human mind, right?
So we're taught to think about say the laws of physics,
for example, as this like autonomous thing
that exists outside of our universe
and tells our universe how it works.
But the laws of physics were invented by human minds
to describe things that are regularities
in our everyday experience.
They don't exist autonomous to the universe.
Right, so it's like turtles on top of turtles,
but eventually gets to the human mind
and then you have to explain the human mind with the turtles.
So you have to, it comes from humans,
this understanding,
this simplification of the universe, these models.
There's a guy named Stephen Wolfram.
There's a concept called cellular automata.
So there's some mysteries in these systems
that are computational in nature
that have maybe echoes of the kind of mysteries
we should need to solve to understand what is life.
So if we could talk, take a computational view of things,
do you think there's something compelling
to reducing everything down to computation,
like the universe's computation
and then trying to understand life.
So throw away the biology, throw away the chemistry,
throw away even the physics
that you learn undergrad and graduate school
and a more look at these simple little systems,
whether it's cellular automata
or whatever the heck kind of computational systems
that operate on simple local rules
and then create complexity as they evolve
is it at all, do you think productive
to focus on those kinds of systems
to get an inkling of what is life?
And if it is, do you think it's possible
to come up with some kind of laws and principles
about what makes life in those computational systems?
So I like cellular automata.
I think they're good toy models,
but mostly like where I've thought about them
and use them is to actually
let's say poke at sort of the current conceptual framework
that we have and see where the flaws are.
So I think like the part that you're talking about
that people find intriguing is that
if you have like a fairly simple rule
and you specify some initial condition
and you run that rule on that initial condition,
you could get really complex patterns emerging.
And ooh, doesn't that look life like?
Yeah.
Well, it's like really surprising,
isn't it really surprising?
It is really surprising and they're beautiful.
And I think they have a lot of nice features
associated to them.
I think the things that I find, yeah.
So I do think as a proof of principle
that you can get complex things emerging
from simple rules, they're great.
As a sort of proof of principle about some of the ways
that we might think of computation
as being sort of a fundamental principle
for dynamical systems and maybe the evolution
of the universe as a whole,
they're a great model system.
As an explanatory framework for life,
I think they're a bit problematic
for the same reason that the laws of physics
are a bit problematic.
And the clearest way I can articulate that is
like cellular automata are actually cast
in sort of a conceptual framework
for how the universe should be described
that goes all the way back to Newton, in fact,
with this idea that we can have a fixed law of motion
which exists sort of, it's given to you.
You know, the great programmer in the sky
gave you this equation or this rule
and then you just run with it.
And the rule doesn't have, so a good feature of the rule
is it doesn't have specified in the rule
information about the patterns it generates.
So you wouldn't want, for example, my cup or my water bottle
or me sitting here to be specified in the laws of physics
that would be ridiculous,
because it wouldn't be a very simple explanation
of all the things happening,
it'd have to explain everything.
So, and cellular automata have that feature
and the laws of physics have that feature.
But, you know, you also need to specify
the initial condition.
And it also, it basically means that everything
that happens is sort of a consequence
of that initial condition.
And I think this kind of framework is just not
the right one for biology.
And part of the way that it's easiest to see this
is a lot of people talk about self-reference
being important in life.
The fact that, you know, like the genome
has information encoded in it,
that information gets read out.
It specifies something about the architecture of a cell.
The architecture of the cell includes the genome.
So the genome has basically self-referential information.
Self-reference obviously comes up in computational law
because it's kind of foundational to Turing's work
and what Gertl did with the incompleteness theorems
and things.
So there's a lot of parallels there
and people have talked about that at depth.
But the other way of kind of thinking about it
in terms of like a more physicsy way of talking about it
is that what it looks like in biology
is that the rules or the laws depend on the state.
This is typical in computer science, this is obvious to you.
You know, the update rule depends
on the state of the machine, right?
But, you know, you don't think about, you know,
that being sort of the dynamic in physics,
it's, you know, the rules given to you
and then it, you know, it's a very special subclass say
of computations if, you know, you don't ever
change the update.
But in biology, it seems to be that the state
and the law change together as a function of time
and we don't have that as a paradigm in physics.
And so a lot of people talked about this
as being kind of a perplexing feature
that maybe there are certain scenarios where the laws
of physics or the laws that govern a particular system
actually change as a function of state of that system.
That's trippy.
So yeah, the hope of physics, it's a hope, I guess,
but often stated as a underlying assumption
is that the law is static.
Right.
Okay.
And even having laws that vary in time
and not even as a function of the state is very radical
when you-
At time in general, like you want to remove time
from the equation as much as possible.
Yeah, I do.
There's some interesting things in this,
like when we think more deeply about the actual physics
that we're trying to propose governs life
with me with collaborators and then also other people
that think about similar things,
that time might actually be fundamental
and there really is an ordering to time.
And that events in the universe are unique
because they have a particular, you know,
they happen like an object in the universe requires
a certain history of events in order to exist,
which therefore suggests that time really
does have an ordering.
We're not talking about the flow of time
and our perception of time, just the ordering of events.
The causation of things.
Yes, causation, there's that word again.
