which is related to the hard problem of consciousness,
which is you don't know the intrinsic properties
of an electron not interacting,
say for example, with anything else in the universe.
All the properties of anything that exists in the universe
are defined by its interaction
because you have to interact with it
in order to be able to observe it.
So we can only actually know the things
that are observable from the outside.
And so this is one of the reasons
that consciousness is hard for science
because you're asking questions
about something that's subjective
and supposed to be intrinsic
to what that thing is as it exists
and how it feels about existing.
And so I have thought a lot about this problem
and its relationship to the problem of life.
And the only thing I can come up with
to try to make that problem scientifically tractable
and also related to how I think about the physics of life
is to ask the question,
are there things that can only happen in the universe
because there are physical systems
that have subjective experience?
So does subjective experience have different causes,
that things that it can cause to occur
that would happen in the absence of that?
I don't know the answer to that question,
but I think that's a meaningful way
of asking the question of consciousness.
I can't ask if you're having experience right now,
but I can ask if you having experience right now
changes something about you
and the way you interact with the world.
So does stuff happen?
It's a good question to ask.
Does stuff happen if consciousness is?
Then it's a real physical thing, right?
It has physical consequences.
I'm a physicist, I'm biased, so I don't,
I can't get rid of that bias.
It's really deeply ingrained.
I've tried, but it's hard.
But I mean, you're saying information is physical too.
So like virtual reality and simulation,
all the program is physical too.
Yes, everything's physical.
It's just not physical the way it's represented in our minds.
Right, so you, I love your Twitter.
So you tweet these like deep thoughts.
Deep thoughts.
That's what a theorist does when she's trying to experiment.
Is tweet?
Yes.
It's like sitting there, I mean,
I can just imagine you sitting there for like hours
and all of a sudden just like this thought comes out
and you would get a little like inkling
into the thought process.
Yeah, usually it's like when I'm running between things
and I don't know how much I'm running deep thoughts.
Deep thoughts are hard to articulate.
One of the things you tweet is ideologically,
there are many parallels between the search
for neural correlates of consciousness
and for chemical correlates of life.
How the neuroscience and astrobiology communities
treat those correlates is entirely different.
Can you elaborate against this kind of the parallels?
It has to do a little bit with the consciousness
and the matter thing you're talking about.
Yeah, it does.
And I can't remember what state of mind I was
when I was actually thinking about that,
but I think part of it is so-
But you never thought you're gonna have to analyze
your own tweets.
No, I didn't.
It's an interesting historical juxtaposition of thinking.
So the tweet is a historical-
Hey, you're doing an assembly experiment right now
because you're bringing a thought from the past
into the present and trying to actually-
Exactly, in the lab.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
This is experimental science right here.
Okay, great.
On the podcast live.
So go, let's see how the consciousness
evolves on this one.
Yeah, so in neuroscience, it's kind of accepted
that we can't get at the subjective aspect of consciousness.
So people are very interested in what would be
a correlate of consciousness.
So-
What's a correlate?
A correlate is a feature that relates to conscious activity.
So for example, a verbal report is a correlate
of consciousness because I can tell you what I'm conscious.
And then when I'm sleeping, for example,
I can't tell you I'm conscious.
So we have this assumption that you're not conscious
when you're sleeping and you're conscious when you're awake.
And so that's sort of like a very obvious example,
but neuroscientists, which I'm no neuroscientist
and I'm not an expert in this field.
But they have very sophisticated ways of measuring activity
in our brain and trying to relate that to verbal report
and other proxies for whether someone is experiencing something.
And that's what is meant by neural correlates.
And then so when people are trying to think about
studying consciousness or developing theories
for consciousness, they often are trying to build
an experimental bridge to these neural correlates.
Recognizing the fact that a neural correlate
may or may not correspond to consciousness
because that problem's hard
and there's all these associated issues to it.
So that's from a neuroscience perspective,
it's like fake it till you make it.
So you fake whatever the correlates are
and hopefully that's going to summon
the thing that is consciousness.
Yeah, something like that.
And so the same thing on the chemical correlates of life.
That sounds like that's an awesome concept.
Is that something that people?
No, I just made that up.
That was the originals to that tweet.
You can cite the tweet.
Maybe I'll write it in a paper someday.
Chemical correlates of life.
That's a good title.
I mean, first of all, your papers too
that people should check out have great titles
or papers you're involved with.
So your tweets and titles are stellar
and also your ideas,
but the tweets and titles are much more important.
Of course.
So ideas will live longer.
Yeah.
They're much more diffuse though.
Yeah, the tweet is the Trojan horse
or the idea that sticks on for a long time.
Okay, so is there anything to say
about the chemical correlates of life?
You're saying there are similar kinds
of ways of thinking about it,
but you mentioned about the communities.
Yeah, so I think in astrobiology,
it's not, there's no concept of chemical correlates of life.
We don't think about it that way.
We think if we find molecules that are involved
in biology, we found life.
So I think one of my motivations there
was just to separate the fact
that life has abstract properties associated to it.
They become imprinted in material substrates
and those substrates are correlates for that thing,
but they are not necessarily the thing
we're actually looking for.
The thing that we're looking for is the physics
that's organizing that system to begin with,
not the particular molecules.
In the same sense that,
your consciousness is not your brain.
It's instantiated in your brain.
It has to have a physical substrate,
but it's not, the matter is not the thing
that you're looking at.
It's some other, at least not in the way
that we have come to look at matter,
with traditional physics and things.
There's something else there
and it might be this feature of history
I was talking about,
our time being actually physically represented there.
Do you think consciousness can be engineered?
Yes.
In the same way that life can be.
Wow, that was a fast answer.
I didn't even think about that.
That's interesting.
You don't have a free will.
That was-
No, I do have free will,
but it's interesting because some, I mean,
you know-
Now you're backtracking.
No, no, I do-
And that was predestined.
Yeah, no, no.
No, I do believe in free will,
but I also think that there's kind of an interesting,
you know, like what you're,
speaking about consciousness,
what are you consciously aware of
