It's on the greatest hits.
Greatest hits.
That's the word I was looking for.
Okay.
Did life, do you think originate once, twice,
three times on earth, multiple times?
What do you think?
I think that's a really difficult question.
Is it an important question?
It's a super important question.
No, that's, no, it's a really important question.
And so there's some,
so there's a lot of questions in that question.
So one of the first ones that I think needs to be addressed
is, is the original life a continuous process
on our planet?
So we think about the original life as something
that happened on earth, say,
almost four billion years ago,
because we have evidence of life emerging
very early on our planet.
And then an original life event, quote unquote,
a singular event, whatever that was happened.
And then all life on earth that we know is a descendant
of that particular event in our universe, right?
And so, but we don't have any idea one way or the other
if the original life is happening repeatedly.
And maybe it's just not taking off
because life is already established.
That's an argument that people will make,
or maybe there are alternative forms of life on earth
that we don't even recognize.
So this is the idea of a shadow biosphere
that there actually might just be completely
other life on earth, but it's so alien
that we don't even know what it is.
I'm gonna have to talk to you about the shadow biosphere.
Yeah, that's a fun one.
In a second, but first let me ask for the other alternative,
which is panspermia.
Right.
So that's the idea, the hypothesis that life exists
elsewhere in the universe and got to us
through like an asteroid or a planetoid
or some according to Wikipedia, space dust,
whatever the heck that is, sounds fun.
It basically wrote along whatever kind of rock
and got to us.
Do you think that's at all a possibility?
Sure.
So I think the reason that most original life scientists
are interested in the original life on earth
and say not the original life on Mars
and then panspermia, the exchange of life
between planets being the explanation is
once you start removing the original life from earth,
you know even less about it than you do
if you study it on earth.
Although I think there are ways of reformulating the problem.
This is why I said earlier like,
oh, you mean the historical original life problem.
You don't mean the problem of how does life arise
in the universe and what the universal principles are
because there's this historic problem.
How did it happen on early earth?
And there's a more tractable general problem
of how does it happen?
And how does it happen is something we can actually ask
in the lab.
How did it happen on early earth is a much more detailed
and nuanced question and requires detailed knowledge
of what was happening on early earth that we don't have.
And I'm personally more interested in general mechanisms.
So to me, it doesn't matter if it happened on earth
or it happened on Mars.
It just matters that it happened.
We have evidence that happened.
The question is, did it happen more than once
in our universe?
And so the reason I don't find panspermia as a particularly,
I think it's a fascinating hypothesis.
I definitely think it's possible.
And I in particular think it's possible once you get
to the stage of a life where you have technology
because then you obviously can spread out into the cosmos.
But it's also possible for microbes
because we know that certain microorganisms can survive
the journey in space and they can live in a rock
and go between Mars and earth.
Like people have done experiments to try
to prove that could work.
So in that scenario, it's super cool
because then you get planetary exchange.
But say we go find, we go look for life on Mars
and it ends up being exactly the same life we have
on earth biochemically speaking,
then we haven't really discovered something new
about the universe.
What kind of aliens are possible?
Were there other original life events?
If we find, if all the life we ever find
is the same original life event in the universe,
it doesn't help me solve my problem.
But it's possible that that would be a sign
that you could separate the environment
from the basic ingredients.
Yes, that's true.
You can have like a life gun
that you shoot throughout the universe.
And then like once you shoot it,
it's like the Simpsons with a makeup gun.
That was a great episode.
When you shoot this life gun, it'll find the earths.
It'll like get sticky.
It'll stick to the earths and that kind of reduces
the barrier of like the time it takes,
the luck it takes to actually from nothing
from the basic chemistry,
from the basic physics in the universe
for the life to spring up.
Yeah, I think this is actually super important
to just think about like does life getting seated
on a planet have to be geochemically compatible
with that planet?
So you're suggesting like we could just shoot guns in space
and like life could go to Mars
and then it would just live there and be happy there.
But that's actually an open question.
So one of the things I was gonna say in response
to your question about whether the original life happened
once or multiple times is for me personally right now,
am I thinking all those changes on a weekly basis?
Is that I think of life more as a planetary phenomena.
So I think the original life because life is so
intimately tied to planetary cycles
and planetary processes.
And this goes all the way back
through the history of our planet
that the original life itself grew out of geochemistry
and became coupled and controlled geochemistry.
And when we start to talk about life existing
on the planet is when we have evidence of life
actually influencing properties of the planet.
And so if life is a planetary property
then going to Mars is not a trivial thing
because you basically have to make Mars more Earth-like.
And so in some sense, like when I think about
sort of long-term vision of humans in space, for example,
really what you're talking about when you're saying
let's send our civilization to Mars is you're not saying
let's send our civilization to Mars.
You're saying let's reproduce our planet on Mars.
Like the information from our planet
actually has to go to Mars and make Mars more Earth-like.
Which means that you're now having a reproduction process
like a cell reproduces itself to propagate information
in the future.
Planets have to figure out how to reproduce their conditions
including geochemical conditions on other planets
in order to actually reproduce life in the universe.
Which is kind of a little bit radical
but I think for long-term sustainability of life
on the planet that's absolutely essential.
Okay, so if we were to think about life
as a planetary phenomena and so life on Mars would be best
if it's way different than life on Earth,
we have to ask the very basic question of what is life?
I actually don't think that's the right question to ask.
It took me a long time to get there, right?
Can you cross it out?
Yeah, you cross it off your list, it's wrong.
Next question.
No, no, no, I mean I think it has an answer
but I think the part of the problem is,
you know, most of the places in science
where we get really stuck
is because we don't know what questions to ask.
And so you can't answer a question
if you're asking the wrong question.
And I think the way I think about it is,
obviously I'm interested in what life is.
So I'm being a little cheeky when I say
that's the wrong question to ask.
That's exactly like the question
that's like the core of my existence.
But I think the way of framing that is,
what is it about our universe that allows features
that we associate life to be there?
And so really, I guess when I'm asking that question
when I'm after is an explanatory framework
for what life is, right?
And so most people, they try to go in and define life
and they say, well, life is, say,
a self-reproducing chemical system
capable of Darwinian evolution.
That's a very popular definition for life.
Or life is something that metabolizes and eats.
That is not how I think about life.
What I think about life is there are principles
and laws that govern our universe
