So causation, that's when you say time, you mean causation.
Yes.
In your proposed model of the physics of life,
the fundamental thing would be causation.
If you were to bet your money
on one particular horse or whatever.
Yes.
And then space is emergent.
Yes.
So everything is emergent, except time.
Kind of, yeah, or causation.
And laws change all the time.
Why does it look like laws are the same?
Well, because, well, one way,
and I actually, this idea comes from Lee Cronin
because I work with him very closely on these things,
is that the laws of physics look the way they do
because they're low memory laws.
So they don't require a lot of information to specify them.
They're very easy for the universe to implement.
But if you get something like me, for example,
I require a four billion year history
to exist in the universe.
I come with a lot of historical baggage.
And that's part of what I am as a set of causes
that exist in the universe.
So I have local rules that apply to me
that are associated with sort of the information
in my history that aren't universal
to every object in the universe.
And there are some things that are very easily,
easy to implement, low memory rules
that apply to everything in the universe.
So there's no shortcuts to you, right?
No.
So yeah, I don't believe in things like Boltzmann brains
or fluctuations out of the vacuum
that can produce things like your desk ornaments.
I actually think they require
a particular causal chain of events to exist.
Well, I appreciate the togetherness of that.
But so how does that...
If we have to simulate the entire universe
to create the ornaments and the two of us,
how are we supposed to create engineer life in a lab?
This goes back to sort of the critique of the RNA world.
I think one of the problems,
and I'll get to answering your question,
but I think this is kind of relevant here.
One of the problems of the RNA world,
when we test it in the laboratory
is how much information we're putting into the experiment.
We specify the flasks, we make pure reagents,
we mix them, we take them out,
we put them in the next flask,
we change the pH, we change the UV light,
and then we get a molecule.
And it's not even an RNA molecule necessarily,
it might just be a base, right?
And so people don't usually think about the fact
that we're agents in the universe making that experiment,
and therefore we put a little bit of life
into that experiment.
Because it's part of our biological lineage,
in the same sense that a cup or I am a part
of the biological lineage.
The experiment is...
Our ideas are injecting life to the experiment.
And the constraints that we put on the experiments,
because those conditions wouldn't exist in the universe
on planet Earth at that time,
without us as the boundary condition, right?
Even though we're not actually adding
any actual like chemistry or biology
that it could be identified as life,
the constraints we're adding to the experiment,
the design of the experiment.
Yeah, you can think of the design experiment
as a program, you put information in.
It's an algorithmic procedure
that you design the experiment.
And so the origin life problem becomes one
of minimizing the information we put into physics
to actually watch the spontaneous origin of life.
So is it possible in the lab
to have an information vacuum then?
So like...
If we could, we would, that would be amazing.
I don't know.
That's a good question for more for Lee.
Yeah, you guys, by the way,
for people who don't know Lee Cronin,
it's you guys are colleagues.
And I've gotten a chance to listen to the two of you talking.
There's great chemistry
and you're brilliant brainstorming together.
And there's a really exciting community here
of brilliant people from different disciplines
working on the problem of life, of complexity,
of, I don't know, whatever that,
the words fail us to describe the exact problem
we're trying to actually understand here,
intelligence, all those kinds of things.
Okay, so what, from a lab perspective,
so Lee, I guess, would you call him a chemist?
No?
I think by training, he's a chemist,
but I think most of the people that work in the field
we do have lost their discipline.
That's why I couldn't answer your question earlier.
I don't know what you call him.
I don't know what I call myself.
I don't know what I call any of my friends.
So why is it so hard to create,
and it's an interesting question
to create biological life in the lab?
Like from your perspective,
is that an important problem to work on
to try to recreate the historical origin of life on Earth
or echoes of the historical origin?
I think echoes is more appropriate.
I don't think asking the question
of what was the exact historical sequence of events
and engineering every step in the process
to make exactly the chemistry of life on Earth
as we know it is a meaningful way of asking the question.
And it's a little bit like,
since you're in computer science,
like if you know the answer to a problem,
it's easier to find a program to specify the output, right?
But if you don't know the answer,
I'll priority finding an algorithm
for like say finding a prime or something.
It's easy to verify it's a prime number.
It's hard to find the next prime.
And the way the original life is structured right now
and the historical problem is you know the answer
and you're trying to retroject it
by breaking it down into the set of procedures
where you're putting a lot of information in.
And what we need to do is ask the question of,
how is it that the rules
of how our universe is structured permit things
like life to exist and what is the phenomena of life?
And those questions are obviously
essentially the same question.
And so you're looking essentially
for this missing physics,
this missing explanation for what we are
and you need to set up proper experiments
that are gonna allow you to probe
the vast complexity of chemistry
in an unconstrained way
with as little information put in as possible
to see when things,
when does information actually emerge?
How does it emerge?
What is it?
And part of the sort of conjecture we have is
that this physics only becomes relevant
or at least this is my personal conjecture
and it's sort of validated
by this kind of theory experiment collaboration
that we have working in this area.
That this sort of I made the point
about like gravity existing everywhere, right?
But when you study an atomic nucleus
you don't care about gravity
it's not relevant physics there, right?
It's weak, it doesn't matter.
And so this idea that there's kind of a physics
associated with information,
for me it's very evident
that that physics doesn't become relevant
until you need information
to specify the existence of a particular object.
And the scale of reality where that happens
is in chemistry because of the combinatorial diversity
of chemical objects that can exist far out exceeds
the amount of resources in our universe.
So if you want it, you can't make every possible protein
of length 200 amino acids is not enough resources.
So in order to, for this particular protein to exist
and this protein to exist in high abundance
means that you have to have a system that has knowledge
of the existence of that protein and can build it.
So existence comes to be at the chemical level.
So existence is most, is best understood
at the chemical level.
It's most evident.
It's a little bit like nobody argues
that gravity doesn't exist in atomic nucleus.
It's just not relevant physics there.
So the physics of information is everywhere.
It exists at every combinatorial scale,
but it becomes more and more relevant
the more set of possibilities that could exist
because you're, you're, you have to specify more and more
about why this thing exists and not the infinite.
It's not an infinite set, but you know,
