of events that happen in the universe,
like there's this question of like,
how divergent are those histories, right?
So when we get to the scale of technology,
it's possible to imagine,
imagine, although we can't even do it,
like imagine all the possible technologies
that could exist in the universe.
But if you think about all the possible chemistry,
somehow that seems like a lower dimensional space
and a lower set of possibilities.
So it might be that like when we interact with aliens,
we do have to go back to those more basal levels
to figure out sort of what the map is, right?
Like the sort of where we have a common history.
We must have a common history somewhere in the universe,
but in order to be able to actually interact
in a meaningful way, you have to have some shared history.
I mean, the reason we can exchange genetic information
in each other's food or eat each other as food
is because we have a shared history.
So we have to find that shared history.
We have to find the common ancestor
in this causality map, the causality tree.
Yes, and we have a last universal common ancestor
for all life on earth, which I think is sort of the nexus
of that causality map for life on earth.
But the question is, where would other aliens diverge
on that map?
And I mean, so say there's a lot of aliens out there
in the universe, each set of organisms
will probably have like a number,
you know, like Erdos number of like how far our common ancestor
is.
And so the closer the common ancestor like it is on earth,
the more likely we are to be able to have sexual reproduction.
Well, it's like sort of like humans
having common culture and languages, right?
Yeah, exactly.
It's communication.
It might take a lot of work though with an alien
because you really have to get over a language barrier.
Oh boy.
So it's communication, it's resources.
I mean, it's all the whole,
and I think tied into that is the questions of like,
who's going to harm who?
And actually definitions of harm.
And whether your parents approve,
you know, all those kinds of questions.
Whether the common ancestor approves.
Yeah, this is very true.
How many alien civilizations do you think are out there?
I don't have intuition for that,
which I have always thought was deeply intriguing.
So, and part of this, I mean, I say it specifically
as I don't have intuition for that
because it's like one of those questions
that you feel around for a while
and you really just, you can't see it,
even though it might be right there.
And in that sense, it's a little like
the quantum to classical transition.
You're like really talking about
two different kinds of physics.
And I think that's kind of part of the problem
once we understand the physics,
that question might become more meaningful.
But there's also this other issue,
and this was really instilled on me by my mentor,
Paul Davies, when I was a postdoc,
because he always talks about how,
whether aliens are common or rare is kind of just,
it follows a wave of popularity
and it just depends on like the mood
of what the culture is at the time.
And I always thought that was kind of
an intriguing observation,
but also there's this set of points
about if you go by the observational evidence,
which we're supposed to do with scientists, right?
We have evidence of us
and one original life event from which we emerged.
And people wanna make arguments
that because that event was rapid,
or because there's other planets
that have properties similar to ours
that that event should be common.
But you actually can't reason on that
because our existence observing that event
is contingent on that event happening,
which means it could have been completely improbable
or very common.
And Brandon Carter like clearly articulated that
in terms of anthropic arguments a few decades ago.
So there is this kind of issue
that we have to contend with dealing with life
that's closer to home
than we have to deal with any other problems in physics,
which we're talking about the physics of ourselves.
And when you're asking about the original life event,
that event happening in the universe,
at least as like our existence is contingent on it.
And so you can think about sort of fine tuning arguments
that way too.
So, but the sort of other part of it is like,
when I think about how likely it is,
I think it's because we don't understand this mechanism yet
about how information can be generated spontaneously.
That I like,
because I can't see that physics clearly yet,
even though I have a lot of, you know,
like some things around the space of it in my mind,
I can't articulate how likely that process is.
So my honest answer is, I don't know.
And sometimes that feels like a cop out,
but I feel like that's a more honest answer
and a more meaningful way of making progress
than what a lot of people want to do,
which is say, oh, well,
we have a one in 10 chance of having on an exoplanet
with Earth like properties
because there's lots of Earth like planets out there
and life happened fast on Earth.
Well, so kind of a follow up question,
but as a side comment,
what I really am enjoying about the way you're talking
about human beings is you always say,
and not to make yourself conscious about it,
because I really, really enjoy it.
You say we, you don't say humans.
You say, because oftentimes like, you know,
I don't know, evolutionary biologists
will kind of put yourself out as an observer,
but you're, it's kind of fascinating to think
that you as a human are struggling
about your own origins.
Yes, that's the problem.
And yeah, and I think, I don't do that deliberately,
but I do think that way.
And this is sort of the inversion from the logic of physics
because physics as it's always been constructed
has treated us as external observers of the universe.
And we are not part of the universe.
And this is why the problem of life,
I think demands completely new thinking
because we have to think about ourselves
as minds that exist in the universe
and are at this particular moment in history
and looking out at the things around us
and trying to understand what we are inside the system,
not outside the system.
We don't have descriptions at a fundamental level
that describe us as inside the system.
And this was my problem with cellular automata also.
You're always an external observer for a cellular automata.
You're not in the system.
What does the cellular automata look like from the inside?
I think you just broke my brain with that question.
Exactly, but that's the problem.
I thought about that for a long time.
I'm gonna, yeah, that's a really clean formulation
of a very fundamental question
because you can only, to understand cellular automata,
you have to be inside of it.
But as a human, sort of a poetic romantic question,
does it make you sad?
Does it make you hopeful whether we're alone or not?
Like in the different possible versions of that,
if we're the highest assembly object in the entire universe,
does that give you-
At this moment in time, maybe.
At this moment in the causal state.
Because we make, I assume we have a future.
Well, we definitely have a future.
The question is what,
where that future decreases the assembly?
Like it could be where at the peak,
or we could be just-
That would be inconsistent with the physics in my mind,
but so I should give a caveat.
I've given the caveat that I'm biased as a physicist,
but I'm also biased as an eternal optimist.
So pretty much all of my modes of operation
for building theories about the world
are not like an Occam's razor,
what's the simplest explanation,
but what's the most optimistic explanation?
And part of the reason for that
is if you really think explanations have causal power,
in the sense that the fact that we have theories
about the world has enabled technologies
and physically transformed the world around us,
I think I have to take seriously
that as a part of the physics I wanna describe,
and try to build theories of reality
that are optimistic about what's coming next,
because the theories are in part the causes
of what comes next.
So there could be a physics of hope
