At the end of the day we're all in this situation together and it's no individual's fault that
we got here but it's everyone's responsibility regardless of what decades you were born in
to contribute towards responding so I would love to see older generations firstly stop
saying that it's down to our generation. Secondly stops having conversations about these topics
in closed rooms amongst academic elite and instead actively engaging in the intergenerational
transfer of knowledge and expertise and skills so that our generation and younger generations
can be equipped as best as possible to face the challenges ahead.
Today I am joined by three humans in their early 20s who have found themselves immersed in the work
and scholarship surrounding the great simplification. As you might be aware the viewers of this
channel and this content in the world tend to skew older but it's my belief that bringing
young voices to the table getting their perspectives on the future, platforming their ideas is
essential for us to navigate the coming decades especially those young humans who have a systems
understanding of the complexity and the risk that we face. As such this reality round table is
focused on the perspectives of youth today how they feel about the current state of the world,
what their hopes are for the future, what their ideas are for the future of society. Joining me
today are Priscilla Trinh who currently serves as the director of communications at the Post
Growth Institute and co-coordinator of the Minnesota Youth Institute. She's the creator of
the Post Growth Jobs Board editor at the Blue Marble Review and contributor to the Minnesota
Women's Press. Also joining me are is James Branigan a writer, philosopher and content creator
with a YouTube channel of his own. James is committed to the task of addressing some of the
many facets of the human predicament with education and food production systems being
two of the more appealing ones for him. He is Irish and currently lives in Spain.
Last but not least is Natasha Lindhart who is a recent graduate of the University of Amsterdam
with degrees in economics and business and electives in degrowth and critical theory.
Natasha has been a volunteer for our organization for the past year and she will be starting full
time as a research associate this summer. I hope this is the first of many round table
discussions with young humans. I hope you enjoy it. Welcome young humans to reality round table
number nine, Priscilla and Natasha James. Great for you to be here. Nice to be here too. Thanks for
having us. Thanks for having us. You're welcome. You're very welcome. I would like to have more
young humans on the show because you are going to be living a long lives during the great
simplification and what's ahead. So let me set the stage for this. I know all three of you.
Priscilla was one of my students. Priscilla I've known you since you were 17 or such and you were
my teaching assistant for my class reality 101. James and Natasha I've met online through the
podcast. So I have various hats especially for Priscilla. I was a professor and a mentor and a
coach and a friend. For the next hour plus though I am just a podcast host. I want you each to speak
your authentic selves about what you believe and feel and think about our world and our future.
And before we get to that if you could maybe each of you give a brief introduction of who you are
and what you're doing right now, you know, brief bio. Natasha we'll start with you.
Yeah so hi I'm Natasha. I'm 23 years old and I usually live in France but I'm currently in the
British Virgin Islands in the Caribbean because I'm doing a few months of backpacking and traveling
before starting work full-time with Nate and his organization. And yeah it feels very surreal to
be here because I've learned so much from this podcast. So thanks for having us. Priscilla.
Hey everyone Priscilla Trin here. She heard pronouns. I am also 23 and calling in from
Oceti Shacoenlands also known as Minnesota United States and I do communications work in the realm
of alternative economics and food systems and that's my job and energy right now. James.
Hey I'm James. I'm 25. I'm Irish but currently in Granada. I just love biology and environmental
science and as with Natasha I came across the great simplification and it's pretty surreal to be here.
But right now I'm studying regenerative agriculture and how to work the land that way.
Excellent. Well thank you all for being here. As is usually the format I'm going to have a framing
question and you'll each have five plus or minus minutes and then we'll we'll carry on and have a
conversation after that. So I would love each of you to respond and describe your own personal
journey learning about the various economic and environmental risks and crises in the world around
us and how has that shaped the way you see the future and your own place in it.
Yes in my journey understanding about the metacrisis specifically and how the different
environmental and economic risks and crises are related and interconnected. That journey was
life changing. It was definitely a roller coaster and so it was made up of a few different phases.
The first being a sort of awareness phase which started about two years ago and that was triggered
by a few different events and circumstances that maybe we can dive into later.
But it was basically a six month period in which I exposed myself to a lot of information about
the various crises we face at the moment both environmentally and socially and economically
and I came to realize that they were all just symptoms of something more complex going on beneath
the surface and that was the time period where it came across your work name and across this podcast
and that awareness phase really taught me firstly that we have this socioeconomic reality or this
economic superorganism as you call it that's the outcome of institutions and behavior being
oriented around profit maximization and the expectation of continued growth and the dynamics
embedded in that socioeconomic system at driving the crises that we face and the fundamentally
incompatible with the long-term well-being of the planet and of people and that realization for me
was really hard to take because I'm a part of that system right? We all are to lesser and greater
extents so I had to come to terms with the fact that I was part of something that was driving
the crises that I cared about and I cared about addressing and then it didn't get much better
because during the awareness phase I also learned about energy and about ecology and I learned that
this economic superorganism and this version of humanity was coming to an end and was self-terminating
because it could only function by continually destroying the things which its survival depends
upon so that meant I had to throw all the expectations I had about my future out the window
and at that stage I entered a phase of grief I suppose I was grieving
for the death of an illusion that I'd had about reality but also about my future
and that period really sucked I don't want to sugarcoat it I would cry a lot whenever I was by
myself I felt really really lonely and at that stage I felt very powerless it wasn't very fun
but I will say that it was 100% necessary because only by going through that and feeling those
things could I then get to a phase of acceptance and that phase of acceptance really meant for me
internalizing and really fundamentally accepting inside myself that the future was going to look
very different from the present that the future was going to look different to what I've been taught
to expect it to look like and that this version of humanity that I'd come to consider the norm
and which had characterized my life up until that point was what had passed its sell-by date
and was going to have to come to an end if we didn't want the biosphere to come to an end first
and for me realizing those things and internalizing them meant that now there was no way that I could
have a career or a role in the world which actively contributed towards maintaining and
perpetuating the status quo so I had to totally redefine the role I saw for myself in the future
and moving forward and now I very much see that role as twofold firstly we need to be
putting in place safety nets we need as many people as possible going into the future with our eyes
wide open and planning and putting in place structures so that the transition to a lower
energy throughput future can be accompanied by the least suffering possible because I think there
will be a lot of suffering especially in terms of material wealth and I really really really fear
that if we carry on going blindly into the future then when shit hits the fan we will turn to the
worst versions of what humanity is capable of and we know that humanity is capable of some really
horrific stuff but we're also capable of some great things so I think the second task is to
actively sow the seeds and create an alternative social economic reality and I think that's quite
an exciting task that everyone can play a role in because we need as many ideas and skills as
possible to create a version of humanity that can not only outlive this one but also which
gives the biosphere and society the best possible chance of thriving long into the future so I see
those as the roles I can contribute to moving forward in the short term I think we need to be
raising awareness and bringing this stuff into the mainstream so there's many people as possible
can be contributing to those tasks so that's what I want to be focusing on energy on in the near
future but yeah that's sort of where I'm at now and to be honest since reaching the acceptance phase
I'm very very content and very happy and the lifestyle changes I've implemented as a result of
becoming aware of all this depressing content have actually had a hugely positive impact
on my well-being and happiness so yes the grief sucks but it's necessary and it's worth it and
yeah at the end of the day we still have life and that's amazing so I try to enjoy it as much as
possible I resonate with Natasha's grief period but I would say the metaphor I would use to describe
my journey is a happy tumble down a hill I was rolling down into these rabbit holes picking up
flowers and rocks along the way this clarity that's exhilarating like when you're rolling down a hill
right but you're also as you are tumbling along gaining all this knowledge there's also this back
of the mind fear like what if I bump into something that I don't like and I don't want to hear and it's
scary to really internalize that information and then finally get to the bottom of the hill
and I have to look up and I'm breathless by all that clarity but also exhilarated because now
I'm looking up at an amazing valley and knowing that even though the road ahead is very long and
uphill it's beautiful because I'm not doing it alone I think when people have asked this question
in the past how did you get to where you are it's always been explaining it as oh you know
you did the canon event of going to college and becoming radicalized but it's a lot longer than
that having reflected on my positionality how I've come here growing up in an immigrant family but
I'll get back to that later I really think your classmate was kind of the catalyst for connecting
all the dots right you realize that it's not money that makes the world go around it's energy
and then when you combine that with an understanding of evolutionary psychology
it really undoes the whole monolith of human nature and it really made me appreciate the
plasticity of culture and that gives me a lot of hope. As I learned about the biophysical
limits of our world I was also moving more in the direction of activism. Intersectional feminism was
a huge part of the lens in which I view the world and it was a mixture of what I learned in class
but also the communities and spaces I entered during my organizing years understanding that
energy privilege is tied to class, race, gender, sexuality all struggles are connected and moving
into how I understand about the existential risk and crises really from a place of collective
liberation we're all in this together it's liberation for all and that includes interspecies
liberation as well and again undoing the whole binary and notion of tree huggers versus realists
because everyone is affected albeit differently and everyone is subject to being oppressed or
becoming the oppressor right it's not just an identity politics thing it is decolonization
for everyone and it looks very different for the individual and as I got more into food sovereignty
spaces I have a background in food systems specifically organic agriculture horticulture
did hydroponics research for two years and through direct action through organizing I came to really
day by day I'm more convinced that local community power building is where I want to be it's about
channeling the big picture understanding into my corner of the world right we think about how it's
not effective to be perfect it's not about being the perfect activist the perfect vegetarian the
perfect you know bike your way to work type of person in the US I feel like given where I'm at
and along in addition to my full-time job it's also a job to be embodied and authentic and
slow and intentional like Natasha said to really cultivate yourself so that you can be self-sufficient
but also community sufficient whatever you learn can be regifted to everyone around you
and I always come back to this quote by Audre Lorde about how caring for myself is not self-indulgence
it is self-preservation and that is an active political warfare and I think now that we see
everyone converging on this narrative of connecting these levels and systems at play on a planetary
level on a political level it's really cool to be here and alive during this time and I know
the word unprecedented was really ruined for me during the peak pandemic era but I think it's
really cool that we're alive in this really unique time in history and knowing that every
generation before us has had to deal with their own risk for me I'm gonna die before you know
probably peak climate crises hits but knowing that I can do something about it is fine the allure
of being the charismatic speaker with a huge megaphone convincing people does not hold the
same weight anymore for me it's really about seeing how I fit into community and learning how to then
cultivate myself to be a part of that community that's how I see it. Thank you Priscilla and it
feels odd for me to call you Priscilla because for the last four or five years I've called you
Trintab which I will share publicly. Jeff Bridges movie Living in the Future's past he
talked about TrimTabs which is the little thing behind the rudder of a ship that
influences the direction and your senior project was so colorful that I sent it to Jeff and he
loved it and since then I've been calling you Trintab. So we'll put that I think there's a
hyperlink to it we'll put it in the show notes of this episode. Thank you James Branigan.
Yeah so just a touch on Priscilla's point that she made just there about the reduction of these
complex issues into just what I consider to be nonsensical binaries I think to overcome the allure
of that because so many people fall prey to that accepting one of the two ends of the extreme
and to overcome that I think you have to be fairly critical in your thinking and so one thing for me
that I think about when I think about this metacrisis or ecological issue that we're facing is that it is
calling forth the best of us as individuals because it has to we can't continue doing what we've been
doing for the past however many years you could say since the agricultural revolution to your point
about surplus accumulation and how that self-organizing around profits is one of the key
generator functions driving the problems that we face this has to change somehow not to say I know
how but somehow that has changed and just to be aware of that at first is of course the first step
but to your question about becoming aware of the ecological and economic issues I suppose
it's just a combination of like intellectual honesty and curiosity about the world because
when I was younger obviously I loved nature well that's not so obvious but I really love nature
I loved playing out in the fields in Ireland I loved being among the trees I love being by the
river I love making fires I loved making slingshots I loved these sort of outdoorsy activities as a
kid and so I sort of continued to follow that thread I was interested in biology and school so then
I followed that on and I wanted to remain as broad as possible in my study of the world because
this is so complex and I suppose as a young kid I was thinking all right how do I learn as much
about this as possible and not like specialized down into something too narrow so then I went on
to study general science in college or university and then environmental science just because they're
so broad but yeah so I suppose it was just a combination of that intellectual honesty and
curiosity and then also the internet the internet is a huge thing here and the proper or appropriate
use of the internet instead of falling into the trap of just being caught by the algorithm with
the short term stuff and losing your attention or losing time by having your attention grabbed
by that algorithm we can I think figure out a way to wield the internet to our own advantage
as individuals and then hopefully collectively and I think that that's going to be one of the key
tricks to figure out and I suppose I heard that actually that sentiment echoed in an episode
you did Nate with Thomas Bjorkman and he said about the Scandinavian secret one of the keys there
to modernize the Scandinavian countries rapidly was the implementation of these schools
where people could go and learn not only about the external world and what's going on technologies
so on so forth but also inner sort of spiritual or emotional development and how the two
relate to one another so yeah I guess that's it it's the internet curiosity and just
not falling prey to many of the pitfalls and traps that people who think about the ecological
crisis tend to fall prey to thank you thank you I have a bunch of questions for the three of you
are there any thoughts that bubbled up after the those the three of you spoke that anyone would
like to follow with yeah I just want to echo what James said about curiosity because I think that's
what's so special about this field is that there are so many different ways of getting into it but
for me yes I always cared about nature growing up and especially about social issues but no more
so than any other sort of environmentally and socially aware average human so for me the reason
