I, that's a longer conversation, but like, was she right?
Like at the end, spoiler alert for worm, she basically mind rapes everybody
into following her will.
So she can guide, she can command all of them as like some of them as meat shields
or as, as, uh, as distractions and others as just big guns to fight the big bad
that's trying to destroy the universe.
Like I, I, I would be obviously irked if I was grabbed by Taylor and thrown
into the meat cannon that to be shot at this monster.
And yet I'd be like, my, my last thoughts.
If I had a chance to reflect on them, it might be, I understand.
Like, you know, given the choice, I would like to have cooperated freely, but
given that this, there wasn't time to do that and people weren't playing along.
If you had to, if you had to do it by force, like, I mean, it's one of those
things like what's worse, like being violated that way or being, having
your, your planet be extinguished and anyone who says my personal freedom is
more important than that, they don't realize that if planets extinguished,
your personal freedom is also gone.
Well, maybe they do realize that and that's just the hill they're willing
to die on literally literally willing to die on that hill and drag the rest of
their species with them, including their, their, their friends and children.
Right.
So that too would have made a great segue to the main topic if we didn't have
another sequence post to get through.
Okay.
Let's, let's finish this one up.
Um, he ends it with try to keep your mind from completing the pattern in the
standard unsurprising already known way.
It may be that there was no better answer than the standard one, but you
can't think about the answer until you can stop your brain from filling in the
answer automatically.
I like how he says that, like it's easy.
He doesn't say like, he makes a very big point in the post about how hard it is.
I didn't copy at all.
But it's, but it's like, even, even the big way he's, there's, there's no,
sort of like, don't think of a pink elephant.
Well, I've never had a problem with that.
It's, see, I pictured a pink elephant the second you described it.
Um, but like, it's, it's more just like, all right.
So here's how you, here's, here's a common failure pattern.
Try not to do that.
It's like, sure, I'll try.
Like, and I, and granted, he goes on more at length about it.
And this, like, obviously that's like a large point of the
sequence is how to think originally, but to deliver that sentence is like
delivering instructions on how to tightrope walk.
It's like, yep, put one foot in front of the other, try not to fall.
Like, like that's the instructions.
Sure, it sounds easy when you write it down, but it's hard.
So I have a question about this, uh, before we move on to the next thing.
Isn't this basically what all conspiracy theory and flat earth people are doing?
They're not just accepting the cash thoughts the society has given them.
I disagree.
I think that they're accepting a new cash thought.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think they have the cash thought everything you hear from official sources is a lie.
And like, that's definitely an interestingly different cash thought, but I
still think it's a cash thought.
Like I, I have, with the exception of some people like David Yusuf, I haven't
met anyone who's like, yeah, 9-11 probably was done by al-Qaeda, but
Kennedy definitely not, uh, killed by what's his name?
Oswald.
Yes.
Hmm.
I, although I did recently hear by far the best alternative to, uh, Oswald killed
Kennedy from David Yusuf.
Uh, so shout out to him.
What?
Was it a suicide?
Uh, no, it was an accident, uh, basically the, so the, the, according to Yusuf, which
I have not independently confirmed this, but I doubt he'd just make it up.
Uh, the secret service and other law enforcement agencies weren't trained to
keep their fingers off the triggers until after, until like, uh, several decades
after the Kennedy assassination.
So they accidentally killed the president.
Yeah.
So the, so the idea is, um, the first two shots are from Oswald.
Secret serviceman draws his pistol with a finger on the trigger, driver slams on
the brakes, and the secret serviceman accidentally shoots Kennedy in the back of the head.
I have two quick thoughts on that.
One is that I feel like his head blew up in the fashion of a rifle shot, not a,
not a handgun.
And it exited out the back of his head.
That too.
But the other, the other thing about the back of the head makes you think that this,
this theory suggests that, that, and it's not impossible, but that Kennedy died
like Marvin in Pulp Fiction.
They're living back.
What do you think about this?
Oh shit, I shot Marvin in the face.
The thing is, I'm more excited to believe, I'm more inclined to believe, you know,
what's the, I'm trying to remember the, the phrase where it's like not attributing
things to malice or hand lens razor, never attribute to malice that, which is
adequately explained by stupidity.
Yeah.
So like, I'm totally inclined to believe a conspiracy theory that's like, okay,
the official thing is wrong.
Actually, this other stupid, like random thing happened.
And I'm just like, yeah, sure.
They're trying to, they're trying to fly the planes to Cuba, but they hit the
towers on accident.
Yeah, that, that's definitely the way to convince me of a conspiracy too.
Just like, if it, if, so if the Benny Hill theme is more appropriately played
over the conspiracy theory than it is over the official story, I'm much more
likely to believe it.
I think that your point of like conspiracy theories as a whole is interesting, but
I think that's a larger phenomenon than just rehearsing bad cash thoughts because
rehearsing the correct answer as cash thoughts is a similar problem.
You know, again, you're, you have to be correct.
You know, how old's the universe?
You know, about 14 billion years.
Yeah.
And that's just like an answer that you heard and vaguely right.
I have no idea how to verify that.
Right.
And like, I, you know, I've read books that explain how we know that, but I
didn't check like, so I mean, I don't know how much exactly how primary research
is demanded to be fully justified in my belief.
But it's like, I'm right.
I'd be willing to bet, you know, all my money that I'm right, that the universe
is somewhere between 10 and 15 billion years old.
But like, that's not the, I don't know, if I, if I believe that it was 10,000
years old, because I'm a young and creationist, I'm still just rehearsing
things that I've heard, you know, granted, I'm rehearsing better things that
I've heard from better places because I'm smart and I'm right and they're wrong.
But, but yeah,
I think it's a, it's a hard, it's a hard thing to do an easy trap to fall into
when you try to critically examine something.
David, you have the loudest keyboard I think I've ever heard.
You're welcome to mute.
Sorry.
No, you're good.
I'm just letting you know you're welcome to mute.
You need to slam the keyboard.
That was a great segue by Jace though.
Sorry, I couldn't hear it over the keyboard.
Really?
No, segue again.
I couldn't hear it over the keyboard.
Sorry.
No, I don't want to do it again.
Okay.
What was the same?
By the way, if you guys have never typed on a mechanical keyboard, definitely try
it. It is the most oddly so.
Oh, we just lost you.
All right, we are now recording.
All right, the second less wrong post after that slight technical issue, which
we're have, we have now recovered from is the outside the box box in which
Eliezer points out that whenever someone extorts you to think outside the box,
they usually for your convenience point out exactly where outside the box is
located.
Isn't it funny how nonconformists all dress the same?
Yeah.
If you don't wear black, how will people know you're a tortured artist?
How will people recognize uniqueness if you don't fit the standard pattern for
what uniqueness is supposed to look like?
I feel like he's painting with too, too broad a brush here.
I don't like, I mean, I, I guess tortured artists might be a very niche thing,
but like, you know, tortured person also has like the, oh, I wear long, drapey
clothing and I, you know, like, but a lot of people are tortured and sad and
dressed perfectly normally.
Yes, but they should not dress perfectly normally.
So other people can tell that they're tortured and sad.
Yeah.
That's why we have also, I, I feel like there's a difference between a
tortured sad person, lowercase t, lowercase s, lowercase p, and a tortured
capital T, sad capital S person, capital P, T, M.
I just got my whole life.
I never like considered myself to be tortured or sad.
I just like this that I.
Yeah, I really love you there, but I really, yeah.
And artificial intelligence, everyone outside the field has a cash
result for a brilliant new revolutionary AI idea.
No networks, which were just like the human brain.
New AI idea, complete the pattern.
Logical AIs, despite all the big promises have failed to provide real
intelligence for decades, what we need now are neural networks.
I feel like there's probably a new one now.
Is it a GPT thing at the time?
Is the GPT and open AI basically neural network architectures?
Whoops.
We got there eventually.
But are those AIs?
Yeah, it's a good one.
I don't know.
Are they, are they intelligent?
They're the next step along the way.
They're getting there.
There's something.
And as someone who is vaguely approximating a subject matter expert in
something that has very little to do with AI, I can confirm that this
isn't exclusive to AI.
It happens for pretty much everything.
Yeah, I've heard, gosh darn it.
I'm trying to remember.
I had a perfect example of one.
Well, the thinking outside the box on Econ is always like, oh, people aren't
perfect, you know, utility maximizers.
And that's why we have this brilliant revolutionary new behavioral economics,
