Reinvent the wheel is something that I mentioned at least once every two weeks
at my job.
Like, you know, hey, before you do this, make sure you're not just trying to
reinvent the wheel.
Like there's probably a way that already exists to do this problem, to solve
this problem.
And lo and behold, there always is, because, you know, there's no, there's
no problem in general that you're facing working with computers that someone
else already hasn't worked on.
If you could reinvent the wheel and patent the reinvention and then convince
everyone else to give up the old wheels, highly lucrative, hard to do on a computer,
but it would be nice to do it in some other way.
Right.
Very easy to do in pharmacology, apparently.
Right.
God, don't get me started.
Big pharma.
So for next time, we will be reading original seeing and how to seem and be deep.
Can't wait.
All right.
And now we are going to start grilling, um, David on why libertarianism is the
best and or the worst.
Yes.
All right.
Uh, insert, insert the audio, uh, from the dark night of the Joker saying,
come on, hit me, hit me.
We're going to try to keep this more of a Q and a thing.
Uh, if any of David's a's go for more than three minutes, then we start tapping
on the microphone, doing something to get his attention.
So try to keep it snappy because we're going to have lots of follow ups.
Right.
I did not realize that that was the rule, but I'll do my best.
I didn't either.
I'll say a soft, you know, limit.
I don't know.
Like, I guess if I asked a good question and it's the answer takes 30 minutes,
then just say, here's the crappy short answer.
The longer answer takes 30 minutes or something.
But if you want to hit me with follow ups, I'll elaborate.
So I also, I had a meta note to bring up to this.
And, uh, at the beginning of the last episode, we caveated that.
Okay.
Look, hit Steven or anyone who's, who uses commits this, this, uh, fallacy or thought
trap, um, gets, gets a bonk with the bonk stick.
If you're comparing ideal capitalism and saying, well, this would be better than
this proposed libertarian solution, you get the bonk.
No, ideal government versus practical.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, it is a symmetrical rule, but I very rarely see people
making the other mistake.
And I'm pretty sure I don't, uh, but yes, uh, if you're comparing ideal stuff
to real stuff, then you're doing it wrong.
Well, so I think that's just what I wanted to keep in mind for a lot of my
questions, cause like, you know, we, we had like a long back and forth about, you
know, well, what if, uh, this asshole wants to do donuts in the, the intersection
near your house and you don't want them to, cause it's keeping up at night.
Like, I feel like the, the answer of, well, they just go door to door and offer
the money in exchange for you.
So that thing, like that is not how the real world works or will ever work.
I maintain.
And so like, I think that's the reverse of that fallacy where it's like, well, sure.
And this perfect libertarian utopia of Homo economicus is then, of course,
that's a good way to work.
So, so people have paid people to do pretty weird stuff on Fiverr.
Yes.
But that's different.
You're on Fiverr.
Uh, yeah.
So, yeah.
So, uh, the answer I gave you was, uh, shortened for the sake of time.
Uh, someone actually asked about that on the subreddit.
So, uh, we, and I asked them whether they wanted me to respond on the reddit
or on this podcast.
And they said on the reddit, uh, I have not gotten around to that yet, but I
will try to do that, uh, shortly after we stop recording, assuming I still have
any neurons left and then we can, uh, put a link to that in the, uh, show notes.
And then we can continue the discussion on that specific topic there.
Does that sound like a plan?
Sounds good to me.
Just one last thing about that before we move on, uh, I will remind you that the
governmental outcome was a couple of people got run over and maimed.
So, uh, you don't like, even if the outcome you get under real capitalism is just
like a bunch of people get really, really annoyed and get a bad night's sleep,
that's still probably better.
Right.
And, and I laughed not because that's funny.
I laughed because, uh, it's a, it's a great example.
Right.
Mine is the actual human suffering.
It's hilarious.
And so like, you're right.
Like, hey, you realize what really happened is people got, you know, run over by cars,
right?
Like, okay, yeah, that's a compelling counterargument.
But I guess what I want to keep in mind is that like doing, like proposing a system
that's better than what we have now is so easy.
Anyone can do it, you know, more or less.
You're not wrong.
No one should be billionaires.
Right.
No one should be billionaires.
No one, uh, you know, should, whatever, insert problem, right?
But like, uh, so I guess what I, I wonder.
I also think David is really downplaying the badness of having a lot of people kept
up all night, especially if it keeps happening over and over.
Like someone with insomnia, I agree.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, so like, I, I have had some, uh, involuntary staying up all nights myself.
I don't think I'm downplaying it though, because a guy got his legs crushed.
I know that's definitely worse.
I agree with you.
But on the other hand, if my past year of being almost unable to live my life due
to unable inability to sleep was due to one guy, I might consider crushing
his legs to get that year back.
Well, and we can also move away from this specific example.
The most, most of the, most of the time that someone makes a huge ruckus in a
neighborhood, nothing happens to them, right?
People drive through my, uh, townhome complex parking lot once a week,
blaring music loud enough to shake the windows for everybody in the complex.
There's this asshole who lives across from my apartment who has a like DJ quality speaker.
I think he told this story.
Yeah, I think I probably did say this last time.
So I think it happened right before that.
And so like, I'm just saying, like, for the most part, you know, violating the, uh,
the rules that people would like you to follow has no consequences.
Like, you know, well, I mean, yeah, granted, we don't want the consequences
to be you get run over, but it would sure be nice if you got a ticket.
All right.
So I've got a question that probably sounds like it'd be fast to ask, but too long
to answer how in general, how, how would like, um,
not just norms, but like agreed upon systems, like what, you know, what we call laws,
how would that work without, uh, like a state police?
So are we talking libertarianism here, or are we talking anarcho capitalism?
Because I can talk both, but, uh, one can easily be a libertarian
without being an anarcho capitalist.
So we should keep the distinction in mind.
Yeah, that was going to be my first question, because a lot of the things
you brought up seem to be like the subscription model of government,
which is great, but that seems like anarcho capitalism, as opposed to like
what the libertarian party actually wants when they run people for president.
I'm more interested in hearing about anarcho capitalism.
I say we hear both.
Okay.
Well, yeah, if we have time, we could do both for sure.
It's libertarian.
If you're going to, if you're going to force them into three minute answers,
I bet we can just do sticks because I'm curious how both of these work.
So yeah.
All right.
So, uh, the, the short version is, or the, uh, standard moderate
libertarian version is definitely the short version.
Uh, so I'll start with that.
Uh, it would work exactly the same as it works now.
Just there would be fewer laws about stupid things like, uh, nonviolent
drug offenses, um, prostitution, uh, trying to think of other examples
that would be pretty much uncontroversial for libertarians.
Licenses to do people's hair.
Yep.
Uh, occupational licensing.
50 years ago, having homosexual sex.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, ending the forever wars.
And I think this is why libertarianism is somewhat popular.
Whereas anarcho capitalism is a total fringe position because just being
like, we're not changing much.
We're just getting rid of the stupid stuff is, is more palatable
than we're getting rid of all government and replacing it with this weird
thing no one's tried before.
Yes.
That's true.
But also libertarian is libertarianism, even the moderate version is pretty
unpopular because a lot of people are just horrific, busy bodies and would
prefer to be able to boss other people around at cost of being bossed around
themselves and they would to just like let people alone.
And that's why vice crimes exist.
So in, in a libertarian framework, I still have a state number.
I can call the police and say, this person won't stop, uh, hitting my car
at the baseball bat and somebody shows up and stops them.
Right.
Yes.
Oh, great.
I mean, you could even potentially call him up and say, this person is
blaring music and there's a noise ordinance in this town.
Sure.
So what, uh, so libertarianism, the standard framework has taxes then,
just less, right?
Uh, I mean, not necessarily even less, um, uh, probably less, but, um, like I
said, uh, fiscal stuff is, I don't think really worth quibbling about.
So if you wanted to say, and the forever wars and the drug wars and so on, and
then pump that money into a UBI, that would still be pretty libertarian.
Um, uh, there are probably some libertarians who would disagree with that,
but I would consider that a win for libertarianism.
Right on.
So I, I guess, um, libertarianism in a nutshell then was like less about
completely removing government and more just about like really reining it in the
way a lot of people pretend like they want to.
Is that right?
Yeah.
So, uh, like even the really isn't necessarily something you'd need to commit
