And I apparently I think the cake example is fun.
A, because it's real examples.
But B, because it's kind of trivial, like you don't need a cake for your wedding.
And like at the end of the day, it does not take a skilled person to make a cake.
Like I you can get a cake at Safeway for two dollars.
OK, so like, like, yeah, all right.
Yeah, I mean, like depends on the quality of cake you want.
Well, I mean, yeah.
But but at the end of the day, if you want to serve cake at your wedding,
you know, for ten dollars, you can buy five boxes of cake, add an egg
and put it in the oven in your set, right?
Like or add an egg in some water and like.
So I think with those, I always like those examples of like
the idiot shop owner turning down money because it's like, great, you just lost
because you get you get to overcharge like crazy for your cake, right?
Like if you're selling a wedding cake.
I said, I mean, you just turned down potentially hundreds of dollars
because you're stupid, like, great, you're now out hundreds of dollars.
There is an Aziz Ansari joke about this several years ago.
And I forget if it was a real racist locksmith or a hypothetical one
that you made up for the joke.
But it's like the locksmith didn't like Koreans or something.
We thought they were always locking their keys out and didn't want to help them
or something. And then he's like really specific.
Yeah. And he's like, he's like, I imagine this guy down the road, like, God,
if I didn't hate Koreans so much, I would have made so much more money.
And yeah, and the locksmith who was happy to help Koreans, assuming that in
this hypothetical Koreans are more likely to lose their keys or something,
or this is a Korean heavy area, like they're going to do better.
Like to me, I like that that part of the competition aspect, right?
Like it I get where like, you know, I was giving the example of like
a society collectively sucks enough to where it makes it hard for certain
groups of people. That's a much harder problem.
But like today, you know, I mean, we ordered our wedding cake online for $50,
right? So like, if I lived in some shithole town that, you know,
had one cake shop full of racists, I'll order mine from a milk bar might have
been the wait, milk. I forget what it was.
It milk is in the name somewhere.
This person had a thing on Netflix that we watched.
It certainly wasn't milk bar in Denver because that's a golf club.
That's right.
But no, she works in New York and we ordered from her shop and it was awesome.
Cool. And like, I mean, so in the age, especially where you can order in
services like that from from trucks across the country, like, I guess the cake
problem as far as I'm concerned is solved.
Like the, you know, where do you live and where do you shop for groceries?
If your local grocer hates black people or something, that's a bigger problem.
Yeah. Yeah. So that that is another place where the theory fails.
If there's a discriminatory monopolist, then that can be a much stickier wicket.
But the question there is, are you more likely to have a monopolist in a
libertarian society or in a status one?
And the I think the answer there is fairly clear that you're more likely to
have one in a status society, just because so many so many monopolies
are our government made.
And the the and like, trust busting is basically just blatant rent seeking
to punish companies that refuse to essentially issue bribes to the government
rather than actually, like, you know, trying to find cases of price
hikes, discrimination or other serious issues nowadays.
So, yeah, that having a discriminating monopolist is definitely a harder problem
to solve. But I think in a lot of ways, you can solve that problem by just not
having as powerful a government so that it has more limited scope to create monopolies.
I all right, I have a follow up.
I'm going to jump in here with I'm sorry.
Yeah, go ahead.
OK, all right.
For a lot of people, government intervention in the markets is a feature and not a bug.
Like they want the price protections, they want the licensing, they want the minimum wages,
they want all these things that they know you can't build a kind of crappy house.
You have to have at least these minimum standards.
How the hell are you ever going to get people on board with libertarianism
when you're telling them you're going to have to get rid of, you know, various
workplace safety laws and minimum wage laws and all these industry protections
and tariffs and monopolies that make things so profitable for you?
Like this seems like a really hard ask.
What's fun before you answer that is that I'm exactly on the fence there
because I'm in the position where I like all of those things
and I'm finding this libertarian talk very seductive.
So like, yeah, OK, yeah.
So PR is not my department.
Libertarianism is very unpopular and that does make me sad.
But like, I'm pretty sure that's just the case because a lot of people are idiots
and or busy bodies.
Yeah, you can't just go around and say people are idiots, though.
You have to say something like, well, OK, I'm sorry, I take that back.
If you want to get a majority of the people voting,
you have to make some sort of case as to why their lives would be better.
And that's really hard to do because they can see how the licensing keeps out competition.
Yeah, so like so taking this more seriously, one of the reasons
that I think libertarians are unpopular is because it's really easy
to see benefits that the government does.
It's much harder to conceptualize the problems it creates.
So like take the medicine approval by the FDA.
So it's really easy to think, oh, sometimes drugs have dangerous side effects.
We should keep people from being able to sell those.
It's much easier.
It's much harder to wrap your mind around the notion that some drugs are safe
and that the FDA prevents them from being sold and that that also causes human suffering
or to take workplace safety.
It's really easy to look at the OSHA rules and see, oh, there are all these things
that my boss isn't allowed to do that would make me safer
or that would make my job more dangerous.
But what you don't see is that those things cost your boss money.
They also make more people willing to do your job.
So you have both a lower demand and a higher supply.
And both of those things reduce your wages.
And maybe if you were to offer those people explicitly
package A, where you have these safety features, but they get paid, I don't know,
$20 an hour versus package B, where they don't have the safety features,
but they would be paid $35 an hour, they would prefer more money.
And that's just a safe building with no fire.
Yeah. And essentially by having these OSHA rules, you are telling people
that they aren't allowed to trade money for safety in a way that they might not
necessarily want if the offer was explicit.
I think a lot of people think that people should not be allowed to make choices
like that, like choices that could be potentially harmful for them.
Yeah, it's true.
What did I just say about people being busybodies?
Go ahead.
Well, I don't know.
I'm just thinking of the triangle shirt waste fire and children working in factories.
And we kind of, I don't know, that's where I start getting uncomfortable with it
because it feels like it seems too easy to imagine a world where people are basically
coerced to work in, to have children working in factories or to accept a job
at the triangle shirt waste factory because there's not that swath of options for them.
I don't know if I articulated that well.
No, I think you raised a good point.
And I'm trying to find the exact phrasing that David used in the example from the last episode
in the notes, but it was at the end about minimum wage.
But this is sort of related to that because I forget how you phrased it, but it was nice
and succinct, but I'll try and do a good job summarizing it.
Like, if I want to hire somebody to help build a fence or something, what's the minimum
amount that I can offer them before the government comes in and says, no, that's not enough?
Yeah. So the way I put it was if there is a voluntary transaction where you want to do
a thing and someone else wants to do that thing with you, whether it be working for wages
or exchanging goods for money or whatever, what are the requirements where third parties
are licensed to step in and prevent that transaction?
Yeah, I like that because we, like Jay said, there's this kind of uncomfortable reaction
about, well, I suppose if you offered my kids $60 an hour to work at your factory because
their hands are small enough to fit in the machines or something, I might be inclined
to take that, especially if I was desperate.
But something about that, I feel like it's a mark of a civilized society that we don't
have kids breathing factory smoke, working in factories getting their hands lopped off.
So you, you are correct that that is a mark of a civilized society.
And that's why child labor was more or less eliminated before there were child labor laws.
The implementation of child labor laws were basically the government coming in and claiming
credit for eliminating something that free markets had eliminated basically a decade
earlier.
Then to take adults then, I mean, like in the US and maybe in most of the world, I'm not allowed
to sell my organs, like voluntarily, I just think that's nuts.
See, there's a massive kidney shortage that could be solved in this country.
And that's kind of where I'm on the fence.
And that's how this is less of like a challenge, the one perspective or another.
And I'm kind of just tossing this out there because you're right.
A lot of people need livers.
A lot of people need kidneys.
You could donate a lobe of your liver without any, you know, without losing your life, you
can donate a kidney.
Livers are weird.
Livers are weird.
You can just cut a chunk out of it and it grows back.
And you need one to live.
Hence the name.
Dammit, you made me laugh at a pun.
I just dare you.
I just wanted to get that proof on the air.
So like, I get we could solve this problem by saying, hey, look, who wants a kidney?
But then like, I just have this gross reaction to it.
Maybe that's my own weakness.
But like, you know, I go soliciting around a poor neighborhood or I go to war
tour in Somalia and say, hey, how about I give you $200 and I get your kidney and
like $200 is, you know, would really help you in your situation.
But like, it just, it feels so, I don't know.
I, I don't, I don't like it.
Am I, am I stupid?
Do I have a problem or am I, am I onto some moral importance there?
Yes, yes, yes, you are stupid.
Yeah, no, I mean, if someone wants $200 more than they want a kidney, then like
what, that just give them $200, that seems like an obvious effective
altruist equation here.
Well, I think that there's just something like, and this isn't a utilitarian
answer, but something net negative, not in the, again, you, you're
non-calculus, but about taking advantage of the super desperate people where like,
if they, if they were able to feed themselves, if they had enough clothes
and, and, you know, electricity to live a life, there's no way they would take
your shit deal, you know, you can make it even grosser and be like, hey, yeah,
sure, I'll, I'll salvage you and your family from this war torn nation.
Y'all can live in my house, but I get to fuck you and your kids whenever I want.
Like, I mean, you can make this as gross as you want.
Somebody might be desperate enough to take that deal, but like, that's still
terrible.
And I like the idea of someone with a big stick said, no, fuck you.
I'm not letting you do that.
Now granted, the counterpoint is that they stay in the war torn nation and get killed.
Well, other counterpoint, um, you, would you be somebody's slave for eight
hours a day if you didn't need their money to pay your mortgage and food bills?
I mean, you're, I think you're, you're being pretty, uh, loose and fast with
your use of the word slave.
You are sacrificing hours of your life every day to do something you would
rather not be doing because they're willing to give you money.
Sure, you only get so many hours of life and they are stealing it just
