I started just saying, yeah, I'm basically like a race situation, you know,
where white people are beating back people out of the neighborhoods or something.
Yeah.
So the issue there is just that, I mean, it's the standard argument that capital
or anarcho capitalism doesn't obviously perform worse than other governments,
because like if you have a democracy with 50% people wanting to run around
lynching black people, then they can.
In fact, we had something vaguely like that in the antebellum self.
Or if we have a constitutional republic, which requires a supermajority to
lynch black people, then we can.
And under anarcho capitalism, presumably the black people want to get
lynched or want to avoid being lynched more than the white people want to
lynch them.
And so basically whoever, if there are enough black people with enough money
and enough desire to live to basically outbid the white people, then they won't
get lynched.
And whether that ratio is higher or lower than it would need to be under the
current system for whether the ratio of black people and weighted by their
desire is higher than it is under the current system based on political
power and how much the police like you and so on.
I don't know.
It I could speculate, but that speculation would be obviously self serving.
And yeah, so I will say anarcho capitalism doesn't obviously lose there,
but that is a definite failure mode I would be worried about.
Still sounds like government for the rich, since the people with more money get
to decide.
So to some extent, you're right, except what you're forgetting is that lots
of poor people can outbid a small number of rich people.
In fact, this that is basically how tenements happened.
Apartments in New York City used to be like you would rent the entire building
or an entire floor or whatever.
And then landlords realized that they could cut every floor up into five,
six apartments and then charge a third as much and make more money by renting
out these relatively cheap small units rather than renting out entire floors
to the rich.
I realized that.
But three hundred thousand poor minority people aren't going to be able
to outbid seven hundred thousand middle class majority people.
And sure.
But how much do those middle class majority people really want to go lynching?
I don't know.
Like like when you are living in essentially a racist
aristocracy and you know, you'll get away from it.
Like the cost of lynching is fairly low for the lynchers.
You just need to find someone and then throw a rope over a tree branch.
If they actually had to like engage in a bidding war, they I I realize
this is fairly self-serving, but I suspect they'd quickly realize, you know,
there are other ways we can entertain ourselves.
It wasn't just entertainment, though.
Like the Antebellum South was a government supported terrorism, basically.
Like you didn't need to lynch all that many people to have a terror-based
community that kept the majority of the people you wanted to keep down down.
You only need to lynch a few to set an example.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, that's definitely true.
I'm not sure I have much else to say here.
Yeah, like it's definitely a potential problem.
I'm it's just not obviously something that would go wrong.
I do like the idea that maybe it could be tried out in a small area first
and then abandoned if it does go wrong.
Yes, I am a big fan of charter cities for that exact reason.
Yeah, it would be an opt-in kind of thing.
We wouldn't just make a neighborhood that way.
Yes.
OK, James, did you have something?
Um, well, I don't know if you know this, but, uh,
it's, yeah, speaking of trying it out, I'm looking at the anarcho-capitalism
Wikipedia and they have a section in historical precedence.
So yes, OK, one of my favorite topics.
Yeah, I don't know which one I want to ask about more.
The Free Cities of Medieval Europe, Medieval Iceland, the American Old West,
Gaelic Ireland or Somalia from 1991 to 2006.
But which one is how did the planes Indians not make the cut?
Well, the planes Indians are my favorite.
They're not on here.
Huh, do you want to edit this Wikipedia?
I have a lot of other stuff on my plate.
Yeah, but maybe.
Yeah, the reason why I like the planes Indians is because they are
a practical solution to the hard problem.
The hard problem, of course, being national defense.
And the planes Indian Solutions was just be fucking insane
and super aggressive and be so hostile to other foreign powers
that they can't invade you because they're too busy being invaded by you.
I don't like that solution at all.
Yeah, it's not great, but it does.
It is a solution, I suppose.
Huh, OK.
No one has no one has any other libertarian questions.
I mean, I can pull more off the top of my head.
But I guess like the problem is I'm already inclined towards libertarianism.
And I I I want to fight the narco capitalism thing,
but this wasn't supposed to be a narco capitalism episode.
It was supposed to be libertarianism one.
Yeah, the libertarianism like thesis seems to have fewer holes
like to drive a plane through.
So like, you know, like I like the answer to
in how do you solve comments problems?
Well, you have laws about it.
Like if that's an acceptable solution, then there's not much else about it, right?
I guess like a common complaint about libertarianism is
it would be entirely fine in the libertarian government for a racist
lawyer to discriminate against either racist employees or not racist
against minority employees or minority customers.
And people don't like that.
Yeah, we can talk about that.
Yeah, what if I go to a doctor and the doctor says,
fuck you, I'm not giving you any medicine.
You're too white for me.
Say, all right, fine.
If you're if my money is no good here, then I'll take it somewhere else.
Yeah, yeah. So this is this is actually a problem
where competition is especially in the presence of a
of a rule of law where you won't need to worry about the KKK
burning your shop down if you serve black people.
This is actually a an arena where competition works really, really well.
Essentially, black people have money and other minorities also have money.
And if you are
if you discriminate against them,
then they you are forgoing profit.
And under the theory of perfect competition,
which of course is a homework land thing, but it's easier to see there.
If you forgo profit, then you go out of business.
And likewise, if you
if you discriminate against potential employees,
then that's the same thing as essentially artificially
restricting your supply of labor.
And when there's a restricted supply of something,
then the price for it rises.
So you still pay extra to shop at the whites only cake shop.
But like the all inclusive cake shop will just see more traffic
because, A, it's cheaper and B, people who are
intended to who don't like the whites only cake shop because their assholes
will shop at the all inclusive cake shop.
Yes, except that they both cake shops also have to pay rent.
And if the all inclusive cake shop does more business
because of their lower cost of operation,
then that will drive up rent to the point where the racist cake shop
can't make theirs and the all inclusive cake shop can buy the lot
and then expand their business.
Well, if the like there's some questionable assumptions baked in there,
but that's at least a decent first brush.
Were you grinning because baked in there, baking to the cake?
No, no, I hate puns.
If the all inclusive cake shop, though, is willing to hire from a much wider
labor pool and therefore get lower paid lower prices for labor,
what that means in practice is that the public sees the all inclusive cake shop
hiring minorities for less and then they get cancelled for not paying
their minority workers as much as the racist cake shop is paying the white employees.
I would hope that the good PR of we serve everybody would help cancel out
the lower wages, but I don't know.
I that sounds like a two that doesn't sound like a critique of anyone.
Like that sounds more like a critique of society sub or post 2013
than it does of like any of the other politics at large.
But that is a funny thing to consider there.
Yeah, that's that's definitely a possibility.
At a certain point, I just have to throw out my hands and say,
like if people are determined to be psychotic, then there's not much I can do
to stop them. I guess I'd bring this up because this was an issue around.
I don't remember if it was World War One or two, but probably World War One,
I guess, where US veterans, black US veterans were stationed in the South
or on leave in the South.
And there were no shops in whatever area that would serve them.
And this became a major issue because these people were out there
killing and dying to defend your, you know, right to exist in America.
And you will not serve them.
And there was tension.
But on the other hand, the law was on their side.
They could simply choose not to serve black people.
And since there were almost no black people or no black people
that had money in their area, they never went out of business for this.
And it was it was a thing that was part of their business model and worked.
What like what do you do when you have a large federal government
with a diverse population and sometimes part of that population
goes to places that still have these sorts of racist customs?
So I would hazard a guess.
And this is speculation, but I'm reasonably confident about it
that the shop owners were less unwilling to serve the
black people because just they didn't want their money and more
because they were worried about the KKK burning their shop down if they did.
General social pressure. Yeah. Yeah.
The theory does fail if enough customers have a taste for
not shopping with black people or not being served by black people
that it becomes more profitable to discriminate.
But again, that's just a matter of like
if you are dealing with a population that's so corrupt,
then it's more a matter of libertarianism being unable to save you
rather than libertarian libertarianism failing in a unique way.
It sounds like libertarianism requires like a base level
of not insanity to work, which doesn't sound on its face like too tall of an ask.
That is that is true.
But it's also true of literally literally every other system.
That's true. Yeah. I mean, so yeah, don't get wrong, a lot of people suck.
But like I, you know, and I'm not sure how often this happens where,
you know, a gay couple wants a cake for their wedding.
And you know, I used to hear about these where the cake shop would be like,
I don't want to make a cake for your gay wedding.
And they're like, and if there isn't a cake shop next door,
we're like, all right, cool, we'll give our money to someone else.
Like, I don't know.
