But yeah, I mean, you know, Hey, I've got this.
Let me work on it while I've got it before we're ready to send it off and then
you hold it and then you can free up the thing that's doing the working to do
other stuff, but the thing holds it.
Yeah.
So that there's still totally a heavy feature.
Okay.
Yeah.
Uh, the article says it's a good guess.
The actual majority of human cognition consists of cash lookups.
And, uh, and then this, this thought does tend to go through my mind at certain times.
Do you do, uh, so he gives, he gives an example of someone being told by his
neighbor that you can knock out a chimney by, you can remove a chimney from
house by knocking out the fireplace, letting the bricks drop and then knocking
out those bricks, et cetera.
And it did not go well.
When years later, he tried it.
Uh, I'm assuming he saw that the person told him that saw that in a cartoon.
It must have been.
Yeah.
Or maybe he saw in the cartoon and just, I don't know.
Um, and said, yeah, if you, if you'd question that idea, you'd
realize it's a stupid one and, uh, you should have recomputed that, but you just
didn't.
Do we have examples of common cash dots that we use?
I had a bunch that I thought of when I read these the other day and I'll try
to think of some over the next minute or two and try to remember some.
I mean, yeah, even sounded what sounded like you were about to say something.
Yeah.
Uh, so I guess my cached thought when talking about caching in the context
of not computers is that the chapter on caching in algorithms to live by is
probably the best in the book.
What is algorithms to live by?
Oh, you haven't heard of it.
Um, I've heard of it, but, uh, pretend that I am a new listener.
Okay.
Fair.
Uh, so it's a book, uh, basically taking a bunch of concepts that are commonly
used in computer science and programming and talking about how you can use them
to improve your daily life.
Uh, talks about sorting, caching, et cetera.
Uh, it's quite good.
It was by Tom Griffiths and Brian Christian.
They were on episode 161 of rationally speaking.
So if you like not reading, but still learning about books, that's the
way to go, or it's a good starting point.
They were also on an episode of the 80,000 hours podcast.
I don't know the number offhand stone cold badass like Steven.
Yeah, I'll pretend like I remembered the number.
He just has all the episodes of rationally speaking cached in his brain.
That's right.
I have no room for important stuff like birthdays or, uh, I don't know how to get home.
Uh, I think one of my cached thoughts is generally conspiracy theories are ridiculous.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm trying to think of like specific, complete the pattern ones.
And I had some, cause like it's easy enough to think of the like, you know,
derisive ones that I disagree with this.
Right.
Um, but like, what do I automatically fill, uh, the response with when I hear
something and I'm sure there's, you know, literally hundreds.
And I'm just, that's not, it's the thing is about these.
It's not labeled in a box in your head called fake shit.
Right.
So like, I can't just go look at that box and see what's in there.
Um, and like not all cash thoughts are fake.
Right.
Most of them are great.
Like that's why they're there.
You know, they're, they're, they're reliable.
Um,
As this pointed out in the post.
Oh, go ahead.
So this is a, uh, terrible segue cause we're not going to the main segment,
but I'm pretty sure I have cashed, uh, government programs are bad.
Yes.
Um, yeah, I, yeah.
Like I, I definitely need to, uh, when I immediately hear of a government
program, like my reflex thought is to try to figure out how it's terrible.
And then, uh, I usually do, um, and then sometimes I don't.
And then I have to actually think about things.
I mean, I related to, uh, that, I mean, it's a, I see it all the time
where people are like, I don't know, whatever situation, um, you know,
Bezos made what he forexed his money in the last year or something.
Oh, the capitalism is terrible.
And like, you know, this is why or something.
And it's like, it might be, but like you need to just be able to articulate
the entire thought, right?
Uh, struck a good friend yesterday and I forget, it might have actually just
been me talking about what we were about to talk about today on the podcast,
but they just said, uh, billionaires shouldn't exist.
Oh God, I heard them say that a few times where they're just like, nobody
should have a billion dollars.
And I was just like, like kind of asked a couple of follow up questions.
Like, what do you mean by that basically?
Or like, what about this scenario?
And they, like, they hadn't actually thought about the thought.
America is the worst.
I hear a lot too.
Oh yeah.
Like, oh yeah, this country is the worst.
And it's like, don't get wrong.
I'm not, you know, a flag swinging patriot, but we do some things pretty good.
And we do things, we do lots of things a lot better than the worst.
Yeah, we're not the worst.
Stop the literal worst.
I mean, have you seen South Korea?
I mean, North Korea, yeah, best Korea.
He, uh, Eleazar does point out in the tribe that the vast majority
of our computations are probably cash thoughts because, uh, he says, no one
can think fast enough even to, ah, he didn't say even, no one can think fast
enough to recapitulate the wisdom of a hunter gatherer tribe in one lifetime
starting from scratch.
As for the wisdom of a literate civilization, forget it.
And I think that's true, which is part of the reason why it took humanity
so long to get from, you know, hunter gatherers to where we are now.
Cause it, you know, it's hard figuring out even what shit you can eat that won't
poison you.
Yeah.
I mean, as you recently learned, yes.
Well, and then, I mean, this relates to cashing, but like record keeping
was one of the major breakthroughs in that, right?
And that's essentially his, you know, a cash record of like, by the way,
don't eat this and we've got a list of poisonous foods in the region.
And now that people can write them down and read them, it saves everybody
the time of rediscovering that or having to go to a meeting, you know,
with the town elders to learn about it.
Well, that's the thing that people usually pick up because it's local
knowledge that's very important that the record keeping was much more for
keeping track of how many bales of grain were.
I was going to bring that up next.
Yeah.
Like, I mean, so it allowed you to, uh, just the idea of saving data, right?
I'm having to wait, like granted, you can save it sort of kind of in your head.
Actually, um, pre record keeping and cultures were very good at oral history.
Like, uh, I think very good is a relative term.
I've heard this, but, uh, they were very much better than us.
Yeah.
I heard that they were very passed down very accurately.
I would be surprised to learn that, um, even, uh, that they were good at like,
uh, accounting.
Yeah.
Like, uh, they, they certainly had a much better memory than we do for like
narrative stuff, but for things where like, you need to keep a four or five digit
number in your head and then you need to do that like 200 times.
Yeah.
Actually, I'm, I'm not saying it's impossible, but I would need to see some
really, really good evidence that that would actually be the case.
There's people that can memorize how many digits of Pi have people memorized.
We're going to look that up for them.
Oh yeah.
No, it's, it's crazy what you can do.
Actually, the, I don't need to look it up.
We'll figure it out later.
But, uh, the memorization techniques involved, I've like looked those up because
it's really fascinating are building a narrative on top of it.
Like, yeah, we as humans like use storytelling as a memorization technique
because we're sort of built for it.
Yeah.
The memory palace thing is very much a, you're walking through when you're
telling a story to yourself, remember things.
Yeah.
You can, people can memorize an entire deck of cards and, you know, random
order, what order each card comes in by, uh, by doing those.
But those are like professional memorizers.
You can do a deck of cards and Pi, but that's right.
I mean, like, you can do it with enough, right?
Yeah.
But, but that, that's what I mean.
If you have an invented writing, the marginal product of a professional
memorizer will be much, much higher than it is after you invent writing.
Right.
So, uh, requiring it to be a professional memorizer is, uh, actually
a fairly low bar for, I'm just thinking like civilizations.
It saves a lot of time.
You know, if I'm doing, if I'm farming 18 hours a day, I don't have time
to like dedicate training my mind palace.
So like, I might, you know, I might know somebody who's like the town
accountant or makeshift thing, but then I need to just trust that they
remember everything correctly, right?
Yeah.
And I mean, the thing is the normally when I hear the stories about, uh, pre
liter cultures had an amazing oral tradition.
That was incredibly accurate and et cetera.
It's from religious people trying to justify why their, um, religious
tradition is, uh, infallible and accurate and accurate doesn't mean true.
Yeah.
But I, I, I don't believe that, uh, their narrative hasn't changed because
sometimes we do find old ancient records and they contradict.
Uh, it's even if people can memorize those things and I don't doubt that they
can, uh, there are other pressures in life, uh, specifically political
pressures often, which will cause the narrative to change, uh, over generations.
Even if, um, people could have memorized it perfectly because there's
damn good reason for small things to be changed at the margins.
Yeah.
Especially like if your civilization gets taken over by the Babylonians and
all of a sudden you need to reboot, uh, everything and explain how this happened.
Yeah.
All kind of, yes.
It does become all part of God's plan.
It's, it's wonderful that way.
