I've always, I remember, uh, like as a child hearing that like, you know, things
are part of God's plan.
I was kind of like, I was thinking about that recently too.
I was always very confused by why that made it good.
It's like, don't worry, it's all part of God's plan.
And then I'm like, what is, what is the plan though?
Because so far, like all the history I've read seems very random and
capricious and like kind of cruel, which I guess is the synonym for capricious.
I would strongly recommend, I know I've recommended Ted Cheng before because
he's just an amazing short story writer and he writes things that
rationalists would love, but he wrote a short story called the truth of fact and
the truth of feeling.
And in that is a wonderful example of this sort of narrative, um, that changes
for political reasons.
And when one particularly percocious young kid, uh, finds out that the history
has changed and gets upset about it, the elders are like, kid, this is the actual
truth, because this is the truth of the world as it, as it is, because that's,
that's the truth they needed it to be in order for things to progress so that the
tribe could survive.
It was a really interesting story.
Yeah.
The truth of fact and the truth of feeling.
Okay, cool.
And so I continually see people who aspire to be critical or who aspire
to critical thinking, repeating back cash thoughts, which were not invented
by critical thinkers.
Ah, this is from the post.
Yeah.
And so I figured we could try a few of these, you know, complete the pattern.
And so death gives meaning to life for, um, and he gives all the examples
that like would be easy for me to think of, you know, like over, you know, um,
immortality is a good thing.
And then you get ideas like, well, overpopulation, you know, all these,
all these nonsense things.
And I've met people like this and I've actually rejoined, I don't know,
probably after I've read these, uh, or, you know, around the time, but like,
you mean like people just defending their cash thought?
Yeah.
We're like, so they have the thought.
And then because they like, they have it, their inner, uh, PR person is like,
well, hold on, that must be, that must be what I actually believe.
Let's defend it.
And so like, but I've met people and like, like he talks about in the post who
are like, you know, when you talk about existential risk or something, well,
you know, maybe humans suck.
You want to read the actual quote?
Oh, sure.
I figured I could summarize it well enough, but it's frustrating to think
that good and decent folk, people would never in a thousand years spontaneously
think of wiping out the human species, raising the topic of existential risk
and hearing them say, well, maybe humans don't just, maybe the human
species doesn't deserve to survive.
They would never in a thousand years shoot their own child.
It was part of the human species, but the brain completes the pattern.
And so like I've, I've had those conversations and I asked them like,
you know, like, and they'll be like, they'll be sitting there with their,
with their spouse.
I'm like, so you would shoot your partner in the face.
Like you would throw them into the sun or whatever it is, right?
And they're like, well, no.
And like, where do you think they live?
What species are you?
Yeah, I've had that, you know, there was this ex co-worker of mine
that was always talking about how humans suck.
Just like, okay, I, but like, but you, but you're like, maybe it's not humans.
Maybe just you, man.
Um, I like, you know, Carl Sagan, just to go, go, go out of another way.
He had just this great way of, you know, talking and thinking about it.
It's like we humans are capable of greatness.
I think that's the way to properly frame it.
Like we, we, yes, we fail all the time.
We do nasty shit as a species, but we, as a species are also capable of such
greatness that the rest of the planet is, is not even comparable to.
And that's, that's the real beauty.
I will say that self-loathing is a hell of a drug.
I was married to someone who was of the human, should be extinct mindset.
And she didn't kill herself.
Yeah, it's just that it was a human that you were married to.
Yes.
And she didn't kill herself, but you know, she was kind of trying to do the best
she could for all the other species on the planet because she knew that she
couldn't wipe out the human species.
But it was one of those things were like, if she had the option to, she probably
would have, I mean, maybe, but then you kind of wonder, like, I don't know
about, you know, this person's psychology in particular, but it's like, I, I
don't, I think the people who just say that are just saying rehearsed thoughts.
Like, I think you give them a button and be like, by the way, this will also
kill your parents, your kids, your, your partners.
Like the person would press that button's a monster.
Hey, I don't want to use the word monster, but, um,
anyone who's really troubled, anyone who's willing to kill me and every baby on
earth, it's hard, you know, it's hard to say that I would call them anything but
a monster.
I get where they're coming from in a way that, like, I get where, um,
I, you know, the self-consistency.
I suppose, like, I die too, but that's okay.
But I totally get the where someone's coming from if they were to go, you
know, like, uh, kill an abortion doctor or, um, I mean, hell, even like, uh,
kill a Democrat, yeah, kill a Democrat or, or like, lynch a witch or something.
Right.
Like, I get where you're coming from.
You believe these crazy things, but the idea that you're out doing this, like,
I don't know, I, I, I, I think that's maybe again, I won't, I won't fight the
definition of monster, but I'm like, I want that to change.
I don't want you to, I don't want you to be that way anymore.
I think, I think you would be happier if you weren't even weren't that way anymore.
Right.
It's a good thing that it's really hard to wipe out the human species.
Thank God.
And we have to worry about the, uh, mad genius correlate to, um, what was the,
the fuck, fuck, it's just slipped my mind.
The law that computing power doubles every 16 months.
Moore's law.
Yes.
The, the mad genius corollary to Moore's law is troubling.
That's a great cash thought.
I like this one, uh, rationality, complete the pattern.
Love isn't rational.
I mean, we could probably think of just like, you know, corollary versions of
that that make us sound all high and mighty, right?
Well, like, oh, we're such clear thinkers.
Shall we complete the pattern?
Love isn't rational.
Well, I thought that it was, oh yeah, yeah, I mean, I mean, he argues against it,
but the first thing I think is like, yeah, yeah, that, that, that shit makes me crazy.
Yeah, I guess, uh, it makes me do stupid stuff that I wish I didn't do.
I don't, the love isn't rational with somebody like, it's supposed to be
somebody arguing against rationality as, as a good thing, you know, like.
Oh, oh, that if you can't love, motherfucker, or I encounter those arguments
back in the day with religious people, like, oh, no, I, I believe in love
because I believe, you know, universe has meaning.
And it's like, well, I believe in love too.
And yeah, I don't feel that way.
So clearly we're, we're, we're at an impasse with our communication here.
Um, yeah, I, I don't have like a, um, a quick cash thought to rejoin to somebody
who's like, uh, what that they say.
So love isn't rational.
It's like, okay, so, yeah, like that, that's my cash response.
I guess if I have one, like, well, but you're not a real rational Steven.
I guess, yeah, I'll, I'll bite that bullet if, if that means that I think
love is cool or real, um, or that I, what makes me not a rationalist?
That I think those things are that I don't have a quick response.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I'm going, I'm going to take the other side of this.
I think love is rational.
I know.
It's yeah.
That's what, what's irrational about love?
Like sometimes love makes you behave irrationally, but that's not because of love.
It's because of the stupid monkey brains.
I think it's because of love, but I think love is a thing that evolved for
very rational reasons.
Like evolution wants you to act irrational sometimes in the defense of your
mating partner.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I, I think love is a, um, I think love is a comorbidity.
With irrationality, uh, so to speak, but, um, like it's not inherently irrational.
Right.
So put it, put it that way.
I mean, like the fact that I love my wife means that I, I share in her
happiness and I want her to be happy.
And like, well, I mean, even if you just distill it down to her
happiness makes me happy, like then of course, uh, you know, I want her to be
happy because all's makes me happy.
There's nothing necessarily.
There's, that's a perfectly, as far as I'm concerned, straight line of thinking.
I think like people might say it's irrational in that I would let a
thousand people die before I let her die.
And yet the math doesn't check out, right?
Right.
Um, so, you know, it is what it is.
Like I, I'm, I'm prepared to just bite that, but I, I, I defend that.
That's like a kind of, um, I, I like comorbid comorbid with irrationality.
Um, that, that, that's a kind of, uh, like flaw in robot thinking that I
think is understandable given our, uh, heritage, right?
Um, like you said, where we're wired this way and it just, it doesn't make
sense that like if I cared about her as little as I care about third world
people who I care about, um, but like just because they're distant, both
in time and space and, and, uh, psychology, um, you know, like it's,
it's, it's rational and game theoretic terms, like the impulse to exact
revenge on someone who has, you know, hurt you in some way, even far beyond,
uh, the costs that would rationally make sense, uh, prevents people from
hurting you in the first place and therefore, even though it is irrational
to pay a lot of money to hurt someone more than it's worth, it, uh, in the
long run, it stops the hurt happening in the first place.
I like that way of framing it.
It's actually a very sure destruction.
Personal level.
People are less inclined to mess with you if they know that you'll throw
away literally everything to ruin their life, they mess with you.
I will sell my house and hire Hitman left and right to come after you.
If you come up in traffic again.
All right.
Are we, uh, so, so what I'm hearing, Steven, is that you think Taylor was right?
Uh, Taylor did nothing wrong.
I think I actually haven't read it.
So I'm just repeating a phrase that I see.
I, I, you know, about the nothing wrong part, like, I don't know.
