You know, God, could you imagine if whatever the podcast network
charge 200 bucks a month because there's so much content on there
and you can enjoy as much as you want, but you have to pay this minimum
subscription fee. Now, screw all that.
You can you can listen to most of them for free and you can support them
per year wishes at your whim.
And I appreciate that Dina's whim was to support us.
So thank you so much.
Thank you, Dina. You're awesome.
Indeed, I just actually I'm not sure.
Maybe we do make more the minimum wage.
I should actually run the numbers and find out at some point.
I'm not sure, but I do know that I just added.
I don't know why it took me so long, but I finally because I because I never
on like my account.
I'm on the basic disparities account, but I logged out and logged in on mine
so I could send Scott Alexander or Alexander Wales
so I could sign up for his.
I do want to say I'm sorry if that any of that seemed ungrateful on my part.
I really do appreciate all our patrons and the money they give.
And I was just trying to make some dumb libertarian jokes.
I say I thought they were great libertarian jokes.
And we've got we've got the best judge for it.
All right, that was awesome.
I don't have anything else to add other than if somehow you're unaware that
you know, I started doing a podcast called Not Everything is a Clue
where we're going through we want more style for worth the candle.
Check it out. I'm having a great time reading
and recording it. So it is it is a lot of fun.
The story is amazing.
Stephen's doing a great time being paranoid.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, you're really honed the art.
I'm trying to keep it up there.
Oh, as long as we're plugging things,
I wrote a novel a few years ago called What Lies Dreaming
and the several people on the Discord got together
and created an audiobook version of that, which is fucking awesome.
Thank you, guys. That is the most amazing gift.
It is now available at Audible and Amazon and wherever.
Like if you didn't buy the book before, because you don't like reading with your
eyes, now you can read it with your ears. That's awesome.
You got it on Amazon. Yeah, yeah.
It'll it'll be it's already available as of this recording.
So I have nothing to plug that I like those things.
So while while we're plugging things,
I also have another podcast in addition to the MindKillers.
I have plugged it over there, but I'll do it here as well,
because you guys have a much larger audience, which I will happily mooch off of.
It is the Pokemon Primeval podcast.
It is a Blades in the Dark actual play set in a post-apocalyptic version
of the Pokemon universe.
And one of the bad guy factions is
a revanchist communist from the not Russia region.
So yeah, check it out.
That's outstanding.
Is it what it's or any part of your story or anything to say how it got
post-apocalyptic?
Yes, that is literally like one of the big
mysteries that I am
queuing up.
How if you're if you're familiar with the tropes of ratfake,
it probably won't be terribly hard to figure out, but most of my audience isn't.
So fuck them.
Send us a link to that and we'll put up in the show.
We'll do.
All right.
Thank you for joining us and everyone.
Thanks for listening.
Yes.
Bye.
Bye.
