to to be a libertarian, like I'm very much in the, uh, libertarian unity camp.
Uh, so like if there are any decreases at all that you want to make, uh, to the
size, scope and spending of government, then like I, I will back you up on that.
Um, so like, yeah, I, I am very much not a purist.
I think that there should be as wide a tent as we can possibly make for who
counts as a libertarian.
Um, so yeah, if you want to make it, you want it to become a dominant, successful
position, keep as many, as many high walls as they can, are the ones who want
to make their position fringe and small and therefore never victorious.
You're not wrong.
All right.
I got my question answered unless we want to ask about, I'm less curious now
about the anarcho-capitalism way of doing it.
Is that just, I guess it, so, all right, briefly then we'll keep the rest of
this on, on libertarianism, at least for my stuff, but the anarcho-capitalist society,
someone's hitting my car with a bat.
I'm not big enough to go hit them with a bat and stop them myself, nor do I have
enough money to pay a security guard to do it.
Is there, what's my option?
So essentially you have, so you've posited you don't have enough money to
pay a security guard, which I think due to economies of scale, it would be quite
cheap in anarcho-capitalism because that's actually the solution.
Essentially, you would subscribe to a rights enforcement agency.
Shorthand the mob.
Yeah.
So they were, so the original phrase that David Friedman used in the machinery
of freedom was private protection agencies.
And he changed it to rights enforcement agencies because literally everyone
who heard that immediately thought protection racket.
But yeah, so you will subscribe to a rights enforcement agency.
And then whenever you have a complaint that you want to bring to them, then you
say, hey, XYZ is happening.
And then they will go to the rights enforcement agency of the person who's
doing it.
And he's saying, hey, this person's doing a thing that's violating someone's rights.
We're going to go find them, jail them, whatever.
I do have an idea for how exactly that would work, but it's getting a little
bit into the weeds.
So we can go into that if you want, but I'll wait for you guys to actually ask
instead of volunteering.
And then they show up at your house and say, hey, quit it.
And then, if necessary, bonk you, take some of your money, put you in jail,
whatever.
Right on.
I like that distinct answer.
That's a terrible answer, though, because that is literally the mob.
He would just have his own rights enforcement agency, which would fight
your rights enforcement agency.
I mean, I didn't say I agree with it.
I like this.
I like the strictness of it.
Yeah.
So like, so there is there is a good reason to believe that wouldn't happen.
Do you want to give me another three minutes to talk about that?
Please do.
Okay, cool.
So essentially the if two rights enforcement agencies have a conflict, one
says that their guy did a thing.
The other guy says they didn't.
Then they will go to a mutually agreeable arbitrator for the arbitrator
to be mutually agreeable.
Then they'll need to be like an impartial seeker of truth.
And then, and that is actually something that's borne out empirically.
There was a time in the, I want to say late 1700s in England, when there used
to be one court, just the King's court.
And then due to some legal shenanigans, people were able to sue and try criminal
cases, I think, but they were definitely able to sue in either the King's court
or in the Admiralty courts.
And the levels of corruption plummeted because they, the courts were paid based
on how many cases they heard, and so they actually did compete on non-corruption.
Anyway, and then if the arbitrator finds the person did actually do the thing and
the rights enforcement agency keeps on trying to defend them, then they are going
to fall into a moral hazard problem, where suddenly everyone who does bad
things is going to be trying to join their agency.
And that means that soon they will have basically every other agency
masked against them.
So unless there are like, unless the other this one agency with the criminals
is small enough or is big enough, rather, that they can go against literally
the rest of society, then they probably won't be able to get away with it.
And there is, there are reasons to believe that they won't be that big, but I'm
going to need you to authorize another three minutes for me if that's a, if you
want me to go into that.
I think I see what you're saying.
I mean, it seems like this has the assumption that both parties have a rights
protection agency memberships, where like, if I was operating outside the
law as a, you know, Old West gunman, and I didn't have a rights arbitration or
rights protection agency subscription myself, but I still wanted to whatever
shoot car windows out for the sport of it.
And then the person whose car window I shot out calls there, I'm going to say
cops, um, they call their cops and then I don't have cops of my own.
So then they basically just de facto win.
Yeah.
Unless you can stop the cops, which you probably can't.
So yes.
All right.
So the, um, objection that Charlie had upon hearing this is that this basically
sounds like government for rich people, that anyone who can't afford a rights
protection agency simply doesn't have rights that are protected.
And there's a lot of people in America who don't have a lot of money.
Uh, yeah, but current government is government for rich people.
So, uh, and, and capitalism doesn't clearly, uh, perform worse there.
Cause, you know, cops murder poor brown people all the time and get away with it.
There's issues, but like, even when I was, you know, working part-time
making 11 a year, I could call the police.
Yeah.
The police, they're, they're certainly much more valuable for rich people, but
there is some presence in, in poor people's lives that they can show up.
If, if you get murdered and you're poor, the cops are still going to look into it.
Usually.
Yeah.
Unless you get murdered by a cop.
Um, sure.
Yeah.
So I suspect, although I freely admit that this is fairly self-serving speculation,
but I suspect that, um, the, uh, rights enforcement agencies would be cheap enough
that basically anyone, uh, who like has, is gainfully employed, uh, would be able
to buy at least basic rights enforcement services.
Yeah, but not everyone is gainfully employed.
There might be like, yeah.
And for, yeah, and for the rest, I, for the rest, I think there will be, um,
uh, that charity will be able to cover it, uh, because there are negative
externalities to crime.
Uh, this is the basic theory behind broken windows policing, which of course has
a bad reputation because racism and qualified immunity.
But like if you, uh, if like there are a bunch of murders or muggings or whatever,
then to some extent those, um, those criminals are gaining skills that they'll
be able to use, uh, to conduct or to commit those crimes more skillfully.
So I suspect that there will be, um, sufficient incentives to, um, uh, to
prevent those negative externalities that, uh, uh, there will be, uh, some
sort of free package.
Uh, there are also potentially a lot of, um, uh, opportunities for in-kind, uh,
payment of subscription fees.
So like you, um, uh, one weekend a month and one week a year, uh, like go out
and be a meter maid or something, um, that is getting deep into speculation
territory because there's so much we don't know about like what the services
would cost and, uh, what sort of charity there would be and all that.
Uh, but I will say it's not obviously something that will go horribly wrong.
And, uh, I am a very, very pragmatic sort of anarcho capitalist.
I would like to see it tried, but if something that I think would work out
is tried and it ends up going horribly wrong, then I'm happy abandoning the label.
I'd be a little bit bummed, but I definitely consider human welfare, um,
more important than anarcho capitalism.
And so if it did end up having really bad consequences, like, uh, rights
enforcement being beyond the ability of, uh, many people to pay for, then yeah,
I'm okay saying it was a good shot, but it didn't work out.
Nice.
I think I probably liked that answer.
One part that I liked too, was that you're right, even if I was a mostly
self-interested, well-off person, if I knew that two, two neighborhoods over,
there's a guy robbing the houses of people too poor to afford protection.
I don't want that person to get really good at crime because I'm just up the
street and if they get a lot of practice breaking into houses, next thing
I know they could be breaking into my house.
Now granted, if I, if I'm sufficiently well off, I have gates and panic rooms or
whatever, but if I'm only medium well off, I could see my personal selfish
incentive being, you know what, I'll spend 10 bucks a month towards the public
pool for protection, whatever, right?
Well, I think that's why a lot of people moved out to the suburbs back when the
whole white flight thing happened, because they could pay more to live further
away from the crime and that just left those, those crime-ridden areas, crime-ridden.
Crime-ridden.
Yeah.
Yeah, but remember that they did have, they did have government police and one
of the functions of government police is preventing private police.
So, assuming, even if we just assumed that they were self, if that they were
rationally concerned about crime and there wasn't any racial motivations,
which obviously there were, then under anarcho-capitalism instead of running
away, you could just say to your rights enforcement agency, hey, something's
happening that I don't like, here's some more money, can you handle it?
Yeah, I don't like this idea specifically because it does remove the monopoly
on violence.
I think, I think having a government monopoly on violence in any given
territory is actually a really good idea, because I just don't like the idea
of I don't even know how many separate entities, basically everyone, everyone
being able to commit violence at any time.
And there's, there's no rule against it just because they say they're a rights
enforcement agency or that, you know, I'm a solo person, I am my own rights
enforcement agency.
And I don't like violence getting out of control where everyone feeling they
have to defend everything themselves.
I like the fact that there's people saying, no, only these specific people can
do violence and everyone else has to cut it out.
But I think that our society kind of can work on that, like on an imaginable
small scale, where like, you know, if we're off doing a 30 person camping
trip for a month or something, right?
And one guy keeps stealing food, I don't know, or maybe the situation is more
dire or something, right?
But like whatever it is, like, at some point, we don't have to call the cops
to to exercise enough force to make this stop.
Yeah, but that's because there's 30 of you.
It's like when you're in a city of a million people, that's much harder to
police.
Well, if there's one jerk running around shooting out car windows, then the
million people shouldn't have a problem stopping them either, right?
But maybe the problem then too would be like, I mean, certainly if there's a
million people and 300,000 of them are hated by the other 700,000 for bad
reasons, then the 700,000 will have no trouble kicking their asses, because
they're outnumbered two to one.
It would be nice if only the state was allowed to do it and the state was
ideally close to impartial.
