because they aren't stealing it.
They're purchasing it on this side of it though.
I'm on David's, I'm on, I'm on the other side of the fence where it's like, you
know, if, if, uh, if someone, you know, so I've had jobs where it was not
worth the money to do that job and it was, it took, uh, risks and, and work,
but I got other jobs where now I am, you know, I feel like I'm getting, uh,
enough bang for my buck and like, I like having money, right?
And so, um, like, I like being able to go to the grocery store without having
to check my bank account.
Like, so those are freedoms, those are freedoms I'm, I have now that I didn't
before where like, I, I'm willing to exchange the time that I give to my,
my employer for that.
Like, so it's, that's less about slavery and it's more as about my,
my personal empowerment, right?
It's like about reality too.
And so like,
Is it that different from any other transaction of giving something of
yourself for money?
So that, again, I think that this is, I don't know, we've, we've moved pretty
far field from libertarianism, but this is just something where I found
a opportunity to shoehorn in something I've been tossing around for years without
any consensus in my own brain.
So like, it's,
And I do want to say I'm not actually on the side necessarily that I'm
advocating, I just am presenting that side.
No, it's still manning.
It's important.
Um, but yeah, you might, I guess you want to, you want to make clear that
you're still manning and not, not, uh, standing up for it.
Um, so like, I, I don't know.
I think the, again, if you take it to the gross extreme where, you know,
you're saving a family, but in exchange for all this horrible shit and
they're really torn, like on the one hand, it's, so it's like a, it's like
going to like a pot right, a drought stricken area and selling bottled water
for $15 a bottle where it costs you, uh, eight cents a bottle or something.
Right.
Like you get to make a killing and they need the water.
They need the water more than they, than they need $15.
Cause they're, they're, they and their kids are dying, right.
So like it's, but some, I, and I, and I realized that like, if I were to
step in as the government and just say no, then those people all dehydrate to death.
Like that's, that's not an optimal solution, but like high price of water
was a motivation to get people to bottle up water and drag it out there.
Yeah.
No.
So, so the, the solution that you're looking for is not to ban the transaction.
It's to make sure that people have enough money and other resources that they
never have to worry about taking one of those shit deals.
Yes.
And like, uh, and I think that it's pretty clear that the, uh, general
efficiency and, um, economic growth from having a less regulated freer society,
uh, will get you a lot of the way there.
And then charity will also do a lot for you there.
And then like I said, at the top, um, of the first show, I don't consider
welfare to be a fight worth fighting now.
I think we could probably get away without it for now or not for now, but, uh,
in an ideal situation.
But if I'm wrong about that, then I am definitely okay.
Having some sort of UBI and I am definitely putting those last on the
chopping block, uh, for my incrementalist and Arco capitalist fantasies.
Can I make a case for the busy bodies real quick?
Just to take the other side here.
Uh, you can, but I'm probably going to laugh at you.
Okay.
Uh, that's okay.
Um, so the case for the busy bodies is there is a lot of people who live as
if they're not going to, uh, see 22.
Like I, there's an old song by Coolio.
I forget it is, uh, yeah, gangsters paradise.
I forget the exact line, but he's like, will I live to see 24?
I don't know.
And a lot of people live their lives that way where they're like, you know what,
I don't even know if I'm going to be alive in a year.
I'm going to take whatever risks and shit as deals I need because it doesn't
matter to me.
Uh, they, I guess future me can go fuck himself or call it a, uh, high time.
What is it?
High time discount.
High time preference.
High time preference.
Yeah.
Hang on, hang on.
I always get mixed up.
Which one's high and which one's low?
Well, one of those time preferences is, is high time preference means you are
impatient.
Okay.
Cause you have a high preference for having things sooner rather than later.
Okay.
A high time preference.
And the thing is that they're wrong in their estimation, statistically speaking.
So in the end, it turns out that society is saddled with a lot of people who
made short-term good choices, which are horrendous long-term choices.
They now have zero kidneys because they sold them both.
And all of us are left paying the bill.
They can't work.
This is, uh, terrible.
And they're on dialysis.
We're not just going to let them die.
And so it's in society's interest to be like, if we're the type of society
that doesn't just let people die in a gutter and we are taking care of them,
then we have to curtail some of their worst choices, such as whether they
can sell their kidneys, for example, or I don't know, something else.
Climate change might be a good end of that position, right?
It's the busy body saying, no, you can't pump all that smog into the air to do
this when you can pay more to do it cleanly.
It's the OSHA busy body that's saying, no, you can't work in that coal mine
without any air filtering because you'll get black lung and be hospitalized at 40
before you die at 50 after 10 years of expensive care.
Even if it costs your employer more, he hires less people and you make less.
It's still a net worth it to society.
So fuck off.
I actually think the environmentalist point is one of the stronger arguments
against the other day.
Yeah.
So, so the question there is who is better at making decisions for you personally?
You or Miss Grundy down the street?
Personally, it's me, but I realize not everyone is as smart and well-informed as I am.
Sure.
But how are you going to generalize that principle?
Because if you are going to say, for example, that people can only fly planes if they meet
these very, very stringent standards that maybe some people would rather not have,
well, then you've just regulated flying cars out of existence.
And God only knows what sort of economic gains we would have if we had actually had flying
cars to say nothing of just, you know, being able to visit relatives that are six
hour drives and half hour flights away.
I'm with Jace.
I am a big fan that we don't have flying cars like my bedroom is on the second floor.
I love the idea that I'm not going to be killed by a drunk driver while I'm sleeping in bed.
People can barely drive cars on the ground.
We don't need to be, no.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, it sounds like a cached thought.
So flying cars would be a lot safer than ground cars somehow.
Well, just because there's a lot that is that is getting way far afield.
And I really want to control, though.
Yeah, I would refer everyone to the book.
Where's my flying car by Jace Stortis Hall for the long version.
You were supposed to do a special mind killer episode about that book.
We're waiting for it still.
Yes.
So I am I offered to do an audiobook version.
And the author said that sounds awesome, except I'm in the middle of getting it
republished, and I'm not sure the new publisher would be as fond of it as I am.
And I said, cool, I am happy to do it on any terms your publisher sees fit,
including releasing it through Audible or some other more formal channel.
And I never heard back.
So wait, did you just reach out to the author and say, like, I'd like to do
an audiobook of your book?
Yes.
Yeah, yeah, I should do that.
You're allowed to talk to people.
I guess.
Yeah, it's a free country.
I know.
Also, I have found that the phrase I'm contacting you on the advice of my
dissertation supervisor, Robin Hansen, is a downright magical.
So once the six month mark, you should text over, you should contact him again.
OK.
But to Jason's point, unless you're going to make another one, I'm curious
about the environmental, like, like, because that is an example of like
a short term gain for long term fuck you.
It's even the long term isn't even you in five years.
It's your it's your neighbor's kids.
And you're yeah.
So I have a criminal thing last episode, though.
Yeah.
So I I'm not sure if we fully address the previous point.
If we didn't, then let me know on Reddit or Discord and I'll flesh that idea out
some more, but onto the environmental stuff.
I mean, again, there's the same problem.
Like if you have the problem, if you have the environmental impacts being
so abstract and in the future, then like that's not that's obviously
something that democracies have trouble handling as well as libertarian societies.
And if you have a tort system that's capable of handling that sort of class
action, which we plausibly would under a more libertarian society, even
though we don't know how these two people that have been dead for 60 years.
So you.
So an example of reparations.
And our capitalists would handle would handle that is like if you own a beachfront
property in Miami, you say, hey, I have this building that to all rights should
stand and generate profits for 200 more years.
But because of global warming, it's going to be underwater in 30.
And then you can go you can sue people who emit carbon as whatever class and say
you owe me some suitably discounted 170 years worth of profits for this location.
Fork it over.
This is why I was more interested in the anarcho capitalism, because I don't know
about y'all, but I'm already leaning pretty libertarian myself.
I'm having a hard time like even coming up with objections beside like beyond
the standard ones like the environmental, the prison privatization, gun control,
like, and it's all stuff people have talked about to death.
I do think there's some case for some level of busybodiness that is, you know,
non zero and non ridiculous.
Like, I mean, even if and I get like, this would be a risk I take as a worker
going to the office or something, but like, you know, if I'm working downtown
and then they erected a building next to mine that has no safety standards.
And I, you know, I'm worried it's going to catch fire and probably will.
My options are quit my job or like wish I lived in a world
where they weren't allowed to build such a dangerous building, right?
