which has been around for like 30 years now.
It's actually been around for, oh, God, like,
uh, 250 years or so.
See, that's the definition area.
Fun fact, literally 100% of modern economics can be found in Adam Smith,
except for demand curves.
That, that is literally the only innovation that's happened in economics in
the last 250 years.
I will have to take your word for it.
Sounds like a really riveting field.
If it's been, if it's been a solved problem for a quarter of a millennia.
Was that just a dig at your profession?
I'm sorry.
Uh, kind of.
I meant to, I meant it in a good natured way, but I realized that it could have
come off, I meant to, as a complete joke, that was supposed to be a fun jab.
But yeah, yeah, no, that's how I took it.
Um, yeah, you're looking for the cool new shit that hasn't been found yet.
Yeah, basically, like, so there's demand curves.
And then there's a lot of people trying and failing to refute Smith's claims.
And then, like, basically, there's just a bunch of footnotes to Adam Smith.
Well, there's also implementation, right?
Um, he was pretty good about that.
Oh, well then.
Yeah, he was, he was actually a, he actually married theory and practice in a
much better, healthier way than a lot of modern economists.
I do like that.
Eliezer points out subversive literature because, you know, literature is a thing
that I have a hard on for and asks, uh, that, that it's, uh, has any of the subversive
literature you've read cause you to modify any of your political beliefs points
out that most of it is taught to you by English teachers in high school.
And, uh, yeah, I would just, I, in my opinion, anything that's actually subversive
is censored.
So nowadays the subversive stuff would be like, I guess what you find on 4chan.
Yeah, or QAnon or QAnon, Captain Underpants.
Captain Underpants is like the most banned book.
What?
Because parents don't like that it's very naughty.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
I, when I worked at a library, we had banned books day.
It was great.
Nice.
Like we display them prominently with like little placards explaining why this
book was banned, like, and encouraging people to check it out and read it.
So, so I, I'm going to ask this question, even though I'm almost sure I know the answer.
Did you ever put, uh, Mein Kampf in that display?
Yes.
Really?
Did Mein Kampf ever banned?
Yes.
Uh, yes.
Yes.
Apparently banned in Germany, I think.
Well, yeah.
Germany's got its, its whole thing.
I just, I figured kind of over here, like can't I go to Amazon and buy a copy of
Mein Kampf?
Yeah, I, here you can.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can buy a copy of Mein Kampf in America.
Well, except for Dr. Seuss books.
Well, you can still buy those.
Well, not on Amazon or eBay.
Oh, yeah, but that's because of their stupid bullshit.
Right.
So I mean, if they're still selling Mein Kampf, like that's, that's my thing.
I guess that's, in my mind, it's not, I guess who banned it?
Like schools or like, uh, yeah, primarily schools, uh, libraries.
I mean, like they have tried and succeeded at banning books from libraries before,
but libraries like generally dislike that.
I've tried to keep, you know, open access to information for everyone.
Are all the good, important historical books that are racy, like banned now,
like Huck Finn and, uh, to kill a mockingbird and stuff.
I don't think they're, I, I can't remember the exact details,
but I'm pretty sure, uh, that, uh, either middle school or high school
teacher got canceled because they said the N word because they were reading
Huck Finn aloud.
I heard about that.
But I wonder, I mean, also, and that was also like 10 years ago.
It was like an old recording, right?
Uh, maybe, I don't know.
Uh, Jason, is that library still open?
Cause I feel like I need to donate to them.
Oh, yeah.
Uh, I guess like, I don't know what, for some reason, I feel weird
saying it on the air.
It's the auto brings public library of Northfield.
Okay.
Cool.
Definitely donate to them.
They're great.
That was the same one where we had the hijab day.
Oh, nice.
The, like, stupid, uh, controversy over that.
Was that where you encourage people to wear hijabs if they wanted to?
Or, uh, well, we had, um, we had a local author come in who was a black
Muslim who wrote a book about like her life story of being a black
Muslim in Atlantic city.
And we got to talking with her after she did her book presentation and
realized that it was like national hijab day coming up.
And we're like, Oh, cool.
We can like, have you come back?
Cause she wanted to like, you know, it was a great time.
She wanted to like come back and do more stuff.
So like, I'll like talk to some of, I have like a friend who owns a store
that sells hijab and they can come in.
We'll like talk about the different styles that they wear in different countries.
And, uh, and just then like people could like try them on.
And to, uh, advertise it, the library director posted a picture of herself
on like social media wearing one of the hijab that she'd been given by
this woman who makes them and was like, you know, come to the library for hijab
day.
We have these books about these like Muslim women and their experiences,
et cetera, et cetera.
And the internet blew up because it was like white lady in a hijab of
cultural appropriation.
And then like one, one side and the other side was, how dare you wear that
terrorist garb in our nice little library?
So like, yeah.
Well, like they got the internet wanted.
So, uh, what we're swapping fun library stories.
Do you guys remember that story about the, um, uh, library that was trying
to do a drag queen story hour, uh, and it was so emphatically protested
that they ended up canceling it.
Oh, I didn't realize they canceled it.
Yeah, they did.
Uh, and that is the library that I go to when I want to go to a good library.
Yeah, cool.
Not really.
Would have been a lot cooler if they hadn't caved.
Oh, yeah, yeah, that's true.
I mean, they get some points for trying, but, uh, yeah.
So back to thinking outside the box, those are thinking outside the box ideas.
I like it.
Uh, what else do we have to say about this?
Eliezer has a cool example.
Um, apparently at this, uh, startup funding place, Draper Fisher,
Jerviston, if only two, oh, only two partners need to agree in order to
fund any startup up to 1.5 million.
And if all the partners agree that something sounds like a good idea,
they won't do it because yeah, that's thinking outside the box.
Exactly.
I love that idea so much.
Yeah, did say how many partners there also, uh, real quick, you did, um, you did
skip the best part of this post, or at least the most topical, uh, which is
the block quote, uh, from lizard, uh, revolution has already been televised.
Revolution has been merchandise.
Revolution is a commodity, a packaged lifestyle available at your local mall.
1995 gets you the black mask, the spray can, the crush, the fascist protest
sign, and access to your blog where you can write about the police brutality
you suffered when you changed yourself to a fire hydrant.
Capitalism has learned how to sell anti-capitalism.
And I could do an entire podcast episode on this concept alone, but, um, for
now, I'll just leave it at, uh, I once saw a, um, like T-shirt with a Chibi
version of the famous photo of Shay Guvera, and that was the most late
capitalism ass thing I have ever seen in my life.
I kind of want that T-shirt.
Oh, and who's lizard?
Uh, I assume some, uh, poster on whatever this blog or whatever it is.
Observes and it links to journalism.berkeley.eu and I, it's just like the main page.
And yeah, does anyone know who lizard is?
Help us listeners.
Yes, it's on the ground because now the lizard people don't rule us over.
All right.
He ends it with every improvement is a change, but not every change is an
improvement.
The one who says, I want to build an original mousetrap and not I want to
build an optimal mousetrap nearly always wishes to be perceived as original.
Originality in this sense is inherently social because it can only be determined
by comparison to other people.
And that actually was not the end, but that is the last note I pulled and is
another example of how hard it can be to actually be, uh, thinking outside of the
actual box, not using cash thoughts, because then if you're just trying to
optimize looking original, you're not necessarily looking for the actual
correct best solution.
Yeah.
And like, I mean, especially in a place where like, if it's a job, like, hey, I
did this thing and it's an original me and I, I'm the one who put it together.
Like that gives you job security and like street cred among your co-workers and
bosses, right?
At the downside is that like, sure, you did it only, but the, the packaged
version that you can get for free does that better and cleaner and more
maintainably, um, like,
Why did you spend 200 hours on this?
Right.
And, and now it's a, now it's this convoluted mess that only you know how
to work with job security.
Yeah.
Then the downside is then when you leave, other people, it's other people's
mess to work with.
So, um, yeah, I, uh, it's, I don't know if I ever hear people say, I want to
build an original mousetrap.
I get what plenty is making, but I always see, I want to make, I want to
build a better mousetrap, which is the, the, the canned phrase.
Right.
I have heard, um, things like, uh, you're trying to build a new
mousetrap or, um, reinvent the wheel.
Yeah.
