Spoiler warning, today's episode contains spoilers for the web fiction worm and the movie Pulp Fiction.
Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Eniasz Brodsky, I'm Steven Zuber, I'm Jay Sticky, and I'm David.
David is back with us because last time we were talking about libertarianism and we got a whole lot of David,
but we didn't actually get to ask most of the questions and I guess there's going to be like a part two now
where we grill him on why his philosophy is so terrible and how he can possibly defend himself.
Last time was us learning stuff, now is defending the thesis against us.
Yes, quite.
Sounds fun.
Alright, but first we start as always with Steven talking about TVs and movies.
As always.
Wouldn't be an episode of the Basin Conspiracy without it.
Thank you, I'm glad you get the brand.
Alright, so we went two years without Marvel stuff, as you guys recall, 2019, April was when Endgame came out.
If you're about to talk WandaVision, I haven't seen it yet.
I won't say anything other than you should see it and it's amazing and I loved it.
Okay.
And so that was on for nine weeks, or whatever many weeks it was, then we had a week off,
and then on Friday Falcon and the Witcher Soldier came out.
Oh, cool.
And it was great.
Was it?
Yep.
I really enjoyed it.
There's a part that's supposed to make you feel mad and it made me feel very mad and it worked
and I'm like, I'm super into it, I love it.
Okay, great.
We were playing two different kind of stories at the same time.
Like, anyway, love it.
Alright, so that's the end of Marvel stuff.
Wait, were you going to say something?
Huh?
No, I was saying I'm looking forward to it.
Oh yeah.
Speaking of looking forward to stuff that's superhero related, the Snyder Cut came out on Thursday of Justice League.
Okay.
Everyone in the audience, raise your hand if you saw Justice League.
Okay, I saw about 60% of hands go up.
Leave your hand up if you liked it.
Wait, wait, wait.
Where did you see 60% of hands go up?
I can just see the audience.
You can't see them?
Oh, oh.
If 60% of our audience saw the Justice League, I would be very surprised.
I'd be surprised if it was, I bet that's about right.
Really?
A little over one in two people.
I want to put out a survey now because I think our audience has better taste than that.
Okay, well, if you like taste and you like DC, might I recommend the four hour Snyder Cut?
Oh my God.
It was actually, it brought the movie from crap to great.
Really?
Yeah.
It did.
So the reason it sucked is because it gave us five characters, I guess six, three of which
we'd never really seen before, cared about.
It tried to do the Avengers movie without doing the six year build up where you get to see
all the heroes first.
Yeah.
You don't get to skip without...
You don't get to skip doing the heavy lifting.
And so the two main people that you don't know anything about yet are Cyborg and Flash,
right?
Because Aquaman gets his own movie after this, I guess, but whatever.
Wonder Woman had hers, Batman, Superman, we all know.
Cyborg and Flash play a big part in the Snyder Cut.
And the main thing that made that movie rough was that Snyder did like 300, right?
The movie's supposed to feel kind of like that.
And then Joss Whedon did the Avengers and Buffy and it's hilarious and fun and great.
But they're great in different dimensions and when you mash them together, you're mixing
together like Pumpkin Spice and Funfetti Cake, right?
Like this is not...
Sure, they're great desserts, but together they suck.
So this is all pure unfiltered uncut Snyder and it's awesome.
Flash and Cyborg actually get arcs or at least they get stories.
They don't really have...
They have some arc, whatever.
But there's some character stuff, but all of the disjointedness where you get a joke
thrown in where it feels really inappropriate because that's when Whedon had a chance to
shoot stuff.
All that's gone.
There's still funny moments, but it's no longer like the off-brand humor.
So I just finished it this morning.
It was great.
I strongly recommend the Snyder Cut.
It was a lot of fun.
Okay.
I watched it this morning.
I watched it starting Friday.
I watched it in three sittings.
I did not sit through a four-hour movie.
Yeah.
Okay.
That is a lot of sittings for a movie, but four hours, I guess.
It's nice enough to give you breaks.
I think there's six chapters and an epilogue.
I mean, one edition is like a four-hour movie, basically.
But I watched it one week at a time.
So how similar in style is I'm assuming not at all Falcon and Winter Soldier to compare
to WandaVision?
It's delightful without giving anything away.
I just like Rachel.
I turned to Rachel ten minutes in.
I'm like, compare this to the first and she finished like to the first ten minutes of
WandaVision.
I'm like, exactly.
I'm assuming it's more of an action movie as opposed to like a psychological thing.
So far, so good.
Yeah.
Actually, there's tons of psychological stuff too because it's, I mean, we'll get there.
But yeah, it opens with a badass action scene.
The first three episodes of WandaVision have like existential horror woven in.
Right.
Yeah.
I was a good shit.
But there was no fighting.
Right.
This one starts off as badass fighting.
It's great.
Okay.
Existential horror is my favorite kind of horror.
Yeah.
Me too.
God, I loved it so much.
I think you're going to love WandaVision.
All right.
So that saves our movie digression.
I'm trying not to leave it too long, but I just had to share because I just finished
Snyder Cut that it was, like I said, a breath of movie from bad to great.
I at least as good as the middle tier Marvel movies.
So that is genuinely surprising.
I wasn't all that into the middle tier Marvel movies either.
This one's fun is gritty and dark, like the way that it was supposed to be.
I mean, I like gritty and dark, but I just, I don't, I don't know, man.
After, after basically everything that the DCU has shit out.
I just don't have much faith.
I think if you watch this and you're like, if you're like, you remember
Justice League, you're like, oh, I remember the movie that did this.
And you're like, oh, wait, they're not even doing that part.
Oh, I didn't even watch the Justice League.
Oh, well, maybe I mean, I saw Batman for Superman.
And I was like, that's all that I'm ever going to watch.
There's there's no saving that movie yet.
I don't have these plans to try and try and hack together a good version of that.
But this was fun.
I had a good time with it.
All right. All right.
You still with us, Dave?
Yep.
Everyone else has checked out.
Yeah.
But, you know, Marvel with me is always like a, this is bad segue.
Cash thought I was going to show that in.
That was a terrible segue.
Yeah, I dare you.
I can do better.
Yes, don't don't lower yourself to that one.
So cash thoughts, he brings it up because of the first let's
wrong sequence this week is called cash thoughts.
And this is a really famous one.
It's also, I love how the beginning of it is just.
Ellie, as you're complaining about how poorly designed the brain is and
like he would, he would make something like this.
We're kind of just talking about that before the episode about like how we
humans as a species are just like terribly designed.
Yeah, our meat suits suck.
But, you know, people say like, oh, the brain sucks.
It'd be nice to remember stuff.
It'd be nice if, you know, I didn't get tired.
Those are all like easy complaints.
He's like, no, no, look, look at just how badly it performs objectively
to any other like substrate of information processing.
Yeah.
This is, it's a joke.
It starts with, so one of the single greatest puzzles about the human brain
is how the damn thing works at all with most neurons fired 10 to 20 times
per second or 200 Hertz tops in neurology.
The hundred step rule is that any postulated operation has to
complete at most 100 sequential steps.
You can be as parallel as you like, but you can't postulate more than 100,
preferably fewer neural spikes one after the other.
Can you imagine having to program music?
100 Hertz CPUs, no matter how many of them you had, you need a hundred
billion processors just to get anything done in real time, which is great.
Cause that's about how many brain cells there are.
Right.
Like that's what we're operating off of where we're a collage job.
I read that and like, I read 200 mega Hertz because I'm just used to seeing mega
Hertz and you read it out and it was Hertz and I was like, Oh my God.
But he does say that if you were stuck using such horrible, horrible hardware,
one trick you'd use as heavily as possible is cashing.
That's when you figure something out once you, you do the mathematical
operation once and you store the results so that you can just look them up later,
which is heavily done when doing things with Pi and any large complex numbers.
You usually have a lookup table.
At least you did back when I learned programming.
Maybe nowadays computers are fast enough to do it on the fly.
Now they've got a whole service that's dedicated just to cash.
So like, or, you know, you cash it so that you remember, all right, I'm going to put
this in the queue when the queue opens up, that sort of stuff.
