of property rights that does not suffer from internal incoherence
or depend on specious natural law assumptions?
Scott writes, Professor Krasinski sat down at her desk and booted up her computer.
It was another quiet morning here at the Harvard Philosophy Department.
She had won her position as department chair by discovering a complete theory
of morality, grounded in first principles with no internal incoherence
or any specious assumptions, able to determine everything
from the optimum number of minutes speaking to your mother each week
to how close you could come to beggars before you were obligated to give the money.
She had just finished checking her emails, mostly invitations
to speak at various conferences and events when something started to stir
in the center of the office.
It turned into a wind, then a whirlwind and finally a strange looking man
dressed in silver with gold goggles.
Professor said the traveler, Professor Krasinski, terrible news.
The professor, whose mind had plumbed the depths of ontology
and ascended the heights of metaphysics, was a hard woman to perturb.
Yes, she asked the man, what is it?
Suppose there's an evildoer who punishes all evildoers who do not punish themselves.
Does the evildoer punish himself or not?
Professor Krasinski realized the implications right away.
My God, it's a paradox.
My complete theory of morality, grounded in first principles
with no internal incoherence or specious assumptions,
able to determine everything from the right amount to tip your waiter
to the exact words you need to speak before a sexual act for it to qualify as consensual.
It lies in ruins, and that means began the traveler.
That's right, said Professor Krasinski.
She and the traveler spoke in unison.
Nothing is true and everything is permissible.
Come, she said, I've prepared for this day.
She took a key out of a potted plant on the window sill,
then used it to open a locked cupboard in her desk.
Inside were two hatchets.
She handed one to the traveler.
Where are we going?
He asked to the daycare down the road to have the limbs off of babies.
Obviously, the traveler nodded his approval
and they went off eyes red with bloodlust.
That was fantastic.
Yeah, a lot of that, like, gotten the better response to that question.
Yeah, so the moral of the story is you're allowed to have some common sense
and like just because your moral theory doesn't have
or does have some specious assumptions and or internal incoherence
doesn't mean that you don't still basically know what's right and wrong.
And just because I don't have a super well specified theory of property rights
doesn't mean that you don't still basically know what I'm talking about.
And sure, that does mean that there are some fuzzy situations around the edges,
but it's much easier to just address those fuzzy situations
as they arise than to write off the entire theory.
I want to say.
That was perfect.
I want to save that entire story as a single sound clip
to insert randomly like the data sound.
Yeah, we got to put that out somewhere.
That was that was delightful.
Yeah. All right.
I'm going to I'm going to like reluctantly stop asking silly questions
and maybe we could like answer some of the same.
I don't think we can possibly do better than that for like silly answer
or great answer to a silly question.
So OK, like a good place to put it in.
Yeah, that made my day.
So, you know, we we probably should be calling it soon.
Is there anything you want to bring up or one or two of those questions
that you really like that you want to address?
Let's see.
So we did.
Wouldn't libertarians think do things I find icky?
Are these the actual phrasings of the questions?
They are the actual phrasings I put on the outline.
They aren't the actual phrasings people put in on my Facebook.
I tell you what, there's one on here from you.
Wait, but is ideal government better than ideal markets?
That sounds like a good one to end on. OK, sure.
So this is a fun little question
just to clarify about the bonking rule.
The bonkable offense isn't bringing up ideals.
It's comparing ideals to real life.
And this, of course, raises the question.
Sure, maybe libertarianism is better in a flawed world
where people don't know things or behave immorally.
But would it actually be preferable to something like socialism
if everyone was perfect and omnibenevolent?
And the book on this is called
Why Not Capitalism by Jason Brennan.
It's very good and I will give a admittedly flawed summary here.
But if you find this question interesting
or want to hear a book length version of my answer,
I recommend you check it out.
So the Zoidberg meme.
Why not, Zoidberg?
I might have to make it.
So it's so it's it's actually riffing off of the book,
which it's a response to, which is Why Not Socialism by someone.
I can't remember his name,
but he's basically just a socialist philosopher doing ideal theory,
saying that, you know, sure, there are some practical problems with socialism.
But in an ideal world, it would work very well.
And Brennan is saying, yes, it would work very well.
But but capitalism would work even better.
And so the short version is.
Essentially, there are two problems with central planning.
And those are the knowledge problem and the incentive problem.
So the incentive problem is what?
How can you get people to do things that are not in their interest
but are in society's interest if you don't pay them?
And then the knowledge problem is essentially is a bit more abstract,
but it's essentially the business of buying and selling communicates
through the price mechanism, a lot of information about.
Resources and which resources are scarce
and what the most efficient use of resources are.
And if you're doing ideal theory,
then you can basically assume away the incentive problem
because people will just act in a socially responsible way.
But you still have the knowledge problem.
And so the you would still want something like
market with price mechanisms around just to make sure
that that information is generated and communicated in the most efficient way.
And the price mechanism is the only way we know how to do that.
You also have essentially the Scott Alexander archipelago case
where which anarcho archipelago is basically
an ideal theory version of anarcho capitalism
where different people will have different
conceptions of what the greatest good is.
And the way that you allow them to pursue those different
conceptions is by having a maximally free society
where like-minded people can just organize into their own groups.
And the pithy version of this is an ideal socialist society
cannot allow you to be an anarcho capitalist.
But in an ideal anarcho capitalist society,
there's nothing preventing you from going off and starting a socialist commune.
I do notice that you slightly change the question to ideal socialist
versus ideal anarcho capitalist, because in my opinion,
an ideal government is a government that is run by God,
who is literally omnibenevolent.
Yeah. And omniscient and all those other things
because such a society would just be perfect if an actual God existed
that actually had all the good things.
Yeah. So if you're assuming an omnibenevolent and omniscient
and omnipotent central planner, then like
calling it socialism or capitalism or whatever
is like just kind of quibbling over pointless semantics.
Because if you have that sort of actor,
then you're probably going to just get the ideal outcome.
Yeah. So the interesting version of ideal theory
is assume that we're talking about normal human people
who have the same computational and cognitive constraints,
but who are just morally superior and who don't selfishly, et cetera, et cetera.
And that's definitely, yeah.
And that has a much more interesting answer.
But if you're not going to settle for quitter talk,
the answer is make a God and put them in charge.
The answer is always hurry up and become God any question.
All right. Well, thank you for joining us.
Yeah, this was fun and informative. Awesome.
And I hope we weren't too easy on David,
since at least two thirds of us are already libertarian inclined.
If people would like to complain,
we have both a subreddit and a discord to do that, too.
And maybe someday we will yell at David again,
but probably you'd be better off hitting him up on the subreddit.
Yeah. And one third of us
does not have anything like an articulate politics.
So if there are any like
died in the wall, hardcore communists,
like read, read theory for fun types listening to this,
then I either on this podcast,
obviously it's not my podcast, so I can't volunteer the feed
because I don't own it because property rights are awesome.
But either here or somewhere else,
I would be interested in having a discussion
and or debate about this if there is someone
who's willing to really go to bat for the other side.
Oh, OK, hit us up at Basin Conspiracy Podcast at gmail.com.
And we will relate this to David.
Yeah, or as always,
you can get in touch with me by snail mail at P.O. Box 420
Clemson, South Carolina, do 9631.
That is a bit. I don't know what was available.
No, that's a bit.
If I ever get a P.O. Box, I will make sure it's P.O. Box 420.
But yeah, I don't actually have a P.O. Box.
Why don't you get in touch with me on Discord or the Reddit?
OK, right on. All right.
We have to think of patron. That's right.
I don't know whose turn it is.
That's because patron age is a old and venerable free market
solution to the problem of paying artists for creating art.
You know, it's a good thing there isn't a minimum wage for podcasting
because otherwise it would be illegal to make this podcast.
Not at all. It gives me some compelling points.
I I just, yeah.
OK, so first off, I got to say we're thinking Dina Blanco
this time for supporting this episode.
I hope you loved that joke that or the the jokey response that
Scott Alexander gave to that question.
I will be thinking about it for the rest of the day, and I hope you had fun
listening to the episode and thank you so much for supporting this.
You know, you make a good point. It's nice.
