Like, no, you're missing the third option.
Hiring.
And sue them.
You can't sue them before it catches on fire, though.
Yeah.
I mean, I guess I mean, if I mean, if it's if it's a provable hazard,
then sure, you can.
But but would I be able to in a like we I can only do that
because there are safe safety standards now if safety safety standards
were a thing that we did away with because the busy body's got annoying?
Like, am I just, you know, I guess who would even be willing to hear the case?
Like, so, yeah.
So there are so in addition to anti-corruption,
there are also other things that that courts can compete on.
And this would be getting well afield of where we are right now
to explain why this is true.
But there are reasons to believe that offering strict liability
for cases where strict liability is efficient would be a thing
that some of those courts would compete on.
So it it's like it explaining why exactly that's true
would be really quite complicated.
What motivation does the person who built the dangerous building
have to go with this with the strict liability court?
Ah, let's see, how to do this in three minutes.
Feel free to take seven minutes for this one.
OK.
OK. So essentially, if the so if a court didn't offer strict liability
for violating safety standards, if it's economically efficient,
then they would essentially offer judgments for in favor
of people who didn't violate the safety standard.
So someone's got to be losing profits here somewhere.
Just got to. Yeah.
So for narco capitalism, right?
Yes. Libertarianism, you don't have the option of going to other courts,
though, you only have the state court.
Yeah, for Libertarianism, like I said, welfare is the last thing
on the chopping block, OSHA and some other things like that
would be like second to last. OK.
So realistically, Libertarianism is not going to get rid of that.
Probably not. Yeah.
And then if I need to like draw some grass and stuff to figure out
why competitive courts would offer strict liability if it was efficient.
But I'm not sure that's something I can do on the fly.
So if you're curious about that, hit me up on Reddit or the Discord
and I'll explain it there.
I think one of the major problems is people always have something
they like about government and whenever you bring up Libertarianism,
since its main thing is like reducing the size and scope of government,
they will bring up the thing about government they like best
and say, why would you want to reduce this, you monster?
I mean, yeah, like I said, Libertarianism has bad PR
and I'm not sure how to fix that.
Sorry if that's an unsatisfying answer, but like I know what side I'm on.
No, the truth. The truth.
Scout mindset. Scout mindset.
The honest speaking of Free Plug for Julia Gailiff's book,
I think it's called the Scout Mindset.
She just finished writing it. It's available for preorder.
She's such a put a link in the rationally speaking episode
that came out yesterday and she didn't.
But if you Google it on Amazon.
Damn, there should be a law.
What was the title?
The Scout Mindset.
OK, cool.
Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.
And the audiobook is available read by Julia Gailiff.
So I'm buying that.
Nice. Or will be available in mid-April.
Did you have any more anarcho-capitalism questions or anything?
Well, anarcho-capitalism, yeah, because.
I mean, maybe it would just be better
if Libertarianism actually had an ordered list of what would be chopped first
so that people who say stop getting rid of the regulations
that keep people safe in the coal mines could be responded with,
you know what, once we've solved war,
once we've solved wars and pollution and poverty,
then we'll get to the coal mine safety standards to acts.
So that would be a great idea,
except if you put 10 Libertarians in a room,
they would soon come up with 11 lists of what needs to be cut.
And the logical organization to
actually put that together is the US Libertarian Party.
And they are full of just horrendously stupid Chuckle Fox.
OK, OK, hold on a sec.
If the main party in the US pushing Libertarianism
is full of horrendously stupid Chuckle Fox,
how can you expect anyone to take this seriously?
I mean, we're welding Democrat, but a lot of them are stupid.
Because we also because we also have the likes of Tyler Cowan,
Alex Tabarak, Brian Kaplan, to some extent, Larry Summers.
Like basically the reason why Libertarianism
is still a intellectually respectable
movement is because and this is actually true.
Brian Kaplan did a survey on this.
The smarter you are, the more Libertarian you are.
Yeah, but if Libertarians if the Libertarians
cannot coordinate well enough to even form like think tanks
and PR groups that people.
Oh, we have think tanks and PR groups.
They just try to distance themselves from the LP
because the LP is full of morons.
But yeah, you look at Cato to some extent, Brookings
plus a bunch of smaller think tanks.
Like there are some very serious Libertarian
policy institutes and also there's Reason Magazine,
which is by far the best mainstream media looking thing.
That still is this plug.
Yeah, Reason Magazine is awesome.
Yeah. So like there are some other groups
which would definitely do a better job than the LP.
But like they don't really have quite the same political cache.
And like I said, public relations is in my department.
So like that's my best shot at addressing that.
But mostly I just have to acknowledge that that is definitely a problem.
So I'm hearing what we got to do is infiltrate the LP
and stage a soft coup from the inside like happened to the Republicans in the 80s.
Unfortunately, after Gary Johnson and Bill Weld lost the presidency,
even though no one expected them to win
and they actually significantly outperformed expectations,
the LP put in a bunch of new rules that make soft coups almost impossible
because they are just determined to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory
at every possible opportunity.
All right, trenches and hard coups it is.
Yep, assassinations, although unfortunately,
LP meetings tend to be about as heavily armed
in total number of guns as Republican meetings.
And they are much less heavily attended.
So we're talking about much higher densities of firearms per person.
But but admittedly, that's all due to guns.
George, who brings eight thousand guns to every meeting.
Unfortunately, no, like that's a great bit and a really good goof.
But no. OK.
Man, the only things I'm left or like
the main things I'm left with are ridiculous questions.
And like I want to hear about the
anarcho-capitalist historical precedents,
like what the heck's going on with Gaelic Ireland and.
I also I'm actually surprised Gaelic Ireland's on there,
because I'm pretty sure that they were very much not anarcho-capitalist.
They were pretty dang stinking was the.
Oh, yeah, that that's it looks like just Rothbard said that
they were anarcho-capitalist and Rothbard was a complete crank
and the moron and also a racist.
I like how it's like I disagreed with him.
Also, he's racist.
So you all know you don't have to look into him to disagree with me to disagree with him, too.
Oh, no, please, by all means, look into him.
He he very much wears his colors on his sleeve, which I appreciate.
Can I ask a silly questions, please?
This is a great. Oh, also, we do have a list of questions
from random people on my Facebook.
We might have a lot of other questions.
I want one or two from from Jace before we take the community questions.
OK, so it's Paleo-libertarianism.
What was that? Paleo-libertarian.
OK, I'm looking again at the paleo-libertarianism.
Wikipedia article about libertarianism.
Yes. So also, we've got like libertarian feminism.
And I like the sound of that libertarianism.
And I just like that they also have links to properties,
theft, exclamation point and taxation, theft, exclamation point.
Correct.
Yeah, so paleo-libertarianism is paleo-conservatism, but libertarian.
Paleo-conservatism is conservatism, but racist.
And by the transitive property, paleo-libertarianism is libertarianism, but racist.
It is, in fact, the intellectual movement that Murray Rothbard is the father of.
They really are just horrifically immoral and ignorant shitboots.
I like how the answer that was just as great as I could have hoped, given the question.
Yeah, so libertarianism, libertarian feminism is pretty much exactly what you'd expect.
It's I don't expect anything.
No, I have no idea what to expect.
OK, so OK, so it's basically like what I'm one of the themes I've been hitting again and again
is that if you have enough people in a society who don't want a thing and that thing
and that society has a government, then they can stop that thing.
And so what you want to do if you like the thing is just minimizing the size and scope of government
so that there's more chance of it being able to slip through that crack or slip through the cracks.
And if you observe that women's issues are one of those things that lots of people want to regulate
and then and you realize that taking women's issues and reproductive rights
and women in the workforce and so on out of government hands is the best way
to keep the likes of Tom Cotton from getting his way.
Then that's libertarian feminism.
Oh, I feel like I thought that was going to be a funny answer.
And actually, I'm like, no, so it's basically remove all laws
that specifically target one sex from government.
Yeah. So on that definition, I am comfortable calling Ruth Bader Ginsburg
at least a libertarian adjacent.
Cool. All right.
What do you think about the criticism?
The libertarianism has no explicit theory of liberty.
I will refer you to Scott Alexander's post.
I think it is something like current affairs, six questions for libertarians
treated as writing prompts.
And in fact, I think that's one of the short ones.
So I'll just read the passage.
The entire thing is great, by the way.
So you should read it.
OK, that's true of everything Scott's ever written.
So not wrong.
The question from current affairs is, can you construct a theory
