This podcast is brought to you by LMU Munich.
The basic message of Sean's talk was that you replace the ontology of gravity, you replace
gravity is, in loose words, space-time geometry represented by Minkowski, you replace it with
the relations of objects within the universe, very roughly speaking, represented by Plato.
So if you have this relational motivation, I will give a slightly different relational
motivation than what Sean did, because for me, all I'm looking at is, if I want to describe
the entire universe as a dynamical system, then by definition, there's no external reference
structure, and then I want to take that seriously as a motivation for my theory.
Then Sean already introduced the ADM formalism as geometric dynamics, describing gravity
as how space-time geometry starts to build up when you evolve it forward in time, when
you evolve an initial value problem forward in time.
But what Sean didn't focus so much about is that that inextricably entangles the choice
of foliation, the choice of gauge, with time evolution.
And if you want to be consistent with your gauge symmetry, you cannot simply pick out
one of the Hamilton constraints, one of the ADM constraints, and call it a Hamiltonian,
and call the other gauge, the rest gauge generators.
And the reason for that is, because then your constrained algebra does not close anymore,
you always, you can, no matter which one you choose, you can always generate a Poisson
bracket that this one is generated on the right-hand side.
So you have to keep it as a constraint.
But of course, by this thing that, by this trick that Sean was showing here, you can
disentangle gauge from evolution by fixing a particular foliation with a particular condition.
And then the construction of shape dynamics is unfixing that gauge to a different gauge
symmetry to spatial conformity invariance.
And with that, you have destroyed spacetime.
There is no left over of spacetime in this description of gravity, but because gravity
is now just evolution of spatial conformity geometry.
And then that brings me to the main part, the main message of my talk.
If you have, but if you have no spacetime, if it's not fundamental to the description
of the theory, why is the illusion of spacetime generated from within every solution, or within
virtually every solution, why is it such a generic thing that we see in the description
of gravity?
And so I have to explain to you why scales, unit, and spacetime are such a good description,
at least for physical observers, at least if I'm a local subsystem in which I can define
my reference scales and in which I can define my clocks and rods as physical, as physical
objects that evolve together with gravity.
For these, I have to explain why do they behave as if they were in a spacetime.
So the relation and motivation, I already said most of that in words, there is no, by
definition, there is no external reference structure to the universe, if the universe
is everything, I have to do that, I have to describe it as a, so to make that simple statement
very precise in gravity takes a lot of time, but you can get the conceptual idea by looking
at the Newtonian in body problem.
And if you look at the Newtonian in body problem, so the standard, so you have a kinetic energy,
a potential energy, and you build your Hamiltonian as the sum of them, then you see that if you
want to have energy in the in body problem, total energy, then that introduces, through
the back door, a unit of time, because it gives essentially a particular decay constant
in your theory.
If you want a linear momentum, a total linear momentum, you need a definition of origin,
of coordinate origin, with respect to which you measured out.
If you want angular momentum, you need a particular frame in which you reference that, in which
you evaluate that angular momentum.
So you can imagine that you cannot describe the in body problem completely relationally,
unless you have energy 0, linear momentum 0, angular momentum 0.
But if you restrict yourself to that, then it turns out that it is actually possible
to describe the in body problem, purely in terms of its intrinsic configuration, without
reference to any external structure.
And here I just drew three particles and that is Julian Barber's favorite thing, to look
at the three body problem and explain quantum gravity, this is the three body problem.
So here I just showed you two shapes that are given by instantaneous shapes that are
the configurations of three particles.
And in between I show you the change of shape that is given by that and it turns out, this
triangle here has two angles, theta and phi and in a particular parameterization I will
give you a nicer picture of that on the next slide, there is a Hamiltonian that describes
precisely that type of change of shape.
And it is completely in terms of these intrinsic quantities and it is dimensionless and scale
invariant, a dimensionless and scale invariant description that just describes the change
of shape of this.
Do you say that Hamiltonian and what are the interactions we are talking about?
The Newtonian interaction.
Do you mean gravitational interaction?
Yes.
So what it turns out is that the configuration space for these triangles has the topology
of a sphere and that is what is drawn here.
The north and south pole on that sphere are the equilateral triangles and on the equator
here are collinear configurations of triangles, so the general triangles and north and south
pole are just opposite orientation equilateral triangles.
Then here on these ridges that are yellow, they are the isosceles triangles and here
these, the blue regions are needles are basically when two particles come very close together
when measured in units of the distance to the third particle.
And so now the intrinsic, so now on the left I show you a typical solution of the energy
zero, Newtonian and body problem is angular momentum zero, linear momentum zero.
So this is R6 and I projected it down into R2 by using different colors.
So you see here the blue and green particles come in, they interact with the red particle
that comes from up and they form a new tupler pair and it shoots out this way and the blue
particle shoots out that way.
And the message, the important message of this slide is you can describe that completely
in, you don't need Newtonian space to describe that, you can describe that completely within
the terms on shape space in terms of the shapes of these triangles and what will happen
is you start out here where two particles are close together, they change the shape
like a tupler pair, they have approximately periodic motion.
Then when they come close to the third particle, you will be pushed out of that value of the
shape potential, there will be some violent interaction that can take place all over the
sphere and then eventually the trajectory will fall back into one of these needles because
two particles will come close together, they will form a tupler pair and one particle will
by energy conservation be shut off and that's what's depicted here.
So Sean gave you already some background in canonical dynamics and I don't know about
everyone's background in canonical physics in the canonical description of dynamical
systems.
So very simple, you have a harmonic oscillator, you have a phase space and you have, you
have Newtonian generates a vector field and phase space and the integral curves of that
vector field are your solutions to that, but that's the simplest thing that you can have
but most of the time we are actually dealing with constraint dynamics, for example a particle
constraint to be in a particular surface, say this surface that I drew here which is,
which can be described as some function of the coordinates vanishing, but then if I'm,
if the particle is, is confined to the surface also it's momentum normal to the surface has
to vanish so it cannot leave, get out of the surface, I mean there is automatically a second
constraint to that. These two constraints will keep the, they
keep the Hamilton vector field within the surface, but by choosing particular values
for the Lagrange multiplies, particular forces that keep the, that keep the dynamics on the
constraint surface and that's what I drew, that's why the Hamilton vector field is tangent
to this surface, I hope you can see that from that plot here.
So if you have a gauge theory and Sean already introduced that, then the constraint surface
itself is foliated into gauge orbits, so this is what I, indicated with this dark red lines
actually the entire constraint surface is, is foliated I just drew some example once.
And due to an argument by Dirac basically that the initial state of the system completely
determines the dynamics at all later stages of, of the canonical problem, you have to
identify the entire gauge orbit with the state of the, of the system you cannot just simply
say a point on the constraint surface is, is, is a, is a, is a state you have to identify,
you have to take equivalence classes of these points, the entire gauge orbits.
And then the physical evolution because it's a, it's already a constraint system, the Hamilton
vector field has to be tangent to that constraint surface, it cannot go out of it.
So now what Sean was also saying is if you have, if you have gauge, if you have a gauge
theory you can gauge fix it and treat it after gauge fixing as if it was a normal constraint
system without gauge symmetry.
So you impose a second set of conditions, so I called on the previous slide I didn't
say that, I called the constraints the gauge generators chi, so I impose condition sigma
blue indicated by the blue surface that pick out a unique representative out of each orbit,
out of each constraint orbit.
And then individual points of course are by construction represent, represent physical
states of the system.
So now here comes the problem that I, in the, that I mentioned in it, Sean also mentioned
in passing and this is actually 2 plus 1 gravity, if you do 2 plus 1 gravity it's, it's a particularly
nice system because the geometry in 2 plus 1 is locally conformally flat.
So all I have to tell you to specify geometry is what the, what the conformal factor looks
like locally.
So I look at one space time and I look at the different intrinsic geometries when I
do 2 different slicing of the same space time.
So from the point of view of GR that is same solution.
For that later I will use the torus, those plots are fantasy plots actually, they're
not, they're, they're not anything particularly meaningful.
I just used some random numbers to, to, to generate the these plots.
I don't even know whether this space time is a solution to Einstein's equation.
To illustrate the point, the point is that here I just do 2 different successions of
spatial geometries that correspond to the same space time and that's the gauge problem
that you have, that you have to identify this succession of spatial geometries with that
succession of spatial geometries and you have to identify that they are the same space time
and there is no simple mathematical tool to do that.
So and this is what I said GR entangles evolution and gauge inextricably for the reason that
I mentioned before.
And if I do the same thing as what I did a couple of slides before where I have the Newtonian
representation and the shapespace representation, if I, if I now look at, I look at one solution
and I look at different slices, slice things and I have this infinite dimensional super
space, this space of all conformal two, of all two geometries.
It's an infinite dimensional space, I drew many axes here and it's, so these successions
trace out many different curves and in fact I would have infinite, infinitely many curves
that just drew two and those are real fantasy curves, I just drew them by hand.
But you get the point.
So now comes the symmetry trading and this is if I have, if I have a gauge fixing surface
now that itself foliates into gauge orbits and that's the key thing, then I can look
at this intersection where the physical states live and where the physical dynamics takes
place.
Once I can look at it as coming from this gauge theory, which in the case of GR would
or ADM would be a gauge theory of a space time different morphism gauge theory.
Or I can look at it as coming from this constraint surface and then I have in the case of shape
dynamics I describe gravity as evolution of spatial conformal geometry.
This is what is indicated here, actually and John made this point very clear, this intersection
still contains one parameter families because the CMC condition he wrote it right here doesn't
say that trace pi is a particular number, it says that it's just a spatial constant.
But now I look at these one parameter families at the intersection here and if I look at
them with my red glasses on, actually with my blue glasses on so I just see the red and
then look at them and see, oh there are space times foliated with CMC surfaces, but on the
other hand and this is why it's important to do two plus one and on the torus because
I can draw the Teichner space for the torus, actually this is not the best drawing this.
Those of you who know what a Teichner space, what the boundaries of Teichner space look
like they see that I missed an edge here.
But now you can see these space times foliated with CMC surfaces can be looked at as being
just geodesics on Teichner space and so on the space of two-dimensional conformed geometries
on the torus and that was actually noticed first by Monkreef in 1988 in a very famous
and very nice paper, I mean even people who are who are not interested in gravity find
that paper nice and interesting.
So here I have the summary and this is exactly what Sean was saying except that I do one
thing differently, I use the Hamiltonian that Sean used.
So on the GR side in the ADM formulation, the Hamiltonian is just a linear combination
of constraints.
I like to think about the Hamiltonian as the York Hamilton which is the on-shell value
of the spatial volume expressed as a function of the conformal metric, the trace-free part
of the metric momenta and York time which is two-thirds of this mean of trace pi here.
And if you do, if you introduce this time variable then it turns out that you can forget
about this part and you can impose full conformal invariance.
But you have to identify that this part is now a time variable and pure gauge.
So if I do that then I have completely done away with space-time but why do we experience
space-time?
Of course my approach to that is as I indicated before is operational, you have to evolve
matter together with conformal geometry and so you have to satisfy certain conditions.
If it's going to matter you have to get into a semi-classical regime for this procedure
to work first.
But then even if you're in a sufficiently classical regime you have to satisfy conditions
such that you get locally, weakly isolated or just weakly interacting subsystems that
are very stable by themselves and so they can actually, this is the same as what you
say in GR, you need low curvature, you need to be in a low curvature region where the
