by the reduction in the activation energy.
So this is the conceptual model that
is used, the actual activation energy now is lower,
and that's what controls the reaction rate and can accelerate.
The proposal that we've made is that information and enzymes
act really from the bottom up.
We tend to think about the link between thermodynamics
and molecular state pop down.
In other words, you raise the temperature
and the Boltzmann distribution changes.
We propose that enzymes act in the opposite direction.
They actually optimize interactions
at a quantum level that allow the reactions to proceed.
And in the process, change the Boltzmann distribution
of the substrate and the reactants.
Remember that the enzymes can accelerate reactions
up to 15 orders of magnitude.
It's an astonishing number.
And so they can produce a Boltzmann state in which,
essentially, you've consumed the reactants and nothing
but products so that it's a different.
So you have fewer micro states than you
had when it was in equilibrium.
And so here is out of equilibrium state.
It acts as though the temperature is higher.
It produces a Boltzmann distribution
as though the temperature was greater.
And yet it is actually a thermodynamic and unequilibrium
state.
So this, we think, is at least a mechanism
by which genetic information can be transmitted
into the thermodynamic state of the system.
So we start again.
I'll just kind of go through this again.
We started a living system with a temperature
and a certain number of micro states.
If you gave the heat, if you added temperature,
you could increase the temperature
and also increase the number of micro states.
In contrast, an enzyme does not change the temperature.
You could radiate the heat from the reaction
into the environment.
But it does change the number of micro states.
And so there is this.
You may have the same micro state levels
in the two different systems here,
but they will be at a different temperature.
And that's that kind of thermodynamic instability
or thermodynamic non-equilibrium state
that we, I think, talk about.
So topic two is all biological information in the genome.
And I like to give a kind of a story behind this.
Several years ago, as the human genome was being deciphered
and it was known that it was going to be published soon,
GeneSuite was a betting pool that developed
among scientists throughout the world.
And they would each put money down
and they would bet on the number of genes
that were going to be determined by the size that were ongoing.
And the results were very interesting.
There were over 400 scientists that participated.
The average estimate of the genes was 66,000
with a range of 26,000 to 310,000.
Basically, nobody won.
Not a single participant was correct.
In fact, the human genome is about 19,000 genes,
fewer than mycens worms in some cases.
And David Baltimore, this is a quote from about that time,
was very clear.
Unless the human genome contains a lot of genes
that are opaque to our computers,
it is clear that we do not gain our undoubted complexity
of the worms and plants by using more genes.
I think it's currently basically dealt with by ignoring it.
There is kind of a vague sense that somehow our genes do
more than their genes.
And that the complexity of our interaction networks
is somehow makes up for the relatively small number
of genes.
But I think there is another way to think about this.
In the 1950s, Morowitz, who was a biophysicist at Yale,
used two different methods to calculate the information
content of E. coli.
And both of them yielded about the same number, about 2 times
10 to the 11 bits.
Now, he didn't have any knowledge of the E. coli genome
at the time, but it has since been deciphered.
And it contains about 10 to the 7 bits.
Forward is a magnitude lower than its total content.
Now, you can add all of the products of the genome,
so mRNA and proteins.
And those are also known.
But you still cannot get past 3.4 times 10 to the 9 bits.
In other words, this is a small percentage
of the total information content of the cell itself.
So where is all that information?
And basically, it's the membrane.
There are two things about the membrane.
One is that the membrane, although it's always
listed as kind of this monotonous lipid bilayer,
in fact, contains a large number of additional lipids,
it's 200 or so.
And so the membranes themselves are carefully regulated.
And this represents a substantial potential information.
But most information, again, just by Shannon calculation,
is in the transmembrane ion gradients.
And I'm just showing you these here.
And essentially, the membrane pumps out
sodium and in potassium, the chloride levels
are much lower as well as multiple other ions.
And about 30% to 40% of the cell's energy budget
is used to maintain this transmembrane gradient.
And so the question is, why does the cell
use so much energy to generate this transmembrane ion gradient?
It would seem likely that in the old Watergate thing,
they talked about follow the money.
I think that in living systems, you can follow the energy.
And that can tell you a great deal about what's important,
what's not.
So how does the cell use this information?
And so my thought is that the transmembrane ion pumps
that are used and consume a great deal of the energy
are essentially Maxwell's demons.
They are separating ions between the inside and outside
of the cell using energy, but in the process,
making this large transmembrane gradient and maintaining it.
Now, why would you do that?
And my thought was that in addition to the membrane
to the Maxwell's demon, there could be Maxwell's angels.
And these are now transmembrane gates,
transmembrane pores that have gates.
And those gates are open or closed
depending upon information being received at that gate.
So in this case, an angel is looking out, essentially,
getting information from the environment
and opening the different gates, allowing very specific ion
flows along concentration gradients either in or out
of the cell.
So that over time, you can assume that the right is
the intracellular component.
Now, you see this kind of puff of ions coming in
from the outside, actually going in both directions,
creating a local variation in ion concentrations
over time and space.
And how does this work?
So the other thing that tends to not be noticed a lot
is that peripheral membrane proteins
tend to be highly dependent on local cation concentrations
so that they may turn on or off depending
on whether sodium or potassium is
the dominant local cation.
And the reason for this is, at least in part,
because potassium and sodium have the same charge
but are very different in size.
So as you, for example, as they form counter ions
to the negative charges in a pocket, an enzyme pocket,
the enzyme itself can change, that pocket
can change in its shape based on which ion is involved.
And there are others as well.
And so there's two things about this.
One is that the fluctuation in ions
can change the function of peripheral membrane proteins.
They can also change the location.
And the reason is that the interweave of the cell membrane
is typically negatively charged.
And these are going to have a large number of potassium
counter ions, so the biolink will be very small.
If you get a local flux, for example,
of the potassium out of the cell, in that region,
you will at least briefly have a reduction in the cation
shielding of these negative charges,
allowing movement of, let's say, positively charged
macromolecules to the level of the membrane.
And I mentioned, for example, this idea that RAF recruits
RAFs to the membrane, that kind of observation
that people have made, that when KRAF is negatively
charged with phosphorylidations, that you get this rapid movement
of RAF toward it.
It turns out that these ion pores are associated
with EGFR Wiggins.
And when the EGFR Wiggins binds, it
will often open these gates.
And so you could imagine that a flux outward of potassium
could unshield some of the local negative charges.
RAF is carried on a macromolecule that has a large number
of positive charges.
And so this could actually provide a biofiscal mechanism
to allow this kind of rapid movement of certain molecules
to the site of EGFR Wiggins binding.
And so this should probably look familiar,
because it's very much what Hodgkin-Huxley equations
talk about, that these gated ion channels open and close.
And so we propose that the Hodgkin-Huxley dynamics are
really a specialized manifestation of information
processing at the membrane that occurs in all epithelial cells.
And in fact, we could take the dynamics of these fluxes
of ions across the membrane that we think
occur in epithelial cells, and from those information
dynamics derive the Hodgkin-Huxley equations
from first principles.
