And then the final thing I'd like to talk about then
is just how is information processed?
If you think about the nucleus as the brain of the cell,
so it's the central process of this idea
that information comes from the cell membrane,
goes to the nucleus, the nucleus kind of processes it,
decides what to do, and then sends information back
to the other points of the cell to act.
This is a very long process.
And that requires diffusion going in two directions.
And it seems that for something that
requires immediate action, that would not
be something the cell could do, that there
needs to be, I think, a more distributive system.
And so the idea here is where this could,
a clear potential distribution system for information
is the cytoskeleton.
The microtubules and microfilaments
are distributed throughout the cell.
And it turns out that they can transmit both electrons
and ions very rapidly.
And so these, in fact, have been described
as electrical nanowires.
And so this transmission is a potential circuit
for very rapid communication.
And you can see the distribution of the microfilaments
and microtubules that really kind of occupy a lot of the cell.
It is very dynamic state.
And so where do they go?
So the microtubules typically converge
on the central cell, which itself is deeply integrated
into the nuclear membrane.
And microtubules, I'm sorry, microfilaments themselves
also tend to interact with components
of the nuclear membrane, which are
known to have roles in terms of both gene transcription
and chromosomal organization.
And so the thought was that this is then
sort of widely distributed network.
And so this is kind of a crude proposal
for how this might work.
When you see the, to connect this with the transmembrane
flow of ions, if there is a small perturbation in which
there is just a few local ion channels that
open and close, those will be very
transient and will be dealt with strictly
by the peripheral membrane proteins.
However, in a perturbation that is either longer or more
extensive, you will then get really widespread fluxes
in the peripheral membrane, in the ion concentrations
in the periphery, which can then potentially
allow for fluxes of ions across the either microtubules
or microfilaments.
In the case of microtubules, which are much larger,
but 40 nanometers or so, this would
allow for relatively coarse grain information to pass.
And the microfilaments, which are about four nanometers
in diameter, though, could actually
have quantum level interactions going on.
And there's a number of physicists
that have been quite interested in whether that
plays a significant role in living systems.
So with that, I think that just to summarize,
I think genetic information, which
can be analyzed in the form of enzyme,
can direct the thermodynamic state of the cell
through a bottom-up approach using quantum interactions
to accelerate reaction rates, which then
alter the Boltzmann distribution,
changing the thermodynamic state that
is without explicit influx of heat or change in temperature,
therefore, a non-equilibrium state.
I think genetic information is the terrible component
of a much broader ensemble of cellular information
dynamics that occur primarily in and around membranes.
Now, remember that, although I've been talking
about the cell membrane, the plasma membrane,
that all the organelles in the cell
have membranes, mitochondria, the interplastic
in particular, nuclear membrane.
All of those also have transmembrane ion
potentials, which could contribute
to this kind of dynamics.
And so the idea, rather than the nucleus
as being the head of the cell or the processor of the cell,
we really think about the information dynamics of cells
as a distributed network, so that essentially all
of the membranes of the cell are contributing
to these interactions.
Where I think then that is important
is that if the genetic information is simply
providing the capability of producing transmembrane
gradients, the interactions between cells
and the interactions that form multicellular organisms
and multicellular tissue largely occur at the membrane level.
And hence, the observation that the human genome
is smaller than the genome of multiple other seemingly
lesser complex organisms misses the point
that the complexity doesn't occur from the genome.
It occurs at the level of the membrane
to membrane interactions.
I think that information, though,
has to be transmitted efficiently and quickly.
And I think that the cytoskeleton
represents a mode of communication that's not
dependent on diffusion and can be far more rapid than what
we expected and can't even include quantum interactions.
And then let's see.
So here is, rather than nucleus as a central processor,
I think the nucleus is simply one component of a broader
and more integrated information system.
And this is kind of the end of this,
is that the multicellular complexity is only loosely
related to genome size.
Rather, the genome generates the natural demons necessary
for these gradients.
But the complexity comes from the information
exchanged between cells through these membrane-based dynamics.
And so with that, I thank you.
