Look at a rainbow. While it lasts, it is, or appears to be, a great arc of many colours
occupying a position out there in space. It touches the horizon between that chimney and
that tree, a line drawn from the sun behind you and passing through your head would pierce
the centre of the circle of which it is a part. And now, before it fades, recollect all
you have ever been told about the rainbow and its causes and ask yourself the question,
is it really there? You know from memory that if you walked to the place where the rainbow
ends, or seems to end, it would certainly not be there. In a word, reflection will assure
you that the rainbow is the outcome of the sun, the raindrops, and your own vision.
When I ask of an intangible appearance or representation, is it really there, I usually
mean is it there independently of my vision? Would it still be there, for instance, if
I shut my eyes, if I moved towards or away from it? If this is what you also mean by
really there, you will be tempted to add that the raindrops and the sun are really there,
but the rainbow is not. Does it follow that as soon as anybody sees a rainbow there is
one, or in other words that there is no difference between an hallucination or a madman's dream
of a rainbow and an actual rainbow? Certainly not. You are not the only one to see that
rainbow, you had a friend with you. Moreover, through the medium of language you are well
aware that thousands of others have seen rainbows in showery weather, but you have never heard
of any sane person claiming to have seen one on a sunless or cloudless day. Therefore,
if someone tells you he sees a rainbow on a cloudless day, then even if you are convinced
that he means what he says and is not simply lying, you will confidently affirm that the
rainbow he sees is not there. In short, as far as being really there or not is concerned,
the practical difference between a dream or hallucination of a rainbow and an actual rainbow
is that although each is a representation or appearance, that is something which I perceive
to be there, the second, the actual rainbow, is a shared or collective representation.
Now look at a tree. It is very different from a rainbow. If you approach it, it will still
be there. Moreover, in this case you can do more than look at it. You can hear the noise
its leaves make in the wind, you can perhaps smell it, you can certainly touch it. Your
senses combine to assure you that the tree is composed of what is called solid matter.
Accord to the tree the same treatment that you accorded to the rainbow. Recollect all
you have been told about matter and its ultimate structure, and ask yourself if the tree is
really there. I am far from affirming dogmatically that the atoms, electrons, nuclei, etc. of
which wood and all matter is said to be composed are particular and identifiable objects like
drops of rain. But if the particles are there, and are all that is there, then since the
particles are no more like the thing I call a tree than the raindrops are like the thing
I call a rainbow, it follows, I think, that just as a rainbow is the outcome of the raindrops
and my vision, so a tree is the outcome of the particles and my vision and my other sense
perceptions. Whatever the particles themselves may be thought to be, the tree as such is
a representation, and the difference, for me, between a tree and a complete hallucination
of a tree is the same as the difference between a rainbow and an hallucination of a rainbow.
In other words, a tree which is really there is a collective representation. The fact that
a dream tree differs in kind from a real tree and that it is just silly to try and mix them
up is indeed rather literally a matter of common sense. This background of particles is, of
course, presumed in the case of raindrops themselves no less than in that of trees.
The relation raindrops rainbow is a picture or analogy, not an instance of the relation
particles representation. Or again, if anyone likes to press the argument still further
and maintain that what is true of the drops must also be true of the particles themselves,
and that there is no such thing as an extra mental reality, I shall not quarrel with him,
but I shall leave him severely alone, because this book is not about metaphysics and I
have no desire to demonstrate that trees or rainbows or particles are not really there,
a proposition which perhaps has not much meaning. A better term than particles would possibly
be the unrepresented, since anything particular which amounts to a representation will always
attract further physical analysis. Moreover, the atoms, protons and electrons of modern
physics are now perhaps more generally regarded not as particles but as notional models or
symbols of an unknown, super sensible or subsensible base.
All I seek to establish in these opening paragraphs is that whatever may be thought about the
unrepresented background of our perceptions, the familiar world which we see and know around
us, the blue sky with white clouds in it, the noise of a waterfall or a motor bus, the
shapes of flowers and their scent, the gesture and utterance of animals and the faces of
our friends, the world too, which, apart from the special inquiry of physics, experts of
all kinds methodically investigate, all this is a system of collective representations.
The time comes when one must either accept this as the truth about the world or reject
the theories of physics as an elaborate delusion. We cannot have it both ways.
Many thanks, until next time, goodbye.
