So there becomes a minimum standard model of this is the minimum stuff and that is what
I am saying point to the state.
Yeah.
The minimum stuff that the state is at is...
I don't know.
Go from contract to state and not state to contract is my point.
I think that what you're saying is the state's minimum is really fucked up.
Yes.
Okay.
No, but still...
That is what I'm saying.
The state's minimum is fucked up.
That does not mean that any minimum that any Dunbar set that comes up with will also be
fucked up.
Well, yeah.
No, I would never argue against people's ability to enter contracts and relations with each
other.
That's what it is.
No, he is.
We didn't taboo marriage early enough.
Yeah.
This is actually to me a very fun discussion.
So let me...
I'm still processing some of this.
I'm going to just think out loud for a second if I don't get you guys don't mind.
Your current marriage is not a minimum model that you and your wife put together.
It's a state model and are you okay with that?
Yeah.
For your personal life?
Yeah.
How come?
Because I will for whatever, everybody's their own hero, right?
So I'm not going to be Darth Vader.
And because of this delusion that I have, I know that my wife is not going to be Darth
Vader S.
Right?
So same here.
But so does everyone who gets married for the most part, right?
Right.
The other thing, like the way that I think about this, too...
So why not have marriage insurance?
Well, like, I mean, it's marriage insurance that really only ensures your partner if
you're making...
No.
No, no.
You can have a marriage insurance contract that ensures the damn entity.
Well, I mean, does the contract ever negatively impact the person who made less?
Ever?
I'm sure.
I mean, not ever.
In a reasonable...
In general, no.
So, like, I mean, the way that I think about it is I certainly don't...
I think my partner right now would never do anything like that either.
But say she took a blow to the head and lost all sense of compassion and it's like, now
I'm going to be this root of the cycle path.
Rude person, right.
Do I want to bank on that never happening, right?
No, but how many other decisions do you make like that?
And just to put this in other terms, I don't make, like, a huge amount of money.
I make roughly the median for an American, middle class American.
So while there are some people that I make more than, there's also a lot of people that
I make less than.
And if I were to get into a relationship with someone who makes significantly more money
than me...
You would be more protected.
I would not want that.
I do not want...
Your choice.
Yeah, but it is still a reprehensible decision.
If I would feel like a bad person, if I were to ask someone who makes more than me to marry
me because I do not want to exploit them, that is the feeling, that is what I consider
marriage as.
The person who makes less gets to exploit the person who makes more.
And I don't want to be that person even when I'm the one making less, you know?
Wait, wait, wait.
We're throwing out words without base here.
You also said that you wouldn't want to marry that person.
What you really mean to say is that you wouldn't want to...
You would never go after that person for those resources.
Right.
Not that you wouldn't want to marry them.
Like, you know...
I wouldn't want this contract that our government has.
Okay, got you.
Because you would find that would put them at risk and you care about that.
Yes, I do not want to put someone that I care about at that sort of risk.
I would consider that a hostile act on my part.
But is there any other decision other than this that you take like that?
With all these considerations into play?
Is there any other risks that I take?
Decision that you take.
So when Stevens...
Or when you said, I am the...
For the purposes of discussion, I am the more powerful party here.
Therefore, if I was ever in a situation where I was the less powerful party, I would not
get into the same beneficial agreement that this power front got into with me.
Is there any other form of contract that you would enter into other than marriage that
you applied the same logic to?
I am guessing zero.
And anyone where I would feel that I was exploiting someone, I wouldn't want...
No, no, not exploiting.
Wait, wait, wait.
I wouldn't want to employ a child either in like, in dangerous conditions or something.
I...
Sure, maybe they work cheap.
Maybe they can really fit down the mind easily, but I'm not going to do that.
In your personal life.
Let's keep it...
So I...
Not you, but let's keep to the general human populace.
The general American citizen, would they do that?
Other than marriage, can you define any other thing?
I would assume a lot of people would choose not to do something...
We'll give you one example, dude.
Oh, God.
I still get...
Well, consurance is legally required in Colorado, so that doesn't count, I guess.
But I try not to defect in common person's dilemma type situations where it would be
to my advantage to free ride on society.
Give me something.
I try not to.
He's not...
Okay.
Give me something here.
Okay.
I don't cheat on my taxes, even though it's pretty easy.
But there's the evasion and there's, what was the other thing, avoidance.
Tax avoidance is legal.
Tax evasion is illegal.
I'm sure you avoid tax.
You don't shelter your income to not pay taxes on it.
Right.
That's what you're saying.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you had an accountant or a tax person, he would give you advice to...
Yeah.
Well, I do have a tax person and he does give me some advice.
So there you go.
So what are we talking here?
It's...
So what exactly is your question?
Do we put as much...
Because I guess you've raised it differently than you did to me.
What was the query specifically?
Do you put this much risk avoidance or...?
One of the things...
One of the arguments was why is marriage somehow?
Why is this relationship where I have sex with this person somehow better than...?
So I was trying to get an analog to why would you do a similar risk reward calculation on
something that is not as valuable?
I was once in a parking lot and I had my car door open and things someone else's car pretty
bad.
Right.
And I went inside and I found the person and I gave them my insurance information and
I was like, I'm sorry I did this when I could have driven away.
And I admit when it first happened I was like, I should just drive away.
And I didn't and I know part of that reason was because there were other people there
with me.
There you go.
But I think I still would have gone in and done it even if I had been alone.
I'm not asking to prove your morals.
I'm just saying the point that I'm arguing against is that why is there emphasis placed
on this one relationship where I get to fuck the other person?
My point is we are doing all of this mental calculus because you said I wouldn't do this
on if the rules were reversed.
So by that definition, you yourself are placing more value on this relationship with the person
that you're having sex with is my point.
So we...
Because I wouldn't fuck over my roommate either.
But it's not fuck over, it's let me think a lot here or maybe think internally while
you guys talk.
I mean, it's just thought, you know, extreme consciousness, if you want.
I mean, if you'd be more comfortable doing it either out loud or to yourself, whichever
one you're better with.
No, no, no.
I'm saying I want to go against this point of why is the relationship where I have sex
with the other person somehow the real relationship and somehow better?
Yeah, that is also my question.
Why is that one the one that we saddle with all these laws that make it so easy for people
to take revenge on each other?
If you had a child, okay, let's instantiate this.
And I haven't thought this through, this is just my thinking.
So let me give you some rope to hang myself here.
If you and your romantic partner had a child, whichever gender, whichever sexuality, whatever
we define as common law marriage, had adopted a child or had a child, that's one thing.
If you and your roommate get a dog, would that be treated by the state differently?
Would that dog be treated differently?
Would the child be treated differently?
Yes.
If me and my roommate were to adopt a child, though, that would be much closer to the same
thing.
Or you would be able to adopt a child, would you?
I actually have not looked into this.
I sort of doubt it because people talk about how hard it is to get to adopt kids.
I also doubt it, but if we did adopt kids, then we would very quickly be in the same
territory.
The kids thing, people do bring up kids for marriage, and I kind of want to say, okay,
that's a good reason to get married, but it's not because marriage doesn't matter for that.
