with you forever.
It is the, it is literally the state part that I have the issue with.
Exactly.
So that's not the issue with marriage.
That's the issue with the state.
So have you been arguing about nothing this whole time?
No.
We're arguing about how state gets into it.
What is the exact definition and what is the scope of the state's intervention into
interpersonal relationships?
I also feel, I mean, sort of cheated that you're defending this like, this vague abstraction,
this, this, this interface class of marriage that has no real like instantiation.
No, but it's real to me.
My, let me give you a real life example.
My marriage to my wife has to inherit, because we're code idiots, has to inherit that interface
class, right?
And my instance will inherit whatever that is.
Just because this, this inherited object is now under the enforcement of the state does
not make me or my, my instance any more special than anything else.
No, but it like, I'm trying to think of how to put this in, in, in Java, there's no multiple
inheritance.
In the idea that you can, you can pull in from multiple things and make, make an extended
to one thing.
But in, in marriage in the United States now that is what happens.
Right.
So like you're pulling in from, from what you thought you were getting.
And then the secret thing that you didn't know you were getting right and I disagree
with that.
Right.
But that's, that's what I think.
That's also what I disagree with.
Yeah.
I don't think anyone's going to get on, get on a stump and argue against like no one should
pledge their love to each other.
Right.
Right.
So like, I, so I think that's a weak thing to defend.
What do you mean?
That almost seems like, that seems like you, you made the goalpost smaller than the soccer
ball.
Like, I mean, like, cause that, that, that's, that's not an attack.
That's not a claim that I didn't want to attack.
So how did you, everything that you guys disagreed?
Cause I actually didn't define it when I was asking.
What, what, was it the inheritance or the structure?
Yeah, I didn't say this is an issue I have with marriage.
I just said, Hey, someone wanted to defend marriage.
And I guess he took that to mean something other than what I meant it.
Okay.
So I'm let down because I, because I am in a long-term relationship.
We've been together for six and a half years and we might be common law married.
I don't know.
Right.
I would hope to not have to find out.
All right.
Let's do an interaction exercise, but continue.
I'll get in later.
Do what?
No, continue.
I'm sorry.
Yes.
When I was enlightened on what marriage entailed, instantiations of marriage now entailed.
Not what's saying, I love you entailed.
I was disenchanted with the entire enterprise and I am now on the fence as to whether or
not to ever, you know, legally tie this knot.
Because I don't like the game theoretic implications of getting fucked.
How would you not get, oh, you're just saying that way.
Yeah.
Great idea.
If I wound up in a nasty divorce, which I obviously no one gets married anticipating
that happening.
So I was hoping that you were going to convince me, no, Steven, marriage is great.
You should get married.
Wait, so let's do this.
Let's do this.
Okay.
I will now enter into the state of catatonic said of defending current marriage as it
is.
All right.
So your cases were it incentivizes niceness, which I disagree with either way.
What was the other point?
It is.
You lose personhood.
Yes.
Oh.
What was the other point?
I just made a syntax error.
If someone's going to write to correct me on what I said about Java earlier, don't.
You can extend multiple classes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, all right, whatever.
Wait.
So loss of personhood, this incentivizes niceness.
What was the other thing?
Well, a number of things, including you cannot have separate things anymore and you can.
If I kill somebody, my wife's not liable.
I can have the entire guilt and entire liability of killing somebody.
You can have separate, uh, like criminal ledgers, but is that the only thing that you can have?
No, but that's my point.
So I am disproving by example, not proven by.
How about how about stuff?
You can't have separate stuff.
Is that, is that true?
Uh, yeah, I don't think you can have separate stuff because, because as I say, it's in the
current state.
It's an LLC.
Would you be willing to say separate stuff instead of things?
Yes.
Very good.
You guys are exposing my pedanticness.
This is not right.
Well, I think, I think, I think what you didn't mean is that you literally can't have separate
thoughts.
Right.
But you can't have is separate.
You cannot have property that you have complete ownership on.
Yes.
Yeah.
Great.
Okay.
Yeah.
If you buy a scratcher and you win 200 bucks and you buy a couple of video games with
it.
Those aren't your video games.
Those are the marriage video games.
Yeah.
Right.
So my money that you like earned like as part of the marriage is the money that you found.
Right.
Right.
So let's defend this marriage.
I mean, this, whatever we're calling this, right?
Marriage is a good word.
Marriage is a good word.
And also to throw in there and the fact that nobody, almost nobody knows this sort of thing
and is pushed into it.
Right.
That I cannot defend because I'm not going to defend ignorance on whatever contract you
sign.
Okay.
Right.
And usually let's agreements, terms of service, marriage contract, it's a piece of paper
that you sign.
So if you're ignorant, you're ignorant.
I think the special case here though, and I just want to belabor this is that if I skim
past the terms of service and don't read it, at least it was shown to me and I knowingly
didn't read it.
Right.
You can get married and not even know that there's this secret other contract until someone
try, you know, goes through an acid divorce.
Right.
And that, that was what surprised me.
And that, so I'm willing to get, you know, take, take, you know, a bad lease if I didn't
read it and it says you're going to have to end up paying no matter what, you know, for
a year after your whatever, if I get screwed on lease agreement that I signed because I
didn't read it, that's on me.
If I didn't sign it and I'm still screwed by it, that's where I get pissed.
That seems to be more analogous to the marriage case.
We were talking just before the show about Black Mirror because I've finally caught up
to the year 2012 and watched episode two of season one.
But it's, it's not unlike being told, hey, there's this great opportunity for you.
All you have to do is sign away your life savings and then you go to this opportunity
and it turns out that you've been defrauded of your life savings.
And normally that's an illegal sort of thing, but on this particular episode, they would
defraud poor people of their life savings and do it on national TV while the whole nation
watched and cheered, which is, it's just a sick fucking society.
And the, God, it grossed me out the entire fucking, that they would have this society
like that.
Oh, you're in for a treat.
You're giving to the rest of the show.
Okay.
Okay.
That's one of the Tamer ones.
That's by a mile one of the Tamer ones.
Okay.
So in our society, that would be considered unconscionable.
Those people would be hauled into court for taking people's life savings and defrauding
them of that and not giving them what they actually expected.
No, no.
How many payday lenders are there?
How many, I will rattle off 50 people that I know are doing more ridiculous things with
money than what those guys are doing in Black Mirror.
It's just that the other party isn't there of putting it out of TV and then other having
other people's glee on it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Most fraudulent things are done secretly or at least not on national TV while everyone
cheers.
Right.
Right.
And marriage is almost on national TV where everyone cheers.
Yes.
Is that what you're saying?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Where most Ponzi schemes and other things are done on the sly, they aren't celebrated.
They are.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
