value of the asset, then using the stack of paper as a negative on what the other asset
that I call marriage doesn't make a difference.
I'm not trying to compare the value of the two things.
I'm trying to say that people will go through this process of doing all this legal stuff
for something like a house.
There's no reason they couldn't go through that same process once per lifetime in theory,
or maybe two or three times per lifetime for a similarly important long-term commitment.
I cannot outsource my love to Steven to say, I want Steven to guarantee my love, therefore
I provide Steven with, I don't know, affection every month at this rate.
I mean, you could have opened to that, but you did say you wanted marriage to have more
friction getting in.
Yes.
And so like maybe having to read a bunch of paperwork.
Yes.
Or just improve the damn piece of paper.
Torque law education, contract law education, there's a bunch of people working on automatic
constitutionality validation of contracts that would kill 90% of end-usage lens agreements,
that would kill 90% of terms of service agreements.
So that is a general bigger thing that has nothing to do with marriage is my point.
That would be cool.
Oh, yeah.
People are working on it and people are trying to stop them with a bunch of effort, but yeah.
But that's a bigger issue, which is not limited to marriage is my point.
You should send me links after this is over.
That sounds awesome.
Yeah, just Google RoboLawyer or like Google any contract validation efforts.
There's something called constitute, I think, or some constitute plus verb kind of word
that is looking at constitution validation on law.
And there's this bunch of stuff due to Kata open case text or some ridiculous shit that
is maximizing effort on contract reading abilities.
We have gone on for about an hour and a half.
So we should wrap up soon ish.
You guys have more things you want to say.
I'm curious if you guys know more about common law marriage than I do if I'm already married
or not.
Six more months.
Have you filed taxes together?
No.
Okay.
That is actually a really big deal filing.
Once you have filed taxes together, that is kind of a hard point to go back from.
So if you haven't filed taxes together, you're closer to the safe side.
Have you signed contracts together?
Leases.
Yeah, I guess it's but give them the least isn't as bad because roommates, you know,
I don't know, but give them the term.
You have to co-mingle funds.
Do you?
I mean, co-mingle.
Do you keep separate bank accounts?
Yes.
Okay.
That helps.
Are you saying that there's no, like, black and white line between being common?
There's really not a black and white line.
That's really weird.
Okay.
There is one black and white line.
If you introduce yourself as husband and wife or refer to yourself as husband and
wife, then that is very strong evidence that you are commonly married.
And if you file taxes together, especially if one is claiming the other as a dependent,
that is also very strong indication that you are a common law, consider yourselves
common on marriage or whatever the fuck.
So those are two really big ones.
We don't introduce ourselves as married, but like our leasing office thinks we are,
or at least some of them do.
And they say your wife was here this morning.
So if they testify against you, I had a friend who was dating someone long term.
And whenever someone said your wife or, you know, or something like that, they would instantly
correct them, not my wife, because if you let people get away with that with calling
you guys a married couple, eventually it becomes true.
It's like magic that way.
That's weird.
Yeah.
So this is a contract that I can not even get the abridged version that just says you're
married now.
I can enter that without even getting the shitty version of the contract.
That's weird.
That's ridiculous.
That's beyond ridiculous.
So yeah, I don't know what to make of that other than that's sort of confusing.
Why would that be the case?
So I think we've made sense historically why marriage is the way it is now.
Why would common law marriage be a thing like that?
Because scummy men should not be allowed to take advantage of women and, you know, use
their womanly resources without having to pay for it.
There you go.
So this was basically another antiquated thing to like where you can't just have somebody
around and then not...
So this was to protect people from dodging the penalty of abandoning their spouse by
saying you don't have to beat their spouse to be penalized for abandoning their spouse.
If you have used up her most valuable reproductive years and then left her afterwards, then it
doesn't matter if you literally married her, you basically married her.
You used up her reproductive potential and now you have to pay for it.
Weird.
What a weird way to think about a person that does sound pretty dehumanizing.
It also brings in the question of infertile couples or whatever, but that's another topic
for another day.
Yeah, but again, I'll liar.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah, fair enough.
Fertile couples are just treated as fertile couples for simplicity's sake.
But any reading of the law will dehumanize people like that.
Well, and you sort of want that to some extent.
You want it to be abstract enough to apply to everybody, but it is weird to think of
a person like a woman's most valuable resource is her fertile years.
If that's the way the state views a woman, that's sort of unsettling.
At least a state views a woman in the context of some contracts, maybe not all of them.
So that's maybe the other way that's...
It's fucked up.
Yeah.
Okay.
Again, it's law's prevention.
It's all of the things we just talked about.
Okay.
The last thing I'm curious about, if you're going through a divorce, or rather you're
divorced and you're paying alimony for the next decade because whatever, and then you
work hard at the rest of your life because you want to go back to being able to afford
like not having to live with two roommates and stuff.
You want your center living to be like what it was when you were married or whatever.
So you work hard to make more money, et cetera.
Why does your alimony go up?
Or does it always?
It's a remnant of the whole losing your individual rights.
So that's not dissolved when the marriage is dissolved?
No.
No, no, no, no.
That lingers for quite a while.
You're stuck with the zombie personhood.
In Colorado, it's for half as long as the marriage was.
So if you were married for 10 years, then this continues for another five years after
the divorce.
Damn.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I guess...
I mean, so the case can...
I can understand and swallow the pill for like I want to live like I lived when I was
married and especially if I'm now in 50 and I don't have any skills because I've been married
since I was 19, I don't want to have to go back to college or whatever, but it does make
sense to me like then, okay, cool, well, you just got inheritance.
I want some of that now too.
I guess it is the loss that you got from not being in the marriage, right?
But okay, that's...
So there's no stealing man version of that strong enough to knock any sense into me is
what I'm hearing.
No.
Okay.
Or to knock it's argument into me.
I could make one really ridiculous argument saying what would you set the level at?
Any level you set it at other than zero, right, other than zero, any level would be the same
thing, which is arguing on...
Yeah.
So yeah, I would...
I mean, to me, it makes intuitive sense to say, okay, we've granted we're going to maintain
your style of living.
Why?
What the hell is this maintain style of living bullshit?
Well, that's the whole point of the whole Alamo anything, right?
So I'm saying if we buy that, which we already have, it doesn't make sense to me why your
standard of living goes up if mine does, other than like you said, this weird zombie artifact
of the marriage.
So that's it.
And that's it.
And that's not compelling to me.
Neither is the predicate case, but I can at least grant that for the sake of trying
to make the other one make sense.
But that's a whole other weird leap.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well.
Okay.
Yeah.
Now that everybody's significantly down, what's going on?
Well, I got my rant out.
We are after this, I'm sure going to get a bunch of email to some explaining other sides
of it, which I look forward to.
And I thank my listeners because they are awesome.
And we will read those on the air, especially since I'm sure some of our listeners are married.
I know some of them.
Yeah.
Same.
That being said, we have some listener mail if you'd like to get into that.
People correcting us or at least weighing in on net neutrality in the same way that we
talked about net neutrality last time.
Oh, let me get it on this, please.
Yeah.
That's why, you know, I'm looking forward to marriage comments too because I thought the
neutrality things were interesting.
So for this episode, we want to thank our supporter, Tom Drozansky, for your support.
We really appreciate it.
I don't know what else to say other than thanks and we notice and it really counts and thank
you.
Thanks.
You guys are awesome.
Okay.
On to listener feedback.
Again, cutting for time a little bit, but not without incident says, a tiered internet
service, Inyash was dismissing as fanatical actually happened in Portugal and the UK.
