Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Yann Yashbrotsky, I'm Steven Zuber, and today we have a guest.
Hey, I'm Naveen Mishra, back again.
Welcome back.
And this is an episode that I have personally been wanting to do for a while,
but also really dreading doing for a while because I get the feeling people are just going to think I'm an asshole,
and I don't know, I've really, I got a lot of qualms about this one, but it is a personal gripe of mine,
which I've always had some feelings about and then have had more stronger feelings about it recently.
So instead of beating around the bush, I'll just get to it.
Also, please excuse if my throat gets a little hoarse today, I am just getting over a cold.
I feel great now, except for there's still some phlegm in my throat.
So I guess apologies ahead in advance to Kyle for all the work you'll be doing removing my...
The thing we are talking about today is marriage and why it is a stupid horrible terrible thing.
Open minded, everybody's open minded.
So really quick, can I put my spin on the title?
Please do.
On why Enyaush thinks it's that, and why I'm not sure what Naveen's position is,
and I'm sort of up in the air, so this will be fun.
Yeah.
Alright, we're not all uniting here against marriage yet, I don't think.
No, in fact, specifically the reason Naveen's here is because I put out a call saying,
hey, is there anyone in the area who thinks marriage is pretty cool and would like to be the counterpoint to me on this,
because I don't want it just to be like a tirade, you know?
And he said, yeah, sure, me.
And I was like, okay, cool, we got someone.
Hopefully this will be good.
My two main objections to marriage are that it is a contract with huge ramifications which no one is told about,
and that it is, in addition to this, a contract which is unconscionable for most people in most cases,
and yet no one knows this.
The first part being the, um, no one knows what marriage is.
Marriage is basically a financial contract, at least in the US.
And in, you don't know that.
I certainly didn't know that.
I was told, as was everyone, from the beginning of our lives when we were reading King Arthur Legends or watching Disney or whatever the fuck we were doing,
that had love stories in it, that marriage is what you do when you are in love.
It means that you love the other person, you are committed to spending the rest of your lives together,
and so you're going to go through this holy ceremony, and you know, holy or not, depending on your religious beliefs, but whatever.
But it is the thing that people in love do.
It is how you show you are in love.
Or in the words of Eugene Merman, who's an ordained minister, and on his Netflix special, uh, vegan goes to the complain store.
He, uh, marries two people on stage, and he's like, so, I'm not sure, state to state, there's like an 80% chance this is valid, so heads up.
He says, it's an agreement that says, I love you so much that I promise to do lots of paperwork if I ever stop loving you.
Oh God, I wish it was just that.
But then you, um, you go, and in many states, you can simply walk down to the DMV or a local government office, sign a single sheet of paper, and you're married.
Wait, at the DMV?
It depends on the DMV, but I have literally gotten married at a DMV before.
Right on.
Um, it was, it was a more like full service DMV.
It wasn't like your little local sub chapter.
It was the main one for the county, but yes.
Cool.
Yeah.
And you, I don't, unfortunately, I don't have my marriage certificate here in front of me, so I can't actually read it off, but it's basically a single piece of paper that says shit all on it.
And I know Steven, you have signed a contract for leasing an apartment to sign a one year apartment contract lease.
That is like what, at least six, seven pages of dense text.
Yeah.
And then I have to walk you through it to, to, you know, to see.
Yes.
They have you, they have you initial on at least each page usually to make sure that you've been exposed to it.
Yes.
There are legal ramifications for lying to someone and to get them to sign a bad contract.
They, they have to spell out the things that they're selling you and you don't have to read it if you don't want to, but at least has to be there.
And the marriage license that you get doesn't say shit on it.
It's certainly, I went through a lot more paperwork signing up for an apartment than I ever did for getting married.
Tons of paperwork for buying a house, which is again, arguably a much smaller financial commitment than getting married to someone is.
And yet you don't know what you're signing.
And that is a huge issue and a giant red flag in my opinion.
Because what you're signing is actually really fucked up.
Which is going to get me into the, the bigger problem that I have being that the marriage contract is basically unconscionable for reasonable adults nowadays.
What the marriage contract does is eliminate legally a large part of your personhood.
You, you are no longer a single person in a financial sense.
You are one mashed up entity known as the marriage.
So if, if you had property from before the marriage, after you get married, it is not your property anymore.
It is the marriage's property.
And you can actually sign some really good prenups to prevent this from being the case.
But if you don't hire a lawyer and get a good prenup, this will be the case.
And even if you do get a good prenup, it can still be challenged in court and drawn on for months and so forth.
But any property is now property of the marriage.
And anything that increases in value over time is, is that increase in value belongs to both people.
So for example, let's say that you had some stocks or in the much more likely case of one of us, some Bitcoin that I don't know.
A few years ago, you put down $100 on Bitcoin, never looked at it again because, you know, you don't like to check Facebook.
I don't know. No one, no one, but it doesn't matter.
You got some Bitcoin, you get married.
Any increase in the value of that Bitcoin, you got to sock away half of it to give to your partner because they own half of it.
Quick two things.
One, we can table for later if we need to.
But when you say you have to set it aside, can you expand on what that means?
That means as long as you die together, you don't have to set it aside because they'll inherit it.
But if you were to ever split up in any meaningful way, you have to calculate how much every asset increased while you were together and pay the other party for the amount, half the increase.
This is particularly frustrating if you have some property that is not well developed and spend a lot of effort and money into developing it.
And then your partner gets half of that even if, you know, they weren't involved because it wasn't yours.
There is no such thing as your property anymore.
There's only the marriage's property.
So I think once just one more pushback on half two, you mean in the circumstance where marriage doesn't end either in someone's death or in unamicable terms, right?
So like if there's a peaceful disillusion.
Oh yeah, you can voluntarily give up the rights to any property you want.
Okay.
The other person can say, no, no, you keep your Bitcoin.
I will not force you to pay me half of what it's worth.
But, you know, they legally have the right to do so if they want to.
Okay.
Another thing I wanted to ask about was prenups.
Because I have a co-worker who just actually finalized his divorce.
He was half a day late for his first day at work because he was at the courthouse finalizing the divorce, which is kind of like a great way to turn over a new chapter in life, you know, a new job and, you know, finally got over all this to your divorce in the same day.
Yeah.
He was talking about how, and I don't know him very well.
I don't know a lot of the details, but he had said something along the lines of the, you know,
I think I mentioned prenups and he was like, oh yeah, beware, those things don't count for shit.
Yeah.
So my impression was always-
They count a little bit.
Are we planning on getting into that later or do you want to dive into it now?
I mean, we can get into it later.
The courts consider them, but how much it's considered depends on your state and your judge for that matter.
They're dicey.
They can help a little bit.
That's weird.
I guess I'm not, I don't know what the text of a prenup looks like, but couldn't it just be like this, you know, we, the below signers both agree that this property belongs to this person and this property belongs to this person.
And it can be, you know, a set of list of properties or it can just be, you know, major thing each or whatever.
And then they both sign.
How is that not good enough?
It's going to go to, if the other person wants to take you to court, they can still take you to court and challenge it.
But how could they challenge it when they signed it?
Because the marriage contract is that big of a deal that it, the prenups can be challenged just based on the fact that you were married and then you spend thousands of dollars defending the prenup.
Thousands, if you're really lucky, probably tens of thousands.
Maybe this, maybe I'll be enlightened over the course of the conversation.
This is what it says, man.
Any contract can be challenged.
Yeah, but like, I know, but like, I mean, it seems like if it's pretty cut and dry, like, you know, I can't pay a hundred bucks less on my rent every month.
Why not?
Well, like, if I, well, let me finish.
I think, I haven't tried because I don't want to get kicked out.
I feel like I signed something that said I'd pay this amount.
And if I stopped paying that amount, they'd say, look, you're not holding up to your end.
I could take them to court, I guess, and say, I just felt like I didn't feel like paying that much anymore.
So I didn't.
Right.
How would I have any chance of winning?
It depends on the circumstance, right?
If your apartment changed in any way, if the gas lines became electric or anything, or if they changed the goddamn paint.
You can say, this is not the same thing that I signed for.
Those things have happened.
Not necessarily all of those things, but minor things that I can make a case for.
Right, right, right.
Depends on who has a bigger pockets and what kind of effort do you want to go.
So there you go.
Right.
And make a case for is, again, subjective.
Sometimes the judge will throw it out.
He'll be like, they changed the paint from mauve to beige.
Fuck you, get out of here.
Exactly.
And then you're at the lawyer's fees.
Plus, you know, maybe they'll, they'll charge you with paying for the other side for it being a frivolous suit.
But, you know, on the other hand, if it is like a major big deal, like before you moved in, there was no fire.
And now there is a fire or something along those lines.
You discover as best as something.
Yes, right.
You discover as best as then, then that, then that can actually be something that they will look into in court.
And you spend a lot of time hacking about.
Okay.
So in, I guess my, this is a revelation for me.
Contracts aren't like the legal unbreakable vows that I thought they were.
No, no, no.
They're just like, we kind of agree to do this.
Okay.
We kind of both agree to do this as long as neither of us start bitching about it.
And then we'll come back, you know, if we want to fight it, we can.
That's what this says.
Yes.
And then, you know, eventually at some point a judge will rule, no, this contract was fine.
And you have to follow the rules of the contract or face jail time.
Or they'll be like, we're just adjusting it to this little way.
Or, you know, this contract is bullshit.
It's being thrown out entirely.
Whole range of things that they can do.
But it's going to cost you effort and money to fight.
And that's why most people just like to stick with the terms of the contract.
And, you know, once it is in the contract, it is much easier for someone to fight those
sort of things.
It's like, look, it's in the contract.
They have the presumption of the laws on their side.
Yes.
With the difference being that the presumption of the law is always on the side of the marriage
contract if you're married, as opposed to the prenup.
Gotcha.
And again, the prenup can help a bit, but it would definitely help more with property
that you already owned before.
Like if you owned a house and you signed a prenup saying this house remains my property,
no increase goes to the other person, and you never lived in that house together, then
that prenup would likely hold.
But again, you'd have to spend money defending it and it might not.
I know the one thing that you don't even have to bother putting in a prenup ever is
any clause with children, because the courts just throw it right out.
They're like, the raising of a child is strong of state interest that whatever the fuck you
sign doesn't matter.
We're deciding for you, because apparently the state knows best about things.
But yeah, you don't have to bother at all with things like child support or custody,
because the court will be like, your piece of paper is very funny to us.
Here's the actual child support and actual custody stuff that's going to happen.
All right.
