it does not need to be a thing anymore because now it's just a way to ruin relationships.
No.
Wait, wait, wait.
That it can ruin relationships doesn't mean that it is the only thing.
No, there are many things that can ruin relationships.
No, no, no, the point that you said about the only thing the marriage contract brings
to a relationship is the fact that I am incentivized to be less nice.
Yes.
No, I'm not.
Okay.
Because now that you are enlightened and you're looking at it through the mental model of
an LLC, you're saying all of my expenses don't accrue to me, but yet I have to socialize
within this LLC all of my profits.
And if the business ever goes under, you've got to keep your business partner's lights
on for the rest of the long run.
If the business goes under, the issue is the other business partner has incurred a loss
forever for the duration of this business.
So have you.
That's not how the arbiter sees it.
Well, so I think that's probably how Eniash sees it though.
Right.
Yeah.
No, but Eniash's case is, wait, wait, wait, let's not put Eniash into the bus, but let's
do a median income.
Let's hear him crawl out from under the bus if we do it wrong.
Right, right, right.
Let's do median income in the U.S. male, female.
Let's do median earning power, male, female.
So all of these social statistics play into this.
So courts, whatever arbiter that we go to are incentivized for loss prevention, right?
They're not there to say, this was fair then, this is fair now, minus the difference, let's
split it that way.
No, they're saying, I don't want to get more shit on me.
So we will do loss prevention and we will have it be as morally acceptable to us, which
again, follows all this.
Can you clarify what you mean by loss prevention at this point?
I don't want the lady to sue me five years down the line saying, I lost all hope, I got
into drugs because I had zero earning power.
That's more work on the state.
Oh, I see.
You know what I mean?
So let's think of, what's the guy's name?
Kevin Federline, Britney Spears' baby daddy.
So it's not a male, female thing, it's just difference in power, right?
So that's the point.
The state is working to cover their ass saying whoever has the least power again shouldn't
come to me and do the same argument, do the same dance five years down the line.
So they're saying you keep, you take care of them because you already have.
So unless you can prove that we're totally fucked, you also, like both parties don't
have any income stream and all of that nonsense.
So they're incentivized not to care for people because the state says once you've proven
you can cared for this person, you have to keep doing it.
Because you entered into this contract.
Yes.
Which people don't know is in the contract.
Right.
So, wait, wait, wait, wait, I think we're talking past each other.
I agree with you that the contract has to be explained better.
But that is never a reason not to get into the contract or to say that the contract
is bad.
If we use that same definition on any other contract, we would get to, we wouldn't go
out of the house.
You don't think that the contract itself is unconscionable?
Unconscionable to whom?
Against what barrier?
Unconscionable in the way that it takes away a lot of your individual personhood and only
with respect to asset utilization, right?
So when you say...
Actually, there's another interesting, I don't mean to interrupt, but speaking of taking
away your personhood, becoming part of the marriage, husband and wife and or now partner
and partner can't be compelled to testify against each other in court because you can't
be compelled to testify against yourself in court via the Fifth Amendment.
Yeah.
But that...
I see where you're going, but I don't think that follows from that.
I don't think it's self-incriminalization and because you are a unit, therefore you
cannot...
It's not the same...
It's not the same...
Is that an extension?
I don't know if that's an extension.
No, I don't believe it's literally an extension, but it is very similar, that sort of thing.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's similar from the outcome point of view, but I don't think they made the law saying
you cannot incriminate yourself when you get married, you're no longer yourself.
This is a unit, so you cannot incriminate the unit.
I don't think that's how it went down.
Okay.
My bad.
That doesn't mean to do real.
Yeah, no.
That's not literally how it went down.
No.
Right.
No, what was I going to say?
Oh, screw me.
Sorry.
No, no, no.
We were discussing whether it was unconscionable because...
Right, right.
You are bamboozled in...
Well, bamboozled because you take away someone's personhood.
Right.
So that's where I wanted to disagree.
You don't take away their personhood.
You take away their claims to community assets, which I think what they're called,
is it's an LLC.
No, but it's not literally an LLC.
It's not literally.
So why does it...
Like, it's an LLC in everything but name.
So why not call it an LLC?
You know what?
That was a proposition.
Great.
If they called it an LLC, I might have less problems with it.
There you go.
They don't call it an LLC.
So naming it...
They call it a marriage and they say, this is what you do when you're in love.
And if you don't do it, you don't really love the person.
No, no, no.
They're two different people.
I'm sorry.
Only all of the society that we live in.
No, no, no.
Yes, society.
So human beings that I interact with...
Yes.
...to do if you're in love, the state has nothing to do with telling you when you're in love
or how you're in love or what you have to do in love.
State comes and says, you decided you want to do this.
This is the only contract that we have to support this kind of adventure.
Sign this piece of paper.
It is unconscionable to tell people, if you are in love, this is a thing that you do and
here's...
Right.
That is society's problem.
Not the arbiter or the court or the state's problem.
Okay.
Let's just define that.
Oh, yeah.
Then great.
If you want to blame society rather than the government, fine.
But the government made a shitty contract and society is telling people if they don't
love each other.
I mean, if they don't sign it that they don't love each other.
Right.
But why are we...
That's a ridiculous standard to hold yourself against.
Society tells us to do ridiculous things.
And to the person...
Yeah, well, if I go ahead and kill somebody, my wife is not liable.
No, no, no.
But, yeah, I know, when society was telling us to worship this God person and sacrifice
however many hours of our lives and we said, this is a terrible idea and it's stupid and
here's the reasons why, right?
We said it.
Okay.
But it's still...
I'm doing the same thing with marriage.
Wait, wait, wait.
No, no, no.
We said religion was bad.
Let's say...
Yes.
Just to continue this argument.
Okay.
We figured...
We agreed that religion was control 1.0.
Okay.
We figured that there are different forms of control that don't need whatever the baggage
religion brings.
So these are better forms.
Okay.
So when we were going to those forms, the state didn't do jack shit.
It was all...
I...
It was all response, right?
I mean, the state has also often gotten involved in religion.
No, but...
The US is kind of unique in how much it tries in theory to separate the two.
In theory.
Yeah, in theory.
But...
And still doesn't do a very good job of it.
But, yeah, when we said...
Who's the mover is my point.
Is society or is the knowledge the mover or is the state the mover?
It's always knowledge.
It's never the prime mover, so to say.
Okay.
I don't know whether I agree with you in that...
In all cases or not.
But what I'm saying is religion is crappy for the same reason that marriage is crappy.
Because a lot of people are pushed into it and there's no really good reason anymore
to still have it around.
And yet it has all these ramifications.
That's where I disagree.
