I do want you to continue with your set that you wanted to do with this, but I want to
bring one more thing up to discuss later, but I'm bringing it up now, so don't forget.
That's the idea of common law marriage.
Say if you're living together with a partner for 10 years and you're like, we're never
going to get on paper married, but let's live together.
Let's share our mortgage, whatever, just take and then consider you common law.
I want to touch on that whole thing later.
Okay.
All right.
So yeah, the past property is the one that's easiest to have prenups addressed, because
like you said, they are pretty good at that.
Again, it's challengeable and it's going to cost you money to defend it, but the prenups
help with that quite a bit.
It's still fucking infuriating that most people don't know this, and they don't tell you,
by the way, you should put down and writing all your assets before you got married and
who owns what, because unless you do, the marriage owns it now.
That is, again, it's the matter of no one knowing what's in the contract.
That is a huge part of my issue with it.
But the second part of it, it's a claim on past resources that you had once you get
married.
It's also a claim on your present resources going through the marriage.
And this is the part almost everyone is familiar with, that whatever money we make, we split
it between us, right?
Which is true, and since most people who know about this when they sign up for marriage
are okay with it, I have less of a problem with that.
But it's still an issue if you want to keep your assets separate.
If you both have jobs and you keep separate bank accounts and keep all your finances separate,
it doesn't matter.
The courts don't care.
All of that is income and assets of the marriage, not of you.
You are not a person anymore.
So if, say for example, someone, your partner's car breaks down and you lend them some money
to fix it up, you'd never lent them that money.
The marriage spent that money, and that's it.
There is no lending money to each other.
There is, worse than this, in my opinion, is the fact that it disincentivizes being
nice by a lot.
If your friend's car breaks down and you lend them some money to fix their car, you just
did a nice thing to them.
If you let them stay with you for a while, because I don't know, they lost their place
or whatever, you have helped them and that is nice of you.
If you make more than your friend, let's say you make twice as much as your friend does,
and so whenever you go out, you pick up the tab.
You're like, I'll get dinner.
It's no big deal.
These are all nice things to do, and if you do that in a marriage, then all that, it becomes
treated as the lifestyle, and you have to keep doing that forever.
You better get used to really doing those nice things, because you're going to keep
doing them for a long fucking time.
The worst case scenario is if your partner loses their job and you say, you know what?
Go ahead, pursue your dreams.
I will help pay all your costs of living.
I will even help finance this dream thing of yours a bit, and your marriage dissolves
after a few years while they're still doing this.
The courts say, huh, basically, you've been paying for all their living expenses.
They had no income, and this is the way things are, so you got to keep doing that.
If you were doing that with a friend, there's no court in the world that would be like,
well, you've been letting this person crash in your spare bedroom for two years.
You got to let them keep crashing there for another year and a half, bro.
You've been paying for their dinners.
You better keep paying for their dinners.
It makes the best thing you can do in that situation is to say to your partner, no, I
don't care what your dreams are.
I don't care if you're miserable working for the man.
Go out there, get another job, and it better be paying about as much as your job was paying
before, because otherwise you have put me in a financial crisis.
The fact that you have this legal hold over me as long as you are not making as much as
you were when we got married.
If your income increases, there's better start increasing too, because otherwise you
are subsidizing their lifestyle, and you're going to keep doing that for a long time afterwards.
Like you said, none of this is necessarily a thing that has to happen.
The other person can say, you know what, we thank you for helping me out or whatever.
I'm not going to go after you for all this money, but they can.
They have the option to do that.
That is the only thing that the marriage contract brought into your relationship.
Everything else that you had with your relationship, the love, the helping each other, the sharing,
a living space, the sharing expenses, you can do without marriage.
The only thing the marriage contract brought in was the obligation that afterwards you're
going to keep doing that once you don't want to anymore.
Two quick things.
I guess three things, and I'll do them quickly.
Was that both prongs of your fork that you're stabbing marriage with?
The fact that it disincentivizes niceness and that it turns you into a part of a marriage
rather than a person?
Yes.
Okay.
I wanted to make sure you got all that out.
Hold on.
What was the last thing that you said?
Let me tip my tongue.
The marriage doesn't provide anything to your relationship except the ability for one person
to defect against the other one at the end.
I think the comeback that would be from the lay person would be, no, it brings in all
these tax benefits and deathbed rights, everything that people are arguing for in the case of
all the stuff that I heard on the news, making cases for gay marriage being legalized.
There's some reason that they wanted that other than wanting to be able to fuck each
other.
Well, other than wanting to be able to fuck each other legally later, right?
Right.
And so then the third thing was the vain counterpoint.
I was just waiting for end rant.
End rant.
There we go.
I'll have more to say later.
No, I'm sure you will.
But yeah, that's the meat of it.
I'm sure you will.
But I think we make two giant jumps that we shouldn't make and let's clarify that.
The fact that people are ignorant of contract law is true regardless of marriage.
I don't remember whether this was Boston Legal or Silicon Valley where people enter
form an LLC and they go to the lawyer when things go sour and he's like, you basically
got married to that guy, right?
Because that's what it is.
When you say there's an entity called the marriage, that's what I, most of my friends
when we have these discussions, I say, imagine you form an LLC with a friend and then act
according to that, right?
That way, if you change the mental model to that, everybody's fine.
Oh yeah, it's the LLC.
Oh yeah, we work together.
All of that changes.
Right.
People don't have that mental model, unfortunately.
Right.
So how is that the fault of marriage?
The fact that people aren't educated in contract law, tort law is not the fault of such a thing
as marriage existing, okay?
The fault of marriage is that all of society is geared in a way to hide this from people
and to encourage them and push them into this sort of contract that they have no idea
No, no, no, no, no, no, let's push back on this.
Okay.
The fact that society pushes you to get married has a multitude of reasons that are outside
the scope of this conversation, right?
Humans pair bond and we need all like a sustained relationship and all this good stuff.
We as, let's even restrict this argument to the current state, the current timeline in
the USA have instantiated a legal version of this union in this way.
That is what I have the problem with.
Oh, then great.
I don't care.
Oh, god damn it.
Well, no, I'm totally fine with any other sort of marriage, like people just getting
together and saying vows into church.
No, no, no, no, but wait, wait, wait, wait, we are in this timeline in this planet or in
this country.
So we have, as you said, Steven, when we get married, we are telling the state that we
ask you to give us less taxes because we say that we will consume together.
So that's a less resource consumption we can do this way, right?
We ask you to do these all things.
So it is on their, their ownership protection to say you will also keep doing this as long
as the other parties.
Don't involve the state.
You can get married in whatever ceremonial way you want.
Don't involve the state would be my saying unless you've really looked into the contract.
Right.
That's a different thing.
Well, yes and no.
I mean, yes, it's a different thing technically, but no, almost no one knows that or treats
it as a different thing.
And that is what-
People are ignorant is not my argument.
Well, I am helping people be less ignorant maybe.
How many people read the Apple and use a license agreement?
Hold on.
The Apple and use a license agreement can't fuck you nearly as hard as a marriage can.
But the, the disknowledge, I think between the LLC and the marriage model is that you
can't enter into a business without being presented with the contract.
Yes.
Whereas you can enter into a marriage without seeing the contract.
Yeah.
You see the contract.
You see the page that says you're married now, but that's not-
You can form an LLC in a single page.
Yes, but an LLC will say in it, you know, this is the revenue streams.
This is how it's split up.
This is the assets of the LLC going in.
It contains the terms of the LLC, not just like saying congratulations, you're a business
and all the terms are never shown to all the business partners.
So if the issue is the introductory statement is not broad enough or is not defined in-
In any terms whatsoever.
In any terms whatsoever.
In enough detail.
That's a great point.
Let's have that argument.
Yeah.
But I'm not saying, but that's completely different to saying don't let the state in because let's
say you don't let the state in and there's an issue and people want to separate.
How do you split assets?
How do you?
Who is the arbiter?
Right.
These are the conditions of the arbiter that we have.
And they're really shitty.
Oh yeah.
They are shitty because of the reasons that we agreed, well not agreed, but are outside
the scope because we'd have to get into the morality of keeping people together.
We'd have to get into why it's good to pair bond.
We'd have to get into the entire history of women basically being unable to own property
or have income of their own up until just a few decades ago.
Right.
Yeah.
That was, I mean, I absolutely understand why this was a thing back in the day, but
