Okay.
We can both say religion is bad and in the same ways marriage is bad.
But when you say that's why it should not exist, that's where I disagree.
Okay.
It's hard to say that religion should not exist, period.
It serves a function for certain people, yeah.
But most atheists don't say religion should not exist at all.
They say, as in like, let's make it illegal and throw people in jail.
Let's go into the moral reasons for it.
When atheists say religion shouldn't exist, they don't mean religion should be made illegal
and you should be punished for being religious.
They say religion shouldn't exist because people should be enlightened enough to let
go of this bullshit.
I'm saying the same thing about marriage.
I'm not saying that it should be illegal to get married, but rather that it is a bad
concept and these are the reasons why and people should get rid of them voluntarily.
Right.
But the reasons you gave are the instance of marriage according to this state or this
arbiter.
Yes.
Because that's what marriage is in the society that I live in.
I'm not going to go arguing against, I don't know, some funky worship Cthulhu cult out
in the Pacific that I don't know anything about.
No, no, no.
Wait, wait.
So that's what I'm getting at.
So we're using the arguments against an instance of an object in our particular surroundings
to say the object itself or the upper class itself is somehow morally wrong.
I'm saying if pair bonding helps species, I'm saying if...
Can you pair bond without marriage?
Why not?
Okay.
Then what do you need the marriage for?
No, but that's how we've been grown.
I'm saying marriage is the contractual instantiation of a pair bond.
You don't need necessarily a contract to instantiate a pair bond.
You can have it without the contract.
And if you do want a contract to be like, hey, you know what, I'll take care of you
for however much longer, then you can do that.
You should write that down yourself, like make an actual contract.
Right.
Okay.
I think we're in agreement there.
It is, you cannot say we both agree pair bonding is better for the species.
Let's talk about that some other day.
Okay.
No, but that's how we have to get into it, right?
Because when you say unconscionable, unconscionable against what moral standard?
Against the moral standard of people being their own individuals and having...
But that argument was a bigger argument than just marriage.
That argument is the anarcho...
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anarcho-black argument.
There is a sort of article of faith that people have in violent right to their own bodies
and their own...
What is the term that Shelley always uses?
Volition.
I don't know.
Volition, I guess.
She is extremely strong on nothing ever impinging on someone else's bodily autonomy.
Thank you.
There it is.
You're welcome.
Yeah.
There is an article of faith that bodily autonomy is extremely important and some people don't
think that is the case, but I do and I think that marriage in large part violates that.
Right.
So?
So I have a problem with that.
That's fine.
And you argue that other people who value those sorts of autonomies ought to disvalue
marriage.
We agree that...
Yes, exactly.
Yeah, that's my point.
So you don't value autonomy in that way.
I'm saying in the strictest sense, maximizing for bodily autonomy is not possible in this
system.
So whenever that is possible, we have to...
This is a...
It's certainly a possible in the system of marriage.
Exactly.
So whatever...
We have...
We are...
Law is just the instantiation of the morals of the time.
So I cannot say this law is bad.
Well, 50 years ago.
Sorry, go on.
Dude, whatever it is.
It's just...
It's the instantiation of what we think is right and what we think we should do.
The we is the collective society that wrote those rules.
Yes.
If some subset of the society disagrees with that, with the underlying morals, and then
you have...
Then that subset makes a podcast about how terrible those morals are, which is what this
subset is doing by this subset, I mean, me specifically.
Well, you and a bunch of people, right?
Okay.
I don't know.
I don't know those people.
Bits of me as well.
Okay.
Right?
Because I agree that bodily autonomy should be a goal to strive for.
Yeah.
Right?
But what do you do in the intermediary step?
We need protections for loss prevention because more decisions are made to avoid loss than
to improve my gain on whatever access you want, bodily autonomy, profit, money, whatever
the hell you want.
Yeah.
So we are taking steps to solve loss and we're taking baby steps to it.
We'll get there.
Yeah.
My point is we cannot put a value judgment right now to say that's wrong or we shouldn't
do it.
That's my point.
I'm not sure if you, at least to my, it didn't sink in with me that you really responded
to the actual arguments that were made.
I think, I mean, you made a case that marriage has other purposes, maybe, but I guess directly,
what purposes does it serve in, I mean...
It guarantees to whatever arbiter you're under that you will perform these tasks.
That you're ignorant of these tasks is your fault, is my point.
Well, I guess I've got two things on that because one, I consider myself in, you know,
correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think I'm a complete idiot.
No, no, no, no, no, but I do mean me.
And up until, you know, I think I read about, or you know, you wrote some stuff about this
and I read those and that was sort of eye-opening for me because I didn't know most of the
stuff about marriage either and I'm not an idiot.
So like...
The society has no incentive to let you know what you're signing up for.
Yeah, that's the point.
There's no incentive to educate you.
It's the point.
So as far, as long as that's the case, it seems like there's a strong case, that seems
like there's a strong case to be made against getting married in the way that things are.
So it's just the cases to be made to educate yourself about the rules.
Well, I guess I can see railing against the system of marriage as a completely understandable
result of the fact that no one knows what marriage is because no one's educated on it.
So you could say...
So every divorce lawyer on the planet knows it.
Right.
Well, how many of us in this room are divorce lawyers?
No, but...
Okay.
Right.
So I guess by nobody, I don't mean literally nobody.
I mean almost nobody.
Like, maybe the other side of Inyasha's anti-marriage campaign here isn't necessarily anti-marriage.
It's anti-ignorance about marriage.
Yes.
And so you're pro that.
Yes.
But you're defending the institution as it is.
Yes, because we didn't want to get into pair bonding and good, bad and stuff like that.
Well, I'm not married.
Right.
But if there was a way...
So you're pair bonded.
How would you tell whatever arbiter you're under that you have for a considerable time
and future are going to use less assets than if the two of you were separate?
Who's the arbiter?
The state.
And why are you telling the state this?
Because we use the state for accounting purposes.
We use the state for points of things.
Any time you live with someone, you're using less resources.
Right.
And don't roommates get the same benefits?
Because a marriage is supposed to last forever or until death do us part.
Which is bullshit.
No, but that's a theory.
That's a point of getting married because by your own admission, we're going by morality
that's 50 years old.
So the other person, let's say women because we're all men here.
So let's be sexist.
Why not?
I'm just saying.
Whoever the less powerful party is, will by the morality of the written law have less
bodily autonomy after the fact that this is broken.
So we are preventing their loss.
I'm sorry.
Who's having less bodily autonomy?
Whoever the less powerful person in this LLC is, which is women, according to the morality
of the law that we're going after, which is 50 years old.
I think what you're saying is that, I guess I'm having a hard time dissecting.
Let me try and articulate this.
The laws as they're written made sense 60, 50 years ago.
And to the extent that, like you guys said, women couldn't had barriers to owning property,
barriers to having income.
And it made sense to not leave them desitute if you, as the breadwinner wanted to go find
a younger, hotter wife and say, fuck this old one or whatever, right?
That was deliberately in sense.
Incessant.
We're fine.
Right.
So I don't see how that applies today when like, I mean, up until May, my girlfriend
