The state says, no matter what you agree between yourselves, we will decide what the child's
support is, and it doesn't matter if you were ever married or not.
We will decide what custody is.
It doesn't matter if you were ever married or not.
The rearing of a child is such a pertinent state interest, at least according to the
state that the marriage contract and anything writing on it doesn't matter.
Yes, but why is it a desoteric state that somehow came from the planet Mars to put these
rules on you?
My point is that thinking represents, again, I'm going to go back to median morality, but
that thinking represents what majority of people think is good, therefore they voted
for it, or they didn't have the will to not vote against it.
I have a bit of a problem with how you present the laws as they are, because while laws do
change over time, they're slow, and it takes a while to catch up, and it takes a lot of
effort.
No, but wait, wait, wait, let's get to more...
Like no one voted for the marriage laws as they are right now.
I totally agree.
Nobody alive right now would for them as they are right now.
My point is this, these are inefficiencies, and these are heuristics.
So common minimum, one thing, and I can't defend this instance without saying I can't
defend marriages, we're talking about it right now, without going into the morality of this
is what we are put here to do.
At the very least, from the state point of view, their population should be procreated
so this state can continue to exist.
I happen to have some problems with that too.
But that's how it is.
I'm sure that we will...
We can say that's how it is and still say that that is a bad thing.
It is bad.
Yeah, it is bad, but I'm just saying this is how we have decided that morality is right
now.
It is changing because we are figuring out more things.
In our intellectual curiosity, we're figuring out, hey, what happens if I adapt a kid with
my roommate?
Is that legally law?
Is that legally marriage?
These are things that we have to change, but then to say marriage is not an institution
to be guarded against, that's a bigger step in my point.
I feel like the kids thing is sort of a misstep or at least an ingredient we don't need because
you can have child-free marriages that also end in someone getting screwed.
You can have marriage-free childs.
You can have marriage-free childs, but we're thinking from outlier in.
I'm saying think from majority out.
Yeah, okay.
Certainly, like you guys said, state interest, keep the state populated.
I think I derailed you earlier when you were articulating why you would defend your marriage
as it stands contractually.
Also, I guess out of curiosity, did you know what you're signing up for when you got married?
Oh yeah, I was a huge nerd, so I did ridiculous things, watched every cop show possible, read
up ridiculous laws.
I read law for no reason.
Well, I mean, I don't think it's ever a waste of knowledge to know about the law, right?
And you were okay with it?
Well, I guess I might be surprised.
Yeah, I'm just curious about this too.
You were okay with the law as it is?
You didn't add on any pre-nups or anything?
No, pre-nup, no nothing because I think it would be intellectually dishonest of me because
the hidden the head and become a bad person.
I don't apply that eventuality to any other decision.
I don't drive with the fear that there's another idiot on the road who will kill me,
therefore I must buy a tank, which is the thinking about the SUVs, I get that, right?
But I don't go buy a tank.
Right, but you also don't go and strap an anti-airbag to yourself that if you ever
were to get it in an accident, it would instantly kill you no matter how minor the accident
is.
That's a good analogy for marriage as you're presenting it.
I also hate that analogy.
But expand on that again, what's the anti-airbag thing again?
If you get into an accident, no matter how minor it is, it automatically kills you.
No, but I buy insurance.
No, no, no.
Wait, wait, wait.
I buy insurance.
I know that I'm liable.
I know the rules of the state.
So I know that I'm liable if I don't have insurance to pay for the other guy.
So...
Well, I consider marriage to be like an anti-airbag.
It's not anti-airbag.
I'm just saying it's the lack of insurance and not the anti-airbag.
I think it's worse than the lack of insurance.
Why?
Because it is actively harmful to most people.
It's not actively harmful.
That would be a ridiculous standard to compare it to anything else.
You don't go through life with the maximum possible negative interaction happening and
then work backwards to how that should affect your interpersonal relationship.
No, I don't.
But I also don't intentionally saddle myself with things that can make things worse.
Right.
So therefore...
I don't take up...
Okay, so I did take up smoking.
But if I had been as smart back when I was 16 as I am now, I would not have taken up smoking
because I know it is simply a way to handicap myself without any benefit.
No, but you still did it.
And this is the same kind of thing.
Yeah, I did it.
Because I was a fucking idiot.
Same reason I got married at 19.
No, but get health insurance.
Get marriage insurance is my point.
Marriage itself is not bad.
The worst thing that somebody that you are married to is ridiculously bad.
Okay, great.
But so what?
Can I point out another thing that's not clicking for me?
It's marriage insurance for one party in the marriage.
No, get both.
So I have one party insurance.
Oh, I don't think there is marriage insurance yet.
Let's create it.
Well, I thought you meant marriage insurance.
Let me take a back step here.
So you need some sort of actual literal insurance.
Yes.
Oh, see, I thought you were saying that signing a marriage contract in the United States is
like signing insurance for your abstraction of marriage.
No, no, no.
I'm saying there's health insurance, car insurance, make fucking marriage insurance is my point.
Oh, well, I mean...
You could do that.
So you pay deductible, or so you pay out deductible and then your insurance company
pays a real money instead.
So I'm not against this idea.
I think it's actually kind of kind of cool.
But on the other hand, you could also just not get married, which I guess you can't not
get married in some cases.
But the...
Well, but if you could not get married, wouldn't that be a better choice?
Like what are you getting out of the marriage?
Like I get car insurance because I want to have a car because I can get across town faster
than I can in a car or faster in a car than I can on foot.
What do I get out of marriage?
It would be worth paying 50 bucks a month insurance for.
The negative...
Protect against negative side effects.
We're talking about laws of version here, not profit increase.
Yeah, like insurance.
I'm not going to profit from insurance, but what am I getting out of marriage?
That like...
So again, I'm getting out of the car, fast travel.
What am I getting out of the marriage?
The instantiation of what we just said, pair bonding plus intellectual rules.
But I can do that with a roommate.
Like I think we're going in circles, but I don't know if you're seeing the loop catching
itself.
I don't think...
Tell that to me.
I mean, because we're...
You're saying what is the purpose of just agreeing to this document that says in this
state we are married like this?
Yeah.
Why is that worth something that might be worth paying insurance for?
Right.
What's the...
Something on marriage.
If you're like, hey, marriage is cool.
Here's why.
Can you finish that sentence?
Or is that like not a positionality to tackle?
No, no, no.
I think I will tackle this by saying I don't have another opportunity.
I want this pair bond plus contract.
The state marriage is the easiest option for me to do.
Therefore, I took it.
What do you want out of the contract?
I know you keep saying loss aversion, but or compensation, but is that something you're
getting out of the relation?
Out of the contract?
Yes.
I'm happy because I'm married.
I like spending time with my wife.
I like her if possible to just sit with me for the rest of her life and talk to me.
Could you not have had that if you didn't get married?
I could have, but I wanted some...
What would I call it?
What's the solidity?
External validation?
Something like that.
Okay.
I think that is...
Not validation.
What's the solidity bit of...
Let's call it validation.
Why not?
Yeah, because you're not getting that solidity from a marriage contract.
You can still break up as 50% of the married people in America will attest to.
People also lie.
Yeah, right.
So you didn't actually get any solidity from the contract.
I did, because just like you said, I can take her to court.
I mean, yes, once you guys don't like each other anymore and want to...
Once you guys no longer want to live together, you can make the other person's life miserable.
Yes.
And so you can use that as a sort of blackmail against her to keep her with you.
Why is that a two-way thing?
No, it's totally a two-way thing.
If you guys want to move on to your separate paths, you don't want to live together anymore.
