has always made more money than I have, right?
So like, we're not at that much of a power imbalance in today's society.
Right, but I can make societal laws based on single conditions.
I have to go by median.
But you can decide whether or not to opt into contracts that are 60 years out of date,
right?
Right.
And you can also not defend an institution that is so out of date.
It assumes that women are still property rather than able to have as much property and income
as an email.
Right.
So my argument is, it's not the institution, it's the legal instantiation of that institution
is my point.
Okay.
Is there a non...
Yeah.
Is there an instantiation of the institution that isn't a legal one?
It's a common law marriage.
And back home in India, we're fighting for uniform civil code.
So I guess that was the other thing that I was confused about.
You kept talking about the instantiation of marriage, not marriage itself.
Yeah.
But where does marriage exist outside of the instantiation of it?
So common law is an example of the...
Common law, like you said, if I have a friend, let's say I'm not gay, but if I have a friend,
if I were gay and I had a roommate who I did the exact same things other than having sex
with them and I had my gay partner, according to the law, would there be a difference?
Yes.
Yeah.
What was the difference?
You're having sex with one of them.
Right.
But that's my point.
So there's...
The law cares about that, which is stupid, but it does.
No, no, no, but I'm saying I have the instantiation, which is not legally defined as marriage
right now with the person that I'm having sex with versus the person who's just a friend
sitting in this other room.
I don't like the term just a friend.
I now have basically a hetero-life partner to steal Jay and Silent Bob's term and I really
plan to spend the rest of my life with them.
And...
Whatever it is, right?
Yeah.
And it's fantastic.
And yeah, it does reduce costs and everything else.
And you have this support structure and it's great, but I'm never going to sleep with
them or never going to have sex with them.
And...
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
The reason...
The reason...
The real difference between this and previous marriages is that this one is stronger but
has less sex.
And I don't...
I think it's bullshit that the partnership with sex is the one that, first of all, you
have all this societal pressure to be true and devote everything to and is the only real
relationship in your entire life that counts.
It's not real...
Wait, wait, wait.
I didn't say it was the only real one.
I didn't say the only one that counts.
You didn't say that, no.
But if you look around in society, that's what you hear.
But why are we going out?
That's my point.
We have to go by median.
So there are...
The median person is told that your marriage is the most...
They feel it.
Well, how do you mean that they're told?
The median person is not as flexible with their romantic, let's say, relationship with
the people in this room are, right?
I don't know anymore, honestly.
Or at least they show.
Or any more.
I get that.
At least they show.
People do have serial monogamy where they date around and not have one partner their
entire life.
This is just getting into...
Okay, okay.
Okay.
I'm saying self-identified straight monogamous people.
Would that constitute a 51% of the populace that would vote for the laws that we're talking
about?
Seriously, don't know.
Right.
But that's the assumption that I'm going under.
Okay.
That's your assumption then?
Right.
Okay.
51% that self-identified, whether truly or falsely, to be straight and somehow single
monogamous, right?
Not multiple single monogamous and straight, the rules that I, because of this true or
false self-identification, I vote and get into law of these rules.
I'm sorry.
Did you vote and get into the law of these rules?
Not me, but...
Okay.
I didn't think so.
No one that I know has voted into the law of these marriage rules because no one I know
even knows what the marriage laws are.
They're, again, we're going back to your things.
The marriage laws weren't inherited and they are a bad inheritance.
Let's update them.
I totally agree.
They're a bad inheritance.
Let's update them.
Okay.
Marriage is terrible as it stands right now.
As it stands right now, marriage is terrible.
No, no, no.
The legal definition of marriage does not fully cover the variety of relationships that currently
the people in our social group have.
Which is yet another reason that marriage is terrible.
See that?
Come on, man.
You're more intelligent than doing ad nauseam attacks like this.
Okay, fine.
I think it's somewhat for comedic effects because I think it's funny.
Can you defend marriage outside of the context in which it sucks?
Or can you give examples?
Because common law, as soon as to me, that's one of my impression of it, is that you can
be married without really knowing that you're married.
Yes.
And if that comes with all the weird scary baggage of...
So you can have signed a contract that, A, you were never shown in real marriage.
Yes.
But why are you doing this as a point?
Why are you acting in such a way that would guaranteed across this threshold of resource
utilization?
I am common law married to my heterolife partner if that was a thing, but it's not.
What do you mean?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
So I guess that's, I mean, I'm doing it for the same reasons that everybody who has a roommate
does it.
Yeah.
Like, if my roommate was of the opposite sex and we had, I guess you have to have sex,
do you have to have sex?
No.
Because you don't need to have sex.
Exactly.
If my roommate was of the opposite gender, we would probably be common law married.
We would possibly be common law married.
But neither you nor the other person is going to go and say, yes, I expected this to be
common law marriage and now I am wronged by this person.
Oh, it doesn't matter if you expected it to be common law marriage or not.
No, no, no.
But I'm saying there's no initiator.
Yeah.
There doesn't need to be for common law marriage.
Right.
You're not going to be considered common law married even if neither one of you wanted
it.
I totally agree.
I'm saying, how are you going to enforce that if neither you nor him.
If, if say when he and his head or a life partner broke up and they were common law married
and his head or a life partner said, I'm coming after you because I was used to the same
of living.
There you go.
That's the, that's my point.
Somebody has to initiate it.
Because this is the state.
Well, I mean, that's the same thing.
That's the same thing with any other marriage.
You can always not go after the person that you're getting divorced from.
So my point is this, but the marriage makes that possible.
Right.
The bad things that we are talking about with marriage are state enforcing things that I
don't want on me.
Uh-huh.
Right.
So that's the state.
That's the issue here.
Not the marriage itself.
What is the marriage that's not the state?
Just like we said, I can live, I can have a partnership and I can get, go into the forest
and kiss somebody else and be like, Hey, we're married.
I will do these things that I'm supposed to do in a legal marriage with you.
I guess I, so you are defining the marriage outside of like the context of the state and
the instantiation that we live in in our time to be hetero life partners, Jane's Island
Bob.
Why hetero?
Well, I mean, I'm using that as a Jane's Island Bob.
Right.
Right.
Just life partners.
Yeah.
Just anybody.
Yeah.
So that's what you're standing up for.
Yeah.
Not for marriage as is colloquially used by 99.8% of people.
No, no, no, no, no.
Again, I also have no problem with people running off into the woods and like saying, I'll be
