Like I can spend stupidity a different way too, but I think it might have taken my first
permanent injury for me to like slow down and stop doing stupid stuff.
Yeah.
Because then you realize like, oh, things do have consequences.
Right.
So that's what I mean kind of by being stupid is that by, you might know like on paper,
yes, I used to have a grandparent now I don't, but to have that actually sink in on a level
that you really, you know, the difference to knowledge and wisdom, maybe, right?
Maybe they have the knowledge that they're just, they're not wise.
Yeah.
Is that too pedantic?
Or applied theoretical.
I know in theory that I can die.
No, I just think-
That doesn't stop me from doing stupid things.
I take less risks now physically because I know that if I hurt myself, it's much harder
to bounce back from it than it used to be.
And because it might actually be permanent at this point.
I might, you know, fucking have a shitty ankle for the rest of my life if I fuck up my ankle
at this point.
And that would be much less likely to be the case back in the day.
Like it from physical to intellectual or financial or anything else.
Well, I mean, that was the other point.
I also had nothing to lose when I was a kid.
I was like, when I was in high school, I was literally one of those burn it all down revolutionaries.
I was like, I did want to see the world burn because it was so fucked and I had nothing
to lose, right?
No, no, no, no.
And nowadays I'm like, well, shit, I have a house and a car and some, you know, savings
and I have, I have a really good reason not to burn the whole thing down.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's just, I think one of the problems is that young people got nothing to lose and everything
to gain.
So why not?
Whereas older, you, you have a lot of shit that you don't want to lose, have risk aversion.
If you didn't know you had it, you had the shit, but you didn't know you had it or didn't
care that you have it.
I mean, I would still take less physical risks because of my health, but I wouldn't.
But if you didn't care, I would take more, do more risk.
So that's the, so if you take 90% is the Arnold Schwarzenegger creatine bit, right?
I don't know what the what?
Oh, you know, so somebody asked Arnold about, did he take creatine or whatever?
And he said, creatine is not anything.
If you can, if you can lift a thousand pounds without creatine on creatine, you can lift
a thousand 20.
Okay.
So having more to lose is a thousand pounds, not reasoning yourself into knowing that you
have or caring that you have is the next 20 pounds.
Okay.
Just a side comment.
I love Arnold Schwarzenegger as a person.
He seems to be super wholesome and awesome.
He's a big fan.
Yeah.
Seven-time Mr. Olympia, man.
Damn.
I don't know.
He also just randomly shows up on Reddit threads.
He does?
I didn't know that.
Oh, yeah.
You know, like on, especially on bodybuilding websites, which I don't see, but I see on
Best I Once in a while, I'm clearly not a bodybuilder.
Man, you're looking ripped.
But there was one that was like, it was on some, I don't know, what was something from
your childhood or whatever.
And someone talked about like how they were abused at home and they had saw like the movie
Matilda and they kind of reminded them of that and they were, they were talking to somebody
on a ski lift.
Like they, they were just like, they finally broke down into a stranger and that stranger
happened to be Danny DeVito in a ski mask and, and the guy was, you know, before.
So as he's writing this comment at the end, he's like, I just wish I could tell him and
Danny apparently told him like, you know, it's going to be okay.
You're, you know, he, you consult him, turn him, turn him around as a person.
Right.
He's like, I wish I could tell Danny that he changed my life.
And Arnold jumps in and he's like, Hey, Danny's an awesome guy.
I'll let him know.
You said this.
Awesome.
I know.
Right.
Arnold's 2020.
Oh, the rock 2020.
Yeah.
That's actually, there was something as long as you're talking Reddit stuff, there was
a, you know, what do we expect to happen in the next, you know, 2018.
And I think it's going to be celebrities running for office in more than they did last year.
Not that many celebrities with clean pass.
You have to, you have to have the right amount of ego and then the right amount of, I don't
know, to not have shame, but things you did.
I'd vote for the rock.
I would definitely vote for the rock.
I'd vote for the rock.
Terry Crews.
Really, really anybody.
Which brings me to my closing point about the net neutrality thing.
I can't remember if I said this on the air or not last time, but you said that you're
generally against regulation and I don't know how to square that with the fact that
I can see the argument of being against regulation in many cases.
In some cases, I think that there should be minimum things that are enforced, you know.
You can't sell drinking water to a place that has no other access to drinking water if it's
garbage.
Right.
That sort of thing.
Shouldn't be allowed to keep your 1950s car that used leaded gas into the air on the
roads.
Why that much?
You're not allowed, I mean, you shouldn't be allowed to sell as like you say the raw
water.
You guys heard of this?
No.
Okay.
There's this guy who used to work for one of the big CPG companies, had a company called
Juicero, which crashed and burned with the squeezable packs.
His next venture is raw water, water filled with microbes and organic shit.
People are getting sick.
Yeah.
And he's selling them for 50 bucks a bottle.
Jesus.
I mean, I think about this every time I hear a story like this, that if I was an asshole,
that would like put life on easy mode.
Yeah.
If you had no moral compunctions about hurting people, you could get by so easily.
Cause it's like, oh no, a company went bankrupt, whatever, onto the next fuck you adventure,
right?
So I think the point where we disagree with you is that setting that minimum is a political
thing and people justify that minimum to be way over what it should be, which works
out to the small guy's advantage.
But when you're big, you can figure out a hack.
Sure.
And you know, obviously the minimum for the small person isn't going to be enough for
the company.
Yeah, for the big guy.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Whatever enterprise level.
That's the argument against regulation.
I'm also not, I also have a, you have a strong distrust of regulation and I think we both
have a strong distrust of anything the current administration wants right now, right?
So I don't know how to square those two things.
Right.
I mean, regulation is regulation.
You want different things than the, than whoever you're disagree with.
Regulation is a function of the government.
So the more you distrust government, the less regulation you would want anyway, right?
But what am I going to trust the government right now to take away the right, for the
right regulations?
Oh, I mean, why is that okay with the previous regulations?
They just reinstated regulations on certain drugs again, Jeff Sessions being like, let's
go after marijuana again.
Didn't do it yet.
Right, right, right.
But yeah, it's like.
He's talking about it, but didn't do it yet.
So.
I meant it somewhat, somewhat, somewhat more as a tongue in cheek thing that like, I...
Oh, why would you trust the government to deregulate at this point?
Well, no, why would you trust the government to do anything in your interest right now?
Oh, well, yeah.
I think getting rid of regulation, you're right because they would get rid of the regulations
that are...
Or keeping their friendship being even right here, right?
If anything, that's a, to me, vaguely compelling point in the fact that this is probably not
a good thing down the road, and this is never designed to be a good thing for the consumer
down the road.
Okay.
Because it was done under the current administration.
Well, did they say that it doesn't sound like a vacant statement?
Kind of.
Yeah.
No, I understand.
Okay.
We got to go because we are way over right now and I'm going to see if I can maybe cut
a few minutes so Kyle isn't fucked as bad.
Anyways, thank you to Kyle, as always, for making us awesome and for dealing with all
our stupid bullshit for hours.
Yes.
I do want to say really quick that our next episode, we're going to have Brian Dunning
from the Skeptoid podcast back on.
He's even talking about his new film.
I think it's free online and there's a short podcast episode that covers the same points
called The Principles of Curiosity.
So you can go to Skeptoid to find the 12-minute episode on Principles of Curiosity or go to
PrinciplesOfCuriosity.com and watch the documentary if you want to follow the conversation a bit,
but it's not very complicated.
Is that this Sunday or next Sunday?
We're doing that.
This Sunday, I think.
Okay.
Good.
I'm glad you reminded me.
Okay.
All right.
Cool.
Want to throw that out there so people could get a head start if they wanted to.
Yes.
All right.
Good.
