If one party wants to keep the other person around, they can hold over their head, I can
make your life miserable for the next however many years unless you stay with me.
I mean, that's what you got out of the marriage, and that's the solidity you're talking about.
But it's not a solidity you want, right?
You don't want to force someone into staying with you because you'd make their life miserable
otherwise.
No, I want to...
No, no, no.
There's a difference between forcing somebody and making the cost high enough so that that
decision is not taken lightly.
Well, I don't think people would have taken that lightly in general, and if they would
have taken it lightly, then the marriage won't change that.
If they're the sort of person that takes that sort of relationship and commitment lightly,
then the marriage isn't going to change things very much.
That's exactly why you need a legal contract.
If people do idiotic things and they would take a decision lightly like that, but they
would later regret it.
This is the exact reason why you want to have friction in getting into the marriage and also
getting out of the marriage.
Well, there's no friction getting in.
That is a separate thing.
I am saying the friction exists for people to make informed decisions and to have validity,
solidity, whatever the hell that is, to say we are staking so much of our shit on this
contract that we agree both that we get enough out of it that the breaking that contract
would involve this much effort.
Right.
I think I'm...
Right.
But I can't...
It's just personal happiness and stuff like that, so I can't...
But what you're getting out of it is the security and the comfort and the happiness.
Yes.
Which I value more than whatever cost that is.
I understand you value all those things, but I think the reason you value all those
things is because society hasn't grained in your head that that is what marriage is.
Hold on.
Can I take that from a completely different angle because I think you're wrong?
Okay.
I think...
I just want to say that can't you have all of those things?
Like say if...
I could.
I just want a box around it.
So the box doesn't give you anything because you can have all that anyway.
No, we just said that it's extra cost for people to get out of the box.
Yes.
Well, it is, but is that...
So it's a box that is hard to climb out of, but there's nothing in the box.
Yes, exactly.
It's hard to climb out of the box.
And there's nothing in there that wasn't outside the box.
No, I just want a pen.
All right.
Pen.
Okay.
I want a pen.
Like a jail.
Yeah.
Well...
Okay.
No, that's fine.
And I don't want this to come off as a two-on-one against you or anything.
No, no, no.
I totally agree.
My point is this.
The value of friction, whether society put that in me or not, is underestimated here.
I am saying I am idiotic.
Human beings are idiotic.
We make idiotic decisions.
So let's make getting together as costly as getting apart or put enough friction into
entering this contract as I would get entering out of the contract.
So I think it should definitely be harder to get into a marriage.
It's stupidly easy now.
Harder than it is now, but not harder than it will be to get out of it later is my point.
I'm saying put a box of friction around things that I would like to have continue.
And also you don't necessarily need the box of I can make your life miserable for years
because once you guys are living together, that in itself is a source of friction.
Now you have to get a second place once you want to separate.
And that in itself is hard, you know?
That's going to keep people, that keeps actually a lot of people together.
A lot of people together, yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I've lived with roommates I don't want to live with.
I've lived with roommates I don't want to live with.
Yeah, yeah.
You get that for free without marriage.
You just have to, you just have to-
No, I just, one more level is my point.
I need a paper document that says yes we are together, yes we will consume less resources
together, yes these are the things, yes I don't see anything else, yes I, these are
the things that I want to do together and this is my, this is-
Pretty sure it doesn't say anywhere in the document that we will consume less resources.
No, but that's the thinking.
Okay, I, okay.
And I didn't mean to shut you down when you, when earlier, I think that was going to bring
us background in other circles.
I wanted to just-
Right.
Just detect it from the other side.
Okay.
So let's, let me acknowledge this, my, what I get out of this box is happiness and personal
stuff that I cannot value to your or society's judgment I guess.
Right.
Well, I, I would argue and I think you've agreed that you get that outside the box too.
You loved your wife before you signed your marriage contract.
Right.
So like that didn't actually add anything other than the barrier to exist.
No, stability, it added stability.
I want, I love her and I also want to stay with her and I also want to incentivize us
to stick together and work on things.
Okay.
So friction of getting out of it.
Were you worried she would leave you if you didn't have this box to put her in?
No.
But we don't work like that is my point.
We don't work like what?
Well, let's, let's give you an account example is a annuity better than randomly than a business
person's income.
Would you value annuity higher than a business's cash flows?
You would, right?
I mean, it is the point here and I'm making that ridiculously complicated unnecessarily.
I mean, yes, but annuity is a lot more assured than your partner staying with you.
No, but that's the thinking I this contract turns it into more of an annuity than the
cash flows of a business.
What kind of idiots are we if we can only talk through nerd analogies like this?
I don't, I really don't think it gives you that as much stability as you think.
And we tried, we tried hitting it without, without analogies and it didn't land.
So when in doubt, we scrambled for it.
Yeah.
When in doubt abstract.
And again, you know, business income has the potential to grow where I can, I can tack
on different things to this annuity dude.
All right.
I think we're leaving something out of the conversation because there's something that
people want about marriage, or at least that they think they want because they think that
marriage gives it to them or something.
Why did, why did, why was marriage equality in the United States such a fought for thing?
Why did people, why did, why did people who were previously barred from being married,
gay people and lesbian people, why did they want to be able to get married?
Because society does say your relationship is more valuable once you've gotten married,
once you've gotten married.
Once your relationship has been validated by us, then it's a real relationship and you're
a real adult who has real love.
So that was never.
That social could be one thing and these gay, lesbian, whatever people didn't just spring
from the head of Zeus like Athena.
They also born on this earth and value the same things that hetero people did.
So they also valued the state validation just as much as hetero people did.
Gotcha.
That is a compelling point to me.
I think there are actually also some tax benefits if you make vastly different amounts.
And that's what I was going to ask about next because, you know, that's not what the Talking
Heads on TV said was like, they want to feel validated by the state because we all want
to feel validated by the state.
They said, oh, it's because deathbed rights.
I always hear that like it happens to everybody once a month and taxes and maybe another, you
know, something else.
Taxes.
What is Agus, like, I can have, I can sign a piece of paper or tell me if I'm wrong.
Can I sign a piece of paper that says that you guys can come visit me on my deathbed?
Yeah.
So, so that's just in the closer free with marriage, I guess.
Yeah.
So that's that's the inheritance.
And the power of eternity and tax and all that stuff is wrapped up into that whole
marriage contract.
But that's also independently attainable.
Yes, it is.
So that's just bottom line arguing for.
Yeah, but it's extra effort and you would have to.
So this is like, like he said, marriage is a catch all obligation to anything that you
have.
I get equal hands on.
So if you would write a contract, you would have to like list 59 things.
Yeah.
Here's my power of attorney.
Here's my inheritance.
Every damn thing.
But those things are like standard legal documents, right?
So like, yeah, nobody, but I'm just saying that like, it's not like this is something
that is more effort than a marriage.
Well, also buying a house, which I'm in the process of doing is a lot of effort.
You sign a fucking stack of papers this big and you literally hire multiple professionals
to go through the stack of paper and make sure everything's right and make sure the
house is there's a lot of effort put into buying a house.
And it is a lesser commitment than marriages and marriage is not because of the value of
the house.
The effort is because you either have some kind of loan with it.
Did you bring up a stack of gold and say, this is the title.
Give me the title.
No, no, no, no.
You don't know the other person.
You're meeting them temporarily.
There's risk involved.
There's loan involved.
There's other people doing other things for you.
That's why the paper, that has nothing to do with the value of the damn house.
No, no, no, it doesn't.
But buying a house is a big deal and marriage should be as big a deal.
But using that analogy, if you say the stack of paper does not have relationship to the
