So maybe there is a bit of like worshipfulness, not worshipfulness, but you know...
Cult of personality.
Thank you.
It's a bit of cult personality there where when he comes out against this, I'm like, okay,
I'm already against regulation for the most part and he is saying this.
And so I think he probably has a good point and these are the other things I've read about
it.
And so I think that I'm going to go with that.
I don't...
It does give the ISPs more power in some ways, but it's not more power to shut down the building
of new fiber.
Okay.
That's what I was curious about.
So I think someone might make the case that like, well, now we're going to, you know, we're
opening the door to handing them more, they're going to want more now, you know, and people
are worried about that slippery slope.
Now with that incident in his last point, in their last point makes an interesting argument
to exactly what you were saying, saying Cowan touts competition as the important factor
in getting ISPs to behave well.
But once Tier 1 and the big name Tier 3 networks are synonymous, discussions about whether
the last mile of fiber is a natural monopoly won't matter because you won't be able to
get to some parts of the internet without first going through censure rise and cast.
Yes.
Say like this.
This is potentially about not being able to engage in entire classes of activity at
the whim of your ISP.
Or build out your own mesh network.
Or what?
Build out your own mesh network.
I mean, I can see if there was one massive conglomeration once they all joined into
one big company.
But who's stopping the vertical mergers?
People stopping horizontal mergers, not vertical mergers.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I think, yes, I don't know.
I don't want to get into discussion about whether monopoly busting is a good thing because
I still have strong intuitions that it is.
But those come from high school econ classes and I haven't looked into whether that's still
the case.
Right.
I do want to point out one thing.
This guy, Ben Thompson, went to Wisconsin grad, lives in Taiwan, does a great blog about
media and tech.
He has a good analysis from his viewpoint on his blog Stratechery.
It's a good piece to read.
I think the cost of laying down all new fiber across the entire nation is what is stopping
a lot of people from doing that.
Yeah, but it doesn't have to be the entire nation.
How do you get water to people?
Same fucking thing.
I can dig a water line without an issue, but to dig the same line and run a fiber through
it, I have to call 15 people.
Do you?
I think.
Wouldn't it be?
Okay.
Google Plixbyte says net neutrality has become an issue because people aren't charging directly
for data usage.
Yeah.
This is why ISPs want to shift those charges onto content delivery networks.
Also, yes.
Well, among other reasons, yes.
The solution is a currency with zero transaction costs.
All the internet's issues vanish with the mass adoption of cryptocurrency.
I just, I disagree on that.
Oh, this crypto bullshit is creeping into every conversation that I have.
Is it?
No.
No.
I mean, I don't, first of all, cryptocurrencies don't have zero transaction costs.
But you can make one.
The issue is the crypto community is right now a bunch of anarchist devs who want decentralization
as a goal where the users don't.
So whatever solution they come up with is going to have transaction costs of the centralized
faster system will not.
So it's just tacking on cryptocurrency to anything doesn't naturally make it better.
And at least all the cryptocurrencies I'm familiar with do have a transaction cost because
you need to run the blockchain somehow.
Yeah.
Electricity costs at the very least.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
And none of them are usable as a currency, partly because they are so unstable.
Their value changes rapidly.
But I can fuck with that.
There's a lot of price manipulation goes on.
Yeah.
Also, because the transactions take a while, you got to wait sometimes a long time.
Right.
Because they're not optimizing for speed.
They're not optimizing for other things.
They're optimizing for trustlessness.
They're optimizing for immutableness.
When you're optimizing for that, having a streaming type system on top of it makes zero
sense.
I am not equipped to understand this last paragraph of that.
It's the rest of Googleplex Bytes comment on this.
Okay.
Also, something that no one seems to be discussing on either side is that net neutrality is part
and parcel of common carrier status.
Without it, ISPs would be responsible for all the illegal content it facilitates.
That entails mass censorship if ISPs like not being sued.
I mean, it depends on how the law is implemented.
Right.
But even at the current implementation, it doesn't say that because you're a net neutrality
doesn't have to mean common carrier.
Common carrier doesn't have to mean they're liable for whatever content they own or whatever
content is on their wires.
Right.
Right.
But general adoption, this is my point with marriage and how it's been adapted with the
state.
I think that's the same issue.
General adoption, people think net neutrality equals common carrier equals...
No liability.
Yeah, that kind of thing.
We could always have the no liability as a separate rule.
Yeah.
Without all the other stuff.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's everything that I had about the net neutrality stuff.
Yeah.
That's all I could find about that as well.
Okay.
I have backed off a little on my stance.
I still am generally in favor of easing up.
But define easing up.
Easing up means what?
Easing up means pulling back on the 2015 net neutrality regulations going...
Why?
Given the current political atmosphere, given the current power dynamic, it makes a rational
sense for an arbiter to say, I need minimum access to be minimal yet free.
Free not monetarily, free from content things, you know what I mean?
How minimal do you define minimal is the problem.
That's the question.
Because you can get dial up.
Right.
That's the question.
That would be a great hack if everybody said Comcast D is everybody gets dial up for free
or dial up is the common minimum internet and everything else you have to pay for that
would also satisfy Priya's laws and current laws.
But you know...
It would also make a lot of the first world internet unusable.
There you go.
That's a ridiculous.
So...
Finally, a different comment, but still from Googleplex Byte, which is not related to net
neutrality says, risk compensation means immortals would be adrenaline junkies, not
depressed hold-wellers.
The biggest risk takers are young people who still haven't grappled the notion that they
are aging and will die one day.
With immortality, everyone would be death blind risk junkies.
I think that's a pro immortality argument and I'm kind of behind it.
Nice.
I mean, it makes sense.
Yeah.
Like if I'm not worried about dying, I'd be doing a lot more stuff, right?
You'd be out like, you know, playing cops and robbers with actual guns.
Sure.
With your friends.
I think we got this already, but let's not belay with the point, but immortality doesn't
preclude your sense of suffering.
Well, right.
And that'll stop you from doing 90% of the sense.
I'm assuming once we've gone to the point of literal immortality, then you could turn
on and off pain sensors as you wanted.
But then why are we still human?
Right.
I would drop a Black Mirror reference, but I don't want to spoil it for Yen Yash.
We can talk later.
Yeah.
Well, we'll do it.
I don't think it's necessarily the only reason young people are such big risk takers.
No, they're also just stupid.
Well, exactly.
No, I mean that's a big thing.
I mean that not derisively.
It just happens.
I vaguely remember.
It's like what I imagined would be like if I ever knew what it was like to be a pet dog
and then became a person.
I could look back and be like, I could see how I was like that, but I have no idea how
that was actually happening.
Yeah.
That's how I feel looking back on myself as a kid.
I did a lot of crazy shit that I would never do now because I value like not being hurt
and being alive.
Well, I also think that, okay, so I was always aware of my mortality as far as I know and
yet still took some more risks back in the day.
And I think this whole people, young people don't understand death thing is kind of fallacious
bullshit.
It's not that young people don't understand death.
I think it's that young people have less to lose in general.
Like health wise, when you're young, if you get injured, you can bounce back pretty damn
quick.
No, but I would say don't discount stupidity.
Go ahead.
I was going to say, I think you're right.
