And I'd like to say that I'm pretty sure I didn't dismiss it as or fantastical.
I didn't dismiss it as fantastical because I was also aware of that, that there are nations
that have net neutrality loss in play and still do have tiered internet.
What I said was that that is okay.
That I kind of expect that sort of thing that you would get packages where you pay less
for certain things because that's how a lot of things work.
If you buy them in bundles, you get discounts.
The, well, I'm going to continue reading this and then wrap up my reply to that in with
the other stuff.
When I say that's okay, I have a reason for saying that as not just because I want people
to get screwed to have to pay an extra five bucks to access Facebook.
Now without incident continues, the origin of the common carrier designation wasn't
some hypothetical scenario.
About 10 years ago, Comcast was found to be blocking some peer-to-peer traffic and by
some, I mean BitTorrent, which the FCC tried to stop.
This seems clearly pro-consumer and I don't know how big internet content companies, Google,
Facebook, et cetera, benefited at this point.
I want to say that depends on how you define pro-consumer.
If you mean the people who are BitTorrenting stuff, then yes, they have gotten to use tons
of bandwidth for their $60 a month or whatever.
But there's also lots of consumers that don't send up and down multiple terabytes every month.
I am one of those low usage people.
I mean, my biggest content transfer every month is the uploading of this episode to our
web server.
Aside from that, I just don't use too much of the internet.
I watch a little bit of Netflix every week, but my uses are fairly low demand.
And so I am one of these consumers too and my internet experience is being negatively
impacted by the people who are clogging up the tubes with their rampant sharing of everything.
I'm just going to use that term sharing because it's neutral, right?
With their rampant sharing of everything and it is sort of a freerider problem.
We're all paying $60 a month for our internet, but there's some people who are just nonstop
streaming everything and putting through tons of data.
And there's other people who use much less.
And I am old enough to remember a time when the AOL minutes, free minutes per month actually
mattered because the bandwidth infrastructure was not built out then like it is yet.
This was before the big dot com crash when everyone went crazy building out the internet
and you had to fight over bandwidth and you literally paid per minute to access the internet
because there just wasn't enough for everyone that wanted it.
And now there is and that's great, but we're slowly getting to that point where we're going
to be bumping up against those limits soon.
And in my opinion, I don't think it's necessarily that bad a thing that the people who use tons
of data would pay more for that than the people who use less.
I know that people who use tons of water pay more than people who use less water.
And one of the reasons is just because you're using more, right?
So if the bit torrentors, yeah, the pro consumer, as in everyone can use bit torrent if they
want to, but it's anti consumer for the people who use less traffic.
Anyways, he says the FCC was forced to create a new set of rules, sorry.
They say the FCC was forced to create a new set of rules to enforce these consumer protections.
But after losing a court case, the FCC was essentially left with no option but to declare
ISPs common carriers in order to fulfill their mission of consumer protection.
So yeah, I had a bit of argument on the consumer protection part.
In some cases, that is protection of consumers, but in others less.
But do you guys have anything to add before I read on to go to the second part of this
reply?
Yes, I think this is my understanding, so it's definitely flawed.
But I think what the presenter wants to say, he has articulated it badly.
The price of a monthly subscription has nothing to do with, let me say it this way, ISPs get
charged based on differential usage, right?
Or differential traffic usage, right?
If I'm the owner of the wire and I'm the owner of the box, I only pay for what more
I use than what I give you the other box.
So there is a reason to say that if the guy owning the box is only paying differential,
the person receiving the data should also be only paying differential.
So that's a point towards taking that strategy away, right?
The pro consumer point of it is the free rider problem of BitTorrent 1.
One point is, what was the point again?
That.
Oh, yeah, bundling on bundling, okay.
My point was this, bundling and unbundling, the $60 bit, pro consumer or anti-consumer,
the only way that people can make money in business is either bundled stuff or unbundled
stuff, right?
So we got to $60 by bundling all of the other elements you talked about, and because we
are so bundled that this $60 provides more value to you or to the most common free rider
than more than that $60, there is an effort to unbundle that $60 back to a different thing.
Now this pendulum will go back and forth the other way and we will settle at the extremes,
but to say that X's pro user, just by default, is a bit of overreach in my estimation.
Now if that's incident continues saying looking at Tyler Cohen's piece, he seems to be coming
at it completely backwards.
The first three points are all about the economic advantages or disadvantages of net neutrality.
I don't care about those things, basically at all.
I care about the internet surface I can buy and how it operates.
It's in no way obvious that economic growth is good for my experience on the internet.
The dot com crash was even discussed on the episode as a good thing for the internet from
a consumer perspective and I totally agree.
I don't necessarily know how to respond to that because I mean saying economics doesn't
affect my choice is ridiculous.
It might be like someone saying, hey, look, we're going to open a bunch of toll roads
that will have less traffic.
I don't want to budget that.
I don't want to come out this from the wrong angle.
I guess maybe it's like as long as it doesn't affect my commute to work, I don't care what
they're doing to the roads might be the only concern kind of thing.
Remember your taxes go up, right?
How are they billeted?
They are asking you for money.
But he's talking about specifically the economic things outside of their day-to-day traffic
on the web.
If that's their only concern, I can sort of see, again, if my only concern about the
roads is how long it took me to get to work, if I cared a little bit nothing else, then
I can see where they're coming from.
Is that your guys' reading of that point as well?
Yeah, I think of it more of a sort of free trade sort of thing where a lot of people
will say, look, I know all the economists say that free trade is good for the economy
and grows the economy, but I don't care.
My personal experience in life is worse.
I've lost my job and people I can't understand are moving to my neighborhood, and therefore
I am against free trade.
No, no, no.
There's a great point against this.
Pia Molini, who runs- Oh, fuck me, I forget what she runs, but she runs an economic think
tank.
She's very economically minded.
The Schumpeter argument of greater destruction doesn't take into account society's feelings.
It's a one-axis thing of productivity as though we value productivity in one-axis.
So it's the misunderstanding of that.
So I kind of see this point, but I also don't know how to argue against that, aside from
saying that I do kind of think economic growth is important too.
It's hard because there are other things to balance it off against as well.
I just think that in this case, the net neutrality wasn't a strong enough prod to make me be on
its side.
I would also say that I'm not convinced from my understanding of every thing about net
neutrality, from my vague and wrong or my vague and incomplete understanding of net neutrality
conversation that this is good for the economy as a whole.
This is good for the ISP monopolies or the ISP mostly monopolies.
This isn't good for anybody who isn't an exec at Comcast.
It's good for anybody that's okay with paying 60 bucks and not worrying about a thing.
Who you pay the 60 bucks to is the issue we're talking about and how much are you paying them?
The service is guaranteed, then what you're saying is right.
I'm saying service is not guaranteed.
In light of running up against the limits of our current infrastructure.
Are we anywhere near those limits?
Is that something we talked about?
We're getting close.
We're not quite there yet.
We're not there yet.
We're also laying down new coordinates and stuff, right?
This isn't like-
Yeah, but not at the rate that we're using it.
And actually, I think this is one of the arguments for the economic growth part is that economic
growth is what gives you new fiber or new Wi-Fi or new other things that expand.
But the issue is economic growth of whom and who gets the new fiber.
And who gets to decide whether or not you get new fiber?
There you go.
Because they're working for laws to keep new ISPs from entering the market.
Like Fort Collins is the city north of us where I grew up.
They wanted to lay down fiber and this was a legal battle for months.
And the city can't do what it wants because the ISPs say no.
Right.
And that's exactly the sort of bullshit that I am vehemently against, that this is why
I dislike regulation because that is an aspect of regulation.
It's not like an ISP could come in and say you are not allowed to lay fiber.
They pull in the state.
No, but the issue is when you say it's a Title II, you have to give power to the state
to then go do it.
The issue is they're not going to do it.
Who's not going to do what?
The state.
When you say Title II, you also have to guarantee.
You cannot just say this is a utility and regulate it that way.
You also have to say if it was water, you wouldn't build a condominium without access
to water or gas and shit.
But if it's Title II, the city would have to be forced to build.
Right.
No, but what I'm saying is that and Longmont also has, does Longmont have Google fiber
or is that city fiber?
They have fiber of something.
They're pulling down 100 gigs a second.
Yeah.
And those are the sorts of things I would love to see is communities putting in fiber for
themselves and being another option to compete with these ISPs and having this sort of strict
regulation is what prevents that sort of thing.
But is that the only thing?
I think the cost of entry.
The cost of entry is high.
I'll give you a point where regulation helps the incumbents, not the new people.
Yes.
The ISPs couldn't have sued the city of Fort Collins if there wasn't already regulations
that would allow them to do that.
But the issue is neither one is going to do the capital expenditure.
Did the conversation slash vote on the 14th, did that give more power to the ISPs or less?
I have this bad answer.
I think you're going to like it.
It just changed the lobbyist's calling card from the FCC to the FTC.
Sure.
That's all it did.
But it seems like it's a step in giving the ISPs more power.
That's how it's perceived by the public in my understanding of the five people I know.
So is that accurate?
Yes.
Do they have more power?
Because...
Yes, but it also removes some of the hurdles for other people getting into the market.
And just in general, I would like to see less hurdles.
I would too, but I'm wondering if this actually did that.
Take the hurdle away and then incent people to do the thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it has to be both sides.
Which, I mean, that's one of the reasons I'm on net against regulation and tend to have
a bit more trust in economists who also are like, okay, I admit I really like Tyler Cohen.
