And this is the major input output stage. And cam k2 is involved in so many protein cascades, it really is sort of a hub of many protein cascades. And if you go look through your biology textbooks or the scientific literature, you'll see that cam k2 or other microtubule proteins are involved in almost any protein cascade.
And you'll see that these cascades of proteins impinge upon the microtubule, and there is a way in which that information will make it into the microtubule.
So it goes into the liquid state, it gets these cam k2 imprints on it, it gets some information about what's going on in that part of the cell, enters a gel state with the actin.
And then that information is propagated across the cell at near instantaneous or speed of sound speed through this quantum superposition of these electron dipoles in these channels.
And then all that information gets integrated into the microtubules that are undergoing superposition together.
And then the final step here is that there is then a self collapse rate. And so Hammerhoff and Penrose propose that as the number of qubits or topological tubulins are inputted into the quantum computer, the quantum computer grows in size.
And the more of these qubits are in the quantum computer, the faster it's going to evolve and reach this collapse moment and collapse back down through the objective reduction of self collapse and then produce an output.
And they propose that when the self collapse occurs, this is a moment of consciousness. And so this moment of consciousness occurs in the self collapse, and these microtubule networks are uniquely positioned to generate macroscopic complex superpositions to reach that self collapse more quickly.
And so as it reaches self collapse, these moments of consciousness are occurring, and the moment of consciousness is sort of related to the computation that is occurring.
So as you're computing some future goal state, there's an experience component tied into that wave function collapse.
Of course, of course, of course, the connection to consciousness is somewhat speculative, right? And it's challenging, as we talked about in some previous episodes, to tie qualia or the subjective feeling of something, right?
Like the hurt in the pain, the sensation of the color red. How do you tie that really to anything ever?
And so it's not really specific to this model of consciousness, but it is fundamentally challenging to see how a subjective experience would get tied into this.
But some of their arguments for consciousness are the fact that we have a certain speed of consciousness associated with our subjective experience might be explainable by this collapse rate.
So that the rate of the collapse of these, you know, quantum computers and the microtubules is directly related to the speed at which we are experiencing life on some level.
And that our experience comes in a series of moments with every collapse of the wave function, and that any disruption to this collapse or enhancement of this collapsing would therefore contribute to the speed of our experience or the quality of our experience.
And so some of the examples they give are anesthetics, anesthetics go into tubulin and bind to tubulin in particular, and they go into the aromatic cores and they break up these channels.
And so the pitch is that anesthetic molecules are nonpolar, they enter the core of the tubulin, and they go and they stop these van der Waals forces where the electrons become correlated and these electron clouds are spread out.
By introducing an anesthetic molecule, it busts up that channel.
And so when you lose consciousness from anesthetics, their pitch is that you have all these molecules going in and disrupting these communication lines within the microtubules, and then your consciousness starts getting disrupted, that quantum computation is going away, and the digital computation is preserved.
But that wipes out your experience.
Some other examples they give which are maybe compelling are like psychedelics or neurotransmitters also bind into microtubules.
So while there there is definitely signaling going on at the synapse, there's also the somewhat unexplored binding of all these different molecules into microtubules directly.
And maybe messing with or enhancing the electron cloud channels, introducing some additional resonance.
And so yeah, there's a number of ways where serotonin or dopamine fluxes could actually be directly binding into these microtubules and directly impacting, you know, if the seed of consciousness is in these microtubule electron cloud lines, it'd be directly interacting with that on some level.
In closing, I haven't talked explicitly about orchestration, but the idea here is that objective reduction is the collapse of the wave function through a self collapse through meeting this gravitational threshold.
Orchestrated objective reduction is a biological orchestration of how the wave function evolves.
Orchestration is that digital input output that's created, right.
And so the orchestration comes from the environment, it comes internally, and there's a lot to explore on what is the nature, the quality of this information that's being processed, and what is being orchestrated and why.
And so in future episodes, we'll explore brain activity on a larger scale, how do these different levels or scales interact, and us being very giant, slow creatures, we experience life at this very slow rate.
How is the microtubule directly relating to our speed of experience? It seems like an important and open question that still isn't answered in what we've talked about today, so more on that to come.
