I mean, let me just say that
this is unpublished to stuff yet
and not very, I mean, it's quite preliminary.
The last two slides are good preliminary,
but this is the intuition.
Okay, I think I'm gonna finish
with the computational part here.
So is there any other questions
maybe this would be a good time to raise them?
And then I'm just gonna go
and touch base back to biology
for a minute or a minute, okay?
All right, so, one more questions.
Okay, let me say something about
this role for master regulators.
And here's an example.
This is an example of a master regulator
called Z1, which is known to people
who study cancer or epithelial EMT,
epithelial to mesochemical transitions.
It is a repressor of epithelial genes
and it's associated with developmental processes,
of course, but also with aggressive tumor behavior
with metastases, drug resistance,
and it's linked to promoting stem.
This is a really important gene
in the study of cancer.
And it's a repressor.
Surprisingly, quite recently,
people have found as a paper from 2015,
that found that by teaming up
or interacting with another transcription factor
or regulator, this Z1 hub completely changes its character.
From being a repressor, it changes to being an activator.
It interact, the details are not important.
It interacts with another regulator
to control a whole different set of genes
from what it was before.
And the reason why the details are not important
is that if you go through the literature,
this is just one case,
but there are many other cases like this
and people find master regulators
that under certain conditions
completely change their character, their function,
their, the other proteins that they interact with
and their functionality.
So this is a type of rewiring or reprogramming
that these gene regulators are capable of undergoing,
which is consistent with this picture
of exploratory learning or exploratory dynamics
that finds novel types of things.
And so what we think is, you know,
a really powerful tool for cells
is that master regulator plasticity
can organize new patterns of gene expressions
and express new thing types.
All right, so follow-ups on this,
on our work in the direction of cancer,
if anybody's interested,
one group did a computational modeling
that took actual measurements from tumors
and tried to ask whether the gene expression
as a function of time during metastasis progression
can fit into this framework.
Another thing that we did is really,
we went through a whole lot of literature on cancer
and like I said, we found a lot of things
that, you know, qualitatively support this picture
that it's an important process.
And so let me summarize going back to the dichotomy
that I drew in the beginning of the talk
of these instructive versus selective way of learning
or performing a task.
What we think is happening is that gene regulatory networks
have this dual way of working.
On one hand, there's instructive, of course, obviously.
You know, a lot of people have mapped out modules
and parts of networks where we can trace the gene one,
activating gene two, et cetera,
and carrying out a very well concerted function.
And people have done a lot of work on that
and know to understand it and to measure it.
And this is all there.
It's all, this instructive performance happens,
but sometimes, you know, under certain conditions,
maybe under very strong perturbation,
maybe under rewiring or entrusting challenge
or certain stresses, the same structure,
the structure of these master regulators
now carries a new function in the world of search algorithms
where it can reduce dimensionality
and enable a completely different way of responding
where new phenotypes and new configurations can be found.
And it is this dual type of behavior
of gene regulatory networks
that makes them different from hardwired networks
or other artificial networks that we know.
Okay, summarize.
So with routine behavior psychology and experiments
in ex vivo and neural networks, exploratory learning,
I hope I've convinced you that it can be studied
both experimentally and theoretically
and gives a lot of challenges to think about.
The particular model that we developed
is a biased random search
in a high dimensional connectivity space.
And the outcome is highly variable
and sensitive to several details,
not to one by one details,
but in this case, to statistical properties.
And in particular networks with outgoing hubs
do well in this type of learning.
The role of hubs can be mapped onto a feedback system.
I didn't talk about this work.
It's very technical.
And it could be that this is implemented
by an effective dimensionality induction in the search.
And going back to the feasibility,
then I would claim that both feedback and plasticity
and heterogeneous connections are all typical
of these gene regulatory networks,
possibly other cellular networks as well.
And they're not completely generic.
They're not random networks like we use in physics
or something like that.
So let me just acknowledge,
my main collaborators are many over the years.
So the work experiments and these cells
were led by Ares Brown at the Technion.
And these people were very involved.
The model was developed with
you also had the Bitesman Institute
and the main player was Hades Schreyer, PhD student.
And with Omri Barak from Technion
who is a computational neuroscientist,
we are working on the general framework
of the theory of cellular learning.
And in terms of further challenges,
I think understanding the master regulators as hubs
is really still underway.
We don't really understand it.
We have some convincing arguments,
but not enough evidence.
And what is really interesting to me,
and I think in this group,
it's probably resonating with some of your works.
I would really love to understand
how these if and how similar principles
are implemented in other organisms
and other levels of organization,
other embodiments.
And from the practical point of view,
I think it's a nice challenge
to design a specific task to be learned.
But by cells, for example,
many people are trying to teach bacteria
to metabolize plastic or whatever.
And they're doing that mainly by instructive gene
biotechnology.
But perhaps this can also be done
by designing experiments
that are in principle behavioral experiments.
And yeah, and other forms of primitive learning is in one.
All right, thank you very much for listening.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Great.
Any anybody else questions?
I don't have a question if you can hear me.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
So the idea that having outgoing hubs and networks
will effectively reduce the dimensionality of the system
makes a lot of sense.
But would it also
constrain the variety of problems it can solve?
So in your system specifically,
your fitness function is the low dimensional constraint
that you impose.
Could it also mean that the number of ways
you can formulate that fitness function
is also introduced due to network.
I think you're right.
And I mean, I stated it in some way in the beginning.
I think this kind of primitive learning,
to me it's very appealing
because you need very little for it.
But on the other hand, I agree that it cannot do a lot.
It's just there's a limit to what it can do.
And I totally agree.
Yeah.
Okay, thank you.
Anyone else?
Yeah.
So do you have any idea of what the mechanism could be
for the low dimensional stress detection?
How it knows in this, it's far away from those spaces.
I mean cells have mechanisms to stress different,
to sense different kinds of stress.
