And if you look throughout evolution,
and gene regulatory networks are responsible
for a lot of definitive innovation
that you see throughout evolution.
And this has been studied by observing the animal kingdom,
by observing the natural world
and is known under the name of co-option or gene recruitment.
So what happens is genes sometimes cut and paste themselves
in a way that creates novel structures.
And then you can trace that, for example,
one of the most beautiful examples is the butterfly wings,
how the transcription factors mix and match
to create the different patterns on the wings.
Okay, but this is out in the wild,
and our goal was to bring this somehow into a lab setting
and to design an experiment
that can test whether single cells can, in fact,
learn through exploratory learning
or through something which is analogous to this.
Okay, so when you mix and match or cut and paste
a regulatory system like this, something that is structured,
in principle, nothing, you know,
it cannot revert to this big typical
or the hardwired recipes that it has.
It has to do something different
in order to overcome these perturbations
and to come up with something new.
So here's the experiment that we thought about.
We took yeast cells, single-celled organisms,
and we kind of did a gene recruitment
synthetically in their network.
So yeast is great because we know a lot
about its regulatory system.
You take a metabolic gene, which is essential for growth,
and instead of it being driven by a regulatory system
that reads the correct inputs and responds
like a normal input-output system,
you completely fool it.
You kind of connect it to something completely unrelated
to the function of the gene.
And this is a gene that if you knock it out completely,
that the organism is going to die.
But if you connect it to a foreign regulatory system,
or you can, for example, shut it down completely
by external signals, that creates a frustration
in the system.
But interestingly, in that case,
the organism does not die.
So here's what happens.
These are normal yeast cells.
You plate them on a petri dish,
and after two days, you get these many little colonies.
This is how yeast cells grow.
But after you do this perturbation
and rewiring of the gene regulatory network,
after two days, you see no.
So you might think that these organisms
are just going to give up and not work their way
through this conflict.
But if you're patient, then after 14 days,
which is an enormous amount of time,
you start seeing the colonies grow.
So they look very different than the normal colonies.
It's a dynamic process.
It takes a long and variable time.
Every colony pops up at a different time.
But on the other hand, many, many cells adapt.
Independently, it's not a Darwinian process.
It takes place on the plate.
You can see that between 50% and 70% of them actually
find a way around the challenge to grow.
Do you have a question?
Yeah, this may be very random.
But has anyone looked at P53?
Any of these?
What do you mean looked at?
Yeah, so there's stuff with, like, a cave fish,
where basically, if you put them in a stressful environment,
they will not regulate.
Or sorry, the stress kind of swamps
the protein folding system.
And in particular, that's been kind of linked to P53.
Some work from Susan Lindquist and David.
So I was just wondering, could you say something?
OK, so this experiment has been repeated several times
with different types of rewiring.
I'm getting to this.
Maybe this is going to answer partly.
So this is a physiological description of what they do.
Now, if you go into gene expression,
start measuring expression of particular genes,
then surprisingly, despite the fact that the perturbation
or the rewiring was very local, take one gene
and connect it to a different place, it's a huge response.
Hundreds of genes go up and down in response to this challenge.
It is stress-sensitive.
We have an experimental knob that turns the stress up.
And then the gene expression response becomes larger,
been larger.
And it's not repeatable, which is maybe the most important
feature. So what does it mean non-repeatable?
I have here two experiments.
This is already old stuff.
We measured it with microarrays, like, I don't remember
how many years ago, more than 10.
And so what you're seeing here is the log fold change in genes.
Every point is one gene.
There's 6,400 genes in the yeast.
And some of them go up, some of them go down.
But the interesting thing is the next day,
you do the experiment again, experiment two,
and you see that those genes that were highly upregulated
in the second experiment can be downregulated.
There's no correlation.
Right, this big cloud here says that every gene
has more or less randomly gone up and down.
I cannot find any particular correlation
with what they did in the last experiment.
But still, the both of the experiment
on a physiological level look very similar.
So this tells us that there might
be here multiple solutions to the same challenge,
multiple solutions on the microscopic level
to the same physiological challenge.
OK, and the thing about, you asked about P53.
So at some point after we had these measurements,
we said, OK, let's look for the genes that we know that
are related to something.
So in particular, the yeast cells
have a very well-known universal stress response module
that lights up in certain cases.
And although we were really desperate to look to find,
there was nothing to be found.
And not only that, but the modules
that people have mapped for yeast
are completely broken down in this experiment.
New correlations are built, and typical correlations
are broken.
So it's a completely different type of case.
All right, and I can just say that this experiment was,
at the time, people had a very hard time
accepting yeast results.
And Ayers Brown, with other collaborators from Germany,
took very long time and other experiments
to, for example, convince people that this is not
Darwinian evolution.
But more recently, this has been reproduced and extended
to different types of promoters and different types
of rewiring in another lab.
And qualitatively, the results repeated very much.
OK, so could it be that what we're seeing here
is a form of learning?
This is the question, right?
So we have a complex system, the Gene Regulatory Network.
It's complex, it's multidimensional.
And not only that, we know that gene regulation
is context dependent.
This has been known from the early days of binding
experiments.
People have noted that there's context dependence.
And context dependence means that connections can change.
They have the ability to change.
They have that in them.
And what could, in principle, or potentially support
such changes, there are many, many molecular mechanisms.
Just naming one is the intrinsically disordered
proteins that are recently being rediscovered again
and again.
And being years ago, it was considered something
very esoteric.
But now, we know that, for example, in the human genomes,
two-thirds of the genome has many alternative forms.
And not only that, but this property
is extremely prevalent in transcription factors.
Those that are supposed to be the mediators of interactions,
those have really a lot of random protein domains.
And the one more ingredient, yeah.
So this is a paper by me, class.
It's called Rethinking.
I took the title from his paper, Really Interesting.
Rethinking Regulatory Networks.
And he lists a lot of molecular mechanisms
that could support the modifiability of gene regulation.
And the last thing is we need a global signal.
We need this something that will serve as the drive that
was the hunger for the cat and the electric simulation
from the computer for this neural network.
And we suggest to think about cellular stress, which
is something that is sensed by many mechanisms.
So there are mechanisms in the cell to set stress.
So this cellular stress could serve
as the generator of a drive reduction.
If the cell is feeling or sensing a high stress,
it could mount a type of response that is exploratory.
And once it is hit on a good configuration,
stress would be automatically or spontaneously relieved.
And then stability will be conferred.
OK, and this Rethinking of gene regulation
also has implications for modeling.
Again, I go back to this picture, which has become, for me
