Yeah, totally.
Obviously, to even try to think about these problems well is a big challenge.
That said, what we're trying to do is a relatively tiny part of that, but that we hope is catalytic for a lot of other parts that need to happen.
One more kind of theoretical thing.
One way of thinking about the fundamental problem that we're interested in discussing how do we solve is, and this is Jordan Hall who introduced you and I and was part of original Game B crew with you.
Said it this way when he talked about our legacy toolkits being inadequate to the problem solving needs.
A way we could say it is that our problem solving processes either fail the current catastrophic risk landscape, fail to solve the problem at all, or they cause worse problems, additional problems and cumulatively worse problems in the process of solving it.
And so what we fundamentally need are new problem solving processes, not the application of the problem solving process of how do we make businesses and markets, how do we make legislation within nation states, how do we make philanthropic solutions within the nonprofit world that cumulatively all of that is not cutting it up to the task.
And so as you were mentioning, the earlier problems that humanity was trying to solve it solved and all the major problems that we face today are the results of how they solved it, right?
How do we increase the GDP and the wealth and whatever of everyone is where all the environmental issues come from?
How do we increase our near term national security drives arms races into existential weapons that nobody had before?
And so this question of and one way of describing it is that historically we're used to defining a problem that we're going to go about solving in a fairly narrow way.
It's either a problem for our nation's people but not other nation's people.
It's or for people but not the environment or for one set of metrics like we're going to solve CO2 because that's really the issue, but we aren't paying attention to the other things that are adjacent and the generative processes.
So we come up with a solution that will sequester CO2 or benefit the economy short term or whatever it is.
But if it is to really solve the problem, if it is to overtake it starting after the problem started, it has to be faster, larger and some way it has larger order of magnitude to be able to overtake it.
If it then affects the complex systems in ways other than the intended metric, that's where the externality occurs.
So can I use nitrogen fertilizer to plant a bunch of CO2 sequestering plants that capture CO2 in the short term but increases the rate of dead zones in the ocean?
Or can I use a carbon credit process where if some countries agree to it and other countries don't, you change the relationship of the great game of power.
And if the ones that don't are running technologically empowered autocracies, you say in trying to address climate change, we're going to let the give open societies up.
And then this is largely why the problem solving doesn't even work is because some people recognize the harm being externalized somewhere else and then lobby against it.
And then you get almost all of humanity's energy not coordinating but being used up and infighting as heat.
And so how do we define our problems and the interconnectivity of the problems well enough that we can come up with solutions that are actually viable enough that don't externalize harm in ways that will get people to resist them
and that don't create worse problems as we go.
So that's like the set of core increase that we're really trying to work on.
So what are we trying to do towards that?
As much as the world, as much as a lot of people think that we're too aware of our problems and we just need to focus on solutions, I actually think that it's a very deep misunderstanding of the real nature of our problems that is one of the keys.
People think the problem is climate change or the problem is systemic racism or whatever the thing is that they're focused on.
But what are the generative dynamics that give rise to it and how is it interconnected with the other issues in the world where if you try to change it in a particular way,
it will externalize harm elsewhere and or fail. So the problem isn't climate change or US China relationships or GDP or it's how all those things fit together.
And the system incentives of the underlying systems.
So what we're trying to do is to actually explain the problem space of the world today clearly enough that it gives the design criteria of what new social systems, new social capacities, problem solving systems,
like what would the future of something like markets and governance and like that look like? How do we go about solving problems differently?
And we're basically doing this in a series of articles, right? So just answer your what is the resilience project to nonprofit project.
And it basically has two major branches. It has a publishing branch and it has a movement catalyzing branch.
The publishing branch is publishing three types of articles and then hopefully converting them into other forms of media that are accessible to wider audiences because the initial work is deep enough.
And it's intended to be deep enough that people can actually start to decentrally understand the problems well enough to work on solutions, which means they're not accessible to everybody.
But the translation of those into podcasts and into even animations and like you and I were just talking about some of the writing you're thinking of and the smart 15 year old being able to get it.
We're definitely thinking about and hoping to do that as well.
On the publishing, basically, we have three types of articles. We have the theoretical pieces, the foundation series, as you suggested in naming.
And we have situational assessments and we have meta news.
The foundation series is discussing the uniqueness of the problem landscape and what we understand about social theory and helping to reify the previous social theories, what they're really good at and where they're still inadequate to the future landscape.
So we dissolve the we just need a libertarian system or we just need Dutch socialism for the whole world or here's where the Taiwanese model will work for everyone or we wouldn't be able to say here's the strong parts of those arguments.
Here's the failure cases and here's what's actually possibly next for everybody to then disagree with or agree with or innovate on or add to.
So that's those pieces and instead of doing it as a big book, we're doing it as a whole series of articles that will be discussing things on the fundamental design needs for education for the fourth estate for governance for resource allocation.
Those types of things where some someone can start this at any point, they don't have to start a book they can start at any point that they're interested in and then all the articles are inter referential.
And so there's this kind of interconnected body of work that is logically consistent that they can follow different ways.
Those are the theory pieces.
Then there are situational assessments that are applying that social theory to look at the current issues in the world the great kind of game of power between us and China movement from traditional finance to crypto finance the state of risk in various categories of exponential
tech, but rather than just do a situational assessment the way some good social journals, the economist, foreign affairs, whatever might do it will be applying the conciliants epistemics, which is how do we look at it from all of the various narrative views that are out there.
If there's views from the left and from the right views from different countries, how do we factor those? How do we factor different epistemologies?
Is there a lens that looking at it through, is there a perspective we're looking at it through the lens of finance or culture or tech or whatever gives different insights, how do we factor those together to have a higher order kind of insight.
And then specifically, can we apply the social theory we're looking at about what are the underlying basis of the problems in the world writ large and what it would take to solve them.
So when we're looking at a, you know, US China issue, we apply some of the theory of how previous civilizations decayed, right, generalized principles of civilization and institutional decay of game theoretic multipolar traps of those types of things.
The theory grounds itself in showing this is actually what's playing out in the world in all these areas, and then people can see what's going on in the areas of the world in a way that gives insights into what it would take to actually solve them.
So that's the situational assessments. And then the last category is if we do a situational assessment on a piece where there is an existing very strongly polarized set of beliefs about it, like climate change or like COVID viral origins or like
the nature and reality of institutional racism in the West or something like that.
If we put a situational assessment out, it will just seem like another opinion of lots of opinions that some people agree with because it seems similar enough and some won't.
We actually have to address why is there so much polarization.
Specifically, which vested interests were pushing narratives in specific directions? How did they do that? Which epistemic biases or mistakes? Which way that things like the big tech platforms optimizing for tribalism and group bias ended up leading to it?
So we do this kind of complicated analysis where we're able to show, here's the various narratives about this issue. And here's forensically how they came about.
And we show things like principles of narrative warfare. Here's where they took statistics that are true and they made it through a fact checker, but they cherry picked the statistics and they didn't include statistics on the other side.
They decontextualized the facts. They framed it in a particular way. This other side did that as well. Here's where it's related to either their just general bias or their actual vested interest.
And so what we're trying to do in that is help people be able to understand how the polarization type dynamics arise and how people get over certain about very partial truths
and specifically how some of the both intentional and unintentional narrative warfare happen. So they start developing a memetic immune system to narrative warfare
and not being on the left thinking that the right snooze is bad or being on the right thing, the left snooze is bad, but recognizing that to get power in the narrative landscape at all, you're playing the game of power.
So how do they actually notice statistical cherry picking and decontextualization of facts and those types of things everywhere and develop better epistemic capacities to make sense of the world?
So we're hoping there to be able to give people the capacity to transcend tribalism no matter what tribe and have real epistemics and real good faith dialogue capacities to do something beyond tribalism.
Pretty damn amazing if you could actually make it work.
Now we did a great job of describing conceptually the three categories I think would be very helpful to give an example or two or just one example from each category so that people can hang a hook on it.
So you know, let's say here's a foundations piece here's one. So if you do that for me, I think that will help bring it home for the audience.
Well at the date of us recording this I'll speak to ones that are on the site now the site just went up like in the last week as a super super early beta.
So I asked people when they look at it to recognize that it's really just in the prototyping phase.
So one of the foundations pieces is called democracy in the epistemic commons.
And a lot of people might not know what epistemic or commons means or especially the two put together but epistemic how do we come it's deeper than saying the knowledge commons,
because it's not just what is the body of knowledge that is agreed on is true by some process where we haven't questioned how do we agree that it's true.
The epistemic commons of how do we come to the process of belief about what is true and shared understanding and like that.
So it includes the dialogue process the trust basis for institutions the ability of citizens to be able to actually check the process of thinking.
So the epistemic commons the idea in that article is really so obvious and yet almost nobody.
If you aren't say a political philosopher paying attention to this thinks about it a lot is if you're going to have a democracy or a republic if you're going to have a supposedly participatory governance.
How could you possibly have it if the people can't make sense of the issues that the government is governing on.
Well you easily can if you just have a Politburo or you just have a king or somebody making the decisions they're the only one that has to understand it and they do accurately or not.
And this is why when you said the founding fathers got right that both education and the fourth estate were prerequisite institutions for something like a democracy or a republic to function and open society to function.
They are prerequisite institutions which is and that's why you know all those quotes about I think it was a Jefferson quote saying if I could have a perfect government and broken news or perfect news in a broken government I'd pick perfect news.
If we have perfect news and people fully understand the world they can build a new system of government if we have broken news and people don't understand the world.
There's no there's nothing other than to argue over nonsense and be captured.
This is why George Washington had the statement that paraphrasing but that the number one aim of the federal government should be the comprehensive education of every citizen in the science of government.
I think that's so fucking profound that he didn't say the number one name of the federal government is rule of law.
He didn't even say it's to protect the borders because a military dictatorship can protect the borders very well.
And a police state can institute rule of law but if you emphasize anything other than the comprehensive education of the citizens it won't stay being a democracy for very long and that's the thing they were really trying to pay attention to.
And we can see the erosion of the quality of education and the quality of the fourth estate relative to the complexity of the problems and say well it couldn't even possibly be that thing.
So what does the future of an open society look like what does it have to look like in terms of the shared values of the people that they would invest in education and have the civic virtue to invest in their role in governance because if we don't participate in our
own self governance we are de facto consenting to be ruled.
And so democracy in the epistemic comments is helping to explain those ideas you either are consenting de facto to a world that will move towards autocracy or you have to be taking responsibility for adequate self governance which requires sense making the issues before you could
possibly make good choices on them.
And so it's helping to take that concept and make it clear where everyone can be like oh yeah I haven't even been paying attention to the foundational thing that is needed.
And so that's an example.
Now then there's another piece the next one the challenges to 21st century sense making shows why the epistemic commons as a much trickier thing today than it was in 1776.
The complexity of the issues we have to pay attention to and the fragmented media landscape and how powerful the media landscape is at being able to you know having an ad driven model.
It has incentives for appealing to bias and appealing to tribalism and salacious headlines and things that are short rather than long and nuanced.
And so we've had not just an erosion but like actually a increasingly pathological fourth estate with an increasingly complex world.
So that piece is kind of giving an insight there.
So those are examples of like OK these are foundational concepts that we need to think about how the world has to be restructured.
There's situational assessments on there that are just different random but very important topics.
And there's one that's looking at the activity of China in East Africa and the development of African infrastructure and like that that is framing up showing how the West has engaged with the developing world versus how China is engaging with the developing world.
We could have done China's activity in Latin America or the great game of power as expressed in the competition for 5G and telecom but East Africa was as fine a starting point as any of them.
And very good and well researched piece that helps people understand the differences in the geopolitical approaches and kind of some of what is on the table there.
The piece that goes into the difference between French secularism and US secularism seems like an obscure topic.
But why it's important is we've seen this topic of like the Islam Europe stress between certain versions of Islam and certain versions of European liberalism and with France specifically.
But in the US we're thinking about Europe through a US centric lens most of the time.
And so this goes through the history of the way that the US came to freedom of religion the way that certain European countries France in particular did and how fundamentally different they are and shows that we're actually misunderstanding the nature of the issue and creating bad global policy or geopolitical policy based on putting our cultural biases on and not understanding kind of cultural intelligence well enough.
Those pieces were actually written before we had a lot of the theory pieces written so they couldn't be instantiations of the social theory very well so they're really good articles but their early prototypes were building out the theory now and this was just to show we can actually.
Execute not just talk theory which is important in the early phase of a project.
Oh the one other one meta news we did one meta news piece so far and we picked intentionally the easiest rather than the most consequential thing because this is ridiculously labor intensive.
So rather than try to pick like a highly contested topic like vaccines or climate change that has.
An unbelievable amount of stuff to process on it we picked.
The topic of during the George Floyd protests were bricks planted at the protests to escalate the riots and violence because that was a topic where that was like the main news story for like two weeks.
And the right thought that the left and Tifa were planting the bricks the left thought the right was doing it there were accusations the police were doing it.
General media tried to say nobody's doing it and there are no agent provocateurs then there was conflation because we saw agent provocateurs but then there was an automatic jump to that means they must have also planted the bricks.
So it was this highly contested thing and it actually everybody started to believe the thing or lots of groups are to believe the thing that.
Aligned with their existing emotionally intensified perspective and so then they escalated.
As a result of believing the thing and there was actually not good basis for most of the ideas on on any of the sides.
And so but because it was a very constrained time period we were able to actually process every single news article ever written about it during that time period the couple thousand that there were so we use some machine learning.
Big data tools plus some.
Analytic methods to be able to process it and be able to see how certain hashtags started to trend how certain things that looked organic weren't organic they were inorganic and being kind of virally doped and various things like that.
And it's a good case study of being able to show how you can take something like that because in the world moved on and everyone still believes the thing they believed in they're just not paying attention to it it never actually got resolved.
And of course at the end we end up saying some of the questions are still unanswered and that's one of the things people have to come to is more comfort with uncertainty as opposed to wrong certainty that is more dangerous.
So those are examples of some of the pieces there but over the next six months it'll really start to take much more clear shape.
Yeah I think that last point is a really important one about the meta-news which is if there seems to be any disease of the current moment it's runaway confirmation bias right you find even the slightest thread of some story that reinforces your model of the world
is suddenly true right even though in this unbelievably deep dive you all did into the story of the Brexit it's mad how detailed this thing is you come away realizing that no person who actually takes knowledge seriously should have any firm view on this right
There isn't a lot of solid evidence once you get to the bottom what there is points in various directions and yet as you point out the various factions have all taken their own opinion and view about what this is because it reinforces their own narrative what a destructive dynamic that is in our society today.
Well this is actually worth double clicking on a little bit you and Jordan Hall and John Revekey have talked about the real versus simulated thinking issue.
And one of the things it's not hard to notice is.
If we put forward a specific idea whatever it is in the general media landscape.
And we know a little bit about the demographics of a reader we can predict their responses better than we can predict the responses of the GPT three algorithm most of the time which is really.
A sad measure of the general intelligence of are they really thinking or are they doing something more like my medic propagation which is does this seem to conform to my existing.
If not reject if so accept and propagate and so you know we can we can look at a piece and say like okay if someone is part of the.
Queue and on worldview one of the very predictable types of responses as they will say that somebody on our team knows somebody who knows someone who's associated with.
Jeffrey Epstein and therefore this is part of the propaganda of the deep state and whatever and there's like there's predictable trope lines that they'll follow.
And if they're you know part of the far SJW woke movement they'll say if you're hosting a dialectic between the left and right you're giving platform to racists and therefore your racist you should be canceling them so we want to cancel you or.
And if they're part of and you can kind of you can predict those responses one of the things we want to ask is like if your response looks like a predictable response of a subgroup that you're adjacent to.
You should not feel good about that right you should actually be like fuck I think that means that I am thinking less originally than a narrow AI.
What do I actually think what does it mean to actually think have I do I understand all the arguments can I inhabit all the arguments well do is that is someone actually driving my innate predispositions towards tribalism and.
Excessive certainty and etc and so of course in order to do that well people have to have a certain amount of courage to be willing to be shamed by their in group which is very scary right because if the in group says if you don't agree with us will.
We will ostracize your D platform you there's a courage required for intellectual honesty even for intellectual curiosity.
And they have to have enough comfort with uncertainty to say this is really consequential it affects the world and I don't fucking up.
And I'd rather say I don't know so that I have a chance of learning than be certain that I know because it feels right.
Feels right might mean just limbically hijacked me.
And so then the thing that you know and I think probably most of your listeners the type of people that know this has always been an issue right we can look at the history of religious war through this lens.
We can see people who are so certain of God's name that they would kill and die for God's that nobody believes in anymore and don't even know the names of.
And.
Or the rightness of their side of a war for patriotic reasons on both sides or whatever it is.
Yeah famously here in the Civil War in the United States we're in Virginia where I live the hottest battles of the Civil War were fought here and lots of the generals kind of mused on the topic that both sides were praying to the same God for victory.
And I just finished reading Shelby Foots 3000 page Civil War book and I knew a lot about Civil War before now I know more and it's amazing how they were very self aware of this they realized that there was something very peculiar about this.
And to some degree it just emerges naturally there's almost a mimetic evolution that the mean plexus that bind a group together and keep it from cleaving and can bind larger groups together and organize them in or just tend to win.
Right there's like a natural selection for the ones that coordinate game theoretically well which doesn't necessarily mean that they are true or good.
Yeah that's the Daniel that's the Daniel Dennett argument for religion right that it was adaptive at building group coherence over various scales from probably a few thousand up to you know some tens of millions and so therefore it was adaptive.
But it can be adaptive in the short term while self terminating which evolution can do and that's the thing we want we want people to understand.
Is there might have been cultures that would have been much better for long term sustainability but they weren't good at militarizing because they had figured peace out and they got slaughtered by warring cultures.
So what made it through we have to pay attention to but it doesn't necessarily mean it gets to keep making it through.
So this but like it's not just that it naturally emerged it's also that because it naturally emerged some very smart people figured that out and figured out how to dope and direct it right and so we can see the stories of great military generals.
Figuring out how to how to pull on the emotions of the people or whatever it is and you can read the thirty six stratagems to see unconventional narrative warfare that is ancient right in the Chinese world and other things like that.
But but Facebook and all of the modern information curation monopolies Facebook YouTube Google etc have done something that is different in quantity like you were saying earlier to the extent that it's actually different in kind.
It's actually even different in kind fundamentally which is.
Those platforms are not based on on centralized broadcast right in the way that our country was based on the idea that we could have a newspaper to be a some small group that could publish and everybody else who could read that thing kind of one direction.
And it went from that to a telegram to a radio station to a television that is basically better methods of broadcast but then the internet was not broadcast it was anybody could publish stuff it was decentralized many to many communication.
But then there's so much stuff if there's a billion search results for anything how do you see which thing you get well the information curation platforms end up determining what you see and they are companies that have a fiscal.
They have a business model in their business models based on ads so that you can get the thing for free so they can drive the adoption up to everybody without having a barrier of entry.
And so their ad model benefits from time on site optimization and people spend more time on site when they get limbically hijacked because if their limbic system doesn't get hijacked they remember they don't want to spend much of their life on Facebook they have other shit to do.
But when they get their desire their addiction their fear their in group identity their uncertainty pushed on those spin or just hyper normal stimuli in general.
So one of the things is on the face Facebook's algorithm it's a algorithm that's curating the news feed is paying attention to what my mouth spends the most time hovering over what I click on it's curating all the information on the on the internet or in my Facebook universe to what will have me spend the most time on site.
And most of the time that which confirms my existing bias which makes me afraid of an outgroup that I'm already likely to think of as an outgroup and limbically hijacks and outrageous me will spend more time.
And so if there's something that is very nuanced and complex and thoughtful I'll just probably bounce because I'm in a hurry.
But if it has a salacious headline it's short and then there's another one like it I'll probably spend more time.
So people became more polarized and more extreme without Facebook even wanting to it wasn't some conspiracy that it wanted to drive that it drove all of the opinions further just by the fundamental nature of the business model in the architecture.
But at a level where there are more people on those platforms and there are total people in China and the US combined.
There's AIs that are better than the AIs that beat Gary Kasparovichess affecting people's attention scape.
So it's like what does the epistemic commons what is freedom of speech what do all these issues look like in in this world because the family fellas did not have to deal with that kind of thing nobody ever had to.
So that's a it's a very big topic and so the meta-news is hopefully one tiny little part trying to give people at least the awareness of how those tools work and give them a memetic immune system so that they're not hijacked.
And there's more cognitive and emotional sovereignty.
Yeah, indeed.
And the regular listeners to the show know that my opinion as one of the founders of the online world actually went to work building consumer online systems in 1980 believe it or not.
Is that the pivot to the add the pure ad model around 2006 when Moore's law made networks and computation cheap enough that you could actually support a quite functional product on ads only.
That's what ruined the internet.
God damn it.
I know I sound like a curmudgeonly old fart when I keep reporting that but Daniel said it much more eloquently that essentially the fundamental dynamic is rather than making the service as useful and efficient for me.
The customer is possible if I were say paying $10 a month to Facebook instead.
How long how long can I keep Daniel on and show him you know all these 16 pictures of stars.
Look what they look like today.
Right.
And they all just look you know the shit and the and as you point out nobody has to even make these editorial judgments.
You just trickle them out there and as your behavior changes you optimize the algorithms.
And as it turns out and I'm sure Zock had no idea it's the it's the worse information not the good information that hijacks hijacks our our behavior and it's a real fundamental problem.
And now we actually go one step further.
Okay.
That was bad enough that there was this emergent hijacking that points us to stuff that's not necessarily good for us.
Now we have what might even be worse which is the big platforms making arbitrary decisions about what is and is not in bounds for the from the public square.
And as an old time internet guy I was always a you know free speech let the internet be what it's going to be.
But again this scale quantity is really important.
You know when the internet was highly fragmented.
