What you're thinking so far and realize it's obviously very early and it's not what you're doing right today but you know a lot of people listen to the show are interested in social change through organizing and would love to hear your thoughts on what a movement around the Consilience Project might look like.
Yes and I realized I actually didn't answer your last question that was all the build up and then I forgot where it was now so I'll answer that one first you were asking what are we prototyping media.
And how do you see yourself as an influence on media good influence on media that they can emulate.
So in order to do good news there's some kind of intelligence function something like the Economist has an intelligence unit usually their capacities are their proprietary knowledge because they're a company that is providing that product to service.
For us it's the opposite we're really trying to enrich the epistemic commons as a whole.
So any capacities that we're developing we're going to be not just taking the output of that capacity as media and putting it out there we're actually going to be writing how our capacity works as a prototype and having it be available for anyone else to utilize.
So like with regard to meta news we've already started to publish on the methods by which we do meta news and our hope is that existing media orgs and new media orgs take that innovate on and run with it because we're way too small to be able to do all that needs to be done there.
We hope that that's an inspiration that the methods are an inspiration for people to do better work.
Similarly as we kind of show what the conciliants epistemics are how do we take many different perspectives and steal man the partial truths do analysis on them synthesize them that inspires everything from existing media institutions to new ones to bloggers to.
I think sometimes you can't wait for demand to push supply because as you mentioned supply is so asymmetric that it's manufacturing shitty demand and so right now like the media organizations really do find that if they give more salacious headlines people click on it more and if it's short people
click on it and if it's long or it doesn't have a salacious headline people won't click on it and read it so the demand is perverse and so then the supply keeps appealing to and doubling down on the perverseness of it.
So who is our audience well our audience going to be people who don't need salacious headlines also and are willing to read long nuanced things that are outside of their existing perspective and won't confirm their bias.
That's obviously a somewhat smaller audience but a meaningful one to start with.
And our hope is that we can show people both how not good the news that they already think is good is and the media that they're consuming and show them what is possible that starts to change the nature of demand so that existing sources of supply can actually start to have a race to the top rather than a race to the bottom.
That's obviously an ambitious hope but that's the hope.
Why don't we hop back to my previous question Daniel on community building at something you have mentioned a few times in passing here and you and I have talked about more than once so how do you see the opportunity to pivot from the conciliants project and add a community building effort to that.
Yeah we're starting with publishing and we will.
We would already be doing more in movement building if we had the bandwidth that's really a personnel bandwidth thing which is a resource bandwidth thing so that's what we're working on now and so we'll do as much as we can.
One of the things we're starting to work on in movement building is identifying all the groups that we think are doing really critical work towards helping the epistemic comments.
Towards helping sense making meaning making choice making capacities and being able to curate those resources and help to.
Help give them the information we're working on that they might be able to better their own projects with and maybe help direct attention capital other things that are needed to those projects and also recontextualize.
So it doesn't look like a social media project here in a journalism project here and they education project here but that those recognize a relationship they have with each other.
As part of upgrading culture at large.
So that's kind of like the first part.
We want to create forums where people can start to have deep discussions on these things and where we innovate with the digital architectures that rather than leading to kind of degenerate troll wars lead to incentives on better quality sense making and better quality good faith discourse.
Those are just you know those are all things that take some work and take some bandwidth to do.
Really look forward to seeing this thing evolve.
It's a wonderful project.
Those people are interested in it.
Check it out at conciliantsproject.org.
As always the link will be on the episode page at JimRucho.com.
Daniel Schmockenberg thanks for another wonderful conversation.
It was great.
Thank you Jim.
Production Services and Audio Editing by Jared Janes Consulting.
Music by Tom Muller at ModernSpaceMusic.com.
