Howdy, this is Jim Rutt, and this is The Jim Rutt Show.
This is a Currents episode.
Currents are shorter and less heavily produced than our full-length episodes and generally
focus on a single topic.
As always, links to books, articles, and organizations mentioned are available on the episode page
at JimRuttShow.com.
Today's guest is Daniel Schmockenberger, one of the deepest and best thinkers I know
about how we build a better future for humanity.
Daniel's been on the show twice previously.
Back in EP7, one of my earlier episodes, we talked about the future of technology.
And then in EP80, Daniel and I spent a good amount of time talking about better sense-making.
Today we're going to talk about the Consilience Project, a new kind of information service
that Daniel and his associates have launched, can think of it as one-part journalism and
another part education.
It's really interesting and maybe something that can really change our world for the better.
You can check it out at ConsilienceProject.org.
In the interest of full disclosure, I've been an advisor to the Consilience Project since
near the beginning.
Welcome, Daniel.
Hey, Jim.
It's good to be here and talking with you again.
I'm one of the people I most enjoy talking to in the world.
So it's great to have you back.
So the Consilience Project, why and what?
Yeah.
So I'm going to try to connect three things because it's why and what are clear, but it's
a little bit abstract.
The three things are the unique problems the world currently faces in a exponential tech
digital globalization world that it never faced previously.
One, two, the new problem solving capacities the world needs to solve these kinds of problems
factoring the complexity and scale and speed and nature of them, which means new institutions,
new social institutions and kind of governance capacity.
And three, the cultural prerequisites for those new institutions and capacities to actually
arise from the people as opposed to some people and be imposed on everyone else with the power
that exponential tech makes possible for asymmetry.
So we say that ultimately what the Consilience Project is trying to do is to support a new
cultural renaissance or new cultural enlightenment where people understand the uniqueness of
the issues the world faces currently well enough to develop in themselves and work to
help develop in society the capacities to make sense of the world, to communicate effectively
with other people, to fundamentally develop the capacities to develop and participate
in new systems of problem solving and governance so that those new institutions actually arise
in a bottom up way rather than an imposed way that are adequate to the problems we
need to solve in time.
So that looks like can we define the problem space well enough that it gives rise to design
criteria for new systems so that people can start participating in what might the development
of those new systems and new capacities look like.
So is it, you know, how does it differ and how does it go beyond what we currently think
of the role of the press and the role of continuing education?
So if we think about what the role of education and press in any society are, we can see that
a society has a bunch of any society or civilization from a tribal one to an empire to a nation
state has a bunch of activities that people need to do to maintain the civilization.
So the role of education is the development of those capacities that the society needs
to run in the population and the passing of them on generation to generation.
Our colleague Zach Stein talks about it as civilizational auto poesis.
But there is a unique set of roles for education in an open society, a democracy, a republic
relative to a closed society, where the people are not only developing some labor capacity
or some market capacity, but also the capacity to participate in governance if it is to be
a government of foreign by the people.
So there's additional knowledge that they need to be able to engage in the issues that
government is governing on.
And so both education in terms of how to understand and think about those things and then the
fourth estate to be informed about what the current state of affairs are well enough that
you could possibly have something like a government of foreign by the people, there are uniquely
higher levels of both of those that are required for an open society to function well than
there are for a closed society.
So like what we're doing here is not trying to replace or do the job of the fourth estate,
which we couldn't begin to do.
It's a humongous job needs done by in lots of different ways when you think about local
news and news within specific domains and all like that, nor are we going to try to do
the job of public education or anything like that.
We're going to try to help in a series of more theoretical pieces help people understand
what is the role of education for any civilization, like understand that more fundamentally, what
is the role of a fourth estate or the knowledge commons for any civilization, specifically
what is it for an open civilization?
How have both the educational system and the fourth estate eroded in the US and in the West
over the last number of decades, what were the steps of them eroding show how the problem
landscape has complexified and people's understanding and quality of civic discourse has decreased
rather than increased, which means you don't even really have the simulation of a republic
anymore, only the story of it.
But we're almost no one understands the issues about which government is governing.
And then start to spec out what would an adequate fourth estate, what would an adequate educational
system for the future of the world we currently face, which is very different than the founding
fathers faced or any previous civilization faced.
So for instance, the red education in a world post technological automation, which is now
inexorable in more and more domains, there's a lot of jobs you don't have to train the
people to do program the machines to do them in a world post information singularity where
people can't process all the information to be subject matter experts in the same way
in a world post AI, what is the unique role of humans in that world?
And what is education for humans in that world to be able to have a synthetic intelligence,
meaning synthesizing unique human intelligence with whatever the computational capacities
are.
So what we're trying to do is spec out these things.
What are the fundamental institutions that make the civilization work?
Why are the previous civilizations inadequate to the current problem scape, whether we're
talking about feudalism or socialism or communism or capitalism or whatever, like we can
show when the Scottish Enlightenment was thinking about theory of markets, they didn't have AI
drones and Facebook and the unique issues we have to face today.
And we can show that is the best version of theory of markets still catastrophically fail
under the current landscape, as do all of those other systems.
So we want to make sure that we understand them well enough that the meaningful insights
are factored, right, the traditional side, but we also understand the novelty of the problem
landscape well enough to say what problem solving capacities don't exist there and what
innovation in our social technology is required to adequately hold the power of our physical
technology.
That makes a whole lot of sense.
Now, let's not underestimate the founding fathers, you know, Madison and Jefferson in
particular argued in Franklin that democracy, or they actually didn't like the word democracy,
they talked about a republic was only possible to the degree that you had a educated citizenry
and and and a press that could bring the issues honestly before the public.
And so they understood the fundamentals.
So on the other hand, your questions about scale and complexity are entirely right.
For instance, I like to point out that in in 1776, the largest business in what is now
the United States was a shipyard in Philadelphia that employed a little bit less than 100 people.
And so the the asymmetry between the power of the largest business enterprise and one human
or one family or one Hamlet was understandable, 101 or 21, if you compare it to a family.
Today, we're talking about Amazon versus you and me.
And, you know, that's how many or what is that six more seven or five more orders of magnitude.
At that point, we get into what we talk about in complexity science, where
quantitative differences become qualitative when they're that big.
So we we really do live in a new world.
And not only is it a new world in terms of scale today, but it's also the derivative is also way, way higher.
Because while 1776, 1789, etc.
The world was moving faster than it had been moving in 1625.
It wasn't moving anywhere near as rapidly as it started to accelerate into the 19th century, into the 20th century.
And now the 21st century in many domains, though not all, it almost feels some days like it's going straight up.
So we have to deal with much larger power asymmetries and we have to deal with vastly more complex systems.
And we have to on top of all that.
I mean, that that alone would be a lot big stressor on our relatively limited cognitive powers.
But we also have to put all that in the in the context of not only a high first derivative, but probably still a positive second derivative.
You said something super important, and I just want to underscore it because it might not be instantly obvious for everyone of the changes in quantity can cross thresholds where they become changes in type or in quality.
So let's take the progression of military capacity from tribal warfare on into the modern day.
Of course, it was just a continuous evolution in the magnitude of the capacity for mediating warfare, going from a catapult to a cannon to a, you know, whatever.
And there's this natural arms race that occurs where someone develops a better capacity, the other side needs to develop both that same capacity, advance it and develop counterweapons.
But then you get to World War Two and the nuclear bomb.
And even though the idea that we're just making bigger bombs or just making bigger destructive capacity is a is a continuation.
So there's a continuity with the past of destructive capacity and kinetic warfare.
It's a discontinuity in that we never had the ability to actually destroy the habitability of the planet with any of our weapons before the scale of them got to the scale of the habitability of the biosphere and all of a sudden it's like, oh, that's a whole different thing.
This a local war is no longer just damaging to the local people, it's actually damaging to people as a whole.
And so, you know, World War Two was the beginning of human self induced existential risk being a real thing, even though for all of human civilization before that every human civilization failed.
The Mayans at a certain point failed the Aztecs, Egyptians, Romans, but it was a local failure.
And then the bomb was the beginning of like, oh, actually, we can create global failure now.
So that was simply a change in magnitude.
But a magnitude change, it was a change in type that meant a whole previous social system didn't work anymore, meaning that adjacent empires warred as a way to deal with conflict.
You study the history of Europe and it's just a, you know, like it's very often studied as a history of warfare where the major empires are continuously fighting.
Same if you study the history of the warring regions period of China or, you know, anywhere in the world.
But as soon as the bomb comes, you have a first time in the history of the world that major empires aren't allowed to fight because they can't win.
It's fundamentally unwinnable, a mutually assured destruction type situation.
So you're like, fuck, we need new social capacities that involve not war when we only know how to do it with war.
So then that was the Bretton Woods world.
Does that new tech also allow us to do this thing called globalization and become so technologically and economically interdependent that war isn't profitable?
And simultaneously, that we can grow GDP so rapidly because of that globalization that we don't need to war to get more stuff.
Everybody's desire for more can happen just through massive positive some dynamics.
You run that for about 75 years that succeeded in no full blown World War Three just proxy wars.
And you get to the point that you start hitting planetary boundaries from that type of exponential positive some on a finite space,
which again was never an issue before.
We never had enough people power tech to outfish the whole ocean, even if we outfished a lake.
And then you also get to the place where the whole world is dependent on these radically complicated global supply chains where a break in one place can create cascading failures,
which we started to see with COVID.
And now we can see that that Bretton Woods model post World War Two is coming to an end.
It can't continue to mediate where we go next.
And so now the question is what is next?
And these types of change in magnitude that become then a change in kind that are both continuous with and discontinuous with the past are why we need to make sure we understand
all the thinking of the Scottish Enlightenment and Marx and others critiques of it and the founding fathers and the Nordic models and that we need to understand what they got right.
But we also need to understand where they didn't have these problems to deal with even the Bretton Woods architects didn't have these problems to deal with.
We need to understand these problems well enough that we say what would adequate problem solving that can really solve them in time.
And without externalizing other problems that become equally catastrophic, which we usually tend to do.
What would that look like?
And how do we give rise to those new social institutions and capacities?
That's a damn big question, right?
You know, I like to point out that Game A, which I conveniently say started on February 25, 1694.
What the hell, right?
With the establishment of the Bank of England, but also the development of calculus, the glorious revolution, number of other things.
It's amazing to remember how poor and how small humanity still was at that time.
Most people lived in dirt floored houses if they had houses at all, choking smoke from poorly designed wood fire, fireplaces, etc.
And so the idea of worrying about the limits to growth was laughable.
Rather, Game A's mission, mission accomplished by about 1955 in the West, was to solve the problem of a tolerably good life for pretty much everybody.
And again, that was just the West.
And there were certainly people who failed to be part of that.
But unfortunately, Game A did not have built into its operating system any breaks because it didn't need any when it started.
And as you lay it out, we have the military limit.
We had to sort of invent some very ad hoc breaks called Mutual Assured Destruction, which we had Secretary of Defense Bill Perry on the podcast not long ago.
And he was pointing out that bombs are still there and there are a whole bunch of failure modes where they could go off.
So we didn't actually solve the nuclear annihilation problem.
We've just kind of fiddle fucked with it and managed to survive.
We haven't really solved it.
Certainly the atmospheric boundaries, the species extinction boundaries.
What I love to bring forth because it's just so startling is that by far the majority of large mammal mass on Earth now is humans and our domestic animals.
For birds, it's even greater.
About 85% of the mass of bird flesh on Earth is our domestic fowl.
And when we're at that level, there's not much room for us to fuck up and not destroy the ecosystem.
In a way that can no longer support anything close to the 88 billion people we have on the world today.
More likely we fall back to something on the order of a billion.
And the question is, in the chaos that ensues and going from 8 billion to 1 billion, does anybody survive?
Yeah.
So anyway, I was going to move on now into a little bit more of the meat.
Okay, what is this Consilience project?
It's got some hellacious big goals.
Save the world from three or four or five sure death of civilization risks if we don't manage them correctly.
What is the Consilience project actually consists of?
What is it?
