I didn't care if somebody wanted to censor their blog that's their right they own the blog do whatever you want.
But when Facebook has 2.2 billion people as an effectively the public square for the world when they make start making decisions that this topic or that topic is out of bounds.
That's also exceedingly dangerous and we're seeing a whole hell of a lot of that going on right now.
In fact both sides of our two polarized parties are doing various political politicized things to try to intimidate the platforms and that's not right either.
Yeah I believe you've had Tristan Harris on your show before right?
Twice.
Yeah.
So if people haven't seen those and you want to know more about this go watch that also watch the documentary they put out called The Social Dilemma.
And I don't know if you've ever had Jaron Laney or Shoshana Zuboff on they'd both be good people for this podcast.
Yeah I've had a couple other people who are very interested very interesting Phillips somebody other anyway look on my list of people that we've had an ongoing series of the you know the social implications of technology on.
But another thing I want to revisit because it's just so important yet it's almost impossible seemingly in our current environment is this to read outside of your comfort zone.
You know again as listeners of the show know there's probably the topic I flame about the most is my distaste for organized religion and deep skepticism of all things metaphysical God damn it.
And I say when I hear the word metaphysics I reach for my pistol and that's a little overstatement a little overdramatic and of course we all have metaphysics even I've got metaphysics God damn it.
But point taken I'm not much on organized religion so but what magazine do I read most deciduously each month.
It's something called first things it's a journal popular but really intense journal on of written by very religious very smart people philosophers from universities theologians etc.
And I read this thing every month and it's thick and dense because maybe I'm wrong right.
And so I like to get myself the exposure to the very best minds I've been able to find I've subscribed this thing on and off for 30 years.
So I expose myself intentionally to the best arguments made by the people who my knee jerk reaction is they're wrong.
Now of course I also have the ulterior motive that you want to know your enemies but truthfully I approach it both ways.
And yet when you look at that I've seen this in online discourse you know you quote a good solid article let's say from the National Review a conservative publication in a progressive venue online.
You get assaulted just for posting the link even if the article is good.
Right and vice versa you have an argue article in nowadays even the New York Times in a conservative venue and people go whether the whether the article is sound or not.
They have this tribal reaction to the sources and this is horrendous.
You know I can guarantee you that because the problem was much easier but Thomas Jefferson read the partisan press that vilified him in the most unbelievable excoriating ways.
And of course he also read the press that supported him and for us to have established this psycho limbic system where we're afraid to even admit that we read the other side is woe broken.
Yeah and what you just said is a great way for democracy to die.
When there is so much enmity towards let's say in a national context here so much enmity towards your other fellow countrymen because you have no sense of fellow countrymen you have no sense of a shared identity or shared patriotic unity or whatever that you're actually just taking
each other as enmity enemies and infighting then any country that doesn't do that that has some unity even if the unity is imposed autocratically will just out coordinate.
And so if we look here at the specific example we can see that China is not a democracy when Xi Jinping came to power most of the government that had opposing ideas were taken out of position of
government and that things like the sesame credit system are used to be able to maintain non defection and participation with a kind of central control.
And you can see that that has resulted in the their ability to build high speed rail all around the world and build a complicated belt and road initiative and bring 300 million people out of poverty in a short period of time and pour more concrete for new infrastructure whatever the stat was in the last few years
and has been poured by the US and forever and you know those types of things and you can see the US hasn't built a single high speed rail.
Since high speed rail was possible even in our own country and you're like well if there's that much differential in coordination.
Where does that go and does that mean that the 21st century ends up being run by not just autocracy but exponential tech empowered autocracy which is something the world has only ever even thought about in sci fi before it's never had to actually deal with.
And so you can see the US used to have more of a shared sense of national identity patriotism that also corresponded with real innovation through the Manhattan project and the Apollo project and maybe the Apollo project was the last thing where the US actually did something really innovative as a national government.
And I would say Jim your generation is maybe the last generation that really had a sense as a whole generation of something like national unity.
And we can see that there's a number of steps that occurred we can see that you know the lack of faith that happened with Nixon was a thing we can see the counterculture movement was a thing we can see.
That obviously the internet and the fragmentation of everybody's perspectives was one of the major things before that I think the falling of the wall and the end of the USSR.
We didn't have a large enough external enemy to unify us anymore and so the US became the number one and number two power so the left and right warring on each other was actually what the enemy hypothesis says we would do.
But then what that means is if we have term limits, so most of four years of spent campaigning to get another four years and then whoever gets in just spends that four years undoing whatever the previous one did, you don't get high speed trains that way.
You don't get anything that takes 30 years to plan in a term limit world where everyone wants to only initiate things that are going to create returns in that short time.
And when 90% of the energy just gets wasted as heat by the by the two sides fighting with each other the internal fighting with each other.
That's a dying system right that's a system that's undergoing institutional decay in the process of dying and something else is going to take over.
So if we can't and this is one of the key insights is if I say you're totally dumb and stupid and despicable and I want to not listen to you deplatform you how dare you even share that thing on our on our blog or whatever.
You don't stop existing because because I outgroup you.
You don't stop existing and you don't stop being a political actor.
And you don't stop paying attention to everything that I'm doing where even if I make a win I get a near term political win or a narrative win.
Then your side is going to see what propaganda tools what AI tools what narrative warfare tools whatever did we use reverse engineer them make innovations and then act again.
So all you do by pursuing culture wars is drive cultural arms races.
And we're now because of exponential tech and the verticalizing part of what those arms races of all kinds do arms races with cannons were slow with bow and arrows were even slower arms races with AI weapons are fast enough it might kill everybody like we might just not be able to solve it.
And the same with dis info campaigns and being able to say well it's okay to spin the truth because our side is so critical we have to get everybody to believe in climate change or everybody to believe against it or whatever it is.
That rationalization is actually breaking the world's capacity to understand anything well enough to possibly coordinate.
And so either we get over that and say I actually really need to know what other people think.
Because if we don't coordinate together we can't keep running warfare whether it's narrative war info war economic war diplomatic war or kinetic war.
We can't keep running warfare with exponential tech or either we're causing exponential direct destruction or exponential indirect destruction through externality.
So either we figure out how to coordinate or the thing is not going to keep going.
Very interesting paper I'd love to point out here because this is not the first time we felt like a country that's tearing itself apart.
It's useful to remember 1968 was a mighty ugly year you know cities were burned worse than they were last summer bombs were going off every day from the you know the weather underground and their radical left allies.
You know the Klan was a real thing not just a few you know dumb ass shitheads right and you know the Vietnam war you know it was crazy.
And yet that was right in the middle of us putting a man on the moon.
And also while people took their politics seriously they didn't demonize people on the other side they just disagreed with them.
An article recently published in Science.
It's very big survey high end very good statistical analysis indicates that weirdly in the United States today more people would disapprove of their child marrying a person of the opposite political party.
Then would discriminate on either race or religion.
You know we've been fighting over race or religion probably for at least 10,000 years.
And now the the political parties which we used to say there wasn't a dime worth the difference between them is now a matter of life or death quite literally on who we want our children to marry.
And so that's really I think absolutely unprecedented in American history.
Yeah, and and it's existential for like that if that trend continues and doesn't get rectified and that is the if not the end of the US it's the end of the US.
Having the possibility of playing a major role in positively shaping the direction of the world or the end of and I'm not I'm not saying that everything the US has done is positively shaped the world that would be naive and silly.
But the idea of the open societies are at least a step in the right direction.
This is why we come back to education and the fourth estate and this is where the founding father said freedom of religion yes we don't care which one it is but you have to be a religious people what they what they meant was that there's a moral education.
In addition to the cognitive epistemic education that was considered necessary for the system of governance because the civic virtue has to actually be a thing like ultimately what we're talking about when we say governance is how do we make choices together.
How do we coordinate our choice making our choices are based on our sense making and our meaning making our sense making of what's going on.
Why is it going on what would a specific strategy be that you know what have an effect what would the effect of it be right so both the assessment and the forecasting.
But the meaning making the values generation of what are we making choice and service to the outside not just the inside it's the is and the ought together.
They didn't form the choice making which is the thing that we need to coordinate and really civilization is you got all these choice making.
Beings but they affect each other with it how do you coordinate their choice making in some way so that there's some type of cooperation possible.
And so.
The only it's actually ridiculous proposition that a huge number of people.
Who have totally different life experiences could cooperate or coordinate like it makes sense that a tribe could which is why the Dunbar limit was what it was.
Then it makes sense that a king or some small aristocracy could rule a large group because the ruling group was small and they could all talk.
But the idea that some huge group can all come to coordinate together could only happen and this is all modern democracies were following the enlightenment of modernity and the idea.
That with the philosophy of science we can all make sense of the world together for trained in it and with the Hegelian dialectic I can take your perspective you can take my perspective we can seek a synthesis.
There were things wrong with modernity postmodernism made some real critiques but those critiques need factored into a new thing that is constructive is there a shared way to make sense of reality and make sense of each other's perspective not only.
Deconstruction but reconstruction because if if as the we stop or postmodernism stops and says there is no real sense making that is separate from the game of power all there really is the game of power.
Then you don't get past rivalry and game theory you basically say that's the only thing open society only works if we can say there's actually a shared basis for coming to make sense of reality.
And pay attention to what everybody values and say how do we take what everybody values and take those as design considerations for better propositions.
And people listen to show no my view on postmodernism which is that there is some useful critique there but I do not believe we should consider the way forward as through postmodernism we should consider instead a little stubbed dead end that had some useful
criticisms that we should absorb and that we should be trying to produce an enlightenment 2.0 not going through postmodernism to whatever is on the other side of that because the other side of postmodernism is almost certainly a train wreck of train wreck or totalitarianism or both.
And so I think that's a really important point and which I disagree with you know folks like Hansi Freinek etc. who argues that we go through postmodernism to metamodernism.
I say no no no don't don't let postmodernism be foundational and what comes next rather consider it an interesting group of critics who made pointed out some important things that were wrong with modernism or let's call it brought more broadly the enlightenment.
And let's improve the enlightenment and come out version 2.0 is getting a little bit away from our topic but I couldn't resist the rant.
I mean given that the tagline for the Consolian project is catalyzing a cultural renaissance like it's exactly what it is right.
It's exactly on the topic and you know the metamodern group and the integral group there are a number of groups that have said what is postmodernism that is a that factors the postmodern critiques and says yeah it's true.
There were a bunch of messed up Victorian ideas that were creating bias and influencing and just straight up power structures that were influencing the way we did social science.
So there was like phrenology and bad dumb early social science that was reifying why the white race was better and why we were domesticating the savages and it's like OK.
That was nonsense that was not science but that doesn't mean throughout the attempt at science it means you correct it you say OK so bias influences finances influence etc.
So how could we bias correct let's never say we're unbiased because that just means that we it's hiding in our blind spot let's say how do we seek what the biases are how do we factor all of the perspectives realizing they all have some signal.
So how do we error correct all the perspectives and then synthesize the post error corrected ones and that would be kind of the new thing we're seeking to develop together.
Absolutely and you know I often am amazed at how much sort of hot anti science there is running around on both the right and the left these days and I'm the first to admit.
Yeah as you say science is not perfect by any means it's a human activity and I like to dig into both the philosophy of science and even more interestingly the sociology of science and like any human activity it has its weird quirks.
You know people have status that probably shouldn't because of things like tenure where science unlike business the leading lights turn over more slowly at least in a formal power sense.
The way grants are done grant making is done is you know obviously skews the field of science but if science is actually practice practiced honestly under the philosophy of science.
Then yes it's not perfect and yes it will make mistakes but it's the only system we have ever developed that can provide.
Inter subjective verification of reality at some ever increasing level of precision and to throw this out in information nihilism of the postmodern sort strikes me is literally insane.
Okay so I actually want to add something to what you said that might appeal to the people who have deep science criticism and be able to synthesize is a bit.
So I'm not gonna get into this here but probably most of the listeners know that the philosophy of science and the practice of science and then the public communication of science are three very different steps.
The public communication has all kinds of incentives of being.
Having political agendas that are associated where a politician needs to look like they're doing something and has media companies that need to get ratings and much faster time scales and science can actually happen on.
The practice of science has.
The egos in the ten years and the funding problems that has the philosophy of science is much pure than those other things and even the philosophy of science though.
Is not an adequate epistemology it's a necessary but not sufficient epistemology because science is looking at the things that we can measure and do repetition on measurement on so the repeatable measurable stuff.
Which is critical but it's not everything it's the classic is odd distinction it can give us is can't give us odd but then the applied side of science is technology and engineering.
And then the question is well how do we why do we use it what is a good choice if the study of the is gives us so much more causal power to make more powerful choices.
Well if science has every ethical system is equally gibberish because there is no way to reify them in the philosophy of science then the only thing that ends up.
Being able to be considered a good choice is game theoretically the choice that doesn't lose in the presence of rival risk choices which is why the best scientists gave of the time give rise to game theory.
And so then what you end up having is rival risk dynamics multiplied by exponential tech which is one of the things we would say is the generator function of existential risk writ large we have to get to a basis for choice making other than game theory which is why.
Game B is called game B there's a change in the game theory that actually has to happen as opposed to just use more powerful tech to win and externalize whatever harm you need to end the process.
And so there is some ethical.
Considerations that have to be part of the sense making or the epistemology as well so one way I talk about this.
And Ken Wilber and many people talk about this way is not original is all the things that looked like enlightenment where.
Wider populations than just a priestly class or just a nobility got some increase in knowledge capacity historically and this was these were not only western this was not just the.
Greek and Roman period and the you know European period there's a.
Confucian Taoist Chinese enlightenment there's a Hindu enlightenment you know there was Islamic enlightenment.
That all of them you can find first person second person and third person epistemologies arising together.
Third person epistemology is what we can call the philosophy of science right how do we make sense of the objective third person world we're going to measure it.
Repetitions on our process experimentation etc.
The second person side though is our ability to know what each other think and feel.
Which is critical to the human domain and that's where the Hegelian dialectic or the Socratic method in the previous one like those came in as Ken.
Can I argue your side as well as you can where you have nothing to add and rather than do it just as a rhetorical process can actually inhabit your perspective to get what the world feels like from your perspective.
And get how you think about things that's kind of second person epistemology and the first person is can I come to understand my own self which means my own cognitive biases my own desire for excessive certainty my own.
Desire to not admit that I was wrong about previous shit so it is messing up my sense maker whatever it is.
And this is where in the Greek tradition the stoic tradition would have done that which had a resurgence in the European Enlightenment and obviously the Eastern traditions had a version of that.
But there's a first person sense making for me as the sense maker that I have to pay attention to that is affecting everything so I would say a necessary cultural enlightenment has to include first person second person and third person epistemologies together.
Very nice.
I like that a lot.
We're kind of getting a little tight on time here so let's move on to some of the other topics we wanted to talk about.
Now this is a very ambitious very interesting very rich project this conciliance project.
You've said before at least in its initial phases it's not for everybody who is it for who are your target audiences.
Yeah.
Obviously the target audience if we were really talking about an open something like an open society.
That.
Where the order that a society needs is emerging from the people rather than being imposed on them.
The target audience has to be eventually everybody and yet we obviously can't speak the same way to everybody to begin with so a starting point is simply a starting point what we're working on here is.
Both being able to analyze where existing problem solving processes are.
Adequate to some of the problems and where they're not and where they're not what new problem solving innovations new social systems could be that could.
Be commensurate with the things that have worked in the past and add new capacities so.
They're deep pieces they're thinking pieces they do not require being a specialist right we're trying to write them in a way where let's say a piece takes 30 minutes to read.
Any.
Generally educated adult that really gives a shit could read them.
But they're not super easy reads.
You have to give give a shit you might have to look up a word or two here or there.
Try to make it where we aren't using unfamiliar language in terms read up to be a specialist that aren't necessary the only times where we're using a term that is unfamiliar is where we think that term is so important in the English language as an intellectual tool for a concept that needs to be more popular.
That we're willing to engage the cost of using those words and having people have to look them up because the popularization of those words and concepts would itself be a type of success it would mean that more people were thinking with better thinking tools.
So anyone who is willing to spend a little time and really cares and gives a shit could be part of the audience the people who are already really thinking about.
The mini catastrophic risks the world faces and recognizing that whether it's the UN SDG approach or it's the Silicon Valley Techno optimist approach it doesn't seem like any of them are adequate and trying to think about how to think about this better those would be people who are already primed to be interested in engaged.
But we're already working on making the first animations and who knows if this will be how it happens but like make one of these papers a 15 minute animation that a high school student could really engage in.
And then you know a podcast where it's our goal that.
This project has a lot of really brilliant people that were involved in and caring people that were involved in.
Founding it directing it developing all the all the content that different people in this project and network can go speak on podcasts about papers.
Where then if someone wants to hear it kind of discussed in a long form podcast they can so we're going to do the trans media translation.
But the people for who and the reason we start with the higher brow articles is I can take a high resolution photo and make a resolution photo out of it but easier than I can go the other direction so we're trying to do the clear thinking first and then be able to make it more widely available.
And specifically those people who've already invested enough in the depth of sense making and caring about how to change our social systems.
Are the people that we're actually seeking to partner with that might be able to help in the movement building that we're doing that probably already working on projects or may or be interested in working on projects in the space.
And then one of the other things that will happen is people there will be some people who understand some of what we're doing and translate it to audiences in a way we never could.
Right so we already had someone contact us who's building a rap battle platform and where the rappers are rapping about police violence or race issues or whatever they're like well if you're developing better content on some of those topics it's more nuanced and they could come learn this and bring it to those communities.
And they would know how to do that infinitely better than we would or similarly someone who's a deeper thinker than most of their following on tick tock but would understand it well enough and bring it to the Gen Z tick tock audience that they have in a particular way.
And that's why we say catalyzing and kind of decentralized cultural renaissance.
And this is also why our project self terminates after five years is for for something to really be an enlightenment or a movement it has to be the zeitgeist of the time and we would say we see this already happening right game B is another expression of this as you mentioned.
Meta modern and integral or things that are sniffing in a similar direction at least kind of sniffing and Tristan and center for humane technology in those folks pointing out what's wrong with social media and how could we fix it.
Is a part of that people that are focused on how do we improve the future of education or how do we improve journalism.
So what we'd say is we see that there is kind of there there's a recognition that the.
There is an upgrade in culture necessary to be able to address the problems the world faces.
But most people don't think of it that way they're thinking of it just as journalism or education or the part of it they're focused on so there's already a movement starting it's just nice and it doesn't even recognize itself and the parts don't recognize themselves.
We want to help frame it where they all recognize you're right we are working on a cultural enlightenment for new social systems adequate to the problems.
And we want to be able to help up regulate signal up regulate the groups that are doing good work so that when this project shuts down in five years.
There's love the aims that it seeks to serve are continuing and fully decentralized uninfluensible and capturable ways.
You also have mentioned when we've chatted in the past that you see one of the one of the more important aspects of the conciliants project is being a good example to others particularly in the media on what is possible.
Could you talk about that a little bit.
So yeah if we if we look at like the meta news.
So.
Conciliants projects and nonprofit project it's not just nonprofit but it commits to not have any of the revenue streams that mess up media projects so it won't put any of the information behind a paywall.
It won't sell anybody's data won't put ads on the site so it's it is donation funded.
And if we and we also won't accept any donations that have any strings attached if someone says we'll donate but you know only speak favorably of our organization or whatever we'll tell him to fuck off so.
So we can only do as much as we can actually raise capital that gives us no perverse incentive.
That was the cleanest way we could build it we also don't have individual author titles or by lines on the papers because it's really a whole team effort that is building them.
And then people have to address the papers just based on the content not add homonym on the authors and it makes it safer for the authors to say what the evidence really shows rather than what will not get attacked.
It also decreases perverse incentive for even the authors inside of the organization to not pay more attention to the ones that have their name as lead author than the ones that they're supporting on so.
You know how do we do collective intelligence well is the question for the future of the world we're trying to prototype it here.
The.
Complete after five years there will be some function that has to happen after that that is archival and maybe that can comment on if future people say well the concerns project was trying to say such and such that can comment on that.
So there may be some.
Very minimal vestigial thing that is just doing that kind of archival function.
But the reason that we decided to shut it down.
Is because most organizations end up having an incentive to keep being an organization and if they're trying to solve a problem that's actually a perverse incentive to never really solve the problem that would obsolete their existence where their existence has given them some procedure power something like that.
So then they manage the problem forever and we really wanted to show like no we're not seeking to be part of a long term power landscape.
And we can't what we're trying to affect is way longer than five years so we'll only succeed if we help lots of other groups do better work than they're currently doing and we're going to do a public postmortem when we're over.
So now the other groups know that we aren't in competition with them we want to help them do better we actually have to for our public postmortem to not look like we we failed.
So we're trying to see how do we create all of the incentives to be as aligned with the goal of the commons as it could be.
It's very interesting and you also have talked you've mentioned a couple times in passing the idea of community building around the Consilience Project and around the editorial work that you're doing.
