already public enough that it wouldn't be worth probably simulating a whole
universe just to see what you get up to in your off hours.
I don't know, man. Like Trump, he's got a lot of his life on record too, but I
could totally see someone even if the, if it was available a hundred years
from now, going back and resiming his life, like what the hell created this
person? I think that's at the forefront of this crazy moment in U.S.
history. Well, it's more, that's almost like evidence against the like
simulating a conscious person with like, it doesn't follow super generic AI rules.
It's like the rest of us do.
What would be evidence against it?
Donald Trump. Oh, it just exists as a person in general.
Like his, cause like his reaction to things is the kind of thing that like
anybody who like follows him on Twitter can guess 99% of the time.
And it's just like, oh, what looks good for me?
Oh, um, what can I put my name on?
What can I play in gold?
Yeah. But is that really his thought process or is that his public persona,
which he's gotten really good at playing?
I mean, I just, I mean, I just feel like if,
how could you know what, aside from simulating him?
I was approaching the question from a different direction.
Like that, that's the kind of person I can simulate with simple rules.
Like if I dedicated the next year of my life to learning how to build
video game AIs, I could build a character who just did that, right?
But I could, it would be harder to do that for somebody who's like more complicated.
I think it would be hard for anyone.
If you're simulating Julius Caesar, where are you getting the scan of his neurons?
I don't think we have, I don't think we have a cast of his brain or do we have his DNA?
Like, no, I don't think so.
And just stories about him.
Brains still are kind of, what is that word that everyone likes to use?
Confusing, complex, squishy, pink.
No, squishy.
I'm frustrated.
It's the one that means that something that grows kind of chaotically.
Oh, emergent.
Emergent.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's like the new code word for here's a process we don't understand.
Right.
A lot of people use that for AI.
But to some extent, I mean, you have your genes that build you and then you also
have your experiences in the womb and your early life experiences.
So how much of that could we even realistically simulate?
I think that you could simulate a universe, but like, I don't think that you
could re-simulate a universe in high fidelity.
I also think too, we already kind of do this with stories and whether
historical fiction or like complete fantasies, right?
Yeah.
So like, I've never written a book and I don't, you, I mean, you've
written book length books.
At least one.
Right.
So in, in, in your writing process, when, uh, like Joa is three fourths
the way through the book and you're like, trying to think of the next thing to do.
Do you ever ask yourself, what would Joa do in the situation?
Or are you kind of driving the, like every step?
Um, it's, it's sort of a, a mix where you can't like make a character do
something that just is not true to their character.
It, the whole story goes wrong.
It feels fake.
If you're just having people do things to advance the storyline, right?
All the, if they, you do that for every step, right?
Well, if you do that for any step, really, but I mean, there's a few
things that happen to them to get the story started or to complicate things.
But ultimately, if I want a character to do something, I don't just like have
them do it because then you get like on YouTube videos, mocking your terrible
movie writing skills or whatever.
And, and rightly so it's, it's shitty writing.
It takes people out of the story.
You, but since you control the entire world, you just manipulate the
events around them to put them into a situation where they would do the
thing that you want them to do.
Yeah.
And, um, speaking as someone who also writes, I have been surprised by some
of my character's actions, like they do run away from you.
Sometimes they kind of develop their own personalities.
That's what I was, that's more what I imagined it kind of being like was,
I mean, you're right.
Like you can't just be, you know, uh, kind of autocomplete for this character.
But I, I'm at, I wonder if in the writing process, anyone was ever like,
um, I don't know, uh, I'm trying to think, I mean, all of my examples will
be specific because it's the only things that I've read, but like the wheel
of time is this gigantic, like encapsulate in encompassing universe.
It could have been a small story.
It could have been contained to one small thing.
It's, it takes it like a continent.
There's different groups of demographics and, and traditions and all that stuff.
And then like all the characters, many of them are really strongly written.
And I wonder if there's ever a point where, where Jordan was writing this
and he was just like, man, I wonder, you know, how am I going to complete this?
And it's like, Oh, you know what?
That's totally something Perrin would do.
I'm going to have him do that.
Um, and like just thinking of like, no, no, that, that's, that's very much
what he would do rather than, yeah.
I'm pretty sure that that's how a wild boar writes.
That's gotta be how wild over.
I mean, he said that he designs these characters and then he designs a scenario
and then he just lets it play out.
I mean, in general, any good character writer is going to do that.
You create a character and then they do things according to who they are, right?
Yeah.
And so that all sounds like a tangent, but the reason I brought that up is
because that sounds like a lot easier than trying to stimulate the universe.
We are making up Julius Caesar from scratch anyway.
Right.
So you just, you read everything you can about Caesar in real life and then.
You know, right.
Just make the closest approximation to Caesar.
Yeah.
And Pete, we do that now with books, right?
So I'm assuming there's historical fiction from the point of view of Julius
Caesar, floating around out there.
Yes.
Um, lots.
Yeah.
So he was popular dude, right?
Yeah.
Um, so like the, it's not going to get any more, any more higher
fidelity than current author's imaginations, right?
I don't know.
Maybe it could be.
I have no idea.
Like we would need some like into the past viewing tech, but I guess the
difference is that what we can't do with an author writing this is like you said,
describe what a battle looks like IRL, um, because they didn't see them either.
Right.
Yeah.
So did I ever tell you about a Steve fever?
It was very interesting short story, which, oh God, was it Charles
Strauss that wrote it?
It sounds like a Strauss kind of story.
Uh, but Steve fever fever fever.
I like a fever that you get and it's named after Steve.
Uh, so I kind of myself catching that one's in a while.
Wait, I don't know if I do yet or not.
Let me hear the story.
Okay.
Uh, so Steve is basically Steve Jobs stand in.
Okay.
Uh, and he created like, you know, cutting edge tech guy.
He made these nanites and, uh, he was signed up for cryonics and he had in his
company's, uh, basic AI software, the root directive of, Hey, if I ever die, do
everything in your power to bring me back.
Uh, unfortunately he dies in a fiery car accident and his brain is burnt to a
crisp and there's nothing that can be cryopreserved, but that doesn't stop the
nanites.
Uh, they have a record of his in, you know, of his life.
Basically he blogged a lot, a lot of his stuff was recorded.
There's lots of interviews of out and out there where he record retails with
things that happened in his childhood, right?
So the story takes a place, uh, in the protagonist is this kid on a farm who at
one point is possessed by the nanites and runs off to a facility where a bunch of
other people who've been possessed by nanites all come together and they basically
run the best approximation they have of, uh, either his brain or one of Steve's
friends on his body and they put him in a scenario that Steve, uh, once told about
his childhood, right?
Uh, it was something about like riding bikes down a hill to get to a store.
Really short thing, but ultimately this fails.
The reactions of their virtual Steve are not the same as the reactions recorded in
Steve's history.
So the nanites are like, Oh, okay, gotta keep working on our brain algorithm.
They let everybody free and they tinker with their things to more.
And that's basically the name of the Steve fever.
Everyone on planet earth knows that they basically can't do anything about this
every now and then young men or men of various ages that have, you know, Steve
jobs his age, run off, replay out these simulations.
And, uh, if it doesn't work, the nanites keep trying until they get a brain
simulation that perfectly recap, recap, recapitulates every single thing that
Steve jobs did in his life perfectly.
And then they'll be like, Mwaha, this is the perfect Steve brain.
Now we put it in a body and he's back.
So wait, they're hijacking people who already exist in this world and making
them behave like Steve.
Yeah, they're hijacking them and then loading Steve's neurology into the
brains because apparently this is like before whatever, you still need human
brains to run this software.
Yeah.
And this is a short story.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I want to read this.
This sounds fun.
It's really cool.
Yeah.
That sounds fantastic.
And the premise sounds from the, I loved every second of it.
That was really cool.
That's also, I think, how Ray Kurzweil talks about wanting to, in a manner,
resurrect his dad.
Wait, is that, he wants to do that, that way?
Because there's no, well, excuse me, not necessarily the bodyjackings, but, but,
but building a model of him based on his written work and, and his presumably
how people remember him or something, right?
Yeah, I think Neuromancer had, what was it called?
Dixie's flatline, which was kind of the recorded personality of the main
character's friend.
Cool.
