stretchable to mess with it.
Yeah.
I mean, like there's also, I mean, people are supposed to care about kids
and stuff, but arguing about school funding is something that people are
more than willing to do when it comes to like saying how we're going to
spend government money.
Um, even people are, even people who will say, like, why should I care?
None of my kids are going to school.
That's like saying, Nope, I, I'm not collecting social security.
So why should I care if anyone's getting it?
Um, it, I get like, maybe there's more reverence for old people than children,
but I feel like our society kind of values both.
Maybe it just is that old people are such a powerful voting block.
That's, that's what I'm thinking.
Yeah.
I think everybody in the US, that would be a pretty big voting block too.
Well, if people got, got out and did stuff.
I mean, if everyone gets UBI, if it is you.
Oh yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
If, if that's a good point, if this is out there and then like the vote to change
it comes to the public and say, all right guys, you want to vote to lower the
how much money you're getting a month, everyone's going to say fuck no.
I think we need to start wrapping up.
Do we want to get one more comment in?
Oh, there's this one about deathists.
I, I was thinking that one.
All right.
Well, we can do that one, but I want to plug this.
Maybe you guys can at least respond to it on Reddit.
Somebody wrote in, uh, cause we talk about EA a lot and they were like, Hey,
I kind of want to do this.
How do I give the charity effectively?
Oh yeah.
And we had a whole EA episode.
Um, and like my, my two cents that I tried to print in
the, in the post earned my reply was like, you know, you can find the most
effective charities through give well.
Um, if you're, if your metric is increasing the number of like quality
adjusted life years of humans.
Um, yeah, that's give well.org.
Right.
And my other like, I don't think that this, this isn't like me as an EA person
because I'm not sure what their lingo is for this, but like whatever cause it is
that you care about, there are charities that are doing it better and worse.
Right.
If you care about feeding hungry people in the United States or, uh,
curing a certain disease or whatever, I think I use the breast cancer,
pin gribbin example.
Um, like all, all the, the, uh, what is it?
Susan B something.
Susan B Anthony.
Yeah.
The, the pin gribbin breast.
Susan B.
Common.
Common.
Oh, oh, yes.
Thank you.
Yes.
What's a very different person.
Um, that other Susan B.
Yeah.
Why did Susan B Anthony sound familiar?
Who's that?
She was almost on the quarter cause she was one of the first women that ran for
president, right?
Among other things, she was a, uh, a suffragist.
Is that how you pronounce it?
Uh, yeah.
Okay.
Yes.
I knew I knew the name and I'm glad that I saw like it dinged a bell in my head
and I didn't bother to check which one.
Um, but yeah, I'm not sure what the numbers are, but most of their money goes to more
ribbons.
So like to the extent that that increases awareness and awareness is a good thing
cause that goes towards actual research, that's probably a good thing.
But at the end of the day, that's big business.
Breast cancer already is close to maximally funded.
Right.
Like more money getting put into that is not going to bring about a cure to breast
cancer any sooner.
Probably not.
Right.
One of the, not enough to that where you're really going to make a difference.
I mean, going to the effective altruist forums, uh, or discussion areas is not a
bad idea because one of the things they do often take into consideration is how
well funded is this cause area.
Like, is it something that could use more funding very well?
Or would the additional dollar not have that much additional, uh, impact?
There's, there's quite a few things to consider when, uh, when making these
decisions, I will say that effective altruists often focus on things like
existential risk, like things that could wipe out the human race, because those
are considered, uh, especially big and important.
Yeah.
If you cure malaria, but everyone dies in 50 years from a meter, a meter, right
impact, it doesn't make, it makes a very small difference.
And they also tend to focus on things in developing countries a lot because it's
just due to the economics of the situation, it's a lot easier to save one
life in a developing world nation than it is to, uh, save a life in America where
most people are not going to be dying of simple, easy to solve with money problems.
What I should have pointed out too is there's a great exploration of a lot of
this stuff in, um, Peter Singer's works on altruism.
And, you know, a few hundred dollars in the developing world can, can give a
corrective surgery for, um, you know, uh, problems that would either drastically
hamper your life through like physical ailment or through like social stigma.
Um, there are apparently some common causes of blindness that are very
treatable for a few hundred dollars, um, that, so like you consider like, all right,
well, what would it cost me to get like Lasik versus being a, how many people
could I help with that money doing something else or something, right?
Um, so yeah, just the, the, your money goes further where money's more valuable.
Um, there's the other thing that he points out.
Uh, so I guess, yeah, you can check out Peter Singer's website.
I think it is just Peter Singer.org or something.
But, um, his recent book, Doing Good Better, or was that, um, uh, Will, Will
McCaskill, you know, I forget one of them did, oh wait, Peter Singer's book was
The Life You Can Save, Will McCaskill's book was Doing Good Better.
If this is a subject you're really interested in, I'd recommend those books.
All right.
I realized it took up some of our time.
And because I'm sure I'm going to forget, I got to plug something that's
completely unrelated to anything.
I've been reading the hell out of a crossover fanfiction called, uh, A Wand
for Skitter, I'm on chapter 61 of 61 right now and I started like two weeks ago.
They're really short chapters.
Like I can read them in 10 minutes sometimes.
So they go by fast.
Um, it is kind of full of typos that I want to, I'm going to ask the author
if I can screen their chapters for them and fix them if they'll let me, maybe
even like just take them all, put them through like Microsoft Word and let them
fix the, the obviously broken ones.
Like this isn't just like the wrong there.
This is big mistakes, but they're, they're not so much that it ruins the story.
But I've talked to at least one person who says that does ruin reading for them.
So sorry, this might not be your book, but, um, it's, the premise is, well, this
is a gigantic worm spoiler.
So skipping that, the protagonist from worm wakes up in the body of a recently
attempted assassinated mudblood girl in, uh, whatever the first year of Hogwarts
for the skit, the kids, right?
In 1991, the first year of, um, the original Harry Potter books.
Totally.
And so she eventually regained some control of her bugs that she had from, from
worm, um, and she's also learning magic really well.
And it, it's weird because I'm having to remember like the difference.
This isn't methods of rationality crossover.
This is regular Harry Potter crossover.
So like there's not like a, like fatigue that you get from using magic or anything
like that.
So I'm trying to, so I, I'm watching this.
I'm like, how is she doing all this?
Oh, right.
She's not getting tired.
She just has to keep saying words.
Um, but it's a lot of fun.
My only gripe is that like the character never loses like this level of savagery that
I feel like would be loseable, but it sets it up in a way that makes a lot of sense.
This, the other like, uh, crop break point from original Harry Potter is that, uh,
Voldemort is having his lieutenants kill, uh, mudbloods before they start because
before they start at Hogwarts, just like to thin the herd of them so they can start
taking care of this problem before they're educated.
And so she's constantly on her guard for that because her, her like parents that
she doesn't remember were just killed and she wakes up in an alley in the middle
of London or something.
And, um, so her, her level of like vigilance and like kind of savagery kind of
makes sense because people are constantly on the lookout to like kill
Muggle-born people, but it was, it was fun.
It was a quick read and it seems to be being updated like a couple of times
a week at least.
So I've been having fun with that.
The, the story is called a wand for skitter on fanfiction.net by author, uh,
Shane T. So I had to plug that because I spent a lot of time with the last
couple of weeks reading it.
Okay.
Back to your regularly scheduled podcast.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think if we have time for one more, um, commenter delined, delineated, I don't
know, says, um, I don't want to disappoint, but death is, do actually exist.
If you want your transhumanist self to be a part, take a look at the
Ask a Mortician, uh, which is a channel with almost 800,000 subscribers by
Caitlin Dottie.
I have actually seen this.
They literally promote death positivity and death acceptance.
They believe death gives life meaning.
They're concerned about people who pursue radical life extension.
Yeah.
I knew those people existed in there.
You know, what's weird is I did too.
And somehow I completely like forgot about that when I was like, no one's
really a deathist.
Um, and yet I think it's just, yeah, I'll have to maybe actually check out
some of these, these, the subreddit and stuff to see what they're saying.
But I know these people are out there and it's weird, but I think they're
just, they're not really considering the alternative in a way that's like,
well, of course I would say that, right?
I was going to say they're not considering the alternative, honestly.
Otherwise they would agree with me.
That's what everybody says about every position they have ever.
So now I, I could actually imagine if somebody discovers the cure for death
