but it doesn't mean that like I'm not making like, this is my case and I've
come to it, you know, as an empirical, empirical rationalist.
And this is my, my best Bayesian conclusion.
I'm mainly just pointing out like, isn't that stupid or isn't that funny?
Um, or wouldn't that be cool?
I'm, so I'm hoping like my lack of pretension is, is there.
Like I'm not, this isn't like, oh no, I'm strongly convicted in this.
There are things I'm strongly convicted in and it's hard not to, you know, like
the, um, like that punching Nazis episode that we did a couple of years ago, like
that was topical and it was politically related, but it was mainly tied to like
the is oppressing terrible free speech with violence, a cool thing to do or not.
I'm also kind of reminded of Stalin's old quote that you may not be
interested in war, but war is interested in you, you know, yeah, just because you
aren't willing to fight, it doesn't mean it isn't going to come for you.
Just do you have opinions on this?
Um, just going back to the politics is the mind killer sequence.
The idea behind it wasn't never talk about politics.
It was don't talk about politics as a beginner rationalist, especially not one
trying to make points about something not at all related to politics.
And yeah, I do think that I think, uh, David actually said this, um, focus on the
facts, basically, yeah, you can talk about policy discussions, but make them empirical.
And, um, I'm interested in what he means by only with great caution and with a
grand master presiding.
I don't think that we have that designation yet.
I would love for that to exist.
I love the idea, um, from Eleazar's story, three worlds collide.
They had like the confessor, wasn't he called?
There was someone who was a professional rationalist who was supposed to be present
in order to point out cognitive biases and distortions and whatnot.
God, that'd be an awesome world.
First of all, I want that to be my job.
Secondly, I want these people to exist.
I would be absolutely awful at that job, but I want someone like that around to help me.
There was one just like at every, uh, like business meeting at your company.
There's just a dude in a black robe there that's like, uh, that was, uh, you're,
you're, I don't know, um, not even business meetings.
I would like one of those people to be around every time.
I'd like one of those people to be around every time.
I'm like having a conversation with someone that I love because those are the worst.
I think, uh, at the very least, you know, actually, if you're going to say
you'd make a terrible confessor, but you want one around, I think that's huge
points in your favor anyway.
Okay.
Like, I mean, someone, if I think a lot of people would be like, no,
I don't want some asshole in my ear telling me like if I'm thinking wrong, right?
So to say I would like, you know, someone in my ear, helping with my thinking is,
is, you know, I'd like that too.
I think.
Well, I know that I often do get sucked into these things.
Like I, I legitimately do enjoy arguing sometimes just for the sake of it.
And I get carried away and I really need someone like that to be around.
Be like, Hey, you're just being dumb right now.
Oh, I wanted to draw a minor contention with you completed trolls and morons
earlier and they're very different.
Yes, they are.
Yeah.
The very bad wizards, uh, a couple of us had to go, had a great dive into kind
of the difference there.
I just heard that one.
Yeah.
But they brought up my favorite troll.
I mean, I guess I don't have a long list of trolls, but I am on the Ken M subreddit.
And the whole thing is, you know, just doubling down on whatever crazy bullshit
comment that he just had.
And so I won't get into it, but if you're interested, just go to like R slash, I
think Ken underscore M, um, to see examples.
Let me confirm, but he's just, he's just a professional troll.
And you can tell.
And they're also professional in that he gets paid for it, but he's a professional
level of troll, right?
And it is just Ken, capital K, capital M, no underscore.
Okay.
Um, yeah, like it, the other thing that I really like about it is it's not mean
spirit, it's not, you know, going in and, and messing with groups.
It's just throwing in like a crazy comment, you know, like, or commenting on like, I
don't know, some food sites or some food company's Facebook page and like, oh,
look, we're making your casserole and like, like a picture of it and like inside
the oven is just also a bunch of magazines and it's like, Oh, that's great.
Ken, you could probably take those out of there.
It's like, no, let's just talk about how I'm gonna use to make them.
And it's like, you know, no one's getting hurt from that kind of trolling.
Right.
It's just hilarious.
Anyway, that's
Trolls can be funny.
Yes.
Usually my experience with them is that they're not.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
There's the difference to like trolling as a harmless game and trolling to be a
dick.
So, um, I'd like to follow up with a comment, uh, on the same topic.
Yeah.
This is a good one.
So architect of ages, uh, notes.
It's interesting to note the philosophical history of this phenomenon.
And by this phenomenon, let me back up.
We're still talking about the whole, uh, alt-right, um, rationalism.
Are they commingling too much or whatever architect of ages says, in short, the
continental analytic divide after the continental slash analytic divide after
the enlightenment produced competing worldviews, one in which the scientific
slash analytic approach was the last word with respect to what counted as truth.
EG, science, ism, skeptic ish movements, et cetera, and one which continued the
enlightenment's program of deconstruction of such grand narratives.
EG, postmodernism, critical theory.
The upshot of all this is that two relatively isolated philosophical
traditions are dictating rhetorical bedfellows in the pre-
are dictating rhetorical bedfellows in the present day.
Shapiro, atheists and rationalists can be seen as descendants of the analytic
tradition, asserting that if it can't be resolved by experiment or analysis, it's
either bullshit or not even worth debating.
Feminist and social justice movements could be seen as descendants of the
continental tradition, asserting that science and logic are great and all, but
they're always interpreted through a cultural or contextual lens.
So there's no such thing as purely objective interpretation of findings.
TLDR, echoes of a post-enlightenment split in philosophy are why the alt-right,
atheists, rationalists, et cetera, use similar rhetorical techniques.
It's not really co-opting so much as parallel evolution.
That's a fun spin on it.
That is kind of awesome.
I wonder if people in those camps would agree with that.
Well, I'm in one of those camps.
I'm happy to agree with it, but I don't really know that much about the history
of the two thinking movements.
Yeah, I've heard things like continental philosophy thrown around and stuff.
And the level of philosophy that I studied was always more just like specific ideas.
I'm sure those came up and like, oh yeah, the continental people thought this and
whatever.
I, so I don't have anything to weigh in there, I guess, other than like, yep,
those are big movements and cultures within the history of those fields, but
not anything that I know anything about.
I know a little bit about post-modernism and what I do know pretty much lines up
with the idea that the facts don't really matter.
It's what, um, how people on the ground interpret it.
And it's all about like the cultural context, which you hear a lot from, you
know, the, those other sides that we, God damn it.
You can just say Jordan Peterson.
I don't think you'd mind.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, so that, that's this thing.
I'm sure his thing would take 40 hours to explain, but like there are people who
would say, yeah, no, that's fine.
Truth is cult is culturally lensed, right?
And while I think I can see what that position means, I can see where it
implies in some cases, I think people are too quick to Mott and Bailey that and
say, therefore, like, whatever, like truth, your truth as a white oppressor is
not the same as my truth as a oppressed minority or whatever.
And like, then I've heard somebody say like, oh yeah.
And because, um, you know, science was mostly white guys in the past.
That means it's all white bullshit.
I'm like, mm, you go, you go to the top of a building and drop something and
tell me how fast it falls.
Like, you know, you don't have to be, you can do this wearing a blindfold.
You can do this being, you know, a three legged Martian.
Like it doesn't matter.
Right.
I saw someone arguing against vaccines using that very thing that this all old
white dudes, which we can't trust because it's old white, um, facts or whatever.
It, it conflates like my last job.
I was working on vaccines.
That's awesome.
Just saying I am white.
That's true, but not old.
Right.
You're not an old guy.
Um, we're back in culture.
Worst stuff.
Yeah.
No, no, no, it's totally fine.
But I guess all I will say is that like, there are definitely things to wear statements
of, of proposed fact of purported fact can be completely obscured by cultural
lensing and others in which they completely really can't.
Like again, the, the, the speed of gravitational acceleration on earth, it
doesn't matter who's measuring that.
Um, if it did turn out that for whatever reason, if, if you had a black scientist
and a white scientist drop things off of a building, they dropped 10 pound bowling
balls and they felt at different rates, that would be a bizarre scientific finding
on its own, right?
Dude, that would be awesome.
Yeah.
Manipulate the loss of physics based on the color of the person.
Right.
It's like, it's like easier, like faster than light travels possible, but only if
you're, if you're of Asian descent or something seriously.
Um, so yeah, since, since, so there's, there's like statements of like physics
that are unchallengeable, but I mean,
I think this is more kind of, um, there's a lot of drug safety tests that have
only been done in healthy white males.
Right.
Yeah.
No, that's a good point.
And, um, so that's, that's, I think a good mid-level example of on this kind
of scale I'm picturing in my head.
And at the other end, it could just be like, you know, the fact that like, oh,
no, you should call the cops if you're in trouble or if there's an emergency.
Like that's, I mean, the, the long version of that fact has a bunch of
contingencies that are implicit for the person making that statement, but for
other people, it's like, I'm never going to call the cops come to my house.
