Yeah.
That's the other thing.
You have mobility now, 10k that you can go take somewhere else or you can go
back to school.
Like it opens up a lot of opportunities for you.
Yeah.
I think it would make a lot of employers have to act a lot better.
Which would be great.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Uh, you said you wanted the J.
Thomas Morris.
Yeah.
This was another one about UBI.
I wanted to read this because I think I agree with all of it.
Uh, J.
Thomas Morris says several points that I would have liked to hear brought up that
weren't one, humans are generally bad at managing uneven income, a single check at
the end of the year when you file your taxes and get an NIT tax payment could be
much worse for low income people than a monthly check.
I can attest to that from personal experience or personal observation of
people who come from like low income or like low financial stability households.
Um, I watched somebody getting it like a modest inheritance of like, I think maybe
15 or $20,000 from a, from a grandparent or something.
And they bought a new car and it's like, that's great.
And they were driving around a clunker before that.
I'm like, just buy a better clunker and put $15,000 away.
You'll be in a better, a lot more money than your parents combined savings.
Like, uh, and, but there's, there's the problem that like, when you grow up in a
scarcity environment, it's like, this resource could go away.
I need to, I need to utilize it.
Right.
I think we've talked about this a bit before.
And I mean, that's a problem that's often does.
If you have loved ones that need money, what are you going to do?
Not give it to them.
Right.
Yeah.
So if you don't spend it right away, it could very well be gone before you
can spend it at all.
Yeah.
And if you put it in a new car, it's still there.
You could liquefy it again.
Yeah, it's not a good investment, but it is.
And it's something that you got out of it.
It's not just gone.
Yeah.
Um, and I mean, I'm assuming this person still has this car.
If they took care of it, right?
It'll last them for 15 years, you know?
So like they've, they've got a safe and sound thing out of it.
So.
So to consider people who don't expect to receive an NIT payment this year, but
then have a sudden drop loss under UBI, this person will automatically
receive their UBI payment on time on the expected date next month.
They can count on it.
They don't have to do anything to get it.
An NIT may not pay out until the end of the year.
This would be disastrous for the many Americans with no savings.
That's a damn good point.
And two great reasons, I think, to have a UBI rather than an NIT.
Yeah.
I suppose my, my mental model of David Spearman would say that implementing
an NIT on like the monthly basis would increase the overhead cost, which would
decrease the amount that you get.
Or increase the amount that you'd have to pay and that other people have to pay
into it or something.
So I think that would be the counter argument, but I don't know what they
would say or what he would say rather about those particular objections.
That, because those, yeah, I agree.
Those are good points.
And then they go on to say, while I am a fan of UBI, I have some concerns about
how it would play out in practice.
One, a UBI should really replace many government welfare programs.
Exceptions include services for mentally handicapped and others.
This replacement is what would enable the UBI to save money and eliminate
disincentives to marginal income that exist in the current program.
However, it seems very unrealistic to me that the American political system
will ever be able to achieve this.
Damn shame.
For the record, I think that's Yang's idea.
Andrew Yang, the president of the candidate.
To replace?
Yeah.
Oh.
So if you're getting Social Security, or excuse me, it's, it's a, you get to pick.
Yeah.
If you're on Social Security and your total benefits are 1200 a month, then you
don't get UBI.
Right.
If they're 800 a month, hey, scrap your crappy Social Security and grab UBI.
You're making another 200 bucks a month.
Yeah.
So I do agree with the caveats or people, you know, using them for additional
services, that kind of thing.
So.
Right.
Yeah.
And then the second concern was setting the level of UBI is very problematic.
First, it's hard to know what a good level to set it to is.
Worse than that, though, adjusting it will be a political issue that the
politicians can argue over and mess up.
Look at minimum wage laws.
In many localities, the minimum wage isn't indexed to anything.
It stays constant, eroding the spending power of those making minimum wage year
after year until the politicians finally decide to change it.
Then they may raise it too much or too little.
I think indexing is avoided because the politicians want to be able to argue over
it.
Even if it's indexed, it's subject to change by the politicians at any time.
UBI should be a basis for financial stability.
It isn't clear to me that this would be the case, which, uh, the government is
that it's run by people in the government.
And I, yeah, I agree.
I still would rather have it than not and have it be argued over.
But yeah, I mean, I'm not saying that there aren't going to be problems with it.
There certainly are just, I think fewer problems than.
The amazing thing is that, um, Social Security is basically a UBI for people
over 65 and yet it still works.
Like all these issues also apply to Social Security, but people seem to think
it is not terrible, right?
Well, at least like morally, it seems like people think that people over 65
have earned it, which some of them have.
But I mean, more to the, more to the point, like that also has the same problem
of eroding spending power, not being indexed to anything.
Politicians can change it at any time, but they don't.
It's like this third rail of politics that if you try to touch it, you get lynched.
Yeah.
Well, the over 65 crowd has power.
Yeah.
I mean, that's a big voting block.
They, and they, they have nothing, they have all the time in the world to vote,
which is kind of, I think it was John Mulaney joke about like, they also vote
on things that like definitely won't impact them.
Like electing people who don't care about climate change or something.
And he's like, that's bullshit.
You don't get to order for the table and then leave.
But yeah, certainly, uh, that is interesting.
That, that's a good point.
That does stay pretty solid.
And, but per the point of the commenter, like, I think if you're, if you're
dependent on your UBI, like to pay your bills and it could fluctuate based on
the outcomes of the midterm election down to 500 bucks a month or something,
like that could devastate you financially.
But there, there are a number of issues which politicians, some politicians
are even scared to touch because they know if they, if they do anything wrong
on the subject, the people in their district will out them in a hot second.
Yeah.
I could become like that if everyone counts on their UBI.
I could easily see that person if it drops 500, like rioting.
That would have happened to a bunch of people in that county and then they're
going to be on the governor's ass or whoever's.
I wonder that might be something that politicians are hesitant to touch.
And then also the politicians themselves would be getting it too.
Like kind of the joke I was going to make was that also the above 65 crowd
probably is a lot of the politicians as well.
They're not collecting Social Security though.
If they're active politicians, aren't they?
Well, their families maybe.
And yeah, I don't, I think they, they're not prohibited from
collecting it, are they?
I don't think so.
Maybe it depends on them.
As long as they're over 65, I think they can take it.
They probably can take it.
But I mean, if you're, I'm assuming if you're making, if you're, I don't know
how much a congressperson makes, but I imagine.
Jackshit, really?
Really?
Oh yeah, they don't make very much at all.
Well, per, on their paychecks.
Maybe that's why they're so incentivized to take bribes and all that sort of stuff.
I think that was, I don't remember who proposed it.
Probably Brian Kaplan or, or Robin Hanson, one of those crowd, but someone
who proposed, you know, we really should, uh, make it illegal to take jobs after
you've served in, in the public sector and also jack up these guys's wages by
at least 10 times more than they're making right now.
Cause it's really crap all compared to basically anyone working in the private
sector at a comparable level.
I did find that since 1984, all members of Congress have paid into social
security and are eligible for the same benefits that all participants receive.
Nice.
I'm curious what the, the history is behind social security about how, how
it retained that kind of holy status.
Um, cause I could imagine it being highly contested at the time.
And can you, I feel like respect for elders is, I mean, we're going back to
the, uh, cultural evolution essay, like we as a species, uh, have this
reverence for elders and particularly, you know, if you consider someone who's
been in the system working for 65 years or probably not the entire 65, but.
Yeah, I guess, but I mean, as far as the, the sanctity of like not adjusting
the numbers or something, um, or like not, not saying, let's give it a 5%
less to do this or whatever.
Cause that there could be a reasonable claim about why they might
have a good idea or something, but nobody makes them that I hear about.
I don't follow, I guess all the proposed legislation that closely, but yeah,
you make a good point though, Jess.
Maybe it is, maybe it did pass fairly, fairly easily, but I, I, yeah.
And I would also suspect just that being a large member of the voting block,
like would be the reason that that's, that's
