it's up to them, right?
The people I know have wildly different opinions ranging from like, well, I don't
care too, that would be the worst thing ever.
I've slapped that person in the face.
I, this is completely tangential, but that's where we're at right now.
Um, like, I remember was it, I think Indian headdresses or something, American
Indian headdresses, where like, it's a dick move to like wear one of those around
and, you know, uh, like, or.
I think they have some kind of like the, the ones that you see worn most often have
some kind of specific significance to an Indian tribe.
I can't remember the details, but.
And so I was talking with somebody once and it's like, let's pretend, you know,
for example, it was say a headdress and like 98% of American Indians were fine
out there, like, we don't care, do whatever you want.
Like as long as you're not being a dick or mocking us or whatever.
But like, if you think, or if you're wearing like a style of fashion for your
wedding, that's un-traditional or something, or not your tradition, whatever,
because you're, you're too white to wear a, a sorry or something, right?
Um, if nobody cares, except for like one blogger, are you obligated to change
your behavior because one person doesn't care?
Is it enough that 99% of people don't care?
You know, I, I personally think it doesn't really matter.
Uh, if you're using it to like be little or mock people, that's not, that,
that's an asshole thing to do when you shouldn't do that.
You shouldn't do that for any, you shouldn't do that for anything.
Right.
Whether you're, whether you're wearing an Indian headdress or something, or I'm
willing to say that on the Indian headdress thing, just due to.
America's history of, you know, murdering and subjugating all the Native
Americans that we, uh, we're like, we should give them, we should be like, okay,
our bad, we won't wear a headdress because of these horrible things we've done,
you know, but your family got here 30 years ago.
Yeah, I know.
So like you didn't do shit to, you know, I know, but I am living in this culture.
I just, the fact that they were shit on so much, it's like, all right, fine.
No headdress, you know.
Now, but what if they all said it was okay, except for one of them?
And I realized this is totally not.
Well, then fuck that one guy.
So what's the critical mass of people where you can't say fuck them?
I don't know.
I, I, I, four percent of like, you know, they look pretty.
And as a fashion statement in general, I think it should be okay.
And certainly for anyone outside of the US, it's probably fine.
But for Americans specifically, because of their history, uh, I, I think it's
okay for Native American people to be like, no, don't do that.
And not just okay, but like that American people should respect that.
And to be clear, that's my position is like, don't, if someone's, you know,
offended by what you're doing, seriously reconsider about what you're doing.
And like,
Yeah, at least ask, why does this offend you?
Right.
Um, some people do have good reasons and some of them, I think are ridiculous.
Yeah.
I, I don't have a lot of patients, people who are offended on behalf of other people.
Right.
Like if you're a white person wearing a kimono in Japan, despite the fact
that they have shops open to rent these to tourists, um, you can find somebody
when you share pictures on Facebook, like, and can't believe you're doing that.
Man.
And it's like, that's their livelihood.
The business owner there decided that they wanted to sell this to me and make
money off of it.
Are you calling them like too stupid?
Like, are you saying that you're more enlightened about the subjugation
of their culture than they are?
I remember this article, um, where a Japanese shopkeeper, right about social
justice warriors telling white people that they weren't allowed to wear a
kimono and she didn't understand the social justice mindset and assumed that
they must have just been anti-Japanese racists.
Because why else would they be saying that white people can't wear a
kimono?
Yeah, I think that's like, well, I want everyone to wear my kimono.
I think they're great.
I'm selling them.
It is very much a cultural segregationist mindset to say that people
cannot borrow from other cultures, especially if they're saying, please,
let me sell you this.
Right.
Yeah, there's a lot of, I don't know, like a lot of cultural appropriation bothers
me because it does prohibit sharing ideas between cultures, sharing art, music,
culture.
And then, uh, and then also, yeah, like there's Native Americans who sell
handicraft goods and dream catchers, et cetera.
Like, yeah, so like people sell those and some of them probably come from, you
know, from authentic American Indians, right?
I think there's so much scaremongering about like, don't buy things that belong
to this culture, but it's like, what if you're buying handicrafts made by a
person of that culture with the intent of selling them for their livelihood?
Well, then you're a racist.
Yeah, it's just complicated.
You get too deep, especially until, like you said, the, um, the social justice,
what was it?
What was the word you used?
Uh, cultural appropriation thing where like the rhetoric sounds almost exactly
like white supremacists, like, no, no, we got to keep them separated.
You can't, you can't borrow from them.
It's wrong.
You know, sure it's wrong for different reasons, but it's, it's, it's weird.
Anyway, I, before we rip ourselves out of this complete tangent, I, I do think
that like, if someone's feelings are hurt, take it very seriously.
And especially if they're, they're hurt for themselves, not for other people.
And I don't know why I was anchored.
Oh, I was thinking of the headdresses, but speaking of American Indians, I do
think it's complete fuckery that there are like two football teams.
Um, oh my God.
And there are protesters from American Indian tribes outside of every game saying
hey, you know, what is a racist term?
Well, oh my God, red skin and, and well, it's racist, but it's also, it's
like the other mascots are animals, like all of them.
Well, most of them, Eagles, Broncos, I can only name like five.
Oh, wait, Patriots isn't an animal.
Giants aren't an animal.
All right.
But, but the theme, the theme right is like, I think the theme are things
that your opponent would be scared of or things that project power.
So the second one sounds flattering.
The first one is kind of derivative of, you know, of conveying power.
But anyway, so there's, there's a, there's a heavy animal theme, I guess.
Well, they're not, it's even, you know, no one calls themselves the woodchucks.
At least not professional jokingly, maybe, but yeah, but anyway.
So yeah, I don't think that calling, I can't imagine being on the red skins
in a football team.
Oh God, that's just weird.
Like I imagine just, I don't know, like what's the equivalent being on like the,
I can try to think of other racial slurs, but I'm realizing I probably
shouldn't have to.
All right.
Also, wow.
All I wanted to do was talk about with people are Jesus or Hitler in the
simulation universe.
And now we get into the culture wars.
Why is it always the culture wars, man?
Well, it's fun to talk about.
They are fun to talk about.
And I can't remember, I'm sure maybe, maybe there's some
version and pressure if we played this back about how it made sense that we got here.
But to get back, to, to, to climb back out of this, like certainly, I guess
if you're, if you're solipsistic and you think that, Oh no, I'm the only
conscious mind, whether or not they're all simulations or they're all like just
tricks of the devil or tricks of the, the robots or aliens or whatever.
No, there might be thousands of conscious minds.
Sure.
But they, you know, you wouldn't be able to identify them.
Right.
So like the most likely to be the people that you interact with often.
Yeah, probably.
Yeah.
And I liked your idea, your thought of like the tourist coming in to visit a
young and young.
I think that's, you know, that's a fun way to think about it.
I think this was sparked because Robin Hansen once a long time ago said,
what if we take the simulation idea seriously?
And he also proposed that you'd probably only simulate people that were
historically significant in some way.
So in that case, if you want to maximize the amount of time that you are
simulated should try to hang out with very important people as much as you can.
Like if you know the president is going to be in your town, go to his rallies and
stuff, you know, those are the times where you will be simulated in the highest
fidelity.
Well, I don't know, simulating crowds and like NASCAR games and stuff.
I never play them, but I see the trailers like they're not doing much.
No, you know, they're just, they're paint.
Yeah.
So like the, what I think you should, I mean, I think that was his advice.
Close to people who make history or better yet, make history.
And so I think what you should do, if you're believe, well, you know what?
What I think you absolutely shouldn't do is like, take any of this seriously,
take any of this seriously.
But for the sake of argument, you would make more simulations if you, you
know, successfully pulled off like a, you know, um, unabomber style catastrophe.
I think the future should have a very strict, no simulating important people policy.
So therefore none of us are Hitler, right?
I suppose so.
Yeah.
Yeah, good point.
Yeah, they'd, they'd, yeah, I guess they'd never simulate Hitler.
They'd never simulate like, uh, school shooters and shit.
Why are you saying that they should have that rule?
Because otherwise it is an encouragement to do those things.
Come again.
If you, if you want to be simulated, you, and they're going to simulate
interesting people, make yourself interesting by killing lots of people
or doing lots of crazy terrible shit, right?
Like Jeffrey Dahmer's mind is probably fascinating from like a purely abstract,
like, I want to know what's going on in this person's head kind of thing.
Right.
But we should never, ever simulate it.
I think this is the same as we shouldn't publicize school shooters or like serial
killers, but that never works because the media wants to sensationalize this person.
The most recent two, they've done a very good job of not saying any names and
just calling them the shooter.
And the one that happened yesterday, the one that was a few months ago, like it
was amazing when I was listening to the various newscasts about it, like everyone
was on board.
They were not named at all.
I didn't even know with a gender of this person.
Glad to know.
I didn't even hear about the one, you're talking about the one in California.
Uh, yeah, yeah, yeah, that happened yesterday, right?
