Right.
Um, so, and for, for good reason, and that's just like, no, that's, and it's
not just like culture.
It's just also like, no, my, the lived experience of, of me and everybody I
know says that's a terrible idea.
Um, there are less inflammatory examples, but anyway, whatever.
So yeah, man, who's next?
Okay.
So that's, um, the one that says David talked about something related to a debt
to society.
And in Yash's answer, it reminded me of one of my treasured SSC post burdens.
Sorry.
Can I interject?
And he's, he kind of mumbled the name.
You said, just reply this shit.
It's not like you were saying, just reply that shit.
Like, oh, the Reddit, the Reddit username of this person was just to
reply, or just to reply this shit.
That is all one word.
And that, yeah, that is the person's name.
So just to reply this shit says David talked about something related to a debt
to society.
And in Yash's answer reminded me of one of my treasured SSC posts burdens.
There's something else I've never said because it's too deeply tied in with my
own politics and not something I would expect anybody else to understand.
This is a quote from a burdens, by the way, and that is humans don't owe society
anything.
We were here first.
If my patient were back in the environment of evolutionary adaptedness in a nice
tribe with Dunbar's number of people, there would be no problem.
Maybe his cognitive problems would make him a slightly less proficient
hunter than someone else, but whatever, he could always gather.
But society came and paved over the place where all the roots and berry plants
grew and killed the buffalo and dynamited the caves and declared the tribal
bonding rituals problematic.
Society got where it is by systematically destroying everything that could have
supported him and replacing it with things that required skills he didn't have.
Of course it owes him when he suddenly can't support himself.
Think of it as the ultimate use of eminent domain.
A power beyond your control has seized everything in the world.
It had some good economic reasons for doing so, but at least owes you compensation.
In the end, it's a disagreement of values.
Very good post.
Yeah, I haven't read that one and I loved every passage of it.
And can I just interject?
Jesse read that like eloquently and articulately.
Oh, thanks.
I was reading along with you and I wasn't reading it as smoothly as you were
saying it, so you've got quite a skill.
Yay, I've been working on.
It's good.
Reading aloud.
Well, props.
I'm noticing.
Um, I, yeah, I also really enjoy burdens.
And, uh, something that bugged me since I was a kid is the idea that you can't
actually decide to just go back to being a hunter gather.
There's no land that you can go live on.
Like kind of society has come along in strong arm do you?
And it's like, all right, you have to live by the rules of our system, go to
school and obey the laws of whatever country you happen to have been born in.
And like, you don't really get the chance to opt out of that.
It kind of sucks.
Yeah, like they're even like just miles of open field and like basically
prairie, uh, environment between like here or between like four
Collins and Cheyenne about a 75 miles north of where we are.
And there are Buffalo.
There are, there are antelope, like presumably if you wanted to go out there,
you could, you could carve out a living for yourself, but that's somebody's
property that the land belongs to somebody.
It's behind a fence.
I'm assuming the animals, not the, not the antelope, but the Buffalo
belonged to people or they're like protected.
Right.
Yeah.
Like everything's somebody's property.
Yeah.
You, so you're right.
Like it, even like if nature's even calling to you and you can see it, it's
like, but I can't cause I'll go to jail.
You can just look at it from this side of the fence.
Man, when I was a, in college and I was working and going to school, commuting
an hour, both ways, and that was just my entire life.
I had these fantasies about just walking off into the pine barrens with a
camping tent and a bowie knife.
And I read a lot of survival, like, you know, a hatchet and whatnot.
And I was just like, I would be so tempting to just leave all this
bullshit behind and just like go live in the woods.
Probably be able to for a while.
For a while.
Yeah.
You might be able to, like there's, there's a lot of pine barrens.
Yeah.
To have any serious life, though, I think, like you said, you'd need a tribe
of hundred-ish people.
You need culture too.
And that'd be harder to hide from people when you're living on their land.
And it's also hard to get 99 other people together that want to do this
because, you know, at least to stop them from infighting.
And yeah, well, then there's also, you know, the disease and all the other
things that people generally, and the lack of Netflix, that after a while,
people are going to be like, I'm going back to society.
I heard season four of Stranger Things was really good.
So maybe it's because like, physically that option's been off the table
for me for ages, but like, I don't know.
I always kind of find the, you mentioned like camping and like, you know, cooking
stuff over a fire.
Like that sounds like a lot of fun.
I want to try that and get, you know, get a taste of what it was like to live
as an ancestor.
Of course.
Well, it's good camping.
Yeah.
It's amazing.
Like the jokes you're making about TV, you actually like, you're in the woods
for a couple of days.
You don't miss any like books, TV, any of that.
It's so like, I forget who said this.
There's someone who was a explorer.
No, I can't remember the name.
It was somewhat famous, but he said that like the only time in my life I wasn't
bored was living in a cave.
It's the only time that I've ever experienced like no boredom ever.
That's fun.
I, it depends on your, I guess a lot of your set and setting there for yourself
too.
I remember when Sam Harris described his first like silent retreat for
medication, he was just like inundated with like crazy, like crushing boredom.
Yeah.
But he wasn't, well, I don't think he was a camping and like gathering food and
trying to build a shelter.
I think he was at a retreat that stuff was taking care of.
Yeah.
That's a good point.
If you're, if you're busy do building a shelter all day, that sounds not boring at
all.
It's so fun.
Yeah.
It's so satisfying.
Um, I went camping a little while ago and one of the, I don't know, I just was
like, I'm going to make a daisy chain.
I'm going to make everybody a daisy chain for hours.
I just gathered flowers of different colors and made different daisy chains.
And it was, I was like, kind of in like bliss, I was in like a bliss state.
It just occurred to me that daisy chain can be a literal thing and not, not just
a sex act, a sex act.
Oh, I'm sorry.
What were you thinking?
I was thinking like where you lay like a series of steps along for like an
argument or like, I'm going to explain to you like there were days I was thinking
about Wi-Fi, but what is this sex act?
Yeah.
I mean, I'm sure you can imagine.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Is all right.
Sorry.
No, no, you're good.
Anyway, I'm picturing it.
It's a lot of people doing things.
Yeah.
But sorry.
No, you're good.
Can I just plug in really quick then that I think anybody who thinks this sounds
like fun or sounds terrible, uh, really, anybody should check this out.
If you have 15 free minutes, check out, um, there's YouTube channel called
primitive technology where there's no voiceover.
There's no narration.
There's no music, just the sound of him working.
And it starts with him building crazy, simple stuff like a hatchet or starting a fire.
Like not even a hatchet.
Like a stone, uh, sharpened stone on a stick.
Yeah.
It's a primitive.
Most people have to think like metal, you know, that's right.
Yeah.
A hacking tool to make cutting branches easier for further work.
And, um, if you enjoy what it's, it's all, it's, it's oddly tranquil to watch
cause it's calming.
It's there's, like I said, there's just the ambient noise of, of the work in
the woods that he's doing.
Um, but if you want to take another level, he put on closed captions and he
describes all the stuff that he's doing in there.
And then they get to be really complicated where he built like a house
with like, um, or like a hut.
Yeah.
Was that the guy that built the mud hut that had plumbing and everything?
I didn't, I don't know about the plumbing.
It probably, that he probably has definitely done that at some point, but it
also had the, uh, like thermal heating from underneath.
Or yeah, that's what I'm thinking of.
Yeah, that guy.
Yeah.
He, he built, uh, like the whole thing out of clay cubes that he baked him.
Like the roof shackling out of everything that he, you know, baked in his own little
kiln that he built by hand.
All of it's really cool.
Um, so yeah, that's, that's one way to do it.
