That was, that was, I remember being a child and hearing that and being like,
I don't think that's how humans work.
I was also a child.
I remember hearing that and I didn't have that thought.
I just, I was still at the age where I was just absorbing stuff and like,
well, if you say so.
Yeah.
It's a great, it's a great post.
I wish there's, there's not, I don't know.
Yeah.
We're, we're in a time crunch and once again, to reiterate, that's my fault.
I was late.
Okay.
Can I just read the last paragraph?
Cause it's really punchy.
Yeah.
That was when you accurately estimate the enemy's psychology.
When you know what is really in the enemy's mind, that knowledge won't feel
like landing a delicious punch on the opposing side.
It won't give you a warm feeling of righteous indignation.
If your estimate makes you feel unbearably sad, you may be seeing the world
as it really is.
It's good shit, man.
That's good.
Yeah.
Everybody that you've ever hated could be somebody that you like would have loved
who things have been a little different.
This is why we read, we read, he's good at those.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's, I think, how did you put it?
Like the best, like the highest, like insight to word ratio or something?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or yeah.
I love that.
Next post is two more things to unlearn from school.
More things to unlearn.
And I think there's only one in here, but I don't know.
Maybe I was counting two, conflating two together.
Anyways, I'm already had to be hard to forgot most of everything I learned in
school.
Jack, mate, you're a cow.
Yeah.
Eleazar says, I suspect the most dangerous habit of thought taught in schools is
that even if you don't really understand something, you should parent it back anyway.
One of the most fundamental life skills is realizing when you are confused and
school actively destroys this ability.
Many students who have gone through this process no longer even realize when
something confuses them or notice gaps in their understanding.
They have been trained out of pausing to think.
And he also proposes a possible solution.
Maybe you could avoid handing students knowledge on a silver platter instead show
students different versions of physics equations that look plausible and ask them
to figure out which was the correct one or invent experiments which would
distinguish between alternatives.
I didn't get exercises like that until college and it was never physics.
I studied a squishy science like psychology.
But I remember in high school or in college level biology or something that
asked you design an experiment that would confirm or deny this claim or something.
And it kind of sucks that you're that you have to be in your 20s taking
electives to get to that level.
Yeah.
Or at least an elective level of education.
In most of high school, I had a few good teachers, I will say.
And I think my parents were pretty good at just at being encouraging and that sort
of thing too.
But most of the things that I wanted to find out, it was like myself thinking,
why is that?
And then following up with questions or or trying to read about it as opposed
to being taught that in school.
I think that may have worked out well, but the one thing I really, really
remember to this day was in physics in high school.
I had this amazing physics teacher.
I was in the AP physics.
So this wasn't like given to everyone, but he started us out.
He started us out on Einstein's, oh God, photoelectric effects.
That's what it was.
And we thought we were just learning like, you know, electricity and
magnetism and and basically that that level of stuff.
And he walked us through, like we did the experiments ourselves,
rederiving how, how to get equals mc squared.
And like, by the time you're getting to the end and you're on the last few
steps before the final line, you realize what's happening.
And you're like, oh, holy shit, this is amazing.
I have just rederived the most famous equation in physics.
And I see how it happened.
And obviously it's not, it's not nearly as hard as having to come up with it
on your own from the beginning and like, why is this happening?
How could this possibly work?
Like we had, we had to kind of laid out for us in a garden path, but going
down that path the first time and not knowing what we were getting at the end
was really neat.
And I wish more people would have experience like that.
Yeah, I can't think of any examples like that off hand, but they probably happened,
I hope, but that sounds wonderful.
And that sounds like the way it should be taught.
The downside of doing it the way that you do it in schools now is like,
there's no time to do it that way because we've got to teach these 70
things for the exam that the state issued for us.
And you guys are only in here this number of hours.
So we can't spend 20 hours doing this one thing.
But yeah, you still remember that, you know, and that, that's how impactful it was.
And that sounds fantastic.
Yeah, I think that's the right way to do it.
I don't have anything else to say.
I mean, you could do something similar, like you could do this with it.
Just this is what the book, The Greatest Show on Earth does.
Richard Dawkins book for evolution is way belabored because he rambles a bit.
But like in a way that if you like the artful way that he does stuff.
Yeah, I found it like just really enjoyable to read because I liked his tone.
Same here. Yeah.
It's so I guess I'm getting is it's way less direct than like a than you would
do in a college or in a classroom setting of like trying to teach the same thing.
But he has this poetry of of and this passion and writing that I really liked.
But that's what he does.
He takes it the slow way.
And so by the end, you're like, oh, I've seen all the things not firsthand.
But, you know, I've read all, you know, enough of the observations that were
made to put this together, now I get it.
And it's not just like some knowledge that someone told me about.
And they're like, you're told basically take this on faith.
It's like, no, I can follow the whole the whole thing now.
Yeah, it's a short post, but has a neat point.
And I agree.
I'm really hoping that future school systems incorporate VR or just like
really good simulations and are actually structured in such a way
where students can do their own experiments.
That would be cool.
OK, for next week, we will cover the less wrong posts, making beliefs,
pay rent in anticipated experiences, belief in belief and Bayesian judo.
So we'll have three.
Those first two are ones that we've referenced maybe a hundred times total
on the podcast so far.
So yeah, yeah, these are some weighty ones.
Yeah, last part of the show, but definitely not least most important,
not least important part of the show.
Yes, one of the most important parts of the show.
That's right.
We've got a patron to thank this week, our patron of the episode.
I know we say weak and we say that we do that all the time, but it's by week.
Right.
Anyway, of the fortnight.
Yes, this time on the Bayesian conspiracy.
Our favorite patron of the of the episode is wealth.
So thank you so much for your support.
Yay, well, standing.
You are the bomb.
And yeah, we really do appreciate it.
Yeah, I made a fist pump and you couldn't see it, but anyway.
Yes, thank you so much.
Thank you. Oh, oh, I had a thing to point out.
We mentioned in the last episode that like we met on Discord to chat and
like someone asked in subreddit, where is the link to this discord?
And David Youssef, who was our the person we interviewed over Discord,
just posted the link on the subreddit.
I was like, oh, shit, nothing was ready.
What the hell just happened here?
And people started like showing up and chatting and stuff.
And so I worked real quickly.
Stephen promoted me to moderator.
I put in a few channels.
So now it's now it's an actual, I guess, Discord server.
But yeah, man, that thing blew up fast.
Like there's a bunch of people and they're talking a lot.
And I'm super enjoying it.
Yeah, yeah.
And a handful of our previous guests.
So if you ever wanted to pick a bone with David Youssef, he's on there a lot.
Alexander Wales was on there day one.
David Youssef is on there is David Darklord of the Memes.
No, no, that's the other day.
There's the other David.
Yeah. So what's David is they keep changing their names.
DN Youssef, I think.
Is he still? No, I thought that was.
I know. He's still DN Youssef.
Both of the David's are on there.
Good luck telling them apart.
Especially because Youssef talks about memes a lot.
Right. He wanted the meme channel.
So it makes sense that they have the memey name.
Yeah. And he posts there constantly.
Yeah. OK.
But yeah, no, the bunch of people there, it's really cool.
I'm having a great time.
So thank you guys for that.
We now have a Discord.
So we'll post the link to the Discord in this episode, show notes as well.
And of course, on the subreddit.
And we also have a subreddit, so that's another thing.
I've lately been arguing with people on subreddit
because I haven't been able to sleep, which has been fun.
I need to be on the subreddit more.
Yeah. It's like, you know, if you want to argue with a sleep deprived enniosh,
that's the place to go.
And I'll be active on Discord as soon as I can figure out
how to let that server alone send push notifications to my phone
and not everyone that I'm on.
I can show you. Oh, OK.
