I think, I think this is all from stuff in the area that he's working to.
I don't think he goes and gets any of the equipment for it.
Like, cause all the equipment, it looked like it was just stuff that was on
site, yeah, it was building with, but I'm wondering like, if, you know, if, if
the environment that he's in didn't have, you know, clay hot enough to build a
kiln to, to cook these ceiling or what do you call them roof tiles or whatever.
But I think it did.
So whatever it is, it's really cool.
And if living in nature is your kind of thing, it sounds like fun.
I have a friend who has, he's big into camping and outdoorsy stuff.
And I was telling him about this.
And he was like, I'm kind of wary to watch that.
Cause I feel like I might just go do that.
And he, he has some reported back.
He just enjoyed watching the program.
He didn't, he so far hasn't left society behind.
So far.
Yeah.
Operative.
Anyway, the post burdens, um, if you haven't read it, the idea behind it was
somebody had written in to Scott saying that they felt like a burden on society
because they weren't able to do all the cool stuff other rationalists are doing,
like a line AI or make cool scientific discoveries.
And Scott's reply was this, um, society doesn't owe you anything explanation.
Like, I think that this is actually very comforting for people that do feel like,
what, what, what is my purpose?
It's like, well, you know, you don't have to have a purpose.
You were here first.
We did this thing to society.
If you have to collect welfare because you're disabled or if you're, you know,
going through hard times, that's like kind of society's fault and society can take
care of you, you don't have to feel bad about this.
I really think the search for purpose is more a search for being meaningful to other
people.
Like the fact that other people would notice if you weren't there and rely on you
for certain things is very comforting.
And when you don't have anyone that relies on you for anything, anyone who knows
you as the person to go to for X or Y, it's alienating and your life feels empty.
And I think that's most everyone in modern society.
I think of the like three or four, like philosophers, I know who make their
living doing philosophy as like professors.
I think a lot of them struggle with like nihilism and like, how do I find meaning?
Cause I've been, you know, I spent my entire undergrad degree or, you know,
uh, years reading about how life is pointless because all these philosophers
said so and they all have kind of different approaches.
Um, one guy who I like the most is also just really charismatic and fun.
The fun thing is important because I think that's, he never said this, but
I think that was his answer is like, fun is how I make life meaningful.
When I'm having fun, I'm in a flow state thing.
Like, I'm, you know, it, it's just fun.
So he plays a lot of games.
He does, uh, like, you know, volleyball, um, but a lot, you know, team
activities and stuff too.
So there's, there's the social component to it as well.
Like rarely am I as happy as when I'm helping somebody move.
Cause it just, you're useful to someone.
Do you, you are meaningful to them.
You're also good at it.
I've helped you a few times and you move with efficiency.
Oh, well, yeah.
I saw, I, it doesn't matter.
It was like a picture on Reddit of like a perfectly packed, uh, U-Haul and the
guy standing in it made me think of Drake because Drake is the conductor
for your moves and he's so good at it.
Oh yeah.
Oh, could I pay him to help me move?
Sure.
I think he would be very happy to do that.
Yeah.
And the, I don't know.
I just, I suddenly had a flash to the original world of Warcraft, which is
re-releasing in just a few weeks.
That yeah, it's a great game for giving you that sort of feeling of
meaningfulness to other people since they rely on you to be there, to get
their game stuff done.
But like I said, it's, it's not true meaning.
It's a simulated one.
Well, are they real people or are they NPCs?
They're real people.
Okay.
They're real people that really need your help to do this dungeon.
Like you need 40 people all together at once working together.
I think you get some meaning out of that.
You do.
I definitely got some meaning out of it, but it's, and I think they get the
feeling of being helped.
Like, I mean, having somebody show you the ropes and, you know, or
take you through a tough challenge.
Well, don't, don't get me wrong.
It feels really good.
I'm going to play the fuck out of Warcraft Classic when it releases.
I just am now cognizant that it is eventually the game is going to go away.
Whereas in the real world, if you were helpful to people, they're still there
as long as they're alive, you know?
Yeah.
But it's always like the, and I'm, maybe I'm overstating this too much, but
like so is the imprint of them.
Like, oh, that really nice person helped me do this.
And like that, that feeling, you know, carved into their brain a little bit,
made them a better person, you know?
Yeah, I still, I still know some people not know.
I still have grooves in my mind from some people in my guild.
And like, I don't know any of these people's real names.
I have no idea how to contact them.
But I'm like, man, big round was just an awesome paladin.
So, uh, can we get to this Jay Thomas Morris comment?
Uh, yes.
Can I, is it okay if we hit these two as well?
Oh yeah, go for it.
Okay.
This was also from, uh, just to reply this shit, uh, mentioned that I believe
that's who posted this because I don't have any breaks.
Okay.
In one of Scott's posts, a commenter argues they, uh, they expect almost everybody
on a basic income would quit, but then Ozzy brings up that there are various
ways that skilled workers can work part time to make 10,000 per year.
The easiest way is to work a hundred thousand K per year job one year and 10,
which honestly, probably a lot of better programmers could do.
Uh, since almost nobody does that, it seems unlikely that these people would
really quit their job in exchange for basic income.
And, uh, I don't remember who wrote this next part, but they say I'm glad Ozzy
showed up because I used to think the same thing.
And Ozzy reminded me that I wasn't taking any of the opportunities to work much
less in exchange for much less money either.
So I thought that was an interesting point.
Yeah, I believe that they were quoting that was Scott talking about something
Ozzy had said, being quoted by this commenter, but, um, yeah, uh,
there's, yeah, there's the common, uh, argument against UBI that if, you know,
we institute UBI, lots of people are going to just quit their jobs.
And I think some people will, and they're probably the people that maybe
are not working a job that's super important anyway, or, uh, I don't know,
maybe aren't contributing as much as, oh, this is coming off badly.
What I mean is they're bullshit jobs.
Yeah, I worked at McDonald's for six weeks.
I hope that in five years, no one's doing that job.
Most of the time I spent as what they called in the store, fry bitch, or fry guy.
Where you sent over the fryer and you're constantly putting out fries.
If you're at McDonald's, they're supposed to be in cooked no more than
seven minutes before they're handed out the window or to the person.
So there's always somebody standing over this grill or this grease
mesh bucket, putting in fries and standing there, getting all the hot
waves of it in their face.
And, uh, that's, that's, that's a job that like I, I outsource that to robots,
please.
Yeah.
And I can imagine somebody enjoys that, like, but there are other things
that they could do that they'd enjoy more, like maybe doing it at their house
for their friends, rather than doing it under the high pressure environment
where all the machines are screaming at them.
For eight hours a day, five days a week.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or for slightly under that, so these don't get paid benefits.
God.
Um, yeah, for 34 hours a week.
But, um, I remember as this is tangential, as in a conversation with
somebody for like 30 minutes about UBI and how people wouldn't find
leave meaning without jobs and stuff.
And it, this was over like messenger.
So we weren't like this would have been handled in under two minutes,
probably in real life, but because this was back and forth over a text chain.
I finally just was like, wait a minute, why are we talking about it?
Like it's the end of like productivity or jobs.
Like if you're going to, like, if you're going to be miserable without work,
then like keep working.
Yeah.
You know, and also were you chatting over messenger while you were at work?
No.
Oh, okay.
I think that would have been a beautiful ironic twist.
That would have been nice.
No, um, I'm happy to say it.
Certainly at this job, I tend like, I, I've rarely been on Reddit this week
and it sounds like I have a problem.
Um, but I mean, like when I'm at this job, I try to be productive the entire time
and I'm usually busy today was kind of annoying because I was basically stuck
on something for the second half of the day.
So, um, I couldn't be productive and I didn't even really have the energy
to like, like develop myself.
Like, oh no, I, but I've got right now 30 something tabs open on different
Chrome windows.
Like I'm going to get around to reading these eventually.
I didn't read any of those.
Like I was just, so that was, that was my bad.
But anyway, yeah, productivity, work stuff, total side, side point.
So.
Yeah.
I think the other point is that 10k a year is not living large.
Right.
I mean, it's not really, it's barely living.
You could live on it, but a lot of people probably will take that 10k and then
also work maybe not 40 hours, but maybe 30 or 20.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But you put that 10k on top of the 17k year you're making from McDonald's and
boom, you're suddenly living at almost twice the capacity that you're living
up before, you know, you're able to like buy groceries and go out to eat
once a week or something.
If your boss is a sexually harassing asshole, you can tell him to stuff it.
Right.
