Okay, everyone ready? I'm ready. All right. Welcome to The Basin Conspiracy. I'm Enya
Ashbrotsky. I'm Steven Zuber. I'm Jess Dickey. And today we're going to be doing a bunch
of listener feedback is going to take up most of it, but we didn't want to do just
listener feedback for a full episode because I don't know that gets to be
tiresome. So we're I'm also going to be kicking around a thing that I personally
think is like a consequence of thinking about living in a simulation kind of
stuff. I related it back to our Cyber Christianity episode when I was bitching
it to my two co-hosts here. But really, I think it's just a, now that I think about
it, I think it's more of a revealing my own neuroses and mental issues. So I guess
this might be an embarrassing episode for me or we'll confirm or deny your neuroses.
So, so yeah, I was I was thinking of calling this episode. Are you Jesus or
Hitler? Which is basically what it comes down to sounds like a loaded question.
The simulation argument being to go over again really quickly. If it's possible
to simulate humans in the future, and if computing power gets much cheaper and
more available, then it's going to be entirely likely that our far future
ancestors may make a lot of simulations of the past to see how humanity evolved to
relive things like right now, we don't actually know how ancient battle battles
were fought. Like we have some ideas and people try to reenact them, but
ultimately no one wrote down like, this is what happens when two armies meet
each other on a field. They just say, the armies met and this many people were
slaughtered, right? So it's really hard to say like, go ahead. I was going to say,
I remember in 2016, when the results in the last election came in, that I think
was previous guest on the show, Patrick Shepin said that that increased his
probability that we're living in a simulation, right? Because it struck him
as so unlikely that now I'm paraphrasing, but that reality TV show host and like
confident rapist or 20 time alleged rapist, Donald Trump, would take his
first debut into public service as president of the United States. And he's
like, that's fucking crazy. If I was going to make a simulation, I'd be like,
let's see what happens if we just put Donald Trump in the White House. Now
that I've already derailed this, I haven't read any of the books in simulation
hypothesis, mainly because it doesn't, I don't lose any sleep over it. But my
main thing about it, like, again, having never, like, addressed the arguments
properly is this is assuming that like, so that the, to finish the argument is
that if it seems likely, as you laid out, that our, and our descendants may
create simulations, then they'll be more, if they make more than one, then some
of the universes has more simulated universes than real ones. And so we're
more likely than not in a simulation. Exactly. But that's, that's like assuming
you're to make simulations, like exactly like this one or exactly like with the
same laws of physics. And I, well, if you wanted to like see how people do
things, you would do that. Like the, the battle thing, for example, you'd have
to have both realistic physics and realistic psychology. Yeah. Like a lot of
historians not knowing, you know, do people charge at each other in blood
less? Do they stay like at arm's reach and try not to get hurt? Like, where
does that tip over? What exactly happened? So and I think it's, I'm just, I'm
trying to remember where I thought of this from. And it was much more eloquent
when I first thought of it. Now it's not coming to me. But like the idea,
someone pointed out like, Oh, that would take too much computing power or
something. And it's like, sure, in this physics, yeah, right. Yeah, you couldn't
run our universe on your laptop. And you probably won't be able to run it on a
laptop in 1000 years. But like, that's, I don't know. The other thing too is that
you don't simulate the whole thing. Yeah, you can simulate, you can kind of do
like what, what the Young Earth creationists do where it's like, Oh, sure,
the photons from distant, from distant stars, we're just like, generated in the
CP in the, in the, in the simulation in, in route to Earth. Right, right. A few
hundred meters above the atmosphere. Exactly. You know, you don't actually
have to simulate the quantum foam, except for the few times where scientists
are literally trying to figure out how the quantum, how quantum physics works.
And then all you have to do is fuck with their results or their brains or
something, right? Or maybe you like realistically simulate that and the
simulation slows down for a few minutes while they crank through those heavy
processes. And then people stop looking then. So you go back to gross
generalizations. Now I just remembered. It's like when you're playing a first
person shooter, it doesn't rend the entire world. It only rends the part that
you can see on your screen. Yeah, there's no sense in rendering the, you know, like
in Skyrim rendering everything down to the atom. Like, like things are just
tables. Like there's, you can't even break them into smaller bits. I think I
remembered, now we talked about simulation hypothesis at some point in the
distant past on the show, because I'm remembering when I brought up Rick and
Morty, how when the one where they're in a simulation, and then Rick's tearing
apart that rat in the garage. And he's just like, this is such sloppy work. And
it could just be him being a drunk crazy person. But the way that I kind of
read that was like, Oh, he's, he's saying that this isn't even a good
simulation. Because on the inside, this rat isn't, isn't made properly. Like real
rats look different. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So I have been talking a long time, and I
still don't know what we're talking about.
Oh, it's okay. Jess, do you have anything to add before we?
Not really. I was kind of thinking about the computing power thing. And then I
was like, what if somebody's just simulating a whole bunch of consciousnesses and
we're all just vividly dreaming?
Definitely Legend of Zelda, Link's Awakening. And they're also remaking that
for the Switch. I think at the end of the summer or something. So that's kind of
like that game. I haven't played it since the early nine or maybe roughly when
it was new, like mid to late 90s. So it's been like 20 years. But I remember
that was that being the plot. And as a kid, it was, you know, trippy. So I'm
curious it'll be as as a, you know, an adult.
Yeah. Okay, so moving forward, as we were, that was a perfect segue. Because as
we were just talking about how like, you don't necessarily want to simulate
everything in total fidelity all the time, right? One of the things that might
be very computationally expensive to simulate is humans. I'm not sure how
true that is. A lot of time we just fall back on heuristics and clutches and
don't think through things very much. But it's possible that if you're trying
to really get into the mind of like Julius Caesar, and see how he was
running, then you're going to do your best to make sure like the individual
neural connections are all simulated as faithfully as possible, right? And you're
not like just you're running a few large rules, you're like, let's get this
brain as detailed as you can, right? But you probably wouldn't be doing that for,
I don't know, some of the Norsemen that he ran into and some of his earlier
campaigns, like those will just, they're not rendered for most of the time when
he goes up there, you have a few of them running simple basic rules, you know how
the battles resulted. So they just have to be the NPCs that run in and fight Julius
Caesar. I can see both of you know where I'm going now.
I actually don't. I was distracted. Can I, given that an example of broad rule AI
stuff in Elder Scrolls Oblivion, you could get, if you finished the Dark
Brotherhood questline and get these poison apples that make it somewhat
easy to assassinate people, right? And reverse pickpocketing is still like a
challenge, unless you train pickpocketing, which no way to do that is to get in
trouble a lot for stealing from people. So I never did that. What you can do
instead is you can go into someone's house when they're out, because people
like everyone in the game has, all the NPCs have like schedules. They go out and
wander the town from like, you know, six to five or something, right?
Going to the fields or whatever.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So when they're out during the thing, you sneak into their
house and you can just steal all their food and put a poison apple like on the
table and then leave. And when they get back, they all, you know, whatever that
NPC schedule is like I eat at 830. So it looks around the house finds a thing
tagged food and picks up eats it and dies, which is a hilarious way to kill
somebody in this game. Again, that's the like low level NPC, like I'm following
super, super basic rules, because a regular person would walk in and be like,
my house has been ransacked and there's a shiny apple on the table. I'm not that
hungry.
It's going on here, right? This looks slightly suspicious.
Alright, so I still don't actually know where we're going. I'm excited. You've
got me on the edge of my seat.
Alright, well, the thing is, those people who are only kind of barely simulated
in the background wouldn't be conscious. This is on the one hand, possibly a good
thing. It might mean that people that are suffering terribly across the on the
other side of the world don't actually exist. They're just being, you know,
numbers and database so that we all get the impression that they're there. But
they the suffering is not really there. So that's that's a relief. Oh, now I see
where we're going. Uh huh. But the other thing is that I at least feel like I
exist. I am conscious. I don't know about any of my listeners. Maybe y'all be some
crazy simulated zombies or whatever. But for anyone who also feels like they
have conscious existence. And if there's a good chance that you're being
simulated, you got to ask yourself, why am I being simulated to this high level
of fidelity? What is going to happen in my life that the far future descendants
are going to be interested in doing this? And uh, and so the question comes down
to, so are you going to be doing something momentous later in your life? And
are you going to be a good guy like Jesus or a bad guy like Hitler? And they
wanted to just see what would happen. Let's plug in Yashin, but let's give
them slightly different starting parameters and press play. Maybe even
the same, honestly, maybe even the same starting parameters. They just like if
you wanted to see how William Shakespeare wrote his plays, you would just
kind of do everything you can to get it as, you know, good as possible, get him
up through teenage hood, maybe early childhood, depending on how soon you
think you got to start the simulation and then run it and see. And you're like,
Oh, look, right now he's riding Hamlet. That's awesome. That's what he was
thinking while he was riding Hamlet. Um, so it takes a lot of masturbation
breaks. It's so weird. So I don't want to pull the rug out from under this
before it gets going, but like, Oh, I had something for this. Oh, okay. Wait, I
got it. So this is the crux of it is that this is a like a constraint on the
simulation hypothesis that like, in fact, it might be easier to simulate more
universes with less computing power, with less engine people. Yeah. So this is
like just a epistheical within the simulated universe thing. Right. There
will be the ones with fully sentient, all everybody will be a smaller number
than the ones with just a handful of selected people. And because we know
where conscious, presumably each of each of us individually, I mean, we have to
think, Okay, why are they simulating me and not somebody else? Right. Okay. And
you know, the older I get where I haven't done anything momentous yet, the
more I'm thinking maybe this is the root universe, because I have less time to
do things. But on the other hand, maybe there's going to be something really
crazy not in my control happening later, because a lot of people do much more
momentous things later in their life. I don't know. The whole thing is kind of
scary. It makes you paranoid. It also like, if I know, in my family, the delusions
grander thing kind of runs, we've all talked about it like with my brothers.
But this is definitely a delusions of grandeur kind of thing that like, Oh, I
am destined to do something awesome. Why else would they be simulating me if I
wasn't destined to do something amazing? But also, you start to worry if you
already have like kind of imposter syndrome issues. And every now and then I'm
going to take my coworkers an example. I got a new coworker several months ago. He
like comes by my cube every day to chat for a while. And sure, he could just be a
chatty guy. But every now and then I'm like, why is he interested in me? What the
hell is going on here? And then I think, maybe he's a person from the far future
kind of like hijacking a body for a little bit to get to talk with me. And
then he can go back and tell his friends, dude, I got to talk to Enya
Sbrodsky. Like they all take turns jacking into this guy. Maybe. You don't know.
Anytime anyone in the world like notices me and pays attention to me for any
reason, I'm like, why? Why are you doing that? And it makes more sense when it's
someone who listens to the podcast, but when it's just someone randomly that
I've met at the bar or at the store or something. It's like I said, a revelation
of my neuroses. There's a reason we're here hanging out with you. And it wasn't
because there. If we look, if we go too far down that will never come out. But
like it, I mean, on some level, you're, you're engaging enough to attract people
at a distance, right? So like there were a time when we didn't know each other,
right? And so like, we were able to like kind of bridge that because it was like,
oh, you're cool. I want to get to know you better. If you were less cool, I
wouldn't have wanted to pursue that, right? Yeah. So like this guy is doing
that. He think I'm assuming, right? Your coworker thinks you're interesting. And
enough so that don't want to talk to you for a few minutes today. Or I hope
it could be something else equally mundane where they're just like, Oh, if
I'm standing over here talking to a coworker, it could give me the impression
could give a bystander the impression of working and I'm getting paid to do
whatever, right? Right. Right. The other thing I was thinking of earlier was
that there's no sense really in like coming back to now, like if you're
simulating, like this isn't like Shakespeare writing plays time, time
period, right? Well, this is the time period of populist uprising in America.
Right. But if they're going, but to not to say you're not a person who's going
to achieve grand things, but just, but your, your life is already documented in
such a way that we can accurately portray almost all of that in a hundred
years, you know, barring some disaster of technology, right?
Maybe like you blog, you record a podcast, like a lot of your thinking is
