So it was a long time since I read that.
I don't remember much.
That's the main thing that's like, one of the main things that stuck
with me from that story is kind of like carrying around a ghost in your pocket.
Cause like, he's talking to Dixie and he responds the way he would have in life.
But like, everyone knows that this isn't really him.
It's just like an echo.
It's like a living diary or something.
That's super creepy and kind of cool.
And that's another thing.
If like, I'm conscious right now, but I'm almost 40, haven't done anything
super noteworthy with my life yet.
Am I one of the failed versions of Enios?
That's going to be terminated when I don't like take over the world at 50
or whatever the hell it is Enios prime did.
I mean, it's also, I guess it's not clear why you'd have to be conscious to do this.
But like the works that you've done, you know, like the, I mean, actually, we,
we got somebody who commented on the, I think via Patreon and we'll, we'll
mention that later if we want at more length, but he mentioned that like he got
out of Mormonism listening to this podcast, right?
Oh yeah.
Maybe he takes over the world.
Yeah.
And so although there's no reason for us to have been sentient to like produce
this content or us to even be real, right?
Right.
So like that, that's not quite the case, but I guess it's not clear to me.
Like we don't have to be the, like I said, it's a half baked idea.
That's more about my own mental issues than about things.
So I'm just, we should probably preface this episode with a, um, a medic hazard
warning, like if you're prone to delusions of grandeur, you probably shouldn't
listen to this or solipsism.
Or solipsism.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I don't know why, like, I guess I've had some vague diagnosis of what
do you call it?
Depersonalization disorder, where it's like you've kind of feel like you're,
like watching TV instead of like being alive.
Yeah.
Um, I mean, I, I had this association, right?
There's disassociative identity.
There's a different depersonalization, derealization.
I think it was depersonalization or derealization.
It wasn't as severe as deeper disassociative identity disorder, but like,
and I mean, this is just the sort of thing where like, a lot of the times
things don't feel real.
And I think that like everybody's used to this when you're really tired.
Like you made, I'm assuming, I guess I've only ever been the one person.
No, I mean, I could get it, I guess I've had this before.
I don't know if I was really tired at the time though.
And or depressed is another big, this is another big part of it.
But like, I think certainly I noticed a lot when I'm tired, like I'll go down
and like, Oh, I forgot to like lock the deadbolt or something.
So I'll go down and do that.
And like, none of that like feels like it's actually happening or like even
like getting out to my car to go to work first thing in the morning.
Like I'm not quite awake yet.
Yeah.
So like that kind of thing, why don't I bring that up?
Oh, so like, I already have occasional periods where like things don't feel real.
And yet I've never been troubled with solipsism or with, with a simulation concerns.
Like, I guess that all strikes me as so improbable.
Like it makes much more sense to me just to take the kind of like
naive, realist point of view that like, yeah, all the stuff out there is the
stuff that's actually out there.
And I'm perceiving it with my eyes that are, are translating that information
to my brain and like, so is everybody else.
Like to me, the idea that other people aren't, and I get like, that's
the point of the simulation hypothesis.
But to me, the, the, the idea that other people aren't also conscious
and you know, aren't experiencing things the way that I am.
Cause like they came from the same roots that I did.
That strikes me as like an extra layer of comp, of complexity.
But the point of the simulation is starting with different priors.
Well, and strictly speaking, yes, it's absolutely an extra layer of complexity.
I think it's just one of those things that some brains throw errors out.
And my brain is one of those brains.
It's not quite functioning exactly right enough to function.
But you know, are, are not exactly right.
Things don't make us interesting.
And I think, I think everybody has those, right?
And as long as people are managing okay, then like, you know, maybe that's
what we're all being simulated to test our weird brain malfunctions.
That strikes me as distinctly plausible.
Like everybody in the future is like, we were talking before we got on about like,
oh yeah, in the, in the distant transhumanist future where everything's all nice
and pain free, people are going to be, you know, trying to explain like what
physical pain felt like or something.
Oh, I have a, I have a fun story recommendation for that, but I want you
to finish your thought first.
Oh, it's just the last part of it is like, they'll also all be like
perfectly mentally adjusted.
So like, I wonder it'll happen if like we made people just like sad for no reason.
Or if we made people like, you know, sad and then crazy happy and then
really sad again, or like they can't sleep or they need lots of sleep or
like random shit like that.
So that could be like, all right, let's run a simulation where we just like,
you know, roll a 50 sided die and hit everybody with at least one of these
things and just see how the world goes.
Yeah, I really want to recommend a short story by Scott Westerfield called
Stupid Perfect World.
Okay.
This is in the transhumanist utopian future.
Everybody is living in this post scarcity world where there's really high
technology and as part of a school project, kids have to take a scarcity class
and they have to choose one element to have inflicted upon themselves for a
week and then do a report on it.
And so the main character decides that he's going to sleep because people are
kind of just like, I think they just recharge.
Nobody needs to sleep.
Another character decides that she wants to have hormones.
Everyone has hormone balancers.
She's like, I want to experience real puberty.
It's just a nightmare.
Yeah, it's really funny.
That sounds like it'd be a great man.
Could you imagine if, you know, we weren't all super like, I think having
everyone being exactly of like the same perfect level of mental cloth all the
time would be super boring.
Like you said, dumb, perfect future or whatever it was called.
A stupid, perfect world.
It's not that fun to me.
I mean, well, I think, no, no, the, the premise of being able to pick
something wrong sounds outstanding.
That's the part I was going to get at.
The, the idea of like, oh yeah, no, I don't get stressed because I don't have
enough, I never get enough cortisol or I never have a shortage, whatever
causes stress, right?
Like, no, I'm, I'm always happy and relaxed.
Like, I think having thrills and scares and excitements to the point sometimes
where it's even like above and beyond of like, I'm not sure what a healthy
range of experience is, but like, you know, to the point where it's not going
to give you PTSD.
Yeah.
Or like the point where you're like, you're like literally like
squeeing with joy, right?
But so I feel like having those range of experiences is super valuable.
But how cool would the world be if that was a requirement that we could do
that, you know, hopefully wouldn't damage, you know, you did in a way that
wouldn't permanently damage people.
But I was like, Hey, why don't you try a week, um, you know, with bipolar
disorder or fuck, try a week as a black woman, you know, try a week as a person
in a wheelchair, just the, like, I think about wheelchair stuff a lot
because the sidewalks near my place aren't great.
And like it, I, I, I could get over them.
I've been, I've sat in wheelchairs before my grandma, we made her a ramp
when she broke her leg, I don't know, 10 years ago.
And then she's, she's out of the wheelchair now, but, um, she's in it
for, I don't know, half a year.
And it was pretty amazing.
The ramp had to be really long for her to be able to get up the, up her stairs.
And it's like three steps under her own power.
Granted, she was in her mid 70s.
So like it would take a lot of power or, you know, she didn't have a lot
of power to put into it anyway, but you would think, Oh, okay.
Yeah.
You just put a board on it and they can wheel themselves up that is like kind
of like the naive, naive thought it's like, no, it's got to be crazy long
ramp to be able to push a chair up without it sliding back with you being
able to do it with, you know, weakish arms.
Yeah.
There's a lot of stuff that is involved with accessibility that I guess
abled people don't really think about.
Exactly.
So I mean, how eye-opening would it be to be in a wheelchair for a week?
Where you know the option of getting out, right?
I mean, I think you could do that now.
Like you could just be in a wheelchair for a week.
There, you could not give yourself bipolar for a week, probably.
Yeah.
At least not in a way that would be safe and irreversible.
Right.
Um, I mean, so you could sit in a wheelchair, but I think there's, and that
would be eye-opening and maybe they're cost prohibitive and stuff.
I want to go through the experiment, but just, you know, you couldn't like say,
change your, I mean, you couldn't easily change your skin color for a week in a
way that people wouldn't notice or whatever.
Right.
Or like accuse you of black facing.
Exactly.
Um, I wonder if that would be, you know, it would be okay to black face.
If you were doing it to better understand the experience of living as a black
person, probably not.
I'll settle this.
Yes.
Yeah, I don't, I mean, black face is a specific thing where it was at least a
specific thing where people would get up in black face in order to mock black
people to like, look at how dumb and primitive these people are.
They're so funny.
Haha.
But now you can't do it because that like is what that reminds people of, even
if, um, you cosplay a character with dark skin and you paint your skin to be that
character, that's considered a huge no-no because it is reminiscent of black
face that was done to mock black people.
I think it's considered a huge no-no by dumb people who I don't care about their
opinion on this subject about, right?
But I get like, where are they coming from?
But like, I guess ask somebody who would be affected by this.
And if like the answer is literally nobody or people who do care, don't care, then
