Or the day before, or the day before.
I can't remember, but I, I didn't even hear about it.
So the fact maybe that they didn't talk about this person enough also
cups off my desk, but I guess I wasn't really on Reddit that much this week.
So like we're also going to hear about things.
Yeah.
I think I saw something recently where someone was like, oh, look, uh, we
haven't had a school shooting in a while.
Things are going pretty good.
It's like, it's been summer, dude.
Like we take, we take school off in the summer in the United States.
There are, could be a lot of people at schools to shoot right now.
Um, all right.
Shall we move on?
Uh, trying to think of five, anything else?
Hmm.
I can't take the simulation thing seriously.
How come?
I don't know.
It just, it just seems like I can't prove it.
So I can't prove string theory either.
So I'm not really like putting any weight into either of those ideas.
The things that you can't prove are the ones that bother me the most.
I mean, they, I guess they bother me, but I can't prove it.
I can't do anything about it.
So there's, there's other things I could be using my brain space for.
Yeah.
Is it weird that I care like extremely little about like which fundamental, at least
right now, like which fundamental theory of physics turns out to be true?
Not really.
It wouldn't impact your life in any way.
Neither would simulation theory then, right?
Like, I, so like, I guess you can take it both ways, right?
Like either you're not in a simulation in which case you should be nice to people
and live a good life because like, you know, live healthfully and happily
because that makes like you healthy and happy and you can help the other people
around you flourish and that makes like the universe a better place or the universe
is just you in which case, like, who knows what the rules are, but being a good
person, like in Bioshock, if you don't harvest the little sisters, you know, you
get the happy ending, right?
So you, you maybe want to do that.
Go for the happy ending, even if you think this is a simulation.
Um, that's actually a good segue into user feedback.
If we want to, do we want to go there?
Do we want to do sequences next?
I would love to go to the user feedback.
Unless you guys want to start with the sequences.
No, let's do it.
All right.
Well, really quick, I was just going to say, while, while we're all pulling our
notes out for feedback, there hasn't been anything at Steven's video game
corner in a while because I haven't been playing anything lately.
I've been, I've been playing Hand of Fate two on the switch, which is like a, I
think I talked about it very briefly before it's, it's all right.
It's like, it's just a little game.
It's not fun.
I've been playing anything since Red Dead Redemption two really like as far, oh,
wait, no, I played Securo.
Securo?
Yeah.
That was the new game from from software where like it's way faster and
depending on your flavor, better combat, but it's people who made Dark Souls, but
they made a new game.
That's cool.
Not Dark Soulsie.
Um, I've been playing Beat Saber.
Oh, really?
That looks awesome.
Yeah.
One of my friends has it.
It is really fun.
God, I want to play that.
That sounds awesome.
Raymond Arnold posted, um, should I wear wrist weights while playing beat Saber
to like maximize my, uh, exercise?
And then there was a whole thread about wearing weighted with vests and the
fact that like you want to avoid getting tennis elbow.
It's just like really happy that, that like threads like that exist.
It's funny because my immediate answer to that would have been like, no,
because a lightsaber doesn't weigh that much.
And why also are you playing beat Saber?
Unless you're practicing your lightsaber skills.
Awesome.
All right.
Um, yeah.
So we can just segue right into Graham Moro's, uh, email.
Uh, Graham says in your latest episode, while discussing the third alternatives
to afterlife ism, just brought up that even if we believe in afterlives, we
don't all ourselves, I think they made off ourselves because heaven is so great.
I think it's worth pointing out that while most modern afterlife vests
indeed don't do this, early Christianity had a big enough problem with
marriage or dim colts, trying to sidestep the Old Testament suicide
prohibition and fast track themselves to heaven that it became a serious problem.
And in the decades following, Tertrullian's praise for such a cult whose
members submitted to execution in mass, Christian authorities had to establish
a norm that voluntary marriage or dim counted as suicide and would exclude you
from heaven to channel Orwell.
Modern Christians don't appear to believe in the existence of an afterlife as
strongly as they believe in the existence of Australia, but it's worth
remembering that there was a time when many did.
And that's like upsetting.
Actually.
Oh, that's upsetting.
I, is it not upsetting the idea that, you know, there's a religious cult that
says, Hey, there's, you know, if you die and you're a good Christian and you
do these things, you're going to go to this magic place and then people are
just killing themselves.
Well, okay.
I mean, to get there.
Yes, that's upsetting.
I, I personally thought it was awesome that there's someone in history who
actually took their beliefs seriously, but, um, you know, the whole fact that
they were killing themselves for no reason is, is pretty shitty.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They had to, I guess, make the whole law that suicide prevents you from
getting into heaven in order to circumvent this like exact, this exact thing
happening.
It just, it seems, it's so rare in human, anything history, psychology,
whatever, it's just so rare to find humans who actually really believe what
they say they believe that this was kind of inspiring.
I think people pretty often believe what they say that they believe.
Yeah.
Maybe it's just that the cultures had enough time to evolve the anti-suicide
memetics that people can believe what they believe, but not kill themselves.
Was it like the heavens gate people or which one?
What was the?
Oh, Cooley cult was the, um, heavens gate.
Did the, the, uh, they were the ones that weren't like the sneakers.
Yeah.
Believed in the UFO thing.
Uh, they went down.
It was in, it was in Guyana, James, no, Jones.
That was Jonestown.
Yeah.
Jonestown.
What was the name of the, the religion though?
Um, it was, was it James Jones?
The people's temple movement.
Okay.
Sounds religious, but Jeffrey Jones is some guy whose first name also started with a
J. I think it was John James Jones.
That's Jim Jones, Jim Jones.
There we go.
Like, I guess in any case, I, my understanding is that some people were forced,
fed the Kool-Aid, but like a lot of them were there like, oh, I'm all over it.
Let's do this.
Yeah.
I think like when Jess said that, I think a lot of people like believe or many
people believe what they say they believe, I guess maybe belief, maybe the word
believe there is doing too much work because they certainly say this, right?
But I guess, and what does it like mean to believe?
Um, no, that's not the right approach to take to this.
I feel like if you really believed in an afterlife, like I brought this up before,
but like death wouldn't be so traumatic as many people find it to be.
Um, and I get like, you miss the person, but like, I think people feel like, oh,
no, they're gone forever.
Um, but I think I'm, I'm believing points I made before.
What I was going to say is that I think it's, there's like a confidence level
where it's like, sure, I believe it.
I bet 50 bucks, but I wouldn't bet thousand to one odds, right?
Like, I think people just compartmentalize probably.
I also think that there's actually a lot of sadness to losing someone.
I now have someone that I have basically lost in my life, but they're not dead,
but it's still really sucks.
And I'm, guess I'm going through a whole grieving process or whatever.
And I can see how even if you believed in heaven, you still don't have that person
in your life anymore.
And so there's still a lot of pain.
That's true.
I think I'm drawing this from one example.
This is where like I had this realization when I was like 14 and it was this
younger, the creationist who was a friend of mine's mom.
And I think her sister died.
I don't know, I've told this before, but she, she was distraught and distressed
over this for months.
And I'm like, I totally got it because I didn't think that there was an afterlife,
but it's like she was in her fifties.
And it's like, you're going to see her in 40 years and you'll get to spend
the next two trillion years together.
Like I get that you miss them, but they're like not gone.
They're just like away and they're really happy and they're like, they're not
dying or whatever killed them.
Right.
Yeah.
Like, so 40 years is still a long time for someone that you love that you
have to wait.
It is, but I got the impression that that wasn't the nature of her suffering.
Not that like I want to see, it was, I want to see her again.
It was like she's gone, not like she's over there and I can't talk to her.
Right.
I think it was methods of rationality where he says like, they would treat the
afterlife like, you know, emigrating to Australia in the days of sailing ships
where it's like, yes, you're technically reachable, but it's way too much trouble,
but I'll be there eventually.
Right.
Can't you like communicate with people in the afterlife?
Depends on what you believe.
A lot of people seem to think that, yeah, you can send your prayers to them and
they'll answer.
