tomorrow, most of the world, I think is immediately going to be on board.
And I think there's going to be a huge backlash of people that have grown
up and are very stuck in the mindset of death is good and natural and playing
God, doing weird things, it's bad and unnatural.
And it's again, the whole, you know, cultural evolution.
I would like to point out that this is a very, very common trope in science
fiction and fantasy.
And it really annoys me to know.
And a lot of evil villains are evil specifically because they don't want to
die.
And that's like almost the entirety of their motivation.
Voldemort, to take the example we're just talking about.
His evilness is that he doesn't want to die.
And that is what is behind everything.
That it happens so freaking often that I'm like, Oh, look, there's a villain
in this piece.
I wonder if he's a villain because he doesn't want to die.
And they like make fun of them.
They're like, Oh, he's weak.
He's afraid of death.
Like, yeah, so am I.
So are all, aren't we all?
No, at least the rationality gave gave Voldemort like more fleshed out
villainy than just like, I don't want to die.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
I remembered that being Voldemort's whole thing in the original version, I
had to kind of like think back after red methods to like, what was O.G.
Voldemort's, uh, motivation.
And like you could be in, you know, a magical non-death list without being a
complete dick, right?
Right.
I would assume.
I mean, one of the nice things about Thanos is that he wasn't like, I'm
evil because I wanted mortality.
Right.
Yeah, there was some other motivation for once.
It's like, thank you.
He was a good, he was a good villain.
I even think an end game where he updates his preferences a little bit.
I don't know if it's, it doesn't come out until on Blue Ray for another
couple of weeks.
So I think it might still be too early for spoilers, but, um, like I would
argue that if you see in the movie, his change in motivation, even like it makes
sense even for him and it's not him being like just promoted to like the level
of like, I am a bad guy now.
I think, I think it's perfectly in character for who Thanos was developed
to be in the first, uh, Infinity War movie.
Spoiler, Thanos isn't an end game, I guess.
Was he in the trailer?
So I don't know, probably.
Maybe not actually.
He was still alive at the end of, um, the first one.
So obviously he was going to be in the sequel.
That's a good point.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
All right.
Uh, God, we are going to have to burn through the last wrong posts.
Sorry.
I know I, and I got here late.
So we're, we're not able to, this is on me that we're, we're rushing through these.
I, I think it's okay.
Cause they're not that, um, they're not super deep.
No, they're not super deep and they're not super long.
So that's all right.
But yeah, let's get through them quickly.
All right.
We've got, are your enemies innately evil?
Spoiler, no.
So this is, by the way, a great example of the, oh, what is it?
The Betridge law, I think, uh, which, not raw, they call it the law, but you know,
these are generally rules, uh, that any headline that ends with a question can be
answered by the word no.
Yes.
And honestly, our last episode fell prey to that, I think, when we said, uh, is
rationalism being co-opted by the alt-right and didn't a question mark, um, we
should have put more capitalization in it and made you, we should have made a
five hour episode before we got to that subject to just make a true clickbaity
fashion.
Oh, yeah, a little, uh, subtext scientists are baffled.
But, uh, yeah, uh, basically are your, this post, the senior enemies are not
innately evil.
Uh, the first quote I pulled is there seems to be a very strong tendency to
blame evil deeds on the enemy's mutant evil disposition.
Not as a moral point, but as a strict question of prior probability, we
should ask what the enemy might believe about their situation that would reduce
the seemingly busy, the seeming bizarreity of their behavior.
This would allow us to hypothesize a less exceptional disposition and thereby
shoulder a lesser burden of improbability.
And I would just like to say, I also consider this a mark of good fiction.
Um, I kind of understand that lots of times when people are reading fiction,
they want escapism.
They want the Nazi or the zombie, the enemy who is irredeemably evil and you
can cheer for the hero, punching them and killing them because they are evil
mutants and they need to be killed.
And that's what people want to see.
That's fun, right?
But I just, I don't think it's great writing because in the real world,
there's no one like that.
And you can demonize people to make them look like, uh, evil mutants, but they
aren't in reality.
Yeah.
Thinking of like wheel of time, which is the biggest fantasy thing I've ever read.
I've never had, had you talk about fiction and not mention wheel of time.
Maybe because I don't read enough.
Okay.
Um, and definitely per page count.
It's the biggest thing.
Well, maybe I'm not sure how big it compares to worm and ward, but maybe it's
getting close.
I think worm is bigger.
It might be.
Well, it's definitely, I don't know.
Maybe.
We'll come to numbers later.
But in any case, well, certainly in worm, the bad guys with the possible exception
of like the head of the slaughterhouse nine, um, he's just a psychopath, but he's,
he's like the Joker in the sense that he's interesting.
Like he, and he's not trying to end the world because he's a bad guy.
He's just like, I just like fucking things up.
And, uh, there's, there's other fuckery going on there that causes that stuff.
But, um, and wheel of time, the big baddie is the dark one who's like literally
like the embodiment, although not even like quite physically instantiated
version of like the dark side of the force, but his lieutenants are basically
the people that are the antagonists throughout the book series.
And they all have their motivations and they're, they're conniving and interesting
and, and all that sort of stuff.
So I like that.
I like this post too, because there's like a watered down version of it where
like, and I know we're, we're belaboring it, but this is a good time to inject it.
Like I've complained about like previous coworkers, like, oh yeah, this guy
was always late.
This guy didn't care about his job.
I think of the day, like these are people who are doing what they can.
And like, I had, I had, I might have mentioned this on the show before, but
like one of the, it was the senior guy that like never came to work and was
honestly a terrible role model.
I didn't really get along with him, like we had nothing in common.
And then shortly after he started, we started working together.
One of his cats died and he was like distraught over it.
And I was like, dude, I can relate.
And we talked about it a lot because, uh, he was dealing with it.
And, you know, um, it, and like, I remember having this kind of wake up moment
where I was like, you know what, I don't have to like like this guy.
He's, you know, I, but I get him, at least on this level.
He's just another guy who like loved his cat.
And like, I really was like, that, that, that sounds shallow, but the, the
deeper thing behind it was like, I think that's the way it is at everybody
that you're disagreeing with.
Like there are people who are just leeches and are going to be mean
like at work or something, right?
But like everybody, nobody's innately, very people are innately evil.
And I think there's always a way to like empathize with the person on a way
that you can at least connect with them.
Right.
So yeah, I won't dig into that too much, but it's, it's important for like
not, not walking around hating people, right?
Yeah.
I think, uh, Elis makes a good point that, uh, if the enemy did have
an evil disposition, that would be an argument in favor of your side.
So any argument that favors your side must be supported no matter how silly.
Soon the enemy has horns.
And if you deny any aspect of this on merely factual grounds, you are arguing
the enemy side and you are a traitor.
Merely factual grounds, which yeah, I see sometimes.
And that is very disheartening.
Yeah, very few people will understand that you aren't defending
the enemy, just defending the truth.
I've had this happen.
It's very frustrating.
Like, um, I think Steven, you have brought up people making up lies about
Trump and then you point out, like that's actually completely, actually incorrect.
Why are you defending Trump?
Some kind of Trump support.
It's like, no man, let's just point to all the real crazy shit.
Cause every time that we lie and conflate, then that's, that's, you know,
and that's specifically for this kind of example.
But like then they can point to like, Oh, see, they lied about this.
They can prove it.
Therefore I don't believe any other stuff they're saying, but you know, the
real short version is like, and this was written what, 12 years ago.
So 9-11 is a lot fresher in everybody's heads.
He mentions like the, the, the hijackers weren't like these
deranged psychopaths who just wanted to kill America because we're
beacon of freedom and their mutants who hate freedom.
They did it for what felt to them like very good reasons.
And they were, uh, like they're protecting their people.
Yeah.
And they were, they were martyrs in their minds and in the minds of their
supporters.
Like, so, but to say, could you imagine somebody going on the news on
September 15th, like, you know, a couple of days, like while the
dust is still settling and being like, look guys, they weren't monsters.
But, and I think, I think the climate of the time people are okay with
the person being dragged off camera and beaten, right?
So, yeah.
People like outright give that explanation.
They're like, yeah, well, you know, terrorists, they hate freedom.
Yeah.
