Yeah.
I don't know, maybe not myself out with this topic.
No, that's actually a good point.
Maybe part of what distress this woman and maybe I'm not giving her enough credit.
I think I have a poor mental model of her because I met her during my like at
the beginning of my cynical skeptic age and she was like an anti-vaxxer,
younger, great, like all the things, checked all the boxes.
And now that I think about it, maybe she tried, you know, maybe she prayed to her
sister every night and never heard anything back.
And maybe that was part of what made her so distressing, you know, when I put it
that way, much more humanized her, which actually is relevant to the
last long post that we're not too yet.
So, but yeah, anyway, religion is weird, man.
And sometimes people believe it all the way to the end of the bullet.
So.
To brighten up the mood, can I read like a couple of sentences from the Wikipedia
drinking the Kool-Aid article?
Oh my God, let's lighten this mood up.
Just, I just happened to see this as a point of fact regarding the phrase
itself, it is not known with certainty which of two great powdered flavor
mixes, flavor aid, Kool-Aid, or both were used to concoct the poison in
Jonestown, the commune had both among their supplies.
Most sources surmise that flavor aid was the primary flavor ingredient used.
And there are two links.
Shortly after the tragedy, manufacturers of both products addressed the matter
by pointing out whether their company's particular drink mix was or was not
used, was irrelevant.
A cyanide-laced poison have been created and used to kill people.
And there were either respective product was misused as the vehicle to do so.
That's like when Tiki had to come out with like a, we didn't know they were
going to do that with our Tiki torches thing after that Nazi rally.
That was, that was actually surprisingly entertaining for, for something
relating to mass suicide.
I've got a quick feedback, which I alluded to before, but I don't know
how to attribute this because in your email here, or in your message, it's
a private message on Patreon.
So, which actually related to an email, a couple of emails from 2017, which I
hope we replied to.
If we didn't, we suck.
I'm really sorry.
Uh, you could say we can repeat this, but you didn't say anything about your
name, so I'll leave you off the air just in case.
Um, but we had somebody write in and basically the, the summed up version,
this is from the Patreon message, quote, the summed up version is that you,
your work helped me escape Mormonism.
So you rock.
The updated version is that my wife also escaped and now we have a second child.
I also graduated with my BS in CS and got a job at Google.
So this is rationalist winning.
That's awesome.
And I think that's fantastic.
And I think I remember that email.
It was sent to the HP more podcast email.
If I recall correctly, the first one in 2017, maybe I can't get any of these
links open on my phone.
So I can't confirm, but, uh, the.
And yeah, I remember that like, it was a very heartwarming email to receive.
I thank you for sharing that.
Yeah.
And it's so cool.
It is.
And it's weird.
Like I had a conversation with somebody, um, who actually fuck it.
He's been on the show, uh, Zeke, he's the guy who got me into programming,
got me out of my last job and like now I'm on this career path that I really
enjoy my life trajectory is completely altered.
And he did it from like a 10 minute conversation.
And he sent me an email with a link to automate the boring stuff.
And I told him that like a year later and he kind of like looked at me like
kind of scared and he's like, that's kind of horrifying.
I didn't want, I don't mean to have that big of an impact.
And it's like, I thought about it.
And I think that's just what like what life is, like, you don't know what
things you're going to do that are going to ripple out and change, change things.
Right.
Yeah.
Like I'm, I'm a much heavier person.
And who knows what else I would have found if, if you hadn't got me into, into
computer science, but like, um, or into programming, not computer science, not to,
I don't want to belittle computer scientists by pretending to be one.
Um, but my, you know, I can't remember how I found the Skeptoid podcast, for example,
but I'm listening to that since it sends some of the first few dozen episodes.
And, um, like stuff from there, I found like rationally speaking at some point,
found HPMOR because Julia mentioned it in the, like what I've been reading lately
section that's like a quick throwaway.
And I think I remember distinctly, I happened to be at a stoplight or something
that was able to put that in my phone because it sounded interesting.
Oh wow.
And if I hadn't been at a stoplight or if I had stepped out of the car during
that part of the podcast, I would never have found the right, I might, I may have
taken, may have never, may have been years later, found the rationalist community,
probably wouldn't have connected with you.
Like, so the littlest things make a big difference for people.
And so I guess I'm doing all of this really to, to minimize the fact of any
grandiosity that like, I feel like I'm doing anything important.
So while I'm overjoyed that, um, that you have earned your rightful place
in the simulated future.
No, I, I, well, I'm overjoyed that our, our listeners, um, had his, had a, you
know, a positive impact from this.
Um, it's, I think it's just like things that happen.
And this is something maybe a thing to take forward.
Like, you know, if somebody, you do nice things for somebody, maybe that's
like the nice thing that turned their day around and that could turn their,
their whole life around.
Right.
I really side saw small side thing.
I know we're sidetracked.
Um, when I was leaving, I spent the first week of my new job in
Detroit, uh, training at the office there.
And on the flight back, um, at the airport, the like person shepherding
the people like us into the line to go through security was like clearly having
a really hard time and I don't know what had stressed her out.
But as soon as like the person, like the group in front of us that she
flagged along, she just like put her hands in her face and started crying.
Oh, sure.
Or wait, is it like a TSA person?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
I'm sorry, the TSA person.
And I, I walked past cause I think I was already a little pastor at this point.
And, but there wasn't like a crowd behind me.
I could have made it back and I thought about it for like the next five minutes
of like, I could still go back there and like give her a hug and I didn't.
And I felt bad or like at least offered.
You know, who knows if she'd want some stranger at the airport touching her
germs are everywhere and, you know, airports are disgusting.
But like, I could have asked like, can I give you a hug?
Um, but somebody from, you know, one of her copers came along and did something
and she, she chipped up.
I kept an eye on her, but like, uh, if, you know, who knows, if I'd been less
cowardice at that moment and you know, it helped her maybe that made her day
better or something.
But my point is, is like, do nice things for people and nice thing in,
try and put stuff out there, put positive things into the universe and positive
things happen.
It's about the most, uh,
it'd be thing you can say.
I was trying to think of who's that crack that has always cranked.
That's always on like Oprah and Deepak Chopra.
It's very Chopra s thing to say, but I mean it in a way that I hope everybody
followed over my 10 minute fucking ramble.
I think you need more quantum's in there to make it Deepak Chopra s.
Right.
Thank you.
Yes.
I gotta do quantum good things.
So who else wants feedback?
Uh, well, I can read one from economic model who I believe is actually, um,
our David guest, the anarchist economist, David, from a few episodes back.
Anyways, he says, uh, we, this is when we had the, uh, talk about his
rationalism being taken over by the alt-right or co-opted by the alt-right or
whatever, uh, David says, so here's my beef with your suggested solution.
If we start arguing with rationalizer reds, we risk becoming a wing of the blue team,
which would be a catastrophic distraction from our core project.
We can counteract this effect by equally vociferously arguing against
rationalizer in blues, anti-nuclear advocates, anti-vaccine advocates, et cetera.
But then we'll basically just be right where we are now, except we'll spend
way more time arguing with trolls and morons online instead of doing cool things
like aligning AI, uh, which first of all, I would like to interject.
Some of us enjoy arguing with trolls and morons online.
So this is a pastime, uh, but a much better solution, in my opinion, this
is him continuing, is just to cut color politics out of the Bayesian
rationalist spaces altogether.
You're allowed to be a blue or a red or a green or a yellow and be a Bayesian,
but you're to check your color at the door as best you can.
Policy discussions can be undertaken, but only with great caution
and with a grand master presiding.
They should be as much as possible but facts and not about values.
I basically agree.
It's really hard not to get caught up in this thing, though.
Like politics is the mind killer for a reason, right?
All the instincts and emotions say, Hey, let's talk about how stupid this thing is.
And I think like based on our last episode about culture, I, I actually
do think culture is important.
I just hate the culture war because it feels to be very zero sum, constantly
going back and forth and killing everything you love to stay exactly where you are.
I don't think those things are mutually exclusive.
Like culture, culture can be super important and like the current
climate of like quote, culture wars can be super unproductive and in fact,
like harmful and unhelpful, right?
So, um, and, you know, as far as leaving politics at the door and stuff,
whenever I bring stuff up, I'm always doing it in a self aware way.
And I'm hoping that like I'm not like, I don't know.
I feel like if you make it this thing that you can't talk about, then it if it's
like off the table and whatever, I mean, there have been subjects.
You know, we had an episode recently about something that was politically
climate relevant.
Well, I mean, even the UBI episode, I did appreciate the fact that we managed
to stick on UBI and not get sidetracked into his anarchism, a decent form of
government, because we could have gone on that for hours as well.
But we had a topic and it was nice to stick to it.
Yeah.
Not a thing we do often on this podcast.
Um, yeah, I think like the, I guess, I don't know.
I'm, I'm torn because you're right.
Politics is a, is a high level subject to talk about as far as like being able
to do it with rational, with any hopes of, of being rational about it.
Right.
Um, and that's why generally when I talk about it, it's mainly flippant
comments and I realized that that doesn't exactly like, that doesn't absolve me,
