So, I have some questions that we could talk about, but I'm also, I'd love for you guys
to chat.
And we also, there was some stuff left at the end of last time, so we have preferences
of course.
Well, I'd suggest that you tell us the things that would interest you.
I'll tell you a couple of areas that I'd like to go into at some point.
And then, Richard, if you have some that you do, I mean, there are two rather massive
areas of interest for me.
I mean, one clearly is this business of lateralization in life and how much you, for example, share
my belief that this is important functionally and changes effectively the experience of the
creature, the organism.
And the other is the difference between living organisms and machines, particularly in the
sense of there being complex systems that are intrinsically unpredictable, and whereas
with a machine, you can start from the ground up with the syntax of the machine and work
out its meaning at some higher level of what it's doing, you can't really do this with
an organism.
You have to sort of work from both ends, if you'd like, top down and seeing what it
is achieving and what it is seeming to drive at and from the bottom, but you can't actually
get to the full meaning of the organism by working in a mechanical way from the bottom
up.
So those would be two areas that if they're of interest to you, whether you agree or not,
I don't know, but I'd be happy to talk about those.
Great.
Yeah, that sounds that sounds excellent.
I'm Richard.
Any specific topics for you?
Many.
I've really enjoyed reading your chapters, Ian.
There are lots, lots of that material really resonated with me very strongly.
For a while, I found my my linear mind getting frustrated that you wouldn't tell me in the
right order what things that I needed to know, of course.
And then I realized that, of course, you were giving the example of spiraling around the
topic, which was just what you were.
So then I felt a little bit more at ease and that was OK.
But I would like to talk about top down, bottom up understanding.
So that resonates with what you just said about top down, bottom up understanding,
living things.
I would like to dig in a little bit on the metaphor of music.
And as you say, metaphor is the stuff of thought.
So, you know, I really think that there's something.
There's something there that that crosses new gaps that would be worth discussing.
Hmm.
And relatedly, there's stuff about.
Folding away detail to get at the general shape of things that when you look at the
detail of things, you can't see the general shape, you can't see the infinity for all
of the steps involved.
So those are the sorts of things which are on my mind, but the the leap between machines
and living things is captures a lot of that.
Would you like to say, Mike?
Yeah, no, perfect.
Let's let's do all of that.
Some of my stuff will come up while we're doing this and other things that we know I
can keep till next time.
It's fine. These are these are great.
So, yeah, I mean, maybe maybe we can start with with some of the lateralizations stuff.
And specifically, I guess, I guess one thing, one place we can start is for you,
Ian, to maybe talk about to what extent do you think the architecture is specifically
bilaterally symmetric, in other words, that you need to have exactly two things that are
tied in a particular way or and or is the is more of the magic in the specific breakdown
of the roles and how, you know, how they how what what the different functions of each
one is, because I'm very interested in something I work for left in left right asymmetry for
a long time. But I'm interested in alternative architectures, right?
So so could we have are there the cognitive systems, either synthetic that we can make
or alien, you know, or whatever, that could be in a completely different architecture,
you know, we are in a position to make animals with as many hemispheres as you want, really,
right? So we can make three, four, you can you can make you can make things. And so and so the
question is, so I'm interested in how, you know, what is the essential? What do you think is the
essential bit here? And, you know, with Richard, we had also talked about at one point, we talked
about a couple things. He can talk about this, the importance of the sort of ebb and flow of
these kinds of systems. And also, Richard, at one point, a few of this was weeks ago, you had a
really interesting comment about the computational power of having a second copy, so that you could
write. So what happens when you have sort of room to offload some things in the meantime? So
anyway, so so yeah, please, you know, go go for it. I think I think that's a good that's a good
topic. But you may or may not know that it's a theme that becomes more prominent in the matter
with things and particularly towards the second part, or I should say the second volume,
that we need things in the opposites or countries. And we need them both to maintain
their integrity as distinct from one another. And yet also to be capable of a sort of union.
So we need the principles of division and union together, so that when I think about the two
hemispheres, there's evidence that they they sometimes work together in a in a sense that we
would normally call collaborating, they're working together in the same way towards certain ends,
but they're often complimenting one another by taking different approaches. And this is
important, and that we mustn't sort of either collapse them into being versions of the same
thing, or say that they are so distinct that they don't work cooperatively, which they clearly do.
I mean, that's that also sounds like some of the stuff that, you know, Richard has been talking
about as far as alternating cycles of being soft in terms of letting letting the world imprint
on you for a while, and then coming back to push, right? Yes. Yeah, that's why I brought that up,
because I thought that that might be related to what Richard was saying. Yeah, I think that
the union and division, right, it's the if the brain were not in halves,
then you wouldn't be able to have any
differences between the two parts, right? It's important that you have differences,
because the differences between them create a hole that's worth having, right? If the
two parts were the same as each other, then you would just have double what you had before.
It's important that they're different, because by being different, they create a hole that's
more than the sum of the parts through the relation between them.
Yeah. I take your question, Mike, that did it have to be two? What if you divided it into three
parts? And I am bothered by that, because it feels like maybe you could do things
dividing into threes and not twos. Dividing into twos is the obvious way to do things,
it's like if you can't do something with one, then make a copy of it, differentiate them,
and now you can do something more than you could do with the one of them.
But there's something about the, I don't know, this is either going to sound
mad or it's going to resonate with you. There's something about the period doubling in the logistic
map that eventually exits chaos in a third. That makes me think that they're basically the
thirds are real, and it doesn't have to always be period doubling. It's natural to think of twos and
but actually, if you think about early embryonic development, never mind the asymmetry of just
the drawing and midline, that is really not well understood at all. There's a lot of what
happens after you've got sort of a left and right to have, but that first, especially in amniotes,
how it is that you divide, you've got thousands and tens of thousands of cells, and then how you
decide where that midline is is completely non-trivial. And we can interfere in that process and make
other types of, and of course there are animals with other types of symmetries, but bilateral
symmetry shows up very early on. Chirality is there even before that. But it's not super obvious how
bisect something that has lots and lots of tiny. So organisms with symmetries that are odd,
like starfish, is there a nice three-way symmetry? So if I recall correctly, the starfish are actually
not five-fold really. They're sort of bilateral with a, you know, like a Truvian man type of
thing. But there are jellyfish. The jellyfish do have true multiple and symmetries, and there are
all kinds. And they're not always, in fact, they're not always powers of two, they could be.
Yeah. Yeah. That's interesting that a lot of my creatures that I showed you the video the other
day might a lot of them look like jellyfish, right? Yeah. Yeah. Well, a couple of reflections
I just make. One is that this lateral asymmetry is present in the earliest neural network of which
we have any knowledge. 700 million years ago it has this axial asymmetry. And there's a very good
reason, I believe, why that should be the case, because of this business of the organism needing to
pay finely focused, narrowly focused targeted attention to a detail that it already requires,
and its ability simultaneously to keep the precisely opposite kind of attention
open, the broad, vigilant attention without preconception as to what it might find or what
it's interested in. So that makes a natural as it were pairing. And out of that pairing,
almost anything can come after all, through the pairings of one and zero, many, many
complex structures can be made. As soon as you've got two, you've already got potentially many
things. Because as I often say, you need both and either or. So you need the situation where
it's either or, that is an important distinction in life. But it's also important to have that as
well as the both and ability to synthesize these things. As soon as you've got that, you've already
got more than two things. You've got either and or and you've got the combination of the two
and the relationship between all three of them. And so the thing expands from there. So although it
may begin for very good evolutionary reasons as a pair, more than that, almost infinitely more
of that can emerge from it. So one could explain brain bilateral symmetry by the fact that it's
growing in an organism that already has bilateral symmetry, if we're not. But if we take the organism
itself to be fundamentally cognitive, even before it had a brain in a basal cognition sort of way,
then that's just saying bilateralism was always about cognition. And bilateral hemispheres in
brains was just a particular extension of that. And if you go right back to the origin of multi
cellularity, it's like, well, was that likely to have occurred through cell divisions, which didn't
separate? In which case two would have been a natural number. But and you know, then the
vibration that you can get between two cells, that's different from the vibration that you can get in
either one cell, because you can coordinate it. Right now, you can have them, you can have one
doing, they could just be, you know, I'll be on when you're off, right, we're the same, we're the
same period, but out of phase. I don't think there's any point in them being the same period in in phase.
If they're the same period and out of phase, and that's, you know, I'll be on when you're off,
you'll be off when I'm on. But there's also the possibility that one is doing something at
twice the frequency of the other, which is stable. But now they're doing something intrinsically
different. And it seems like, you know, it would be, it would be natural to create things which
were powers of two that way, that will do two doublings instead of one doubling. But it's also,
you know, when you do, you know, the fact that the Taylor expansion gives you a third by,
you know, one minus a half plus a quarter minus an eighth minus a sixteenth gives you a third. And
that the pattern that you have to do to do that is a just an oscillating pattern to do that.
There's, I think there's actually something really, I think it's, I think it is very
natural, Mike, that it pairs to start with. I think that that's a very, there's good reasons
for that. But I also think that there's something very interesting in considering other factors.
A couple of other things occur to me on that. One is you mentioned that chirality goes well before
life. And it does. And of course, famously, there is the weak force is chiral in its nature.
And chirality has a left-handed spiral, a right-handed spiral. I'm not sure what the spiral
would be that was the third-handed spiral. That's where all this in a way starts. And the other
thing is that in the metaphysics part of the matter with things, I spend a lot of time on the
importance of the coincidence of opposites. And much of everything that we see, it seems to be
structured on what we call opposites, because we think in this sense of them being opposite ends
of something, but they may just be the compliments of one another that you cannot have one without
the other. This is a very, very ancient insight. It is present probably in all the sophisticated
cultures that we know of. In the 19th century, it was Pasteur who said life needs asymmetry.
Symmetry it may have in places, but that's completely unimportant. It's asymmetry that
allows life to flourish. And it does so he thought because it reflected the innate asymmetry of the
cosmos. And Pierre Curie commenting 20, 30 years later said that the asymmetry of the cosmos,
not so much of life, but of the cosmos was absolutely central to its existence and persistence.
So I think this idea of asymmetry is good. And asymmetry and symmetry are repairing
that mop up. What else? What would be your third thing in there? I mean, the third thing is chaos,
actually, is simply chaos. Not everything that is not symmetrical is strictly speaking asymmetrical.
It may just be a mess. One interesting thing about the establishment of symmetry in the early
embryo, it's very easy. There are many treatments that we've discovered that confuse the left and
the right halves about which one they are. So you can get double left, double right, you can
get mirror image, that's very easy. But of all of those treatments, in every single case, except
for one, which we finally at the end discovered, but it took a long time, everything else, all it
does is it confuses which side thinks it's left and which side it's right. But all of the individual
cells within that side agree. So if you use a marker that shows you whether something's left
and right, you never see speckled, you never see every cell confused and its neighbor that has a
different option, you don't see that. You just see this way, this way, this way or this way.
But there is exactly one thing that we found that breaks the concordance. So normally you can
randomize it and you can make the left and right halves flip a coin as to which they are. But all
of the cells within each half flip the same coin with one exception. There's only one thing that
breaks that. And the thing that breaks it is a cellular alignment mechanism, literally alignment
but also metaphorically, I think alignment in a cognitive sense. But it's a planar polarity
mechanism that allows the cells to be literally aligned in the same direction, not even in left
right. It's actually an alignment in anterior or posterior. But once you break that, then you
get the speckling. And then you get individual cells that don't know what to do as opposed to
whole coherent cohesive regions that don't know what to do. So I really like that whole model as
this like way of thinking about what does it take to make cells to make a coherent individual out
of pieces that makes a collective decision, right? This sort of collective decision thinking.
What significance would you attribute to this final case that you described
with the anterior or posterior alignment but not left, right coherent?
I think the reason that I found it interesting is because
what it gets to is this question of collective decision making. So what is a collective
intelligence, right? And so which we all are in a sense. And so the question we have to answer is,
in what sense does the collective have goals, memories, whatever else that the individual
pieces don't have? How do these, right? So we are a bunch of cells, fine, but then we have
all kinds of sort of cognitive and morphological properties that the individual
parts don't have. And so that right at the beginning of embryogenesis, when
