50,000 cells have to come together to give one, one what, one embryo, one individual,
eventually one, you know, let's say in the case of humans, one human. This is a breakdown of that
collective decision making process. And we have many other examples where they all, all of the
components begin to make decisions as one. They're all synchronized. And some of that is
bioelectrical. Some of it is these planar polarity alignment mechanisms. But to me,
this is the root of the whole business. When you start with 50,000 cells and you look at it and
you say, ah, this is one embryo, right? Like what are you counting when you say it's one embryo?
Which are in a functional sense. And it doesn't have to be one because I can't recall if we
have already talked about this. But if you make little scratches in it for what you'll get is
multiple conjoined twins, because until that scratch heals, each portion doesn't know that
there's other portions around. And it basically decides I'm going to be the embryo. And then,
of course, they all do that. And then eventually they heal. So you can have twins and triplets and
whatnot. And so this issue of how many individuals, how many humans are in any one embryo is not
fixed by the genetics. It's not fixed by the physics. It's a kind of an outcome in softwares,
so to speak, because it could be zero, one, two, three, five. It could be some number.
It's a really perfect example of the top down and the bottom up involved there, right?
If you think of where is the embryo and how many embryos there are as a question that you can
answer bottom up, then it's, well, these are the parts. So that must make one embryo.
But the fact that the whole becomes divided into two parts, that's a macro scale phenomenon
that top down, organizes the parts to orchestrate them to make a whole.
Yeah. And then, of course, we have cases that are sort of partial, right? So sometimes they're
separate and you can make twins that are completely separate, but you can also make
ones like this that overlap. And there are even human, well, you can make them in any
orientation, but there are human cases, of course, too, right? Where we've got two bodies
and kind of the brain is fused or vice versa. They're all sorts of possibilities.
Did I ask you already whether conjoined twins ever join at parts which are not homologous?
Yes. You can.
What was the answer?
There are. That can happen. Yeah, that can happen.
But presumably the conjoining is much more superficial in that case, right? That it just,
if I make a conjoined twin, the joint between the head and the foot, then it's only actually
integrated at the skin or something. No, it goes pretty deep. So there are, I mean, it can,
you know, you can have this kind of scenario where out of the middle of one embryo starts
basically sprouting another one. And at the connection, it's nuts. I mean, they're connected
all the way through. You can make almost anything. And then, of course, these things
occur naturally too. But we can make, especially in something like the chicken, where it's very
easy to kind of manipulate all the parts you can make almost anything.
So I don't know if this is a little bit too nitty gritty, but whilst you were talking about that,
I was thinking about Ian's suggestion of opposites and chaos. And I've still got the
logistic map in mind. Do you mind if I share my screen to point out something in the logistic
map that I showed? Go for it. Mike before, but I didn't show Ian. So in the logistic map here,
you have this first doubling and then another doubling and then another doubling and then
pretty soon it turns into chaos. And it's like, are we up or are we down? And so on this path,
we're up. And on this path, we're up. And on this path, we're up on this path, we're up down.
Whereas this one is down up and this one is down down. So this line going up here,
all the way up here is the up, up, up, up, up, up, up line. And this one going down here is the down,
down, down, down, down, down, down, down line. How come this period doubling ever ends up at this
period three? Because there is no power of two that ends up in dividing into thirds,
this resonance which happens much later on. But as you can see, there's a little sort of trail of
dust, a little bit of higher density stuff happening here that corresponds with the
point of the third. What's that trail of dust there? Well, that's the I go down, I go up,
I go down, I go up, I go down, I go up, I go down, I go up, I go down, I go up, I go down,
I go up, down, I go up. So plus a half, minus a quarter, plus an eighth, minus a 16th, plus a
32nd, minus a 64th. Look at that. It's a third. It gives you the period of the third.
Another way of thinking about this, reflecting upon what Ian just said about, well, there's a thing
and it's opposite, is that in addition to one and minus one, there is also zero. Zero is the
unstable thing that you get with a perfect blend of this much minus one and this much one, this much
minus a half and this much half, this much minus a quarter and that much eighth. And that comes out
at zero, which enables you to have three things instead of two things. Instead of the everything
up position and the everything down position, there's the exactly canceled out position in the
middle. That's the only way to get thirds out of period doubling.
And why does the top part of the graph not produce the mirror image third thing that goes on in the
bottom part of the graph? That's a good question. So there's a third thing happening here, which
lines up with the fifth. Is that one, two, three, four, five? Yeah. Oh, sorry, I'm pointing with
my finger instead of the max pointer. It lines up with there, right? It gives you the other
resonant frequency here. And here we have one that this one is canceling out to give you
half of a fourth. This one is canceling out to give you another half of a fourth.
And together they give you a period four. So there's the canceling out on the top one, which comes
first, because it's more squashed. And the canceling out on the bottom one, which comes
second, because it's less squashed. And when you have one without the other, you have thirds.
And, you know, if you if you if you take a naive view where you insist on opposites,
you say, well, is it a or is it not a? And you say, well, that that's in the getting you get
into this region where you say, it's neither it's just a mess. It's just chaos. But there's a but
there's a null, which is, you know, first of all, you might identify that as well, it's neither a
or not a it's it's null, right? But then there's a more precise version of null, which is with the
perfect, perfect balance of being there and being not there gives you exactly zero, which is which
then takes its place as another genuine state. Now there's one and minus one and zero, three things
and not just two. I think it's a I think it's a lovely example of those paradoxes you were talking
about at the end of the chapter in where you're talking about, well, you know, I take this infinite
number of steps, but I never see the infinity. I take this infinite number of steps, but I never
catch up with the tortoise, right? I take this infinite number of steps in the period doubling.
But I never really see the third, right? But our eyes see the third, for sure, right?
Or we don't see that as some overlapping powers of two all smushed together. The resonance pops out
as the Oh, no, that's a real thing. I wonder if the question of zero, which of course, as you know,
the Greeks didn't have, but was introduced in probably the sixth, seventh century from India,
is is is not such so much a third entity, so to speak, as what happens when you allow opposites
to do exactly what I was suggesting we shouldn't do, which is to collapse. I mean, for certain
mathematical reasoning, we want them to do that. But what I'm suggesting is that in the
in the physical world, the things being asymmetrical, ultimately can, I mean, they may for certain
purposes within very confined systems appear to cancel out, but ultimately they don't. I don't
know if that's something you would agree with or not. But the cancelling out, you say at the
gross scale, it looks like, oh, they disappeared, I've got nothing now. But there's another sense
in which, wow, look at all of those, look at all of that spiraling depth that there is in order
to create, right? It's like, oh, it's gone this way, oh, it's gone that way, oh, it's gone this way.
And you know, that that takes lots and lots of depth to actually to cancel them out to then
stay at level. Oh, it's almost like it went puff in a puff of smoke, and I didn't have anything at
all. Shall we talk about the machine business?
Sure. Yeah. Do either of you know the work of Robert Rosen?
Yeah, I think he's very interesting. And he's probably written about this more clearly than
anyone that the living system has, as it were, final causes rather than just efficient causes.
In fact, a living system is not the result of a single efficient cause. Whereas a closed system
such as a machine, well, it's open in the sense that it's open to an efficient cause. But it all
can be accounted for by that efficient cause within that protected space of the machine.
Whereas in a living being, even if you were to be able to start from a known standpoint,
you'd soon run into problems of complexity where re-entrant loops occur, where decisions that
cannot be predicted are made within the system and so forth. So this seems to suggest that,
I mean, I'm cutting everything very fine here because I talked quite a bit about this, particularly
in, I suppose, chapter 12. But my view is that there are, well, and of course, in chapter 27,
where I argue that it is almost impossible to talk intelligently about life without talking about
the possibility of purpose, teleology, which Darwin was extremely keen on. Darwin said,
thank goodness, and Darwin's bulldog actually also said, the great thing that Darwin has done
is restored teleology, which as you know, J.B.S. Haldane said was like the scientist Mistress
couldn't live without her, but wasn't willing to be seen with her in public.
I think this whole thing of teleology is so important. I mean, whenever you talk to scientists
one-to-one and off the record, they say, well, of course, there are purposes and purposeful
behaviour direct. All of what we watch is directional. And yet, their force, as it were, by
almost like belonging to the same state, and there are rules, things you can say and things
you can't say, just to deny this existence. So, I mean, that's a good provocative place
to begin thinking about the differences between these systems. And I outline in chapter 12,
which is called The Science of Life, a study in left hemisphere capture, because I believe that
while physics gave up on this rather simple mechanical model a very long time ago, at least
a hundred years ago, biology has until very recently clung to this purely mechanical model.
I may be wrong, Michael, but I see you as one of the people who has been able to say, yes,
look, there's more to it than this. Yeah. So, I think we could and probably should at some point
talk about the teleology in machines and cybernetics and all that, but I 100% agree. I think teleology
is absolutely key to all of this. The one thing that one reason I don't like a sharp distinction,
and I like Robert's work a lot. What I don't like about that sharp distinction between living
things in machines is that we know now that as we really didn't in when Robert was writing this
stuff, that we can make all the transition forms. Then we end up in this weird place where we have
to try to come up with criteria. We can now make something that's basically at every level. So,
you've got molecular, a cellular tissue, organ, your swarm, you've got all these levels. At every
single level, we can introduce any percentage you want from zero to fairly high numbers of
something that you would call a machine, right? Something that was designed by humans that
maybe quite complex, maybe has unpredictable behavior. I mean, it's easy to make machines
with very difficult to predict behaviors, but nevertheless, they're designed. They're completely
different from the natural in many ways. Yeah. And then I don't know what we do after that,
because now we have something, you know, we are already there are humans that are, you know,
95% human, but there's some electronics there by which they run a wheelchair or
some prosthetic limbs or some other stuff. And then we also have these rumba vacuum cleaners
and pretty soon they'll have some, you know, some human neural cells living on board to help them
do various things. And then sort of every, but those are easy to deal with, right? Because in
this case, you say, yeah, you're just a human with some peripherals and you're just a vacuum
cleaner with some human brain cells, fine. But we can make, right? And we're going to be seeing
them, cyborgs, hybrids, we're going to be seeing all this stuff. And then I think we get into a
really difficult place where if we try to draw these hard boundaries. And we're interested in,
sorry, go on. No, please finish. Well, that's just it. No, no, yeah. I mean,
of course, there's an enormous amount one could say about all of that, but that would be another day,
perhaps. But I just wanted to make clear that I actually surprisingly don't think there is a hard
and fast difference between the living and the non living. And in fact, Robert Rosen said as much,
he said that animosity is the norm. And in animosity is an asymptotic, never achieved state
in which animosity is reduced to a minimum. But the whole cosmos is animate. And I hold
this to be the case. So what actually distinguishes them, some people would say, well, clearly,
inanimate matter doesn't have consciousness, but we think that living things do have
consciousness. And now we think that very primitive living things probably have consciousness. So
it's gone a long way down, if not to the very bottom of life. But in an earlier chapter 25,
I think, I argue that consciousness is an ontological primitive in the cosmos. And that,
in fact, matter is a state, a phase of consciousness in which it exhibits greater
stickiness, permanent resistance than consciousness, which has no matter in its form. So things persist
longer and cause the possibility of resistance. And I believe that in fact, nothing creative
can happen without an element of resistance. So this thing that matter offers is incredibly
important. So my view is that what we used to calling inanimate matter does do many of the
things very, very, very slowly and very, very, very little that living things do. And what living
things bring is not consciousness, because that's already there, but an increase in the capacity
to respond and the speed of response. So living things respond to circumstances, to whatever
it is that's around them, perhaps a billion fold faster than an inanimate matter could
possibly do, and respond to a vast range of elements that are there in the cosmos. So
responding all the time to things much faster and on a much bigger canvas than the inanimate.
So I see the difference as a matter of degree, if you like, but not that this means that there
are long phases where you can't tell, but that nonetheless, even though animacy and inanimacy
do seem very distinct, they do share important qualities. And the difference is more one of
degree than of not. Yeah, I would like to offer a refinement on that. It's so nice to be able to
have a conversation like that, and for somebody to be able to say things like that, and for us
to be nodding along, I think, and it's just like, yep, I'm on board. Yeah. Yes, it is nice,
and often unusual in science. So we could try and pinpoint the continuous difference between
living and non-living in terms of the scale of the physical scale of the capacity to respond
to the temporal scale of the capacity to respond, the richness of the capacity to respond, things
like that. I think there are reasons to suggest that there are some inanimate mechanisms that
happen at very large scales and very quickly. Supernova explosion is a very big response,
and it happens very quickly, but it's still not living. And there are other things that
happen slowly, and I'm not sure that the fast or slow and the big or small, I don't think you said
big or small, actually, I said that fast or slow, I'm not sure that that's the right. I'm not sure
that going one way makes things more living and going the other thing makes more things more
inanimate. I think it's more about the connection between the scales. Is the large scale connected
to what's going on at the small scale? Is the fast scale connected? What's going on at the slow scale?
When those things are connected, they behave organically, they behave
animately, and when those things are not connected, then they behave like hard balls in space,
whether they're big or small or fast or slow, they just behave like hard balls in space.
May I respond to that, Mike? I like that very much, and perhaps I could
clarify that what I meant was not that inanimate things can never do something fast,
like a volcano exploding, but that generally speaking, without a cataclysmic force,
there is no, there is this fast, the fastest response. I'm talking about a response to the whole
set of circumstances. So for example, there's a lump of rock in my garden, and I don't know what
it is responding to, but whatever it's responding to, perhaps wind, water, and so on, it's responding
to extremely slowly, but there is also a vole in the flower bed that is responding to everything
a billion times faster at least in a way that inanimate stuff just doesn't seem to do this.
It complex reactions to many facets, many different kinds of values, if you like, of affordances to
use that kind of language. There are many, many, many, many affordances for living creatures,
and they use them very rapidly, whereas lumps of matter tend not to. That's one thing I just
wanted to say. The other is I don't know whether, I think it's true this thing about the bridging
of the scales, but I was very interested in an observation made by Micah Bramovitz that
