I might be a brain in a vat being stimulated by electrodes.
I might be a crazy person.
I might be who the fuck knows.
I can't know any of that.
All I can know.
So the Buddhists in Descartes did the same thing.
What can I know for sure?
Primaphasia, I'm experiencing something.
But the thing that I think is I and the thing that I think something might not be what they are.
But what I know for sure is experience.
So let me explore the nature of my experience.
And so then of course the Buddhists typically do the opposite reductive move.
What's real is consciousness and the physical universe is either not real or an epiphenomena.
And because if my epistemology is to inquire into the nature of experience,
what I'm going to come up as real is experience.
And so what you end up having is epistemologies that bias ontologies and are self referential.
But on the physics side and the physicalism interpretation of physics,
you get dreadful nihilism or incongruencies.
And other than that, you get weird religious shit.
And we're just not happy with any of this.
So we just like try not to think about this too much.
And we actually can't because we have to actually address what do we want?
Why do we want it? What is worth wanting?
The addict wants stuff that makes their life suck.
And the little kid who grows up in front of the screen with a bunch of flashing lights wants it again
because they were programmed to want it.
Their sovereignty is hijacked.
What is worth wanting?
What actually creates a good life?
What does good mean?
And the fact that we didn't like the bad religious answers for these doesn't mean that we get to throw these questions out.
Completely because you end up getting the existential risk of where we're at right now,
which is we don't ask those.
We just build the tech based on who pays us.
Great.
So we all get to go extinct in a world where we have no theory of choice,
but we are choosing based on shitty theory of choice,
prima facie, game theoretic theory of choice.
And we have a theory of causation.
So we're extending our shitty choices through exponential tech.
And so another way of saying what we have to actually get right
is individual and collective choice making that doesn't suck.
And another way of saying doesn't suck is individual and collective choice making that is
omnipositive, or at least vectoring towards omnipositive.
It is omniconsiderate in terms of considering all that will affect,
realizing that it's interconnected with all these things,
and that if I act in a way to beat the other guy,
I'm engendering his enmity in my own insecurity in the future.
If I'm harming, if I'm polluting the air, I breathe the air.
And this is where we have to shift all the way down to an identity level,
which is the idea that I'm a separate thing.
You're a separate thing over there.
I can advantage myself, independent of you or even at your expense,
is just actually ontologically not a well-formed idea.
Ontologically, when I say I, I might think I,
and I've got some idea of what that means,
a set of atoms contained in a particular boundary that looks like
this guy called me, it's on my Facebook picture,
and a set of memories, whatever.
But when I think of I, I usually don't think of all the plants
on the biosphere without which I would not exist,
because there would be no atmosphere and I would be dead.
And I usually don't think about all of the soil bacteria
without which the plants wouldn't exist,
and all of the pollinators.
But I don't exist without all those.
So if I think of I without those, it's a ill-formed concept.
But when I think of that ill-formed concept,
and I think that it's a good concept, it's a real thing,
I can think about advantaging that I,
at the expense of the things that I depend on.
And that is a kind of insanity,
but it is a kind of ubiquitous insanity currently.
And so for me to make a choice for me,
I have to know what the fuck I am.
And I am not a separate thing in game theater competition with everything else.
I am ultimately interdependent with and dependent on so much other than me.
So then I say, all right, to not debase the world upon which I exist,
the foundation upon which I exist,
I start to get I am an emergent property of this whole thing.
If there weren't the bacteria and the plants and the pollinators,
there weren't the people that came before that made up the ideas that I believe
and the words that I think in and the aesthetics that I perceive through.
If there wasn't gravity and electromagnetism making the whole fucking thing possible.
If it wasn't for so much stuff that I consider other than me, I don't exist.
And so then I get, I am an emergent property of the whole
and I am both interconnected with everything and totally unique within it.
And so are you.
And as soon as I get that, I get a couple things.
Because we're totally interconnected,
I cannot advantage myself at your expense in a real way.
I only can if I haven't factored loop closure everywhere.
But the way that I harm you is going to end up being an open loop
that is going to harm the substrate of what I care about.
And when I factor all the closed loops,
we get to David bombs, the evolution of wholeness,
this whole thing, the evolution of wholeness,
the Schrodinger equation of the whole thing, right?
Evolving in its complexity.
So I can't advantage myself at your expense in a meaningful way.
And I also can't understand myself without understanding myself
through my interactions with you
and your feedback and your reflection.
So choice.
We have to have a theory of choice
that comes from a philosophy that can actually relate choice and causation
and can have a theory of causation and a theory of choice
that are intercommentable with each other, right?
It's not a made up kind of theory of choice.
And it can serve as a basis for how to make good choices
in the presence of all of the technology we have
and something we said last time when we were together is
the technology is, because it's a causal extension of our choice,
has us extending our power to be like the power of gods.
The ability to create new life forms of genetic engineering
to destroy whole life forms and species to blow things up
like nuclear bombs are bigger than Zeus's lightning bolt was depicted, right?
Like the power of gods.
If you do not get the love and wisdom and consideration of gods
as a choice making basis for that power,
you'll use that power in stupid ways that will end up causing self-destruction
on a very tiny playing field.
And if I want to make choices that are good for me
and I'm interconnected with the whole,
I have to make choices that are good for the whole.
And that means I have to understand that I'm not a separate thing
and I have to be able to progressively consider
my relationship with everything,
the impacts of my choices and be on everything
and be able to internalize the things
that would have been externalities into my choice making process
and not just at an individual level, but at a group level.
We're doing group process and this becomes the future of design
as opposed to the open loop harm externalizing method that we've had
is how do we have progressively more omniconsiderate design
that is more omnipositive,
that is a safe vessel for the level of effect that it has.
The idea of us being separate from the world,
in many ways it's modern,
because if you look at how some of the what we call primitive tribes
looked at themselves and considered themselves, it was not the same.
They considered themselves a lot more connected with everything
or just a small part of the whole.
But like you said, those tribes, a lot of them got killed
by the other tribes who considered themselves as more separate.
And so how we place our sense of agency
and where we place our sense of what is us and what is not us
actually has a very significant effect on the outcomes.
And I think that in the modern world,
a lot of people don't even realize that this sense of separation
between self and world is a construct.
But because we have certain definitions,
scientific definitions or whatever of where a body ends
and the environment begins.
But if you start deconstructing that
and you can do it through any number of things,
like just intellectually deconstructing it or in deep meditation,
looking at where your sense of self ends
and sense of the world begins, it just breaks down.
That sense of self is very strong.
And maybe it is because capacity to affect the environment
is so much higher now with technologies and all these tools
that kind of have become the extension of ourselves.
Maybe that's part of the reason why people are so attached
to their sense of self,
because they actually see the effects so strongly.
Whereas in the past, people would see the effects of nature
a lot more strongly than the effects of themselves.
I think it's strong because of the dynamic of experience and time.
You know, you don't see the direct results of your actions
coming back to you after a long time
until they become external and separate.
And then when they come back at someone else
or something else affecting you
in a way you don't want to be affected,
but you don't loop it back to your original actions.
This is something I've been thinking about quite a lot
as you've been talking, Daniel,
is the sort of natural experience that people have
and how these theories might contradict those natural experiences
even though the natural experience is incorrect.
How do we communicate these concepts in a way that
even though it can conflict with someone's day-to-day
minute-by-minute experience,
but that could cause them to think differently
and expand their identity?
But people's experience is also dictated by their concepts.
You know, like those two things affect each other
because when people have an idea about how a certain thing is,
they tend to experience it in a way that is consistent with that idea.
True.
So if we look at the tribes that had more of a,
there's a web of life and we're stranded in a view
that maybe you were mentioning a moment ago,
they had an informal theory of choice.
They might have had some moral or ethical principles.
This was not like a formal system of formalized ethics,
but they had some theory.
And they had a very weak theory of causation.
They thought diseases happened by, like, ghosts
