and obviously didn't know how to work with tech all that well and etc.
So they didn't make it through with other people that understood causation better.
And so the causation leads to physical adaptive advantage
and there's a theory of choice.
It's just a theory of choice called win out and lose games, right?
Game theory is the only theory of choice.
That theory is tapping out, right?
That theory itself leads to its own self-termination
because as the power keeps getting larger,
it becomes more than you can keep winning at all.
We said this before that win, lose eventually becomes lose, lose,
omnilose lose when you have levels of war that nobody can win.
When you have tragedy of the commons that are completely ruined commons,
when you have those types of dynamics,
when you have an information ecology that's so broken from the incentive
and form that nobody has any idea what the fuck is true.
So you either figure out how to create omniline win-win
as a new solution against win-lose other than win-lose,
or you get omnilose lose as the inevitable byproduct of trying to keep win-lose.
And it's funny because there's this very mythopoetic way of thinking
about what we're talking about that is otherwise a very kind of just technically clear thing.
We said scaling to get the power of gods,
we have to have love and wisdom of gods.
Similarly, we say we either create omniline win-win or we get omnilose lose.
It sounds a lot like heaven or hell on the other side of purgatory
and we got some hard choices to make.
And we might even ask if maybe those stories were metaphors for seeing,
hey, we're making choices that we kept getting more powerful that this would be problematic.
And not just the heaven and hell and purgatory story,
but that we're in the Kali Yuga and Sat Yuga is the next phase.
There's a lot of these stories that in a Joseph Campbell-like way,
we can say like, oh, that's actually a very interesting way to think about where we're at right now.
But we can't depend on Jesus to come back and solve it
or aliens to come fix it for us or a fifth dimensional light ray from the galactic center
or whatever it is.
We have to actually become that Jesus for those aliens.
We have to actually become a being that has the right capacity to make the right choices
and do the right sense making and the right choice making.
So it is true that a being that's a shit ton more effective at good choice making
needs to come to all these things and the types of beings we've been.
It's just we have to become them.
And with regard to Mike, your question on what experiences are natural,
obviously it's natural for me to think in English, not Mandarin.
But if I grew up in China, I would think in Mandarin and that would be natural.
And because I think in English, I have certain constructs of thought linguistically
that are related to the syntax of English that if I thought in Mandarin would be different.
My aesthetic would be different.
And if I grew up in the plains with the Sioux Indians,
what would be natural to me would be different.
And my identity, ethics, aesthetics, et cetera.
So this is very conditioned.
Now in the modern world where we experience ubiquitously feeling separate,
we also experience ubiquitously feeling alone and lonely, not just alone, but lonely.
And we can see that loneliness as a major source of depression, anxiety,
and ultimately even suicidal impulse is pretty much ubiquitous in the developed world.
We say, is that a natural experience?
Well, it's certainly an ubiquitously conditioned one.
Was there ever a person in an indigenous tribe throughout the history,
two and a half million years of hominid history or 250,000 years of homo sapien history that felt lonely?
Not that much.
You live in a tribe with 150 people that know every fucking thing about you
and that you've known forever and that you can fully depend on.
You know everything about them and you've got no secrets.
And lonely is not really a thing, right?
And separate from them is not really a thing.
And so we say natural, I think what you mean is conditioned ubiquitously.
So then we have to say, all right, so humans are more susceptible to being conditioned by their environment than most creatures.
Obviously, a dog that grows up in the wild or captivity is going to be different,
but we're even more susceptible because, and this is a really important thing to understand about sapiens,
the gorilla or the chimp that's close to us can grab onto its mom's fur in the first five minutes while she moves around.
And we can't even move our head for three months.
And a horse is going to get up and walk in 20 minutes and it takes us a year.
And just to have a real sense, like do the calculation,
how many 20 minutes fit into a year to get how many multiples it takes us to be adaptive in the most simple way?
And we're like, wow, we are embryos for an extraordinarily long period of time.
We are helpless for an extraordinarily long period of time.
Why is that?
Well, because the horse comes kind of pre-programmed how to be a horse.
It's going to be a horse pretty much the same from generation to generation in the wild.
And so it coming pre-programmed works because it adapted to fit its environment.
And so then it can hold the code of how to be adaptive in relationship to its environment.
But it used to be really adaptive to throw spears and probably none of us are all that good at throwing spears
and we're pretty adaptive because we like text and podcasts and shit that they didn't do
because what's adaptive for us changes pretty rapidly.
Because unlike the other creatures that are the product of their environment,
we are, as tool-evolvers, creatures that not only go and exploit every niche,
grillas didn't leave and go find islands and be in the water and go to the Arctic and shit, right?
Like they adapted to a niche.
We went and found every niche.
And then we made new niches, right?
We made cities and tree houses and all kinds of shit.
As a result, we had to learn how to adapt to the new world that we were in
and we were going to keep creating new worlds, finding and creating new worlds.
So as babies were born pretty much open to just start imprinting what world am I in
and how do I not have a genetic program to do this,
but how do I connectomically program to be able to do this?
But it's not just in childhood because we can change stuff so fast
that the whole tribe might get up and leave and go somewhere else
where we went from gathering to farming or to hunting, right?
Like something super different.
This is why we need adult neuroplasticity
to be able to change our kind of basal orientation even later in life.
And so we are radically affected by our environments and it's part of our adaptive advantage
and we are mostly affected by our social environments
by what the other people around us are paying attention to and doing
and what the nature of the relationships are like.
You'll notice that mostly now people live in nuclear family homes on their own,
don't interact with other people all that much and then they spend all their time
addictively looking at other people on screens.
They watch TV and they watch people and then they go to Facebook and they look at people
and they read news articles about people.
They're fucking fascinated by people but then we're conditioned currently
to both suck at interacting with people.
Capitalism has largely been a way of not needing each other directly
and being able to indirectly intermediate needing each other through money, right?
So the money can just buy whatever I need so I don't actually have to have friends.
I'm on neighbors or give a shit about anybody or have anyone give a shit about me.
And that seems really convenient and everybody is in a crisis of loneliness at home
looking at people hoping that they're getting likes which are not real relationships.
This is basically sugar rather than nutrients.
This is porn rather than a real relationship.
This is a hypernormal stimuli having co-opted real stimuli
but also having desensitized us to real stimuli while being comprehensively bad for us.
So when you ask how could people have a different experience
realizing that we are conditioned by our environment to think in words of a certain language
to experience in a certain way, I could say lots of things that won't matter.
I could say go spend more time in nature but nobody will do it.
We both know that people listen to podcasts, nobody will do it maybe one time
and then their life is busy and they will be the product of their environment again very largely.
And because the relationship with us here was a tiny part of all of the relationships that we're influencing.
And so I could say go spend time in nature and I could say have some good psychedelic journeys
and do this kind of breath work and contemplate that the atoms that make up your body were plants not that long ago.
But there would just be nice words to say that wouldn't end up affecting people that much.
If you want to ask how could people really change their experience
only thing I can say that is statistically really going to work is immerse yourself in an environment
that makes that likely around people that are doing that.
So if you went and lived as a tribe for a while on the Amazon, you go live with the Ochoa or something
you will experience the world differently before a couple weeks passes.
You will start hearing things in a different way, experiencing yourself in a different way,
feeling a connection to people in a different way.
And if you even change the group of people you're hanging out around and what they're motivated by
and what they think about and you change the quality of your relationships with them,
you will end up changing the basis of what seems like natural experience to you.
All right, that was part two of our interview with Daniel Schmockenberger
on the generator function of existential risks.
To listen to part one and part three and get all the links and show notes,
go to futurethinkers.org slash 57.
And to check out our sponsor, Qualia, go to futurethinkers.org slash brain hack.
If you're new to the show and you like a list of our top episodes and resources,
go to futurethinkers.org slash start.
If you want to sponsor our show, go to futurethinkers.org slash sponsor.
If you like our podcast, leave us a rating and a review on iTunes and elsewhere.
It helps others find the show and we really appreciate it.
Thanks for listening and we'll see you in the next episode. Bye!
