I can't remember the exact word that he used, but something to that effect.
I was wondering whether you have a definition of wisdom to accompany the definition of knowledge,
or is wisdom just another version of knowledge in your understanding?
I use the term knowledge like the definition I gave you and all the other definitions I've ever tried.
Try to encompass every kind of information that has this special property that is problem solving or whatever.
So wisdom in the terminology I use, wisdom is a kind of knowledge.
What's more, the different kinds of knowledge, like knowledge of physics, morality, politics, art, and wisdom,
they're not entirely separate. These are only approximate classifications.
And they exist, as again, as Papa said, they exist mainly as a convenience for university administrators,
as a convenience for deciding which building different kinds of people should have their offices in,
and which ones should have which lectures.
They don't represent anything real, at least the distinction between them is very, very unsharp.
And again, Papa said there's no such thing as subjects, there's only such a thing as problems.
So if someone asks you, what subject are you a doctoral?
You should say, never mind that, here's the problem I'm working on.
You decide for yourself what to call the subject.
Can I ask you a question which is a little bit off topic?
I can't resist because you just said that you're a posterior.
And so what I wanted to ask you is, what it would take in your view to falsify and break in your quantum mechanics?
There are several experiments known, I think I invented the first one,
that would distinguish Everettian quantum mechanics from a range of competitor interpretations,
including everything that has a collapse of the weight function.
So there's a possible experiment which would go one way if the weight function collapses,
and the other way, if the weight function, including the observer, doesn't collapse.
So if that went the other way, I would drop it like stone.
Can you briefly tell us, give us an example of that sort of experiment?
Well, the experiment depends on precisely which other interpretations you want to refute.
There isn't an experiment that would refute all of them in one go.
You have to specify something like Penrose's idea that the weight function collapses
when you get more than 10 to the minus 8 kilograms on either side of the superposition, something like that.
Or that the weight function collapses when it hits a conscious observer.
So supposing you're testing Everett against the theory that the weight function collapses when it hits a conscious observer,
then what you do is you make a conscious observer, which the most convenient way to do that would be to make an AGI running on a quantum computer.
You then do an interference experiment where two different trajectories of the computation
take place inside the computer's memory that the AGI has access to.
You're still with me.
When it's halfway through and hasn't yet interfered, in other words, it's in a Mark's Ender interferometer.
It would be just having bounced off the mirrors and not yet reach the final interference mirror.
Then the AGI measures which mirror it is at and then makes a permanent record of the form,
I have now done the measurement and I have got a result and it is one and only one of left or right.
I'm not going to reveal which, but I do certify that it is one of those two.
Then that part is sealed off, the part where the declaration is sealed off,
and the rest is subjected to minus the Hamiltonian that it had during its thinking
and all the memory of which of the two things it was conscious of happened is wiped out.
Then the interference is performed.
If hitting the conscious observer causes a collapse of the wave function,
then you will get a 50-50 split of the two outcomes.
If the average interpretation is true, then you'll get only one of the two.
I don't know if that was comprehensible.
It was probably comprehensible.
I'm a little bit worried that I know how some of these arguments go
when performance of different versions of quantum physics.
I'm a little bit worried that you might have something which might refute the Penrose view satisfactorily from a Popperian view.
I mean, Penrose would be predicting something which is not predicted by standard quantum theory.
But that's not the challenge from your point of view.
The challenge is to find something which would differentiate between standard quantum physics.
This would for anybody who thinks that the wave function is collapsed by a conscious observer
and this AGI is a conscious observer.
Now, if you think it isn't, then from my point of view, I'll let you and it decide, hammer that out amongst yourselves.
If you insist on it being a human and on coherent quantum computations being performed on a human brain,
then we're going to have to wait for some thousands of years, I guess, before that is feasible.
But in principle, it's certainly feasible.
How would you do it against Bohmians?
Bohm is a different category.
In my view, Bohmian quantum mechanics is just ever quantum mechanics in a state of chronic denial.
The trouble is with the Bohm interpretation that it doesn't meet its own motivation.
It has this pilot wave, which is actually the wave function,
and it has a representative particle which moves along the grooves in the wave function.
To be a Bohmian, you have to systematically equivocate on the question,
is the pilot wave real?
If it's real, then it has grooves that are performing computations in principle conscious observer computations
which affect each other.
You can't say that some of the pilot wave doesn't exist.
The whole of it has to exist.
Therefore, the multiplicity of the average interpretation is just there in the pilot wave interpretation.
If you say that it doesn't exist, then you're saying that something that doesn't exist
affects something that does, which simply doesn't make sense.
It would be quite interesting to pursue this further.
I know, and I'm sure you can too, what some of your Bohmian opponents would say in reply,
but that's just getting a little bit far away from the topic of this afternoon's discussion.
Raising the multiverse does, I think, pertain to the discussion,
because David at one point, I think it's in one of the Edge.org interviews,
you raised the possibility that I think you said that the hard problem of consciousness
could possibly not be resolved except if you start from the premise of a multiverse.
I don't know about start from the premise, but obviously it's always possible
you're going to run into trouble if you base your ontology on something that isn't true.
For example, if you're going to say that free will can't happen
because only one trajectory is allowed by either Newtonian physics
or by Copenhagen interpretation or whatever,
then you're going to conclude that free will doesn't exist from a false premise.
If you replace that by the true premise that quantum theory is true,
then in this case it's not so much that quantum theory has helped you to solve the hard problem.
It has removed the impediment to solving.
It still doesn't tell you what free will is or what qualia are or whatever,
but it's removed the knockdown argument that, for example, free will can't exist.
Qualia can't be different from anything else unless electrons also have them and so on.
So you knock out a bunch of false arguments.
As generically happens, if you have a fixed false theory
that you're unwilling to replace or criticize,
then rather like sticking down the piece of a jigsaw puzzle in the wrong place and gluing it down,
that will produce errors in the picture arbitrarily far away from the piece you've glued down.
It may look fine near the piece and then you won't be able to construct the picture.
So this is why the pursuit of truth is useful for one reason.
So in terms of the multiverse then, how would you talk about the connection
to the issue regarding what distinguishes AGI from AI?
Because when you've written the articles, you've talked about in paparian terms
the capacity to conjecture, which you've referred to sometimes as creativity.
Those are widespread conventional terms,
but is there some way to kind of sharpen those terms in relationship to
how the multiverse could eliminate many?
Well, so I don't think that quantum computers will be needed to make an AGI.
I could be wrong, but I don't think that's the kind of problem it is.
So therefore I think that a creative program could be made on a deterministic class computer,
although I must say immediately that calling that such computer deterministic
when it's an AGI somewhat misses the point because AGI is going to be interacting with the world.
And the world is not going to be deterministic because among other things it's quantum.
So if creativity depends on some kind of randomness, randomness is everywhere
and that would be true whether it's classical or not.
I can't resist asking David whether, as I believe in the multiverse,
you take any comfort at all in the context of thinking about these existential questions
from the thought that each family reaching to re-earn has at least some probability
that we're going to hit a black hole.
I don't because that sort of thing.
So again, I don't think that probability is the right way to think about the growth of knowledge.
And so this knowledge is not the right one to think about.
Perhaps it's better to think about being run over crossing the road
or better going to a casino and debating.
And so there will be, if you play your cards right, you can arrange it
so that there will always be some worlds in which you come out a multimillionaire.
So now I think that the trouble with drawing profound conclusions from this
is that one thing we do know about probability is that if the average interpretation is true,
then when one is analyzing a situation of randomness,
the right analysis is the classical one.
So it's a bit boring.
I know your views on that.
I was just wondering whether at a sort of psychological level,
when you sort of step back and think about these existential problems,
how can you not be struck by the thought that if the multiverse is right,
then it seems almost inevitable that there are some branches in which humanity
or some evolution of humanity survives as far as we know.
I would try not to let my psychological approach to an event
come into conflict between what I know is there.
So I might have an objection to eating a sweet in the form of a tarantula.
But then I say to myself, no, this isn't a tarantula.
This is just a piece of candy and I'm going to eat it.
And you say, well, yeah, but still, what do you feel about it?
Well, what I feel about it that's different from the right answer is not very interesting.
That's just ways in which I can be wrong.
And speaking of slightly off topic questions.
So in your last question you said, the question you said is the last question was,
are the ways all your way to computation, creativity or free will,
risk to probability, morality to epistemology, all the same question.
I was wondering if you might be able to elaborate on that.
Well, since it's the last question you see,
I allow myself the luxury of talking about things I don't know.
And these are three things that I don't know that they could go either way.
So, for example, is morality reducible to epistemology?
Well, if it isn't, what on earth can morality be?
Are there moral axioms that are uncriticizable?
That would be authoritarian.
So, on the other hand, if morality...
And that problem wouldn't arise if it was epistemology
because we already know how to frame epistemology
without requiring foundation, without requiring authority and thanks to Paul.
We know that.
But then I can ask myself, what if the laws of physics were different,
like the ones I mentioned with the Greek gods and the malevolence.
Suppose there were malevolence and the laws of physics really did have it in for us and so on.
Would that change morality?
Could we say, like at the moment we say that if something is a property of the laws of physics,
it doesn't have a moral value, pro or con.
But in such a...
Am I right in thinking that those kinds of laws of physics are immoral?
Or does that not make sense?
And I don't know.
So that's the kind of thing there.
And I'm also wondering in that question,
whether there is a connection between that and the question that the gentleman who's in our left asked
about whether consciousness and free will and qualia and moral value and all of that stuff
all come together necessarily?
Or can they be separate?
Or can they be made separate?
Up to now in the universe, they've always come together,
but we could artificially make them separate in an AGI.
Again, I think that can't be so,
but I can't give you a watertight argument why it isn't so.
We have to wait.
In all these cases, we have to wait till somebody comes up with the viable theory of these things.
I'm always a bit perturbed when people have strong feelings about things like free will, moral value.
Is it moral to kill animals, eat animals?
Are animals conscious?
All those things.
They do not know what consciousness is.
None of us do.
It's five o'clock.
I think we should end it now.
Thank you, David.
Okay, well, thank you.
Thank you all.
