to summation to every single point in space. Your problem, basically, can be framed with
real degree of freedom. Because the symmetry does not change the system, whether your system
where your system is in the, for example, clockwork rotation, it is not important. It does not
change the dynamics. This real degree of freedom we call a gauge parameter.
The core feature of gauge theory is to take the geometry of that problem and make it into a physical
force. When I say gauge parameter, you should see in the screen, non-trivial z over 2z
possible bundle of a circle, which means basically that if you have a circle, it has two stages.
When you are over it, you can be either on top or down. You can't know where it is. This is
not quite the graph freedom because you have only two choices. To get to the graph freedom,
you have to get a continuous space of choices. But this is basically what we mean by a gauge
parameter. It is a geometric property of your system that you know mathematically exists,
but that cannot possibly be observed or, how to say, corresponds to a choice in
how you observe your system. So this is why we talk of gauge, because this is a choice in
how we understand the system. I will not get into the details of this here.
The thing is that because of its redundancy, the gauge parameter does not have to be the same
in a specific trajectory at any given point in space. From that, you get curvature. Curvature,
if you are anywhere near physics, and you know...
Aval. Okay, last thing we heard was if you're anywhere in physics.
So about relativity theory, you will know that curvature to the naive embedding space.
So if you know vaguely about relativity theory, you know that, yes.
Sorry, just if you're anywhere in physics, I then continue from there.
Yes. So if you are vaguely familiar with relativity theory, you know that the
curvature in a space, it corresponds to forces. So in relativity theory, the curvature of space
time, it corresponds to the gravity force. And generally in physics, the curvature in other
weirder gauge spaces translates in the other mental forces. So weak force, strong force,
and electromagnetism. So, yes, just stating that there is a space which has a gauge parameter in
it, and this space has a curvature. It entails that you have a force that emerges over the,
let us say, natural framing of the problem. And this speaks very closely to active inference.
So active inference can be framed as a consequence of a formal result that is called the Franjie
principle. Let us write a demical system, stochastic, which means that it has noise in it,
and which can be partitioned between an agent A and a boundary, sorry, an environment E and a
boundary B, such that the distribution of the agent and the environment are independent from
each other, given the distribution of the boundary B, which kind of means that an information
in E that is relevant in A and vice versa has to be in B, but doesn't quite mean that.
But it's very close. Then you have an information geometry, which is like
geometrical construct, where each point in the agent corresponds to a distribution of belief
over the space of external states. And because of this information geometry,
each possible internal state of the agent, it entails implicitly a belief over external states.
So this means that given the condition of partitionability, I can write Bayesian belief
over my environment as a simple geometrical property of the space we are working in.
And as I just said, when you have a geometry and it's curved, you get forces. And so
the FEP can straightforwardly be framed as a gauge theory, where the symmetry is in
sensor entropy technically, but let us say the space of belief I am evolving in directly
constrain my action in a specific manner to constrain Bayesian coherence between what I
expect to be the case and what I experience to be the case. And so, straightforwardly,
this grounds active inference because like what I just said is what I said to explain
active inference up to some technical words that were added in. But yes, this result entails
predictive processing and predictive control of behavior of the agent.
And to some extent, it proves the possibility of this existing in bare
dynamical system theory. But I do not think that the FEP can possibly represent enculturation.
So when I talk of a dynamical system, this is a system with dynamics in it, you are.
I think you understand that. I do not think you necessarily understand the formalism that
we imply by it. A dynamical system is a flow function phi, a time parameter t and a state space
x. So what that means is that to find a dynamical system, I have to write a space,
let us say I do not know, just the Euclidean space with three dimension. I have to specify time,
which is naturally in the Euclidean space, what we think of as time. And I have to specify a specific
way in which my system will move in space in a given step of time. So phi gives from any position
in any time slot where the system will be, if it starts from this position after the specific
time duration. This is what the dynamical system is. But if you have noticed this, this entails that
I define preemptively all other space of possibilities of my system. If I have a system that is,
you know, an open-ended system of constraints that can build new stuff, that can build language,
that can build accounting, whatever, new states. This does not go. Maybe you say we could reconstruct
a minimal version of new stuff happening by working... Sorry, I will ask him again.
Avel, again, repeat the last 30 seconds.
But your audio is still not there. It's like a 30 to 40 second period where your audio just
doesn't transmit. None of us can hear it. But the internet is fine.
Working over the dynamics of the system per se, the dynamical system theory. So you can do that,
so fine. Yeah, continue. Yep, continue. Okay.
So the dynamical system can be written as a flow function phi over a state space x and a time
parameter t. When you specify x, you specify the total space of possibility of the system.
So if you have a system that has open-ended evolution in it,
well, you cannot work with a fixed state space. You could maybe circumvent the issue by
implicitly having new things happen from a change in the dynamics of the system.
But in the dynamical system theory, the dynamics are pre-given through the flow function phi.
The dynamical system theory system is a specific deterministic flow. So you can change the flow
through time. So you can't model the construction of new constraints. And you can't model the
emergence of new parameters that affect causality of the system. So the FEP in and of itself cannot
present the creative evolution of either cognitive kinds such as money, shares, or constraints.
And this is where we have to get in weirder spaces formally to get something that looks
like it could model open-ended evolution. Although I cannot say definitively it can
because we didn't yet. By construction, when we work with set theory, which is the basic theory
of mathematics, which is about specific objects that are predefined, we can't have what Kaufmann
calls adjacent possible, which correspond to new evolutionary possibilities that are brought about
by the evolution of an evolutionary system like living systems. Simply set theory forces you to
define all of the possibilities at step one of the modeling process. So you can't have your system
that builds new possibilities through its activity. This is not a coherent concept in set theory.
However, what we can do is to look at rather than set theory at a category theory, which is,
let us say, another approach to mathematics, which looks not at specific objects and their
relationships through functions, but of specific spaces and their relationships to
factors. And this changing approach basically does not entail at least not a theory that when
you write a system, you have to write all of the possibilities that are within the system
preemptively. You can write a space and then look at the relationship between the space and
other adjacent spaces that could correspond to adjacent possible. And one thing that is
related to that, at least in spirit, is I won't get into the detail, but formal approaches that
allow you to build quantum state spaces from the property of quantum observation rather than the
opposite. So simply speaking, we can look at the problem of how cognition brings about new
possible, not as a space of possibilities in which there is a flow, but as a set of spaces
in which specific events such as observations, such as enculturation, such as invention of new
concepts can bring about new spaces. And when we rewrite active inference in the language of
category theory, we get things that are, that do not coincide the same thing as chemical system
theory, like actual active inference, actual friendly principle. But we get things that are
very, very complicated. So the diagram that you see on the bottom left of the screen is a cone
con diagram. I could tell you what a cone con diagram is, but I don't know, so I could not explain.
That is meant to present the alignment in reverse frame or the mutuality inference
between two subsystems. So again, formally, we have no reason to believe this Kant model of an
evolution, but also given the level of effectiveness of the math, we have very, very few grip with
which to understand what we're looking at and how this relates to specific cognitive and cultural
processes. So there is a lot of progress to be made in that direction before we have a self-standing
theory of an endic cultural evolution. And the basic handle of social constraints, I think,
is a good bridge between the very concrete, very simple chemical system theory and the very abstract
problem of many the evolution. So let us wrap this up here and try to take out a few snippets
of actionable information that was included in the talk. First, agents, by nature, they engage
with the world, with their world as a cognitive landscape that is defined by the modalities
by which they perceive the world, that is defined by the intrinsic motivity that the
agent experience, and that is... Again, sorry, just go back 22 seconds.
But still, the audio is not ready yet, but it's okay. We'll breathe before we jump into the conclusion.
Okay.
I still don't hear you.
Okay.
No.
Okay.
We can do the slide game where someone else presents the slide.
Any volunteers? Okay. Yeah, I heard that.
Okay, cool. Can you continue now? Okay, we'll try to go fast because this is not agreeable.
So one, agents engage with the world as a cognitive landscape which is defined by
affordances or minimal representation of the action that are possible in the landscape
and the normativity that's embedded in the possibility of the action.
Two, the fact that humans collectively enact a relatively coherent spiritual landscape,
it entails that we have social constraints over collective behavior and the existence
of those social constraints. They enable or do not necessitate the emergence of high-scale
agencies such as institution, organization, and maybe godlike beings.
And last, the remix of constraints, they entail a duality between the creation of meanings,
so the way we humans create a way to understand the world and the construction of physical
possibilities, possibles, in the sense specific concrete, causally relevant possibilities
that characterize specific social cultural organizations and maybe like physical version
practices, but just don't worry about it. And all of it is embedded in this diagram. The engagement
and the duality with a system of constraints that produce itself in an independent manner.
So a claim that I'm making on the record here is that if we understand
correctly every arrow in this diagram, we understand cultural evolution, we understand
what human are and we understand the evolution in the cultural world.
And here I'll go through the slides in case someone needs a reference and has no time to,
you know, go through a video to find the reference. So thank you and sorry about the audio thing.
Did this go well?
Yes, it gave some much needed silences, so it was all good. Cool. Well,
first Mao or Maria, if you would like to give any comments or reflections, otherwise we can
go to a few topics and then talk about how we want to conclude with a course.
But first Mao or Maria, do you want to say or ask anything?
No, I mean, this was a great summary. I think you covered a lot of grounds.
I think ideally I would have liked to see
how much we can do with gauge theory and how this can potentially link us to
understandings of power, I think. That would be interesting.
Cool. Thank you, Maria. All right. See you, Maria. Okay. Anyone live chat can ask a question or
let's first address the course question while people are writing questions live chat. So
what do you see for the coming weeks as we kind of conclude this first round?
So you're asking me, right? So for reasons I do not understand and Daniela does not understand,
no one came up at the Mao discussion session. So I thought it would be interesting to
like push the presentation for the last session to have everyone sign the things
of feedback and have the current thing to move on from. The question is whether you
feel there is a need for discussion that is specific for the session we have just now
because lots of things were covered, lots of audio problems were existing. And basically
the two options are either next session is everyone presents, we give you feedback,
ciao. Or we have a discussion session. So at the time that was initially planned for the
conclusion. And then we have yet another session that will be the conclusion. You will make a
presentation and you will get the feedback. So we'd like to know which is your preference
because both are very possible in my book. But it doesn't show anything to me. So what you want is
Yeah, Mao also open to your thoughts. And of course, we're sharing it so that people can
write in live chat or let us know in the coming days what they prefer. I'm down for a discussion
of what we covered here. The slides being linked and going into some of these next steps and then
a form based registration for a presentation only session. So that we'll then know exactly
who wants to present what and we'll then we can ask how many minutes they want to do or something
like that. But Mao. Yeah, I think it would be good to get people who are interested in getting more
active to come and make a small presentation, explain what they understood, describe the
highlights for them, and potentially link it to some topic in social sciences we may not have
covered here. But that they now see through a different lens, I think that would be interesting.
Okay. All right, I will look through the live chat while I was getting some water,
then we'll ask any questions that people come up with.
Is there ever symmetric information between or among social entities?
Or maybe from the script perspective, Mao, or from the, or however you see it in relation
with the constraints. I mean, what about asymmetric constraints?
I'm not sure I understand the question. Can the person give a little more
detail in terms of the question? Okay. I have a little back, but there was a question in the chat
about our inf, can information ever be symmetric? You talked about symmetries.
So are those symmetries in the information that to social entities have? Or are they in the
constraints that entities experience? But what are the symmetries and what are the breaks?
I would say that depending which space you model the problem, like as an information, it entails
symmetry because it has to be readable. So you have to be a conservation between context or time
of something that is considered to be the content of the information bearing thing.
But also it is a symmetry breaking because if you take any presentation format, let us say binary,
a random string means nothing, and you have to break the symmetry of the uniform expression
to say something. So it depends very heavily on how specifically you are modeling the problem.
But for fundamental reasons, any mathematical representation, it depends on the implicit
model of the symmetries of the system because you want to present things that do not matter,
but you have to present things that do matter. And then you have a very
uncomfortable amount of freedom over how you want to present any single thing.
Certainly this comes up in learning active inference and in talking about it, like what
you described, how many ways there are to model a given thing, which is related to which symmetries
are preserved, as you mentioned. So how do we reckon with that space and with the different
ways of representing the same social setting? So a reason why I'm not quite comfortable with the
notion of information is that in all possible settings where I define quantum information
theory as not possible, because very few people have already think about it, information will
