And you can have a very big emotional ritual where you learn like
cries and become extremely embedded in the group membership and you can be extremely
supportive of group members while being extremely like aggressive to anything that
go away from group identity and when you produce these environments and people and go
in this environment for a long time, they tend to develop this group identity.
So when you tell them the big leader tells you to give us 2,000 euros, sorry,
20,000 euros for your ancestors not to go to hell. That seems reasonable. That seems like a
reasonable ask which it would not unless you had a very tight control over the social environment
of someone because then it's not just giving money in exchange for good. This is about upholding
your self-identity as someone who follows and believes the cult teaching. So and yet again
this is something that is formalized directly in terms of through constraints because this is about
what you can and cannot do in a given through context. This is not about like abstract belief,
it's not about brain control, it's not about anything but what you can and cannot do in a given
social context. All right, there was a ton there. Let me let me kind of retrace a few of the pieces
that I heard there. So towards framing cognitive security under this cognitive constraint framework
that you're discussing for which active inference under the free energy principle is the process
theory that gets it done. First you described how modern states have a lot of administrative
capacity and affordances especially through writing and especially again in the last decades
and centuries of information environment changes. And then you pointed to two kind of patterns or
genres or motifs of influence or cognitive warfare, propaganda and cults discussed.
One example of them surely could have gone into more detail or there's other examples and perspectives
and so on. And as Mao alluded to earlier, precision modulation is a key aspect of constraint. I mean
precision modulation of how tightly you're holding the baseball bat is really the movement
its precision in wobble is going to be related to the to the grasp. And so
increasing uncertainty can lead to anxiety and doubt all of that's very wrapped up in a narrative
setting. Then you discussed how there's a ratcheting of thinking and acting like a state,
breaking symmetries like states do and getting grasped over the subject over the citizen.
That's a complex topic, but that's what you went and then there are asymmetries around
control of the environment, the information environment, ability to to read, write, edit
in the information environment. And that leads to these engineered distributions of what is
important or what means what, which justifies or even writes the blank check for requests of funds,
whatever the narrative is around those funds. But more fundamentally, those strategies can
threaten sense making, which is to say the inbound perceptual component of active inference,
and then also decision making and action selection, which is the fundamental
complement that outbounds aspect of active inference.
I'll read another comment from the left. Yeah, do you want anything else on that?
Like I'd like to point out a very, very specific example that is contemporary, which is the
like the campaign by Israel to remove people from the Gaza band. So just, I don't know when
people will watch it. So on the 7th of October, 11 days ago, Hamas, which is a terrorist organization,
Islamist organization that is dominant in the Gaza band, attacked Israeli and slaughtered
Israeli settlers that were nearby and slaughtered tourists that were nearby and attacked military
basis. They made, I think, 2000 deaths. And so the state of Israel as a counter that is currently
led by very far right parties, things that we would not have equivalent in Europe or the U.S.
has decided to ensure by like blaming each individual Palestinian for this and trying to
like deport them elsewhere. And so like this is not itself, what I'm trying to comment about,
what I'm trying to comment about is that every single comment you will see about it on Twitter
makes the confusion between Hamas and Palestinian on one side and IDF slash Netanyahu and the
Israeli on the other side. And so this progressive framing that says basically
people are not, people are trying to decide whether the Hamas action are justified or not.
And implicitly in this debate, they create a context where whoever lose whichever
group lose the HMIC debate gets to be killed to the last. And so you produce very, very,
basically the producer framing that makes the only possibility in the conflict explanation because
each side, like there is no, like this is not a two-side dynamic. There is no Palestinian and
there is the Israeli and there is the, I will not make all the relation. But by this framing,
like the framing that either the Arabs or the Jew must prevail and kill the other,
you give a lot of power for groups to just make this a genocidal war and justify things like
cutting water to one million people because like 200 of them committed massacre. And like,
I do not know if there is a single actor that tried to get this. I do not think this is the case.
But this is a very powerful instance of how propaganda does not need to target what you
believe, but it does need to target how you frame problems.
Yeah, lot to say on that. Any last pieces you want to discuss?
No, it is good. I have talked a lot. I'd like to stop talking.
Okay. Well, thank you. We will send out updates to people about the coming weeks.
So, thank you. All right. Bye.
Ciao. Thanks for your attention. Goodbye.
