No, nothing.
You can't write everything over a collective behavior. So there is a scale of one specific
account. Yes. All right. Could you repeat, could you repeat the last 45 seconds?
Can you hear me now?
Yeah. Okay. So what I'm saying is that the engagement with cultural landscape affordances,
it is due all to the existence of social constraints, which act over individual behavior.
Because when I engage individually with the landscape affordances that is a characteristic
of my local material and cultural environments, the like, and by normativity, we will drive
my behavior, my intention, my presentation in a specific way. And instead of looking at how each
individual agent engage with the landscape, I can look at the constraints that emerge from this
collective activity. So is that, do you hear me now?
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Good.
And so let us get back to the question of what makes us human.
We are told about human-specific mechanism phenomenon that seemed to be involved in culture.
Those were language and role-taking. And those two phenomenons seem to be pretty robust
candidate to explain the coherence of a shared cultural landscape or set of social constraints.
Language provides a space of public presentation, like representation in the classical
cognitive sense, that you can negotiate that are actually out there in the literal sense.
They are sensory signals that are in the environment. And that structure in Asian behavior.
So when you talk to yourself, it will constrain what you pay attention to implicitly what you can
and cannot do. And when you talk with others, this will, you know, influence what you say
and what you want to say and what you perceive to be driven to say. And so it will constrain your
behavior and in a much stronger and more robust way than you could have to implicit
intentionality inference. And role-taking in a more subtle way brings agent to think
existentially to like, not ask the question what I am supposed to do in the situation,
but what an agent that is embedded in the specific cultural context where I embedded
is expected to do. And so this basically forces you to have a synchronization between
what you experience as a possibilities for action and what you expect our cultural expectation
of our behavior. So these two mechanisms, there would be very, very strong mechanisms
to enforce the coherence of cognitive landscape between agents. And it just so happens that
there are things that exist only in the one specie that has full-fledged cumulative
open-ended cultural evolution. So yes, I think this is interesting.
Okay. Aval.
You just unshared your screen.
Sorry?
You unshared your screen or is that done?
No, I did not unshare my screen.
Hmm. Could you just like reshare it?
Yes.
There you go. All right. All right. Looks great. Continue. Thank you.
Nice. So yes, the question is,
as I said, there is a duality between each agent engaging with a landscape for dense
and constraints that exist over the landscape that is shared, that is straightforward.
But in the set of constraints that is characteristic of a given landscape,
basically, to account for an anti-cultural evolution, this must be a set of constraints
that changes to a time that builds new constraints and new demical flow. And it's
something that you cannot get with a landscape in the sense of demical system theory.
That is not, demical system theory does not deal with systems that do open-ended evolution.
So the question is, what relation can we make between the dynamics of enculturation,
according to which agent integrates specific cultural expectation,
and the dynamics of open-ended cultural evolution through which cultural landscape
and the constraints, like, constructs itself through time? And this is where we get to the
more holistic side, where I think we can see why the specific construct of constraints is
that critical as compared to the simple cultural landscape approach. Let us take a look at this.
There is a thing called biological autonomy. It is a quite recent term in its formalization,
the real formalization that describes the ability of a living system for self-construction,
like maintaining one structure and changing it through developmental and evolutionary time.
And the best formalization we have had so far is from Montevil and Mosho,
and its constraint closure, a constraint, is simply a relatively slow physical process
that shapes a faster process, like canalized material or information or energy flow,
without itself being affected at the time scale of the interaction.
And for Montevil and Mosho, you get biological autonomy, where you get a set of constraints
that collectively produce itself. Each constraint is produced by other constraints in a set,
and each constraint produces other constraints in a set. This is a very simple idea. This is a very
informal idea, in the sense that it does not have dynamics, it does not have a physics.
It is just a formal statement of what we mean by autonomy. And this idea, basically, is the best
grounding we have to think about what is living and what is an agent, although in itself it does not
entails agency. And when we look at social systems or early systems as a set of constraints,
what you can see is that systems such as the brain, multi-scale organized system,
they can be read as basically a set of nested constraints, like your DMN, the activity of your
default mode network, which is the basal activity of the brain in the absence of stimulation.
It basically is constituted of chemical constraints over what the composites
tissues do at a given point in time. And this itself is a constraint over what individual cells
do through time, which itself is a constraint over the evolution law of an individual cell,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So I can always look at a multi-scale system as a set of nested
constraints at nested scales. And in systems that are autonomous, that are biological,
cognitive agents, not only the smaller scale systems like cell, they can enable, they construct,
and they enact the constraints that are higher-scale agents. But higher-scale agents can also shape back
the behavior of low-scale agents. Like, of course, if I have, you know, if I do something,
which is something that I as an agent do, this will constrain my activity of my neural networks.
This is like heavy learning. This is common to all models of learning. Learning goes through
change in network structure. And so there is an opportunity to model emerging agents from,
like, collective network activity and to look at the interaction between description at nested
scales of behavior. And this is applicable very straightforwardly to the human species. So this
is a certain city-state. And something that you can look at is that it is very dense. It has
very dense buildings that are built in a specific way. It is near a river, which enables the
trade at great distance. It has a bridge, so entry to the city is constrained to a specific point.
And it is essentially surrounded by several fields, very flatlands that are rubble, that are
fertilized, probably by water from the river. And basically, all of these features
are enabled production of state societies, societies with a central institution that does stuff.
And these societies will robustly produce material contexts that favorize there on survival.
For example, dance settlements. They enable you to have everyone together to tell them what to do.
Temples which give a material grounding to the authority of the states.
Bridges that allow you to move things around and to control what gets in and out.
And more cultural, several fields that allow you to take the food and bring it back to the city.
And the production of such settlements and such material environments by states
is somewhat robust intercultural feminine.
Atomore, like ancients, are multi-cultural scale.
You have a set of processes that are critical in the construction and action of norms in humans.
And most likely, common ancestor to those processes is dancing and singing. Dancing and
singing that give you like embodied synchronization. And this is shown to drive development of group
identity. And this gives you basically emotional grounding of the norms that are shared within
society. Because those norms, they are not abstract expectations. They are embedded in your specific
emotions, in your specific embodiments, while you do things that are critical to your ecology.
And ritual activity and storytelling, they allow more complex self-automativity by using,
you know, symbolism. And the system of automatically there may be less embedded
embodied, sorry, so less embedded in the like one's direct experience, but they allow a more
complexity in the nature of the norms that are transmitted and enforced.
And these norms, by the simple fact that they are perceptible through material symbolism and
through storytelling, they become a causal force in the cultural landscape that is shared by a group
member. So they become things that are the power to produce or constrain the framing in which people
will read specific situation and therefore constrain and produce social behavior. And this
this is like I've said this already, so this looks like a petition, but I want to hammer
this because if this is the case, then we can be interested in what complex tales in sorry,
in agency that emerges from the constraints embedded in complex tales.
So we know that people can perceive non-material agents under certain conditions.
This is common in schizophrenia, like you will hear voices that tells you to do things and
that are not embedded in a specific body. This is common in a decisive valentine disorder because
you will have agents that basically share your body while having and existing while not being
tied to a specific body. One specific personality can exist while they are not in control of your
body and so in a way that is not contingent on the direct material and action of what they want
and want not to do. And under a lot of anthropologically described conditions
that are not considered pathological, you can basically have regimes of attention
that produce a non-material agent that you can talk with and that have motivation and that have
many traits which are often called toll paths, which is a term borrowed from a Buddhist literature.
And so this emergence of non-material agents, how to say, if I consider an agent to be something
closed set of constraints and I consider things like tales and rituals as mechanisms that produce
constraints in behavior, there is basically no difficulty whatsoever at concept level. There
is no unexpectedness or no complexity to say that. Specific systems of constraints that
happen to be closed and that are embedded in those tales and rituals, they exist as biological agents.
And so we kind of basically a model of gods of non-material agents, which is a better,
less likely way to put it, that relies on systematic training of your regime of attention.
And of course, when it's collective, it will like those agents will be social agents. They will
be things that have power, that have the ability to frame the debate around specific things.
If you and I think that, so this is, sorry, the painting that is on the right of the screen
is a painting by Willem Blake, that presents basically a late 18th, I think,
a notion of God, which is not really Old Testament, which is a bit more New Testament,
but which is mostly a sensation of the clockmaker gods that was popular at that time.
And what you see on the painting is a resend, so William Blake's version of God,
that is in the sky, like very powerful, very Zeus-like imagery. And that is using,
like this, his hand to draw a compass, that is considered a symbol of
constructing things, of masonry, like the compass is one of the Freemason symbol,
for the same reason it is a symbol of orderly creation in William Blake's paintings.
And so if we share a belief that there is a God somewhere, and he built the world,
as it is intentionally, and this God is benevolent, or at least much too powerful for us to fight with,
but basically your option is a burden to following the order, because if you don't,
God will remove you from the order, and you don't want that, do you? So even if you don't have
the existence of, like, a materialist sensation of this God, even if people don't really,
really believe that there is actually a guy with a bird that does stuff,
the short, ritualized belief in an entity that has this specific motivation and this specific
traits, it will shape heavily the social landscape that is available to everyone.
And this is compatible with, although it does not entail, the existence of actual agency that
is tied to this specific entity through the constraints that this entity concretely is.
And something that I find, again, interesting is that religions that are popular today, so
Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism, if you think of something as a religion, it will likely
fall under this handle, are typically what White House called doctrinal religion,
which are religions that are where basically you sit down and you look at rituals and there is
priesthood that is trained to do the ritual in a specific way that is supposed to mean specific
things. And this is basically optimal to build very robust notions of what gods are, what they
want from you, what they do, what they're motivated by, et cetera, et cetera. So I must insist that
this is with a question mark. But in principle, the Shogun strains model, it can produce a
terrorist theory of gods and non-material agents, sorry, as a socially embedded non-material agent
that are computed collectively through engagement with a specific cultural landscape where ritual
and doctrinal elaboration are important components. And I can say with an exclamation mark that this
model enables a realistic theory of true agency that is not tied specifically to individual bodies.
If I consider a social system, actual organization to be autonomous that is closed,
system of constraints, then agency or maybe non-trivial agency simply reduces to the power to
shape this landscape. And you can have emergent social things do that. You can have states which
follow specific rules, so social constraints, and specific norms, so against real constraints,
that have autonomy and that are able to shape the landscape. But in all of this, like this part,
in my opinion, shows that social constraints specifically are relevant to study these social
worlds, that they correspond to relevant social processes in human order,
agents, later institutions, and maybe, again, question mark, non-material agents,
sorry, intelligent institutions, so gods. The question that needs to be asked is
how we can model the person of constraints, because all of these rely on the idea that somehow
in the landscape that we experience, there is such a thing as constraints,
and they are well-defined things that exist over collective behavior, and that they are
of the property to construct itself. And for reasons we'll very shortly see,
to frame this mathematically in a coherent way is insanely hard. I don't know how to do it,
no one knows how to do it, we have leads, but they are leads, nothing else.
And so we'll turn to the question of whether active inference frames a
gauge theory for incorporation. In incorporation, you should know what this is by now.
Gauge theory, we will see that soon. So, to explain gauge theory, I need to explain
explanation, which is fun, but mostly symmetries in physics. In physics, we frame physical problem
around symmetries. Symmetry, it is algebraic, so something that has composition,
like plus, groups of transformation over the space of possibilities,
which are even from the perspective of the same dynamics. It is very abstract, so let's look at
symmetries. This is the ceiling of the Lotfala Mosque in his farm. What you can see is a symmetry
under the C32 symmetry group. If you shift this picture by one over 32 full turn, it does not
change. This is what we mean by symmetry. This is a transformation, a set of transformation that is
closed, and that does not change, well, not a picture, of course, in the context of physics,
but the dynamics of the relevant system we are studying.
For formal reasons, I will not absolutely not get into here. Explanation in physics,
it usually derives from the statement of symmetry. For example, when I state that energy is conserved,
this is the same formula stating that my system is symmetric in time. When I state that momentum
is conserved, that radius formally to stating that my system is symmetric in space. Most things
in physics can be framed as simply symmetries over system dynamics.
A gauge theory is simply a elaborate instance of this core ID. If your symmetry has two properties,
first it is continuous, so not like the set of small rotation, but like the set of all
possible rotations that you can take around the circle and local. You can apply the symmetry
