be a probability distribution. It will be a functional or a probability distribution that is
minus to the logarithm of the probability. That is what self-information is. And this is defined
over probability distribution, where distribution is defined over state space. So implicitly,
information entails differential of state space. So if you want to work over things that are prior
to state spaces, you cannot work with information like any coherent definition. So the
basically the one thing you could do that is vaguely inspired from work in a quantum
information theory, mainly by Christopher first, is to not look at the probability,
but at the, sorry, not to look at the information. I'm using that term in a colloquial way now,
because I have to switch meaning information, not as a property of the distribution, but the
property of a quantum operator that corresponds to observation. And that embeds basically,
we could say again in a very, very colloquial sense, something akin to an exploitation or a
measurement or a synchronization event in the active inference model. And this,
for a specific type of operator, for a specific type of spaces, you can get basically the space
that flows from the operator rather than the other way around. And then information is
like it's not a Kolmogorov complexity, it's not shallow information, it's not a variant of entropy.
It is basically what is hypothesized by these specific operators that you use to interact with
matter and with cultural and material environments. And maybe, maybe, there is a big maybe here,
I should say maybe one more time, maybe this can happen in some way to account for the process
of integration, where the, basically, the process of integration is considered as the
integration of specific reference frames, like expectation colloquially. And this entail the
evolution of a cognitive landscape and our social constraints, either define over the
cognitive landscape or defined as a self-standing mathematical object, I do not know.
But if we have that, and if we have a decent level of understanding of what constraints the
evolution of new inference frames, we are the self-standing theory of the unfolding of
cognitive landscapes and of open-ended cultural evolution. This is a sufficient condition,
I am sure of that. But it is very, very hard to reach. There are so many threads by which
you could take it, and each one is like the level of post-doc in mathematics, and I am not talking
about 19th century mathematics, I am not talking about algebraic topology, I am talking about
weird category thing that people only figured out how to define 30 years ago. So yeah, I am
not confident, I will give you an answer to that within five years, I am not confident.
Wow, very interesting there. All right, some questions from the chat. So first,
Upcycle Club wrote, do you think ritualized storytelling is driven by social constraints?
Everything is driven by social constraints. We just define social constraints as the
constraints that exist over behavior. If we expect that every night we have to go around the fire
and listen to someone tell a story, then yeah, like this will happen. If we expect that we have
to go on YouTube and listen to talks about abstract things such as inference, this will
happen. So in this sense, every single activity you have is embedded in a landscape of expectation,
and this is why it is pretty hard to talk about the basic mechanism of cultural submission,
because whichever cognitive mechanism you are looking at is encultured and could in principle
and likely has been a few times changed by cultural evolution. So, yes.
Cool. And that takes me back to the scripts, discussion and papers, the strong script at
exactly this time. Here's the script that we're all going to read from on through the
spaces of weaker scripts like we tend to meet here or there happens to be a path here.
Okay, so then some comments from M. Lennon, 001. Thank you. I don't know if making a presentation
to explain what one understood is an attractive invitation. Still, two places I did not track
as well as I hope was one, dissolution of agency as we know it, and two, the informational geometry
among agent environment and boundary went over my head. Thank you.
So, dissolution of agency and agent environment boundary. Yes. I will get back to the slides.
Are you seeing the window?
Yeah, I'll bring it in. That's fine. Thank you.
Okay. No, no.
So, the dissolution of agency is basically the idea that when we think about agents, people,
like we think as a system that has a body and that has a brain and that has the ability for
discursion, like the rating for what you do and not do, and we place agency at the level of
discursive beliefs. So, if I say I want to grab the water and I grab the water, I grab the water
out of my agency, if I, you know, eventually, like, I don't know, bump into something and make it fall
or grab without thinking about it, is it agentive? Most people would say yes, but that's actually
not entailed by the most used model of agency. Legally speaking, you are held as not responsible
of less or less responsible of things that you did not have the opportunity to liberate over.
But from a purely cognitive perspective, and if that inference model is correct,
the bulk of the intentionality of the durability to the returon flow that you have does not come
from reasoning and deliberation and central executive system, my cognitive function that
was to say it was reasoning and agency. It is, it comes from the basic expectation you have
yourself and the world, because your expectation over the world constrain heavily implicate
the opportunities for action that you perceive, and your beliefs over yourself constrain just as
heavily as the options that you will end up pursuing. And so the agency, your ability to
decide of stuff, it mostly reduces the predictive process over yourself model and your world model.
And this is why I don't see any problem formally or empirically with that picture.
Like, as I understand, it accounts very well for the neuropsychiatric and psychological
literator and sociological literator. Like, this is good, this works scientifically,
but this is counterintuitive because, again, most people would expect you to have reasoning
and then to decide of stuff and then to execute all the stuff you decide, which, again, I don't
think this happens. So, our question is the information geometry. I kind of glossed over it
because, yeah, so the information geometry is a geometry that is defined within a
political system equipped with the partition, blah, blah, blah. And so by a geometry, I mean
basically a space of curvature that exists over your basal space. This is basically the same thing
that I'm presenting in the bottom left of the screen here. You have a space that is your
normal space where you see stuff happen, which is represented here by the line.
And you have a curvature that is defined by some of the things that are defined over the space.
And by the Frenzy principle, when you have this partition condition that is verified,
then each state in the agent's internal states, like each specific point it can be,
corresponds to a belief distribution over the states of the environment.
And so this is in this sense that we have an information geometry, like we have a geometry,
so curvature over space, where the space is the internal state of the agent and the geometry is
belief over some states. And furthermore, this matters because the agent is actually constrained
by the image. The agent is effectively constrained by the geometry in such a way that its internal
flow optimizes the Bayesian coherence of the belief that exists according to the geometry.
So this is highly, this is math, this is like straightforward, but lots of words,
lots of perfection, no real visual aid put it. So this is more something to create about and
something to hear about, which is why I gloss over it. But I hope going over it again brings a bit
more of clarity. How would you connect what you just said to the differences with written and oral
culture? Like what is hearable? What is seeable? How does writing in the printed or etched or
digitized form relate to how you discussed culture today?
I see you as frozen, Danielle, can you hear me?
I can hear you, Mao.
Okay. So do I answer or do Mao answer?
Mao, if you want to.
Yeah, please.
I can give a little bit of an idea, but effectively we're talking about precision and
temporality, right? So writing and discourse, the discourse has to relate to pragmatics and
the discourse is likely to be interpreted because it has lower precision than, say,
writing has over time. So here you're talking about the ways in which the information geometry
will be bent and shifted through the precision of the embedded normativity that is given rise to
through these markers that you can point to over and over and over with high precision.
I think that's the link.
Yeah, but basically that's, so when I talked about rule taking and language, I
claim that the core reason why this matter is because it disenforces coherence between the
cognitive landscape experienced by agents and writing changes massively the scale at which it
is possible. And it changes massively the level of emotional embodiment of the language. It is
much lower in speech than, sorry, much higher in speech than it is in writing, especially if you
account for like singing as a form of speech. So historically, writing very clearly and very
ambiguously powered the rise of administration, so states, so organization that do a lot of
accounting and bookkeeping, like book is literally in the world, and that's enable the
centralization of resource management. This is explaining detail in the logic of writing by
Goody, G-O-O-D-Y. And yeah, basically this writing is a core cultural innovation that
enables centralized policies, city-states, things like that.
Yeah, that's very interesting. So one topic that we've discussed and maybe you could unpack a little
bit here is thinking of culture and these cognitive ecosystems leads to consideration
of the cognitive security or of different information risk aspects. So
where does that come into play with the formalism or what you discussed here?
So from a cognitive security aspect, one thing you can read in the formalism quite directly is
that if you control the environment, as in the cognitive landscape experienced by agents, you
control what the agent do directly. So there are two things that are very, very, very stereotypically
associated with cognitive security. This is Russian propaganda, not quite propaganda, cognitive
warfare campaigns, pretty much around the world. More generally, the propaganda that is used by
authoritarian regimes to get stuff going. And the cults that historically are
tied to the worry of brain control by evil cults that can control you from afar, like you
you know, telecommands. And so in both cases, actually, let us get back a bit. When you are
a state that does propaganda, and like when you're a state, you can do a lot of material
engineering. So producing the environmental states in which people live in. And for example,
if you look at the city of Brasilia, which is one of the very few specifically built capital
cities that exist in the world, there is like one in there is Brasilia, and there is like,
I think, maybe four others. And those cities are basically very big, glorified administrative
centers. And Brazil in particular, it has neighborhoods for work, neighborhoods for
leisure, neighborhoods for for habitation. It is extremely divided. And because of this
divininess, you basically don't get to do stuff that are not work or hang out with your family.
That is not a possibility. And of course, this change massively the way people experience
their life. And this turns massively the topology of this network that can emerge.
But when you are doing a cognitive warfare, like in the sense that NATO defines, so you are a state
or state organization, and you are trying to fuck with another state or state organization,
you don't get to just build cities that are bad. But it's not a possibility that you have.
So what the Russian do in a systematic way is to try to basically create doubts over what
information is reliable, so that people feel paralyzed. The target I most insist critically
is not the information that is available, it is the trust that people can have, the actionability
that the people can give to the information. And so they tend to propagate a lot of conspiracy
theory nonsense because it occupies a lot of space and it prevents the possibility for
public debates to occur. And another strategy they use is to manipulate the personal identity
that are embedded often in ethnicity or in the case of the US of advanced countries that have
where political life is mostly decoupled for ethnicity. And I understand the irony to say
that this is the case in the US, but you don't have like ethnically specific parties or armed
forces, so this is less the case that elsewhere. So in these countries they will use political
identity, so they will use Republican identity or leftist identity, but mostly Republican identity
to just push complete nonsense and get people to act in a way that overall destabilize the
grip of the US over their own population. And so this is the basic way that we look
into warfare and you can understand this in terms of social constraints, because again the target
is not like information enough itself, it's the possibility that is afforded by the
social context in which we evolve at an instant. The goal is to create
doubts and noise in the public setting, it's right constraints that are not compatible with
efficient collective organization. And a way, like a way where you do it is when you see it
being done in a much more systematic and efficient way is of course with intrastate influence,
where state administrators and state institutions, they try to create grip over a population.
And if you look at the birth of nationalism, like we have the notion today that nations are
somewhat coherent political groups that let us say the French hang out together and take
the Syrian together. This notion, it's not quite recent actually speaking, but the fact that it
is dominant, that it is just a standard expectation is very recent and it derives from the French
that somehow we're a group of administrators, somehow managed to convince everyone that they
shared identity and they shared mutual obligation, responsibility, and the way in which this happens
is they sent insiders in villages and they sent soldiers and the children had to listen to the
insiders explain to them that they were French and they needed to do French things like
going to war for France. And if you did not let the children do that, you went to prison
and no one wants to go to prison. So with, of course, I'm doing a very, very huge caricature
here. There is not a shadowy set of influence that sends. This is an overspecification, but
what happened is that the French state managed to create a social niche
up in a very, very foreign villages where French hood became a basic condition of existence.
Most of your social thing, the fact that you were legally recognized as existing
the activities or activity that you had, a lot of those were embedded in your perception of being
French. And so when this is the case and when you see that the administration tends to be on top
of things, the administration tells you, you have to go to war in virtue of your freshness,
then you go to war. You don't like fight against the administration, you fight against
whoever the mission tells you. The fact that you have agreed implicitly that you are French
with France makes this a lot harder to resist basically than in like the state just sends
soldiers at you and kidnaps you and give you a swerve until you fight. This is not how you
make things efficient. Armiers this way are unorganized, they are mutated, they are not good.
And if you want people to have stakes, you need to give them power or you need to give them the
impression they have power because they are French and here French govern things. And whether you
are in a set of French that actually directs things or not, bad question to ask, just go to the
trenches. And this type of things we would not think as cognitive warfare because we would not
think as like implicitly when we talk about warfare, we talk about between states or between
nation conflict and this is within a nation, within a group. But you can look at cults and how
they create such an influence. You can look at for example one of the most famous cults
that existed which is the Mooneys or the Unification Church. They were widely accused to
make brainwashing. They were widely accused to somehow control people and make them do things
they don't want to do. That is not the possibility you have as a organization. Like you cannot
kidnap people and hope that it will be okay, you will get killed by police if you do that.
Most likely in the US, in this specific space where the Unification Church evolved. What you
can do is to create a context where you have a huge grip over what people can and cannot say,
what they can and cannot think about themselves. You can tell them that your leader is the coming
of Jesus that is going to bring everyone in paradise and you can make people go to work
sessions to talk about it and you can just like physically cling to those people all the time
until you are quite confident that they feel that whatever you are doing is important.
