Hello, and welcome everyone. It's October 18, 2023. We're in the course active inference
for the social sciences. And today, we're in the lecture by the course co organizer,
and that will kick off the final leg of the course, which is Avel Guenin-Carlu's lecture
social constraints and existential stance, what makes us human. So we'll be looking forward to
a lecture, followed by a discussion. So if you have any questions, please feel free to add them
in the live chat or submit to the course syllabus. And also, at the end, we'll talk about how we're
going to conclude this course. So with that, thank you to you, Avel.
Hello. So do you see the slides correctly? Everything is fine.
I will take silence as a yes. So the role of this session is basically to show you the inspiring
intuition behind the whole course and to show very concretely, well, very abstractly, but in my
mind concretely, why the specific formalism of active inference and social constraints
is relevant to understand the human species and the social evolution of things that we do.
So we'll talk of social constraints of the existential stance and of what makes us human.
So disclaimer, this paper, this presentation is closely aligned with upcoming paper, which
whose name is like the same, I think. It's tentative for now. And whose man on job is a co-author.
So first, let us ask basic questions about the topic at hand. What is culture?
By psychologist Cecila Heis, culture is typically used in one of three ways.
Culture can be information or behavior acquired socially. It's like, if I am an ant and I figure
out that you need to go somewhere because of pheromones, this is culture. It can be socially
acquired behavior that is shared within a group. So for example, if I am a nape and I figure out
how to open nuts with a stone thing and the group just, everyone does it the same way, this is
culture. And it can be the adaptive evolution of socially acquired behavior, which is like,
if I remember well, we have evidence of it in the wild for corvids and humans only.
So the question is, we know that culture is the human specific, like it is the case simply.
But depending on what we mean by culture, it can describe behavior that is very much shared
with other species. So a question that needs to be answered is, how specific are the human
cultural mechanisms? So one core thing to understand is that there is no such thing as
the cultural mechanism. The mechanisms of social learning in humans, they are culturally
transmitted. Whether you will listen to, I don't know, an elder, a rapper,
scientist depends on the cultural norms in which you exist. And the specific way in which
teacher-student interaction are supposed to go is, again, culturally embedded.
And the type of information that people will try to figure out is or transmit
is itself culturally embedded. So we can just write the mechanism for human social learning,
this is like, empirically, there is none. And conceptually, I don't think the
notion is coherent to begin with. So one core element for this is we have basically
explicit linguistic rules about who we should trust, like listen to your parents.
And those are linguistic and language varies from culture to culture. So these
changes from culture to culture pretty straightforward. And in general, the practice
of cultural transmission of intentional teaching, they are varying between cultures.
And I do not want to get into it because I don't think I would say something that is
accurate without notes. And we can, however, take a look at a behavior that is, I think,
nearly universal, which is storytelling. When people tell a story, they use stories
to transmit norms. And like, in the specific culture of the Agda, or Akda, I have mispelled
it at least once, I think it is Agda, like you have a core role of storytelling in telling people
what to do. And you have specific tales that were studied and that were associated to specific
norms. And these are very important because here we have laws that are written somewhere
and that people in blue will come and hit you if you don't follow them. But this is not something
that is universal. So in a context where you do not have states, you typically have no
really other way to transmit norms than talk about it. And so from there, everything is
culturally embedded, like the way we interpret the norms, the kind of norms can be transmitted
given this way, the way specific cues will be understood, given a specific niche, etc.
So yes, all this to say there is no big C culture, there is cultural transmission, there is
cultural evolution, but there is no specific mechanism or, you know, natural type of culture
in humans. But there are categories of behavior that are very obviously human specifics and that
are very obviously cultural as in direct contribution to culture. For example, fire,
it's obviously majorly important to culture because if you have fire, you get a lot of calories. If
you get a lot of calories, you get a big brain, like a California brain. But fire, you know,
it doesn't produce culture, that's not how anything works. Things that do work directly
to produce culture are language and role-taking. So language, I think you are familiar with it,
you are using it now on the receiving side. It is a practice that basically embeds
communicative intents into a specific set of symbols that can be letters, that can be words,
like, or rather it would be phoneme, I guess. I don't know if phoneme or the word is a symbol,
but you have symbols and they embed meaning and people use it. And what is critical is that each
of these symbols has a public meaning, has a public, like, semantics and pragmatics. If I
tell you chair, maybe we don't know precisely, like, what specific thing enters in the chair
category, maybe press a tool, the situation of chair will vary, but like, we are, we agree on
the basics of the chair, we agree on what we can do with chairs, we agree with a lot of things,
implicitly, by the use of this word. And we can use the role of syntax to manipulate this
unit of meaning in a specific way. I see it on a chair, I'm talking in action, that is relative
to a specific object that is a chair. And you understand what I mean. If I was trying to, you
know, mimic it, maybe I would guess it through. Maybe you would think I'm saying I'm crouching
over that. Why not? And so the language and the fact that it has a publicly insensitive meaning
is critical in, you know, keeping a coordination in the specific thing that people do and why they
do it, which is anonymously cultural. And you have another more subtle mechanism process,
I don't know, phenomenon, which is shared intentionality. So by the work of mainly Tomas
Hello, we know that chimps are not very social. And they can learn they are, but as intelligent
as humans, but at least young humans, but they usually are not really interested in what other
chimps are doing. And most importantly, they are not interested in sharing goals, trying to figure
out what is the end result that some other chimp is upholding and trying to mesh in this plan
to help him. While in human, from a very young age, we are very stream motivated.
And we are very motivated to figure out what we, whatever we are collectively doing and figure
out what one's role is in that and do that. And this is likely not, you know, a bona fide cognitive
function that stands on its own, but it's behavior that is a cognitive process that is
enemy in humans, very rare, if existing everywhere else. And that is core to most theory of the
transition of culture. So these two things we know are human specifics up to maybe very small
and important details. And we know are critically embedded in what we call culture.
And so what I will do from the one is to provide a specific theory of culture,
so the active inference of cultural landscapes, that in my opinion,
one basically explains or at least mesh well with why those two specific
phenomenons are so important from the appalling of culture, but it also means that culture is not
information per se. It's something that is more organic and that evolves more like, you know,
biological system themselves evolve than population of genes. And from these accounts,
we will go to figure out what it means about collective organization, figure out why we
have gods and taxes. And from there, we will go to more physical and physical consideration and ask
how basically this theory can be written within physics through the active inference formalism.
So let us go. First, I'm just presenting the theory of the active inference of clear landscape,
and I'm presenting a core concept, the concept of string constraints that they arrive from at least
my treatment of that. So active inference, probably a lot of you know what this is,
but this goes on YouTube, so I will re-explain. Active inference is a theory of cognition where
basically agents enact expectation of the world. They have a world model,
and they make predictions over the world model, and they strive for those predictions
to remain coherent with what they actually observe. And that means that the agent will,
you know, update beliefs that are false. If I hear Mio, and I think there is no cats,
I will then think that it is more likely. And on the other hand, I will try to provoke to
realize prediction that I cannot need. So for example, if I really want to hear Mio,
if I really expect to hear Mio, and I expect this to be like a basic step of my life,
I will maybe figure out how to get a cat. But that works not too well with cats,
but with drinking or eating. I expect to be a thing that has water in it because else I die,
so when I am thirsty, I am thirsty by drinking. And we have this basic duality of
predictive inference, like normal, what we call typically perception, just
trying to figure out what there is outside and the thing or belief when we don't. So I said
perception, but it is more inference. And there is active inference, which is
like the realization of those inference through action. And the core argument of active inference
is that those two are the same process. They are the same process that is entailed by an
information geometry, so basically a space of belief over which the dynamics of an agent unfold.
And the core feature of this approach is the dissolution of agency, as we typically understand
it. We typically understand the agency to be like, hey, I am an agent, I want to do this,
and I will reason about what I want, and I will reason about how to get it, and I will do the
thing that I reasoned about. Reason is importance. It's not the basic cognitive function that
relies on everything we do. I do not think the statement is controversial. And in active inference,
the model we have is that at multiple scale, in a real context, we get produce prediction
over our sensor rotor flow, and then strive to realize those predictions. So what that means
is that our actions are not constrained by will. In the general case, they are constrained by what
looks more like a self-model, a model of oneself, and what oneself would typically do
in contexts such as the one I'm exposed to. Related concepts is the notion of skill and
intentionality. So this skill intentionality thing is a theory that stands at the interface
between active inference and ecological psychology, which I will absolutely not get into.
And the core argument of skill intentionality is that when you are a skilled agent, so agents that
understand how to do things in the world, you do not experience the world as a
represented space in 3D with 3D models in it, and each object is well defined and
has a lot of properties that are embedded in a world model that you would have in a video game.
What you see is a landscape of basic opportunities for action. I will see a computer. I know I can
mash the keys. I think you say keys. And I know I can go to the internet, and I know I can do this
or that. I see a door. I know I can go through it if it's open. I can close it. I can go through it
if it's closed, and I can open it. This is the basic opportunities that the door presents.
And I don't say a logical consequence, but a very coherent
entailment of active inference is that I will see a minimal model of things around me that
are based on the opportunities for action that they present. I will orient my attention minimally
to grasp what I can do with things, and what the field, the perceptive field that I live in,
is a landscape of those affordances. So the picture is an extract from Fallout New Vegas,
which is the greatest RPG. Please play it. This is important. The only thing you need to
keep in mind on this course. And that shows you like a radio in 3DF mode of radio,
and you have an action button that tells you whether you want to activate the radio,
and you have HPs and APs, and I have no idea what AP is. And this looks more like a naive field
than what you get into a really realistic presentation of like a picture, photo picture
of your environment, because you have a perception of the objects, like you have
to the array that presents your vision of an object. But it's embedded in things that tell you
where you're looking at, things that tell you what you can do with things, things that tell you
what are your states, what are your basic states when you're engaging with this object. And this
is, I think, pretty nice illustration.
Okay.
Sorry, Aval, could you repeat the last 30 seconds there? It was just like it hung up.
Okay.
Just repeat the last 30 seconds. Thank you.
So this is a picture from Fallout New Vegas, which is a good game. And I claim that it is a
pretty good illustration of what we talk when we talk about action-related perception,
because you see the objects and with slash through the object, you also see what opportunities
for action in presence, in this case, activate the radio. And you see it in the way it is embedded
with your physiological states, so the HP and AP. And a core feature of that is that when experienced
affordances, I feel directly through the perception whether the affordance is good or bad. If I see,
I don't know, a cliff, and also I can fall off the cliff and die, this will cause fear.
The perception of that possibility of falling and dying will be negatively loaded. If I see,
I don't know, a hot bed in winter, and I know I can no rest after a day of work when I was cold,
I will be happy about it. I will pursue the possibility in a, like, positively balanced way.
And so this is the case for basic physiological thing, but this is also the case for cultural
norms and values. We come to experience the world as a world of affordances, and this is the same
for the social world. I will feel bad or good, depending on what possibility for action I will
experience in a given context. And this is a picture of a forest path near
archaeological sites that is studied by the research group that funds me, XCAPE,
and from a pure direct perception kind of way, there is a very complex statistical
feature that are made in the picture, but if you are a human, a thing that walks,
what you will perceive, like, feel directly, experience directly, is just a possibility to
walk along the path and follow it. And this is something that you feel is a property of the path,
I think. You see the path, you think, I can go through a path, you don't think,
there is a 3D space, and in this 3D space, there is a set of statistical feature, one of which
being a flat thing in the middle, and among the entire space of action that they have,
one of them is to walk through the path, like, just do this and this and this and this,
you just feel like you can go through there. And the way humans learn about each other,
the way humans gravitate and come to expect things about each other, they can develop
basically a sense of what is culturally possible or not possible in a given context.
And this sensation, this perception of cultural possibilities, it is embodied in the way we
pay attention to things. We will pay attention to different things according to, like, you know,
what is culturally relevant in a given context, in a given situation. And this is a core argument of
the thinking through the minds, accounts of cultural evolution, which was spearheaded by
Maxwell Romsted and this year, forgot his first name. And because of everything that we saw before,
because of the dissolved agency that we have under active in France, the patterns, cultural
patterns in the attention, they will not simply be experienced as abstract norms and value that
one could or could not respect. They will effectively constrain the thing you can pay
attention to, the outcome you expect in a way that will drive reaction towards specific outcomes.
And so this cultural landscape of affordances, they embed international activity as in the
patterns that are relevant to explain normativity and intentionality, they are in the landscape,
they are not, like, only at least in your brain cells. And a core argument, I would say, is that
the engagement with a cultural landscape, it is due all to existence of social constraints,
where social constraints are understood as statistical patterns that will, like,
causally act over what you do or cannot do. So when I talk about the cultural landscape
of affordances, I am implicitly talking about a set of constraints that act over behavior.
And this I've demonstrated by talking about many normativity and the like.
You have, how to say? You have a reliance in the notion of constraints, which is that
avil. Sorry, again, avil from your side is just, I'm not hearing any audio.
Now, or Maria, do you hear him?
