discover that when you go at a certain speed, the metal heats up and stretches. And so you need
to build gaps into all your jet engines and stuff like that. Okay. Wow. Being a test pilot must
have been pretty dangerous then. It must have been absolutely radical to get into a machine
that no human on earth could explain to you. This is why I don't get the version one of anything.
Why I won't be waiting in line for Elon Musk's neural neural link version 1.0. That's why I'm
not getting the vaccine first. I'm getting it. I'm not an anti-vaxxer, but I'll wait for the second
round. I think the FDA is way too strict and we should be totally fine by the time it comes out.
Well, and vaccines are explored territory. So like it's different than, you know, the
the discovery and distribution of jet engines or neural links. I just figured, you know what,
I'll, the neural link, I'll get the 2.0 version, but you know, vaccines I've had since I was a kid.
So this is like the other ones I've got then close enough. But I hear what you're saying.
I'm not retiring until I have the vaccine because it'll be covered by my insurance and I want to
retire as early as possible. So getting that vaccine as soon as I can. Nice. Pretty good point.
Yeah. I like the last paragraph here where he says, the world around you is full of puzzles.
Prioritize if you must, but do not complain that cruel science has emptied the world of mystery.
Yeah, that kind of goes back to the idea of the beauty of science is not the things it has
discovered. It's if you are a proper scientist, there is no end to the curiosity to your curiosity.
There's no end to the mystery and wonder of the world around you.
To a real scientist, if you say the answer is science, that's a prompt for them to be like,
what field? Tell me who did this? It's not a conversation ender. It's the beginning.
Yeah. To a real scientist, the word science is a very unsatisfactory explanation.
I just wired up yesterday a couple, well, one more thing in my house. And I realized while I
was doing it that like, I know that the live wire goes to the power station where the electricity
in quotes comes from. But like the ground wire, where does that go? I assume it has to go back,
right? Nope. Not like the ground ground that grounds the house. Yeah, the other wire, the
non live one. The white wire, where does that go? Does that eventually loop back to the station
as well to complete the circuit? See, mystery is abound. It's just the way it has always been
any young. It's from the time before time. I feel like half our listeners are going to be like,
I can't believe he doesn't know this. What adult doesn't know this? But on the other hand, I'm just
like, the black one is the death. And the white one is okay. And you match black to white when you
hook things up. Or black to black and white to white when you hook things up. If anyone's going
to give you shit about that, I'll share some of that and saying that I couldn't have, I would have
killed myself trying to do anything like this. My knowledge of like, my lack of knowledge of
anything regarding electricity was really born when we met, got to know Chase, I don't know,
years ago, one of the meetups. And he's just like a Wikipedia on this stuff. And I'm like,
fuck, I don't know shit all about any of this. This is awesome. It was it was really enlightening. I
remember in the, like early advent of being able to text pictures to each other, we were visiting
my great grandparents. And my grandpa, you know, was a farmer, then postal worker. And he was,
you know, I showed him, I was like, Oh, yeah, this is a picture I took. And then Oh, yeah,
my someone sent me this picture just today. And he's like, I have no idea how that can possibly
work. And I'm like, you know what, I don't really either, because I was like 12. And even now it's
like, I still I understand how parts of it work. But it's still I don't understand enough of it
to be able to say build one from scratch or tell you how to build one from scratch.
You mean, making pictures out of ones and zeros? Well, that and and texting a picture to somebody
that part I get more than the just yeah, I mean, rendering a picture from someone. I mean,
I get parts of it. But you know,
there's a cool video. It starts out like it appears to be a explanation of Excel spreadsheets
and how you can make the different colors or the different cells, different shades, if you
it's common thing, like if a number is greater than 100 make the cell turn red so that it pops out
right away and the camp can be like, Oh, what happened over here? But it's a great video. It
starts out like that. But then he just zooms out. And he's like, Oh, he made a picture. And it's
it's basically I know about this guy. I read an article about him. He does Excel art. He's been
doing like pieces that are huge wall mounts and selling them for a few thousand dollars. I would
love to have an Excel piece of like a Monet because I can't think of anything more opposite to
impressionism than little boxes. And it's how all all electronic pictures work. Just every
single pixel is a number and the number represents a color value. It's a really good thing to excel
at. Nice puns are good transitions to the real episode. Terrible. We got to kick them off the
podcast. We've got to tell over discussing next episode. Right. Next episode, we will be talking
about the posts. Where was I absurdity heuristic absurdity bias, which is one post, and availability,
which is the other. All right. And while you're doing a third one, why is the future so absurd?
Okay. Awesome. Cool. All righty. Well, I suppose this if you guys had anything else you wanted to
go over. All right. So by the time this comes out, there'll be an episode. Yes. Thank you.
Like applause. There'll be an episode on well, I can make sure I plug the doof. Yeah. Whatever.
If you're if you give a buck a month to do if you can subscribe to their patron only feed,
which is mainly Matt Freeman, famous leader of the rationalist movement,
um, and his brother talking about random cool shit. And I think mine and Scott's on this one
will be the first one that isn't no, wait, maybe the second one that isn't Matt and Scott having
the Freeman bros conversations. So wait, I'm sorry, Matt, Matt and his brother Daniel. Um, yeah.
Anyway, check it out. Cool. So you guys are here. Well, I guess you're here from Kansas City,
and you're here from, I know the East Coast, New Jersey, I want to say Pennsylvania country.
Yes. Yes. I was going to get that right. But you, uh, well, you have some things from Kansas
City bring to us. Yeah. Yeah. So I suppose this starts, the story starts two, three years ago.
Evangelical Alex was running a Harry Potter tabletop set, a campaign, a D&D style.
And they actually have a source book for that? No, it's not official. Okay. There are a few
different varieties. But anyways, I was looking for plot ideas. So I did some research specifically
into the founders of Harry of Hogwarts. And I stumbled across HP more. Oh, yeah. That's what
started it. That's what started it. I mean, a classic backstory. So I read HP more. And then
got into the sequences because it's like, Hey, do you want to learn everything Harry knows? I'm
like, yeah, I want to know everything Harry knows. That sounds great. And I read the sequences over
the course of like three months. And it's among other things that single-handedly
deconverted me from evangelical Christianity. And then I was just a rationalist alone in Kansas City
with no one to talk to. Because I wasn't really active on the internet that much. I was very busy.
But eventually, I looked on Less Wrong, and I saw that there was a Slate Star Codex meetup.
It was one of the meetups everywhere thing. It was just a one-off kind of meetup. But I
got went there and it was so cathartic. It was so good to meet other people I could talk to
and about the content of the sequences and HP more. David, you had a thing about the first
time you walked into a Less Wrong meetup? Yeah. So the first time I actually went to a
rationalist meetup was in Denver here. I knew you guys were in Denver. My little brother lives here.
And I was like, Oh, at least check on meetup.com. Maybe I'll get lucky during the week I'm here.
And I was really like nervous and intimidated. But as soon as I walked into the room and saw
all of you guys and heard the conversation, I literally felt my shoulders drop and relax.
And I didn't realize how much tension I have, knowing that most of the people I talk to,
I have to assume they are not reasonable. I have to start with the assumption that things are not
going to be an easy communication. And that's just not true in this community. It really,
it felt like breathing for the first time really deeply in like months.
It's funny, I can't picture you being nervous.
I think I mentioned earlier, I had a really good analogy and it's escaping. Oh, yes. So when
you're talking with another rationalist and you meet another rationalist, you already know that
you share so much background knowledge that in any other relationship would take months of
really intimate discussions and a really solid amount of time together. And that you just get
for free with most people in the rationalist community. But it wasn't enough for me. I've
always been a very ambitious person. Everything I do, I go all the way. I go big, I go home,
I'm that kind of person. So I started to attend these late start codecs meetups. It was once a
month, hang out where they just kind of chatted over coffee kind of thing. I'm like, you know what,
I want to raise the standard water line of planet Earth. That's what I want to do.
So I gathered everyone together and I said, okay, who wants to just start an actual
rationalist meetup? Like, we're going to do this every week, we're going to have a dojo,
we're going to do community external facing community stuff. And I managed to get most of
them on board. So then I baby rationalist Alex, who has almost no training in the community,
was tasked with constructing a dojo. Because that's what I wanted to do. But I was the only one that
wanted to do it. So I had to do this myself. And the best thing I could find was something called
the hammer time sequence on less wrong written by someone who went through CIFAR and then wrote
30 days of material going over everything he learned. So we started off with that. And because
we're a bunch of rationalists, we went through it and we modified it so much, we what we had. Yeah.
Do you want to explain what the hammer time sequence is for the listeners who haven't had
the opportunity to listen to it yet? Well, it's if you're not familiar with CIFAR,
the Center for Applied Rationality, it is basically the most formal organization to come out of the
rationalist community. It is basically they basically put on these semi frequent workshops
where you it's like a two three day camp or a week long camp, something like that. Yeah,
they do have the some smaller ones. Yeah, the big one is like, I think two or three weeks,
two or three weeks. So that's almost like a mini boot camp. Yeah, yeah. But they have smaller ones
now too. Yeah. And so this they basically teach you various ways of overcoming bias in your planning,
like in your day to day life, applied rationalities in the name. So they they're interested in how
you apply rationality to accomplishing goals in your real life. So things like debugging yourself,
finding the problems in your in your physical space, overcoming biases and planning that kind
of thing. So that's the material that's in that was the material that inspired this hammer time
sequence, which we then used as the raw materials on which to practice dojo stuff. And basically
each week, we discussed one of the techniques, and we critiqued it, we used it, we talked about it.
And the next week, we would report back on how it affected our lives from the last from the
previous week. And that went on for a while, we eventually got to the end of the hammer time
sequence and did a post mortem on it, and realized there was so much material we had brought to the
table ourselves as a bunch of rationalists who have done our own rationality in our own lives.
We have a licensed therapist among in our midst, who was able to bring a lot of really good
frameworks to formal frameworks to the table. And we decided to start doing our own thing.
And it's very similar format, we talk about a technique, we talk about something epistemologically
related. Then I then Corona hit and done done done done. So we had to cancel our IRL meetups.
And I also around this time had started an effective altruism meetup. And that includes a
lot of people that are not explicitly in the rationalist community. So the main thing I wanted
to bring to the table here is, number one, there are lots of rationalists around the country that
don't have a meetup that they can go to they don't have people a community they can go to,
to feel this sense of catharsis that David and I and you guys get to experience whenever you
meet your local rationalists. And I wanted to first start off by giving them a word of encouragement.
The Bayesian conspiracy was a huge help to me during those times. And I was just a baby rationalist
that didn't know anyone around me. And number two, if you are able to access online forums of
some kind like Facebook, events, meetup.com, if you post that you are a rationalist looking for
the rationalists, you will very likely find someone. But if you do not, I started an effective
altruism group. And that has brought a lot of people into the rationality community that
were not previously in it. It's a similar mindset, similar mindset that tracks the same kind of people.
But it has a slightly larger circle. And if you're struggling creating an organization,
a community in your local area of rationalists, start an EA group. That is a great springboard
for bringing people in. And we basically have a book club each week, every month with EA. And
every time it's my turn to provide a reading, I usually provide the sequences of something.
And that and everyone loves it. It's great. And that has been a very positive experience for me.
So, all that being said, there were a few, the reason I did all this, and the reason I was so
passionate about this is because I do want to have a positive impact on the world. And the
rationality community has such potential to be that. It is everything that I consider,
the mind model of a group of people that changed humanity for the better very closely
matches the rationalist community. But there were a few problems that I've noticed. Number one,
rationalists are notorious for not working very well together. At the very least, they don't,
they dislike grouping together into organizations. As an issue with like the skeptic community too.
And the AES community, I think Richard Dawkins equated like coordinating this community to
herding cats. Right. Yeah. Right. A lot of anti-authoritarian communities are going to have
allergic reactions to groups that are trying to coordinate. Right. And that is the worst,
least rational part about us, because there's nothing more powerful on earth than groups
of humans cooperating together. We have almost nothing weaker than one guy screaming through
a megaphone. Yeah. And so, but that's a hard thing to get over when your entire life you've
been trained to like watch out for large groups because they're dangerous and they're stupid.
So, oh, one second, I'm about to transition straight to you. Thank you. So, I was listening
to the Bayesian conspiracy. You guys had David Yusuf on and he was absolutely railing against
this particular failure mode of the rationalist community. Yeah. I'm like, there's a guy I can
talk to about organizing and he won't have allergic reactions to this concept. So, I reached out to
him and I'm, I say, hey, do you want to start a virtual dojo? Because we can't do corona,
we can't do IRL dojos during the coronavirus. Do you want to have like a zoom one that we can
just open up to the Discord channel? And he's like, yeah, as a matter of fact, I've been talking to
Matt Freeman and I will hand it over to you to give you a backstory on all this. So, a few years ago,
when I first got to Denver, met you guys, I think it was after my because I've done another episode
after the magic one where I was in person and I know I've done one online, but I met Matt Freeman
and during our conversation, we realized we had a lot of the same frustrations. In fact, I believe
a few episodes ago, Steven, you were talking about emails you had been sharing with Matt about
how frustrating it is that a lot of the rationality stuff that we practice is not measured, is not
really, we don't know how effective it is, we don't know how well implemented it is.
I've got to clarify, I think we're talking about two different mats. Yeah, that was a different
mat that was about that episode. Oh, yeah. So, I didn't use the guy's last name because I don't
like to disclose full names on from emails. If it's public, then I'm fine reading whatever username.
This was not Matt Freeman. Matt knows the value of the community just fine and the value of its
teachings. You can just cut out all of that. Oh, no, leave it all in. It doesn't matter. It's just,
it's a mistake. No, because we were talking about that before and it didn't quite click that like,
oh, wait, he's maybe thinking of a different mat. Okay, yeah. Well, then I'm glad that someone
else is thinking about this. But the mat I was talking to is Matt Freeman. And for a few years
now, we've been discussing this very frustrating issue of one, we don't know, we both believe
that rationality has helped our lives immeasurably, but we don't know how to measure that. Like in a
practical way, we don't know how to advertise. And one of the things that's always bothered me is,
I think a lot of rationalists view soft skills like social skills as an annoyance to be learned
afterwards, not realizing that this puts them in a position where other people define us.
Like we as a community are so antithetical to the things we consider the dark arts like branding
even that we end up leaving ourselves vulnerable in a lot of ways that are pretty stupid in my
opinion. And so we had talked for years about how to approach this and we weren't sure we'd
shared discord messages and emails. And then Alex reaches out to me and Alex is like, Hey,
I would like to do a virtual dojo. And so I was like, Yeah, me and Matt have been talking about
this. So I included Alex in the conversation. We also include included Gray, who does the podcast
