Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Uniesh Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, and I'm Alex.
And I'm David Youssef. And who are you guys on the Discord server?
Oh, I go by Bayes Theorem, spelled B-A-E-S.
And I change my moniker pretty regularly, but I believe right now you can find me as
King of the Summer Sun. Excellent, welcome. And David has actually been here before. You have
been the wizard on our crazy wizard episode. I don't know if crazy is the first term, but on our
wizard episode. And Alex, you were on the Colin Show. Yes, yes indeed. My whole thing is I'm the
organizer for the Kansas City Rationalist Meetup, as well as the Kansas City Effective Altruists
Meetup. A lot of overlap, but there are some people in the EA group that aren't in the Rationalist
Meetup. So you live in Kansas City. That's correct. For some reason, this whole time I
thought you were on the East Coast somewhere. Nope, Midwest. Okay, cool. So you guys hadn't
actually ever met in physical space before, had you? Yes, this is the first time we've
occupied the same time space. For some reason, I thought that you guys knew each other already.
I mean, not physically. There's no good words in our modern English language,
because my brain has been talking to all of you guys. I feel like, oh yeah, I was just talking
to them like a few days ago, but we haven't physically all been in a room ever together.
It's very strange. Right. Well, we are here now, and we are going to be talking about a
special project they are working on. But first, we are going to do the sequences as we always do.
As we sometimes do. We try to anyway. Luckily, these are a couple of quick ones, and they're fun.
They are fun. I like this one. Yeah. Well, I want to kick us off with Explain Worship Ignore then.
Sure. Sounds good. Explain Worship Ignore. Yeah, I remember reading this when I first
read the sequences, and it's not really a new revelation to me, but it's as many of the sequences
are. It's articulated in a way that I never thought of. And having this trichotomy, so to speak, is
something useful to look out for whenever I'm encountering the supposed end, the answer to
a curiosity I had. Yeah, and I think it does what a lot of the other posts do, which is like
distill down themes he's been hitting on for a while until like, all right, here's the thing I'm
talking about. Here's a nice, here's a nice single post you can reference rather than try and explain
the long-winded way of what I've been hinting at for the last two months of blog posts. So,
what is it that he's trying to explain in this one as a short summary? So, Explain Worship and
Ignore, at least the summary I got out of it, was every time you're faced with a phenomena,
you have a limited amount of brain energy, like you don't have infinite resources, and you have to
prioritize what you're going to do and how you're going to respond to it. And we really only have
three responses to phenomena. You can either get curious and say, well, is this worth putting
in time and effort and understanding? Can I ignore it? Is it not important at the moment? I don't
need to think about it. And then the idea that this article really pointed out to me that I had
not had before is that the third option is worship. And that's kind of terrifying. But the idea is when
you feel and you see something you don't understand, there's at least a somewhat human instinct to
wave it away by saying, oh, that's something beyond the comprehension of men. Therefore,
I just need to be in awe of it. The example he uses is an early man wondering where rain is from.
And some kid asks an elder, hey, where does rain come from after it rains? And the elders, like,
has never really encountered this before, because it just rains. No one gives a shit. It happens.
It has always been in the ignore category. Exactly. For their lifetimes, it's always
just been the ignore category. And now, for some reason, some punk kid is asking for an explanation.
So he gives an explanation, and the kid asks, but oh, but why that? Why are the spirits fighting
and crying up there? And the elder eventually goes to, because that is the way it is in the
grand universe. And this is how the cycle of life continues or something. And so defaulting to the
worship category for that. And it's not, it's not a bad thing to put something into the ignore
category. If it's genuinely not relevant, or you just don't have, you just don't have an answer,
you don't know how to get the answer. But it's important to recognize that you've put it into
the ignore category, and not the worship category. That way, when you do have the capacity to
investigate it, you don't blow it off and say, oh, well, that's just the way it is. You're just
trying to take the mystery out of it, and so on and so forth. He made the, he pointed out that the
explain is a answer that will always be reiterated, because there will always be deeper and deeper
explanations. Like, why does it rain? Oh, because of this. And why, well, why does, why do, why does
moisture condense on particles in the air because of this? And, well, how does that happen? Because
of atomic physics? Well, why do atoms happen? Well, because of electrons and protons. And you
always, you can always ask another why can explain deeper until eventually you reach the point where
we don't know yet scientists are working on that come back in a decade or two.
Right. Someone in the comments asked, well, why can't it just be an infinite recursion? And
you'd ask, you responded saying, well, maybe it is an infinite recursion. But then my question is,
why is it this infinite recursion, as opposed to another infinite recursion?
And I will say I've run into that, the ending on worship a number of times in my real life,
especially back in the day when I was more active in atheist argument stuff. But this happened
even just a year and a half ago to me when I was talking to someone who is says he's a theist and
signs onto one of the major religions Catholicism, I think. But in practices, functionally, an atheist,
right? Except he goes back to, well, you know, we don't know why or how the Big Bang happened. And
we don't have any sort of experience for how something can happen before time has begun or
without a cause or whatever. So that is that is what God is. God is whatever strange force happened
to make the Big Bang happen. And I was like, Okay, so you just got to the point where you
ran out of explains and there's your worship. So I'm confused. Does this person think that before
airplanes existed, and humans had the experience, they'd never had the experience of flying, that
would they have taken the position then that that was an impossibility and a like a reason for worship?
Oh, we haven't experienced it yet. Therefore, worship. I don't know, you'd have to ask him.
Seems dubious. It also kind of reminds me of the the Bayesian judo sequence where
you'd cast you encounters someone who is a theist, and they are poo pooing the idea of
artificial intelligence. And you'd cast he says, Okay, well, you just made a prediction, you think
that in your model of reality, artificial intelligence can't happen. Therefore, if and when
I make artificial intelligence, that means your your theism is incorrect. And the guy then
recurses in the conversation. And so if someone says the Big Bang is a mystery, and that is God,
what are they going to do when we if and when we explain the Big Bang?
And God drinks back the next thing. Yeah, I'm always surprised too, that someone
can have that as their like, their motivator for their religion, and still call themselves
like a Christian or a Catholic or whatever. And it's like, how does it follow from the
fact that we don't understand pre Big Bang, that like masturbating to sin and, you know,
gay people shouldn't get married or something? Is your religion doing any actual work for you?
Or are you just like a good old fashioned deist? Right? Because you realize that 500 years ago,
that it brings you at the stake as a heretic for saying things you are now if you're pretending
to be a Catholic. And I try to point out, I don't know why you're using a personal term like God.
And you even if you don't say it specifically, you think that he has like agency and personality.
Like, the Big Bang, the force that caused the Big Bang is probably something as impersonal as
what makes protons and electrons retract. And the deed was like, but you know, that's God,
man. That's just God. I'm not saying any of that. Like, no, you're not saying it, but you live like
it. You've decided to put this in the worship category for the rest of your life. And that's
fine. But you need to take the consequences of that, which means you can't make predictions.
You can't make predictions and your curiosity is forever stopped. I think this is the thing
is the curiosity stopper. Yeah, this is the thing that actually I disagree with in the article.
So he says that we might run into an explanation one day that is self referential, and therefore,
like, needs no further explanation. And that would be where he would choose to worship.
But Godel's incompleteness theorem, and we were mentioning this before the podcast started,
Godela Shabbat, but Godel's incompleteness theorem literally says that like, no matter how
intelligent you are, no matter how far you go in math, any closed system will always have
things that are outside of its understanding until you build a new system. So it's literally
impossible. Like it is infinitely recursive. Unless I'm really misunderstanding that proof,
but I'm pretty sure I'm not. I, I'm trying to get more context here, but I think he was being
facetious. Because he does talk about that later on in the comments. I've not read the comments,
I might be very much misinterpreting this. He says, I say must in the worship option,
it is irony. But if there is an infinite regress, I should find that highly curious,
and I would like to hear explained why it is allowed, and why this infinite regress exists
rather than some other one. So it sounds like he would still hit the explain button.
Okay, really like Alex's voice for Aliezer. He sounds kind of British with an American influence.
I'm like, huh? Yeah. Wow. It's not what he sounds like. But no, not at all. But it sounds very
authoritative. Yes, Professor Aliezer. Well, we, we are going to say we use the word curiosity
stopper, which leads us directly into the next post. And this one ties really closely with
that one. Were you going to say something else on this one though? Yes, I was going to say two
quick things. That the worship, he also ties back to worshiping is like a mysterious answer
mysterious question thing, where you are kind of you are making a value of your, your ignorance,
and how this is mysterious and great and feels really good. So that was the thing. The other
thing I was going to say is, you guys are all younger than me. And some of you fair, quite a
fair bit younger. I was wondering, do you understand? Do you get the the in joke to explain worship
ignore being the same thing as abort retry fail? I do not. No, sorry. Way, way back when computers
ran on DOS, well, when PCs ran on DOS, a common whenever the computer would try to execute an
operation and it failed, it couldn't, it couldn't do it. It would come up with a little dialogue box
that said abort retry fail. And if you aborted, it would stop doing what it was trying to do.
If you failed, the exact same thing happened. I don't know why there are two different options.
And if you retry retry, then it just tries to do it again, which in 100% of the cases in my
experience meant you just got the dialogue box again. Definition of insanity. But yeah,
and then that was ported over into the first Windows operating system as well, where whenever
there was a system error like that, you would get that pop up box. So I immediately as soon as I
saw explain worship ignore, I was like, Oh, it's a board retry fail. That's exactly what it is.
And with that context, and I think it matches to because like explain maps to retry because
you're always like searching further and further and further. I'm assuming ignore is fail because
you've just failed to try to explain things. And maybe worship is fail. Yeah, worship is fail.
If I had to guess why there's two different options, one would put a would send it to
some log somewhere saying this task failed, if you click failed, but if you just hit abort,
it's just like, fuck it. And it doesn't bother. I'm not actually sure, but that'd be my guess.
And what's funny is like, I can just imagine like the allegory of like, you know, tell your
computer to make you a sandwich and it goes in to get peanut butter. There's no peanut butter.
So just like, there's nothing I don't have. I don't have a way to handle no peanut butter.
Don't want to try again. Yeah, sure. Oh, fuck, there's still no peanut butter.
Like, so of course, it's going to just fail on the retry every time. Like the only time I see that
working is, you know, over web connections where it's like, Oh, yeah, there was a hiccup in the
connection. Now it's fine again. So maybe it was for really back in the day when you could like go
back and mess with vacuum tubes and then hit retry. Maybe.
What I like about this too is that independently, I think the phrase God of the gaps came up for
like the worship category here, where, Oh, I've got this gap in my understanding. Well,
that'll be why we touched on this, we just didn't give it the name. But that I think it was an
independent articulation of that same sort of thing that I liked. So yeah.
All right. Then we should move on to science as curiosity stopper.
I've got a good way to jump into this one. The first thing I thought of was when I also do a
Harry Potter podcast on method of rationality. And when Professor McGonagall turns into a cat,
he's like, how the fuck did that happen? And she's like magic. And he's like, that's not an
explanation. That is exactly what this is. We brought a caveman from, you know, 100,000 years
ago and put on a light switch and showed him the refrigerator that puts out clean water. And he
just, you know, he was also a scientifically curious caveman. And he'd be like, how's this
work? He'd be like, oh, science. And he's like, that, that doesn't tell me anything. That's not
an answer. Fuck you. The word science can often be used as a worship button as well. Honestly,
anything like magic science, if you don't actually understand the word, any word can be used to
just stop your curiosity. I mean, this sounds like scientism to me, like the,
the almost like, I fucking love science Facebook page. It's people who admire what science does.
And I don't blame them for that. But they don't want to do the work of understanding the process.
They just want to understand the end. And they don't even want to understand the end, really.
They just want to see the end results and be able to say like, Oh, someone gets it. Therefore,
it's good. Yeah. Science could have resulted in a lot of different discoveries and a different
kind of universe. But the beautiful part about science is not the things that has discovered.
It is the methodology of learning the rules of the world around you and finding out
where you are wrong and where how you can learn more. It's like a methods of rationality. Harry
says, if, if all, if everything failed and the all the laws of the universe were replaced,
I still exist. And that in my ability to find, figure out the world around me still exists.
And that is the beautiful part about science that a lot of people don't understand.
Agreed. The beauty of the natural world that we've discovered is just a bonus.
Right. Yeah, he says he finds it interesting that a lot of people stop being curious about
something. If it turns out that someone else knows the answer, which is what saying science
often means. Yeah. Like, why does the light switch turn on the light? Well, you know,
because of electricity. How does electricity work? I don't know science. Like, oh, okay.
I actually like something Scott Alexander once wrote. He, and someone else he knows,
they have a habit of whenever they don't actually understand something, they explicitly say,
that's magic. Just, just as a placeholder, because they know it's not just a few episodes
back. Oh, the sequences. Oh, great. Yeah. That's, it's a useful technique, especially as long as
you don't actually believe in magic. Right. But yeah, it's sitting right next to you.
You believe in placebo mancy that's different than, than, than the magic I'm thinking of.
I put on my robe and wizard hat. What? Yeah. It's a fun technique that I've used in the past.
I think so. I think a good way actually to deal with this, because like, I run into this all
the time. And I'm sure you guys do as well, where people clearly don't know the science they're
talking about and spreading is to let them give them examples of when the scientists don't know
what's going on, because then it helps them realize maybe someone out there doesn't know. I don't know
why that psychological thing is in their head. I find it's easier to tell people like, Oh, this
thing that you think is figured out by science, you're completely wrong. We're kind of guessing,
we're not even sure we're anywhere right. Then they get curious, because then they're like,
Oh, there really is a mystery. And I think, I think the sequences make a very good case
that that feeling of needing mystery is a trap, and that you should be looking outside of whatever
you conventionally think is mysterious. But it seems like a good way to do it. Like one of my
favorite stories is we had jet engines for a few years before we had the aerodynamics to explain
how they flew. So there were several years where there were Air Force pilots getting into machines
going at Mach three, and no one on earth could explain what was happening. It was essentially
like riding a magic bullet, like anyone on earth would have been like, in that similar situation
with things like anesthetics. Yeah. And so like helping with jet engines, it's basically throwing
shit out the back to make it go faster, right? It's the vortexes that were really confusing us
because we didn't understand how the movement of air behind the turbine was creating as much
thrust as it did. Like we knew it should work the same as a rocket, but we just didn't understand
how effective it was and why we would be getting issues at higher temperatures. Like we had to
