linguistically talented. But I think every other layer needs improvement. And so my contribution
is thinking about how to develop your personal brand. Not I like to dress a little bit outrageously
and gather attention, but that's me. That's my own personal brand. And it helps create an identity
for me that is useful and practical in a lot of rationalist ways. Like, when I show up,
people know what I am about from 50 feet away when they see me in a rose suit.
Like, I clearly describe who I am, and it's a filtering mechanism. I don't have to talk to
the people who don't want to deal with that. And you're right, the body language also is a thing,
like seeing you the way you walked up to the group in that rose suit, like also communicated,
hey, this is a, this is what you're going to get time to swagger. But um, yeah, so I'm going to be
creating a fashion module where at very minimum, we will get rid of the worst fashion habits that
you have. And oftentimes that's enough to make a big improvement. And just learning how to shop
for a t-shirt made a huge difference in my life. Yeah, knowing about fit, like knowing how much
of a difference fit makes, and how you can wear a $5 white t-shirt from Kmart. And if it fits you
well, oh, Kmart might be out of business. This is a silly reference. But if it fits you well,
it's going to look like a million bucks. But if you spent $200 on like a nice fitted button
down shirt, and it's baggy on you, you're going to look like you're wearing your dad's clothing.
And I am very lucky that I have at least a few female friends who are going to be helping consult.
So this will be a all genders, or gender neutral class as well. And I will offer a little teaser,
which is we are working on, I'm working on another module, I've talked about this on the discord
about building social networks and making them what making wide and deep social networks in any
city you're in in about six months. So if you're interested in such a class, you should support
the guild for the first three months, it seems like it would be on your it would be in your interest.
Well, what's fun is that, like on the meta level,
but then I want to a specific point here is I'll try and make both one,
high up, you guys are doing the awesome thing of looking at something that exists that you
that you see room for improvement for and asking how can we do better, which is fucking tight,
just got to call that out. At the the lower level thing of the fashion thing, that's that's been
coming around to me in like the last years. So like, my wife, in addition to being just like
gorgeous is also has this ability to buy herself things that like we can't leave the house that
are getting complimented, which is awesome. And then there's me in my three year old Costco jeans
with holes in them, and my target shirt, shit also with holes in it. Like I have some nice clothes.
And I like it's, you know, on the most part, like I yeah, but let me finish my thought, which
I guess on couple notes one, we're barely leaving the house now, so it doesn't matter.
But the other thing is like, it's partly like, on the one hand, I like dressing in a way that,
you know, like nice guy from worm, your eyes totally pass over me when you look at me in a
crowd. And so like, I'm on the train to work, I don't want people to like stop and notice,
part of me would like that maybe, but the other part of me just likes to be completely ignored.
But also I could optimize for that strategy too, I guess, right?
Yeah, to dress in such a way that you are noticed when you want to be.
Yeah. And, you know, the other thing, but I do love dressing nicely, you know, you're wearing
a button down shirt, David, and you look great in it. And I liked to wear my target shirt because
it was the one at the front of the line in the rack in my closet this morning. And actually,
last night when I threw on the floor, so I got a good dressed in the dark.
But I like dressing up a lot. It sounds like a silly thing to mention, but it's not.
When I dress nice, I feel nice, you know? It's a way of like, you know, why do I shower?
Like, it's not just because I smell if I don't, it's so I feel like as good as I want to look,
right? Yeah. So, Stephen, I was lucky enough to stay with you last time I was in Denver,
and I met Rachel. And so, I've been on her Facebook and I agree, she has a great look.
Now, here's the question I want to ask you. Do you think Rachel could make a look if I gave
her $20 and put her in a thrift store and she would come out with a look that you would say,
yes, that is her style? I am ill-equipped to answer that question, but not unusually ill-equipped.
Her parents don't buy her clothes. Like, her fashion sense is impenetrable to all of us
in such that, like, you know, what I'm getting at is maybe, I don't know.
So, my opinion is this, we confuse expensive clothing and nice clothing for fashion.
Oh, her fashion isn't all that expensive. Exactly. She has an aesthetic. And once she
knows what her aesthetic is, she's able to cultivate it. And the truth is, this is a very
natural process. Developing an aesthetic is something artists do, fashion designers, it's a
thing you can learn and teach other people. But it is work. It is not a natural thing. Humans
don't come built in with an aesthetic normally. We come in with a way to protect our nethers from
the cold and bugs. And police. Yeah. And now, yeah, just wearing enough clothes to not have
people throw garbage at us and call the cops. Yeah. So, what this class will be aimed at doing
is helping people develop that aesthetic for themselves. Because my opinion is fashion is
so horrible, we have to get rid of it every six months. Style is forever. I think that's a Mark
Twain quote. But we, that's what I would like with that module. And I think that if you look at the
modules we have as the first three, what you're seeing is kind of the thrust of where we're going.
We also have plans with Matt about doing a possible class on practical Bayesian analysis
in the field where you would mix like math that you did with poker practices so you can do odds
live. Yeah. Being able to do calculations in real time, even just knowing how to perform a
back of a napkin Bayesian analysis analysis of a situation is super helpful. And not many people
know how to do that. That sounds really valuable too. I mean, there's something to be said for
just having the intuition of it. And that can be helpful. You know, like if I take my car in and
it's making a clunky noise, I'm not going to check the windshield liper fluid, right? Like,
that's not the problem. Probably wouldn't bother checking the battery first, right? You come in,
it's just, it's a differential diagnosis, right? And so that in itself is sort of a
Bayesian exercise. But yeah, being able to do the math for it would be would be helpful to
just say, am I, I mean, Jesus, at my job, half of it is just like, all right, what the fuck is
wrong with this thing? And being able to do some quick odds and being able to be able to concentrate
my uncertainty, so I don't spend my first half day investigating this problem, looking at the wrong
thing reliably, I can reliably find the right thing to look at the first time half the time,
that'd be awesome, right? Yeah. So these classes are basically each of us as rationalists who are
passionate about how the community looks to the outside, and the potential for the rationality
community to raise the sanity waterline. These are things we think are some of the highest order
of magnitude changes that rationalists can could make in their lives towards towards these ends.
So given all that, do you guys have any questions for us? I have one.
I'm trying to couch this so it doesn't sound like a criticism. No.
So I'd like, I'd like and I hate the name, community of servants, oh, guild of servants.
So first of all, I'd like the fact that it seems to be very outward facing, it is there for the
other people to look at us and be like, oh, they're servants, they're here to help the community,
this is great. And that's exactly what we want. On the other hand, like, as soon as I heard that,
if someone were to ask me, do you want to join a guild of servants, I'd be like, fuck you, I'm not
anyone's servant. I live my own life. And, and I really want to be a part of this. And you really
pick the name. And I think, honestly, I think objectively, it's probably a good name. But like,
what do you say to people like me who have been spending their lives trying to get past the
feeling that we, well, you know, as someone who came from, from a Christian cult that our lives
are to be used for other people, and we're trying to get over that, seek freedom and become slave
to your desires, seek discipline and you shall find your liberty by refusing to be a servant to
anything. You are just like, what is that one of the 12 virtues is if you allow yourself to be carried
by your, what you want, you will be enslaved to your whims. You're not a servant to the world,
you're a servant to truth. And if you can't become a servant to truth, you have no right to call
yourself a rationalist. We serve the truth first, we serve the world second, and we serve ourselves
third. Okay, that's pretty fucking awesome. I like that we serve the truth thing. Yeah.
This is why David's going to be head of marketing. Hell yeah, I am our HR person.
And I have found that having a, a, a life without the times I'm happiest in life tends to be when
I'm doing things with and for other people, when like, Oh God, the Corona months have been awful.
But like, I'm just alone and doing things for myself and not seeing other people. And it's
miserable. You have no sense of meaning in life anymore. Right. Yeah. And yeah, when, when finding
something bigger than yourself is such an important thing. It's, it's why we have religion. It's why
we have all these various philosophies that people served to their dying breath, because there's
this overwhelming need to do something that's bigger than yourself. And that one of the most
important things that's bigger than ourselves is the continuation of the human species, the well
being of the human species, the advancement of the enlightenment, and all those things, their
servant can mean a variety of things. And one of those definitions is seeking it all your days,
pursuing it, and making it a priority in your life.
I'd want about like these sort of community facing activities that will, that you can point to and
say, look at this good we did. I do like, I mean, any palpable thing where someone can walk down
the street and notice what you did, you know, picking up garbage is an obvious thing. I don't
know what it's like in Kansas City or nowhere in Pennsylvania. But like there, I can't walk
to say for that passing garbage on the street and it drives me nuts. And so it'd be cool, you know,
to have that cleaned up. But any, any group of humdrum motivated people can clean up garbage.
What makes us cool? What makes the stuff we're doing cool? What should we be doing that like,
oh man, I should get in with them. So here's the way I think it's, the way we have it structured,
is these are competitions between cells. And so you are encouraged to use every
rationalist trick you have. And remember, cheating is just what losers call technique
to win. If you're, if your goal is to dump all my trash, you can spend your points to
sabotage other teams. In harmless ways. Trash on my lawn, though, that means I have
extra bags of trash to get points with. I don't even have to go very far. Look at all this trash
I cleaned up. What I would like is if this is a problem, if you see trash in Denver, yeah, any
group of humdrum people could do some cleaning and they probably would earn some goodwill.
Like they'd probably get a few people interested. I would love it if maybe the group of Denver
rationalists talked with the city council, worked in a 3D printing shop and then designed
rumbas that clipped to the sides of the curb and cleaned the streets forever. And then the
problem is solved forever. That's what I think rationalists can do. The first person comes around
and kicks the rumba for shits of giggles. Then you should design your rumbas to be a modular
and you're not very rational if you're not planning for kicks. Or to have it violently
explode when kicks. One of the things we would be measuring is the long-term impact you have on
your community and how the community responded to the things that you did. So part of that is
not just for using this particular example of cleaning up trash. What did you do to prevent
trash from happening again in the future? What systemic problems did you work towards fixing
and in order to be more effective at what you're doing? That actually makes this hard.
When I try to answer that question, I like immediately draw a blank, which means I have
to work at it, which is awesome. Which means you have to go and problem solve. You have to go
you have to go figure out what is causing this in the first place.
And maybe you and your cell will have a brainstorming session and then you guys might
pre-mortem a bunch of the ideas and you use the rationalist techniques you've heard and then you
think about the classes you have and you think, okay, we did the module for defense against
dark arts and we've noticed that this person in the city council is a real problem. How can we
work around them? Instead of bashing our heads against the wall or getting frustrated and saying,
humans are just so frustrating, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. No, we're going to use our modules
to work around that and accomplish things. We're going to look good while doing it so
they can't just brush us off as just another group of humdrum lay people. And right now too,
I think that is largely, if not the default response, a default response for a lot of people,
which is, and people just suck, we're never going to be able to do anything about that.
And like, that's basically quitter talk. Like, we live on a planet with people.
And then until you guys have your own planet and you get to move, you know, and it's,
then it's, you know, whatever, rationalists, which are better than people. I say in quotes,
like, this is the world we have. And so you don't get just to throw your hands up and say, well,
people suck. And therefore, it's not worth doing stuff, which I think is a common attitude.
Adaptation executors and the system of incentives determines what adaptations they
execute. So if we can change the system of incentives, make things better.
I was an evangelical Christian. And I just by reading some material from the rationalist community,
I did a complete 180 in my quality of life, my relationships, my epistemology. Imagine having
a cell of people, a group that holds me personally accountable and teaches me and helps me and guides
me and shows me how to live a more rational life. That's perhaps massive effects. I can't even,
I can't even conceive of what, of how good that could be for some people. So if, if anyone was
a hopeless case, that was me. And it required very little from the rationalist community to,
to turn me around. It required it merely existing and you finding it. Yeah. Yeah. Imagine what's
something like an active rationalist community that knows how to brand themselves and how to
teach others in a empathetic and effective way. I also find it, in my opinion, the thing that
really crushes me the most is I think the people who would most benefit from rationality are the
people who are least likely to find it when they need it. Like, I think we can all, I think everyone
who's listening to this podcast and everyone in this room can think of at least one person in their
life who is smart, who is capable, who could understand this and whose life could be improved
by these things. But because they were either in the wrong social circle, or just quite honestly,
their interests weren't the same as ours. They never ran into it when it would have mattered,
when it could have made a real impact on them. I am not, I honestly don't think I would have
found this community if it wasn't for my friend Errol reading HPMOR and then recommending it to
me, because none of my interests aligned. Like, I would have been in any other situation exactly
the kind of dark arts master that everyone hates. I would have been some kind of lawyer
politician salesman. It would have been evil. So this community, by dumb luck, saved me from a
very terrible path. And I'm just wondering how many other people out there, because we don't
advertise well, because we're not out there, who were on that borderline are falling the wrong way.
Like, I want to make rationality so popular and simplified that you can start teaching it to,
like, middle schoolers, and that everyone can just start absorbing it into their life. You're
not going to raise the sanity waterline by making geniuses smarter. You're going to raise the sanity
waterline by finding the people in your community who are at the lowest, and then lifting them up,
even if it's just one little step. I would caveat with, you'd said they could have found
rationality when it would have made a difference. You know, barring deathbed exceptions. I feel like
it's almost never too late to get better, right? I believe in theory that is true, but I think that
there are some people for whom making that transition after they've invested so much in their current
identity would break them. Like, it's the reason people don't leave the Westboro Baptist Church,
because for every person who does, they always tell like, Oh, is the worst thing that ever happened
to me, it destroyed my entire worldview and social life for years until I was like able to form other
connections. The deeper your roots are, the worse it sucks when you uproot them all. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. I guess I was thinking of somebody whose life could could use some
on track finding, not that they're entrenched in the wrong cult or something yet. That's,
that's a different problem. But even then too, we still watch the right cult. We are a secret
society. Thank you. Colts are desperate. Secret societies are selective. And in fact,
that is an important facet. One, one still wants to be able to just listening to this podcast can't
join up. You got to be invited. One still wants to be able to, you know, encourage. We want the
number of people leaving the Westboro Baptist Church to go up, right? And especially if it went
