up, I don't know, they're not, they're not that big of a group anymore. It's like 30 people. Yeah,
I think at the peak, it was like 80 or something. But, you know, if fuck it, five of them, if five
of them left next week, they have a social circle already, right? They got all five, they got all
of each other. But then what do they talk about? They're shared pain. The only experience they
have in common, which is the thing they're trying to leave behind. And the ones that they're doing
going forward, I'm just saying like, at the very least, if, if more people were leaving these
bad toxic groups, you know, like there was that guy, I forget his name, I think Christian might
have been his first name, reformed neo Nazi. And instead of just like being a reformed neo Nazi by
himself and having better himself, he heads up groups of people helping to get people out of
this, you know, doing Nazi tattoo removal and stuff like that, deep, like deep programming and
depropagandizing people. Yeah. And like, that's awesome. And so, you know, it, I guess what I'm
getting at is that I don't want to be, it's weird that I'm defeatist and other notes, not on this
one, that it's never too late to get better, right? Which I don't think is a statement that
you're challenging so much. It's just that it might be harder and then you might, you might bear
less fruit. As an Asian, the probabilities that you will change are never zero, but they do get
pretty damn low. You know, if you're 75, and you're leaving a cult that has been life consuming,
you know, you're, I don't know, still part of me wants to focus on the remaining years that you
have that are now better, right? Of course, if they're all going to be terribly worse because
you're now shunned, I guess I see what you're saying. But yeah, I'm still advocating for the
fact that I think the pool of people that won't be helped by raising their sanity a bit is extremely
small. I'm willing to agree with that. Yeah. So yeah, I don't think we disagree that much.
Sometimes you just have to leave like Darth Vader, it was this last few minutes of life,
and yet he still had to leave his cult and be like, no, they've gone too far.
Not that people who aren't rationalists are Darth Vader, but they kind of are.
And I know we will teach you to defend yourself from them.
And as we know, it's safe to generalize from fictional evidence. Yes.
But as I caveat in the last episode, this isn't fictional evidence. This is, you know,
generalizing a lesson. It's not saying next time you're confronted by Emperor Palpatine,
this is what will happen. So yeah, on as a general invitation, it is an application
process. That way we have the ability to invite everyone we want while still also maintaining
a end goal of a small enough group of people that we can still manage and grade and such.
So it's going to take place on Wednesdays at 7.30 p.m. Central Standard Time.
The location will be on the internet for now. How long is the meeting?
Two hours approximately. Maybe, yeah, depending on the on the on the exact class.
First half will usually be a lecture. Section half will be you working with your cell to discuss
either the previous assignment or the next assignment. So in order to apply, in order,
if you really want to get in on this and see what it's like and provide feedback and critique,
you want to send an email to guildofservants at gmail.com with your name and a short response
explaining your hopes for the course, introducing who you are and how you receive this invitation.
1,000 characters or less. We know you rationalists. We know how much you write.
Characters or words.
Characters. Characters, okay. Yeah. Poetry, man. Get real good at saying things real fast.
That's going to be like one to two paragraphs. Perfect.
We don't have that much time. Yeah. So yeah, when when when you send that email,
you will, if you are accepted, you will receive a formal invitation with all the details.
And then you'll begin joining the three month alpha test of the guild of servants.
And you can start sending those in the day this podcast comes out. And two weeks after that,
uh, we will have reviewed and the people who have been invited will have received responses
and the classes will start. And so all they need to send is their name and what they hope to get
out of the community, not the other courses, the course. Yeah. Okay. Cool. Awesome. I'm drafting
my my paragraphs in my head right now. So in the future, it's going to, I'm guessing going to be
mainly a zoom thing, at least until the corona thing wears off. Very likely. Yeah. And
how many people are you hoping or expecting planning on having this initial wave?
We are going to not accept any more than 30 people. We cannot handle more than 30 people
and give the quality of experience that we want. And I'm assuming that it's going,
is it going to be one big zoom of 30 people or they're going to be like multiple branches?
It would be a, it would be one, one big group where you listen to the lecture for the, for the
lecture portion. And then you would do something akin to zoom breakout sessions where you discuss
the content with your cellmate, the instructor, cellmate. And the instructor can go, go between
the rooms answering questions, giving advice, that kind of thing. I know that, um, rebellions and,
and other revolutionary activities were generally broken up into cells too. What did they call
each other? Cause we could use, borrow a term from that rather than cellmate. Yes. Selly was the
colloquialism I heard from people sharing rooms in prison, but we probably want to use that.
We want, we want whatever you called your fellow cellmates in a, in a revolutionary
Comrade. Comrade. A bit too, a bit too common. Yes. We'll think on that. We'll think on that.
That'll be our project between now and when we launch the thing. Cool. Cool. Indeed. And that's
really what we have as far as what we're bringing. And we hope that the people who are listening to
this podcast who are interested take the time and ask themselves, what do they want from the
rationalist community? Even if it's not what we're doing, I would rather have 20 other groups
competing with us. Cause then one of us will succeed at doing the right thing and making
us a big group, but obviously we're the best cause we're first. You're going to get the opportunity
to lay out some founder effects. Well, what I like is that this is again, finding,
you know, optimizing everything is what, you know, if we had bumper stickers, that's what one of them
would say. And, uh, you know, optimizing what does rationality do isn't really a question that has
occurred to me that explicitly before, um, which is awesome. And like, I remember we had a,
the pleasure of meeting Robin Hansen for dinner when he was here for Sam Harris's podcast a
couple of years ago. And it was many people from the local rationalist meetup and he asked
like a couple of times like, what do you guys do? What does your meetup do? And I was like, well,
we, you know, enjoy the community norms of the rationality community. And like, what kind of
answer are you expecting? Cause he asked twice. He's like, well, you know, a lot of meetups I
go to, they're like working on some Bitcoin thing, or they're all building an app or whatever. And
like, well, we don't really have anything like that. We're just hanging out and enjoying the,
you know, good conversation. Um, that's incredibly, incredibly valuable.
Well, yeah, but, uh, I like this answer more, a lot more. Like what are you guys doing? Well,
we're actually fucking doing something. And you guys are doing that. I think that's
outstanding. And I don't have, uh, the vocabulary to articulate other than saying how awesome it is
again. Um, really, really how cool I think that is. So I love my ego getting stroked. Don't stop.
I'm almost there. I'm really looking forward to having one of those signs on the side of the
highway that says this next mile is maintained by the community of servants, guild of servants,
guild of servants, right? Yeah. Cause the end goal is to also be able to have physical locations
and the guild of servants as a nationwide, global wide organization can give them the
resources. They can network them. They can provide course material and that allows us to
basically plant rationality communities. And if we get big enough, we can have a guild of pope.
That's a, uh, that's a failure mode, but
damn it. They're going, my plans for being guild pope. That does bring up the important
question. Will there be hats? Every cool club for the pope, every cool club has hats. My grandpa
was a, in the shiners. Yeah. So we actually have a, we have a strict rule for our meetings,
which is every time we have a meeting, all of us have to wear silly hats and
the reason why is you don't want to take yourself too seriously. It's so easy when you have these
big goals and these big aspirations to get caught up in yourself. And it's really hard to take
yourself too seriously when you have a gesture hat on and you're jingling every time you nod your
head. My favorite is a Santa Claus hat that is green. Oh, that's a good one. I only own one hat,
so I'll have to find some silly ones. It's, I think it's TBD, whether we'll require the,
the students to do it, but I'm leaning towards that. It looks stupid, so I'll still wear it,
and I think it's still counts, but it's not a gesture hat. Gotcha. All right. Well, this is
awesome. Do you guys have anything else you want to add? No, I guess website, TBD and all that
stuff. Yeah, website, TBD, formal stuff like that is all, is all TBD. By the time this episode
comes out, we will probably have a website and we will send it to you so you can put in the show
notes. Okay. Perfect. I mean, if then the first wave is an invitation on the alpha test, you probably
don't need a website yet. We might at least have a landing page to do that, people too,
with basic information and basic communication platforms. I could have a discord.
An email address were to apply. Yeah. This one's awesome. Yeah. I don't have anything else to add.
No, I am super excited. Yeah, I'm pretty stoked. I don't get, I mean, this is something that I
feel like I can benefit a lot from. And I have an optimistic, you know, vision for 10 years from
now of how much this could grow and how much stuff it could do. And hopefully being part of the alpha,
part of that test will be bragging rights for me in 10 years. Like I was there helping get this off
the ground by being an early contributor. Definitely. I admit, I kind of feel like we were just treading
water the past couple of years. Like it's been great and it's been a lot of fun. But I'm like,
we aren't doing anything new. Yeah. I would describe the last few years as when you plant bamboo,
it doesn't grow for the first few years. All it's doing is it's growing down. The roots are
growing down and it's becoming more solid. That's what the community has been doing the last few
years. We've been building connections. We've been talking, we've been doing discords. We've been
creating podcasts and networks of communication. We've built the root network. And it's really
just someone has to pull the trigger and start shooting up. And I honestly, I'm not sure if I'm
the most qualified person for it, but I might be the stupidest person who's also brave enough to do
it. And with wisdom like Alex and Matt and Gray and Errol bringing, it's very easy for us to do
amazing things. I think most qualified is a highly overrated qualification. The most important thing,
in my opinion, has always been just the willingness to do it. If someone's actually out there doing
the thing, that is, you're 99% of the way there because most people just don't do the thing.
100% agree. If you're waiting for the best person to do it, they'll never show up.
It's just the person who will do it. And man, it would be cool in 15 years if the legacy of this
podcast is that it helped bring together the people who started the Goal of Servants. I think
that'd be a pretty sick legacy anyway. Indeed. This podcast has helped bring a lot of people
together. You guys should be very proud of yourselves. I mentioned this on the live episode,
but this podcast is what kept me going before I was able to start a local community.
Shit. That's awesome. Yeah. If this podcast didn't exist, there's a good chance I would have fizzled
out. Well, damn. Like I said, if all that comes out of it is that it helps birth, not all that
comes out of it, but if this is one of the seeds that helped birth an actual move to shoot up,
like David was saying, then I think that's awesome. Indeed. Cool, man. This was great.
I want to hear all about this. Like I said, there will be three months of trial period.
Everyone else is as stoked as I am hearing about this.
Stace, maintain this little excitement for the next quarter year, and then there'll be
whatever, Discord websites and community and all that stuff. I'm assuming it'll be a month of
getting applications and going through them before you guys actually start anything.
Correct. Between now and when we start, probably about a month, approximately.
Awesome. Well, thanks so much, guys. Of course. Thank you for letting us on. We appreciate you
guys so much. You're awesome. Dude, you guys are awesome. You are doing a thing, and that is huge.
I'm very excited for what this can be. All right. Well, shall we thank our Patreon as we wrap up?
Oh, yeah. Someone else is also doing a thing. Yeah. Someone who is helping to keep this network
going that keeps people from fizzling out. Oscar Capraro, I hope I'm pronouncing that right,
is our patron that we are thinking today. You have helped keep Alex in the community
and going so that now he can do this thing for all of us. Oscar, you are awesome. All our patrons,
you are awesome. We thank you all. Thank you, Oscar. Yeah. You keep this going.
Seconded. I don't have much else to say other than, you know, I said it all better.
It doesn't mean I don't feel the same way. If you would like to also help provide this
fallback network thing for people to listen to, you can donate to us at patreon.com.
Under the Bayesian Conspiracy, we have our website, TheBayesianConspiracy.com.
You can hit us up on the Discord, which is linked there. And there's a subreddit. You can email us
personally, again, linked at the website. There's lots of ways to get in contact and to talk with
other rachelists. So do all that, rate and review the podcast, maybe. Yeah. If you're suffering alone
in, you know, a single bubble of sanity that is just you and you want a community,
online avenues exist. And then, you know, if you want to start a meet space one when
IRL things become safe again, then again, my advice is, and this isn't, I'm not an expert at
starting local communities, but it's always just do it. You know, put it on meetup.com,
go to a coffee shop. And if you're by yourself for the first two or three meetings,
whatever, maybe find a way to market it if it takes several meetings or whatever. But people
will come. People show up and then you could start conversations and it's great. And if anyone ever
needs logistical advice, feel free to reach out to me. I'm available all the time.
How can they reach you? My email address is fine. Alex.headkey at gmail.com. That's A-L-E-X.
H-E-D-S-N-Delta-T-S-N-Tango-K-E at gmail.com. Awesome. And Bayes Theorem on the Discord.
And Bayes Theorem on the Discord. And we'll also put that in the show notes and on the website.
If you're okay having your website. That's totally fine. Okay, cool.
All right. Thank you everyone for joining us and we'll be back in two weeks. Bye. Bye.
you
