but it's very much a thing of everything is relative. Cultural relativism is a huge thing,
and rationality is directly opposed to that. Even worse, epistemological relativity.
Yeah, they're, they're like rationality and logic and dispassion are things that they have
identified as enemies and they attack frequently. Then you beat them. Right, right. No, I'm saying
right now, they are a large and strong group and we are not. So it's going to be a long uphill fight.
And so I understand why you want to like not include the word rationality and distance yourself
from that, because obviously, if you're starting out as a new organization, you don't want someone
that big to fight with off the start. But are you, are you not worried that by pulling from
the rationalist ranks and being kind of rationalism adjacent, you're going to be,
get the guilt by association thing that they like to do? So there is one way I know to defeat that,
which is building a reputation that is so strong that no one can attack it. And the reason we don't
have that reputation is because we are an insular community. One of the big parts about this
organization we want to start is we're going to be outward facing in the sense that
we're going to encourage people every time they do a series of classes with us to do a project
that affects their real physical community. My end goal is something like an Elk's Lodge
in every city, a group that everyone knows is a little bit weird, maybe a little mysterious,
but they have a reputation of being there for the community. They do volunteer work,
they go help. The very first one we're going to do is we're going to encourage everyone
to do as much good as they can within like a hundred miles of themselves
for the coronavirus. And obviously, if you're isolated and you need to do stuff online,
we're not unreasonable, we will accommodate. But if someone's going to make accusations like,
oh, you guys are a terrible group, you don't like, you're so selfish with your rationality,
we can be like, you can say that, but we just raised a hundred thousand dollars for children
who have the coronavirus. What did you do? That's the way you defeat that with actions that are
incontrovertibly good and saying that is what we dedicate ourselves to. And if you have a problem
with us after we've done that, your issue, you're the crazy bigot, not us. I like that answer so
much better than mine, which was like, I'm never going to convince those people. No, but I think
it's true, you're not going to convince those people. There are people that think effective
altruists are evil because they're, you know, concentrating on hearing malaria in Africa instead
of fighting classism here in America. Or extremely rare puppy disorder. Yeah, no, I've
literally heard people say effective altruists are a bunch of, you know, unemotional spurts
because they're focusing across the world when we need the money here in America to help people
with whatever. Well, and it's like, I mean, not to sound defeatist immediately, but like,
with that one, well, that's that sort of it. It's like, at that point, it's like, well, we just
have different values, like I value human life across the globe. And even to some extent into
the future, more apparently than you do, you know, the average homeless person in America
has it so much better than the bottom billion, where, you know, they have access to clean water,
they have access to typically enough food to not die, occasionally shelter, and like, and
emergency medical treatment. I think, I think like, don't get wrong, this is a problem. We
shouldn't have homeless people in America. This is a wealthy country. It's insane. But as far as
like, what can I do as a person with a budget of $10,000? Well, I can, with $10,000, I could
probably turn two lives around, right? Maybe get them an apartment, get, you know, try and get things
going. And if I'm looking for homeless people in the US, if I was able to send, you know,
anti diuretic capital capsules to Africa at the cost of eight cents each. And even at the cost of
distributing those and all the logistics involved, you know, people in the world die of diarrhea.
Do you guys know that? Like, that's what I'd say to these people. And like, that's insane, right?
This, this is a problem. I think those people have a point. I think they have at least one
real point, which is by not caring about what the local community sees around you,
of what your actions are, you are not advertising rationality or effective altruism. If your money
is going to someplace in Africa, you are helping those people's lives. There's no bad in that.
But you're not going to your actions aren't going to show up in your local community,
you're not going to attract more effective altruists doing that or more rationalists to
raise the San Diego waterline. You're going to make yourself feel better, and you'll make the
world a measurably better place. But I think there is a tradeoff, and it's painful to say,
but I think there is a tradeoff in efficiency of good versus converting more people.
Like, and I'm okay with that. I don't want to say that I don't want to be like this negative Nancy,
you will never fix everything. Everything is terrible, because I don't believe that I just
want to point out that some people will always hate you no matter what, like as, as Jesus said,
that they will hate you because you're good, or as the modern day Jesus said, they hate us for our
freedoms. They hate us because they ain't us. There will always, there will always be those
haters. So we'll never be all the way there. We got to be okay with some people. But I think
you're right that it's the advertising to your local community is super important,
especially since people in Africa can't help us. And people here in our local community can
sometimes destroy us. And that's bad, I'd rather not be destroyed. Sometimes you have to be less
effective with some of your money in order to build up allies and defenses in your local
community, which is where you can be killed. And the concern about branding isn't just to convince
the people that would always hate you anyways, it's to reduce the power they have over you
in the local community. There's a lot of people out there who are somewhat on the fence to varying
degrees. And if the the your enemies have more power over your branding than you do,
they will be the ones that convince the people on the fence, not you. So the goal is to shift the
power dynamics to have power over your branding. So when people do attack you, the ones that may
never be convinced, they won't have as much effect on the people around you and local community.
And it'll make them look stupid when they're like, you're attacking these people who have
done wonderful things to our community. Why are you doing that? Like they're the asshole.
What I imagine would be a beautiful example in the future is imagine if we have classes and
next Earth Day, we say, do as much as you can to clean your local environment, send us pictures,
measure it like trash, reduce trees planted, whatever you want. And then, you know, every
little city and like town in America that has a few rationalists sees these weirdos going out and
cleaning up litter, planting trees, planting flowers. I guarantee you, at least a few people
will be like, Oh, what are you doing? Why are you doing this? And we're going to gamify it as well.
So one of the nice things about this organization is we've been talking to Matt and he's actually
working on some software to accelerate learning that might be a concurrent and part of the process.
And we actually have a few of our classes already designed and ready to go so that when this
organization starts, you can immediately gain value out of it.
Yeah. And of course, all of this is still in the testing phase. We're going to have a three month
period where it's we're not like collecting guild dues or anything like that. It's just all everyone
we're going to have a select few people invited to see test out the material, give us feedback.
And the after this three month period, we're going to regroup, do a postmortem, get critique,
and then decide if there's any restructuring that needs to happen. So everything so far is
subject to revision as anything in rationality is always subject to revision if based on new evidence.
One thing I like too about the approach of trying to, again, not convince the anti epistemology
folks, but like whatever you're on a forum and there's some discussion going on. It's just like
Socrates and just like every other, you know, rational rationalization that we gave ourselves
from many of us did when we were going through our religious deconversion and arguing with people
online. I'm not doing it to convince the person I'm arguing with, I'm doing it to help give the
audience information. And so, you know, if all they're hearing is the vehement one side and all
they and all they see is the insane shit they bring to the table, they're like, Oh, okay. Yeah,
this is clearly not for me. You can come back and, you know, with something helpful. You know,
what I've been using sort of as a like, as a common template is the positive things that the
rationality movement has done so far, things like popularizing effective altruism,
things like the Future for Humanity Institute, cryonics. There are like tangible organizations
and movements for a better society that I've already sprung up. And so, you know, I then again,
the most vehement detractors never ask like what good has your community done? They don't think
that's a possible consideration, right? So again, this isn't really, in my mind, still much for
them. It is for the audience, right? My goal is to create a reputation and an organization so solid
because you're right, there will always be haters. I want to be, we want to use every bit of our
rationality, every bit of wisdom, every bit of self help and cultural knowledge we can,
so that when those haters come, they have no legs to stand on. That's the goal, not that they will
like us. But I'm going to force them to show everyone in the argument that they are frivolous
and that they have nothing to stand on there. That's the only real way. And if you do that often
enough, the haters will shrink, they'll never go away. But I think the percentages can drop quite
a bit. It's really, really hard to hate the group that's giving kids masks to prevent them from dying.
Like it's not impossible, but it's pretty hard. Do you want to talk about it?
Have like a sort of Elk's Lodge slash Dojo slash church thing on a corner with a big billboard that
says, you know, 1000 trees planted this month, the Guild of Servants, please enter and be willing
to serve to make the world a better place. And then yeah, like whatever we did in the last month
to make the world's like good, raised money for charity or whatnot.
Once the vaccines are available, you know, 10,000 vaccines given out to the needy.
Yeah, yeah, stuff like that. And the people inside of this Guild are helping each other.
They have groups that support each other to learn how to do more effective community service.
And also they know how to communicate things like epistemology to the people around them.
They know how not to make social faux pas that cause problems with reputation.
They know how to how to brand themselves so they don't don't seem as weird.
So that actually leads into some of the classes we're going to be offering for the first three
months. Do you want to start with the character sheet? Yeah, yeah. Hold on real quick. Is there
since I don't really know anything about this yet. Is this actually a creative organization?
Is there a website? Is there some sort of? So we are working on that. We don't want to put too
much effort into things for the alpha test because we don't know what's going to change.
So this is still in the testing phase? Still in the testing phase. We'll be doing this for
three months. And just to kind of give you a recap of what this physically looks like,
it's going to be an online organization primarily. So it's geographically neutral for people who
don't have a physical community. But it is designed to be a place for the community,
for the rationality community to actually gather around. We want to be able to teach each other
how to be more effective humans and rationalists. We're going to have weekly courses where
there's a class of some kind on how to make the world a better place, how to have better
epistemology, so on and so forth. The idea is to provide social support and motivation to each
individual. So you're going to have a cell, a group that of usually three to five other people
approximately. That's your group. You are the ones that go to classes. You can earn points
as a group, which these points can be used very similarly to Hogwarts House points.
Coral points is honestly a better description. Because House points don't do anything.
Yes, we actually do useful things. The points are actually going to have real world effects,
but more on that in a moment. So you're going to have this group of people preferably in real life,
but if you don't have people in your local community that are rationalists, you have a small
group of people that you can talk to and get support from. So it's also going to be a way for
us to signal boost our accomplishments in the local community, at the same time be a testing
ground to see if we can actually perform great accomplishments as rationalists. Because if we
can't actually do anything with rationality, then this whole venture is not as important as it might
be. So also, again, this is part of reclaiming our identity and brand as people who think clearly
and know how to impact the world around us. And that's the general gist of the organization.
So as far as weekly, the actual classes themselves are concerned. We have three modules, which will
be broken up into multiple classes a piece. The first module will be something that I dub
the character sheet. It came out of my local dojo, and I have tweaked it so much. But it's
basically introspection tool inspired by CIFAR's bug list, where you compile a list of all the
problems in your life. The version that I created allows you to also prioritize those
and provides various helpful tools for finding those bugs. Along with David, we have modified
that to be a much more thorough introspection to see where you're emotionally
failing in life and how to spin that into a positive thing, something to aspire to. Therefore,
it's not called a bug list. It is called a character sheet. It is a list of all the features
that you are trying to attain in your life. Very similar. It's inspired by RPG character sheets.
I won't spoil the details. You'll have to take the class to find out, but
it is quite delightful, and has helped me a lot. Probably the best tool I have used as a
rationalist since we've joined the community. Since that sounds so appealing, I'm desperate
to get my hands on it. Is it available? It will be available. We'll be giving some
information about the alpha testing here shortly. Okay, good. I didn't want to raise my hand and
politely demand that I be included, but I desperately wanted to be.
So that is going to be our first module. The second module is one that Gray and I have been talking
about, inspired by Sheldini and a conversation I had during the winter solstice in New York City,
which is a lot of rationalists become vulnerable to the dark arts because we hate a lot of
manipulation and sales tactics so much we never even bother to learn them, and that leaves us naive.
It does. I've seen a lot of rationalists who are way smarter than me fall for tricks that,
in my brother's words, makes them look like a jabroni. These are naive failures that I'm
kind of shocked by. So we're going to create a module called Defense Against Dark Arts,
where people will have this pump. I've done sales for 10 years and Gray, with his own background,
I won't speak for him, but has had his own experiences dealing with these things.
And between the two of us, we've come up with a series of classes to help you notice when someone
is engaging in behaviors that are red flags that you need to watch out for and how to defend yourself
socially and emotionally from people like that in those situations.
I remember Robert Sheldini's book is one of my favorite go-tos for recommending people
and even just buying them copies because they're ridiculously cheap. There was an anecdote that
Julia Galev gave many years ago on the Rationally Speaking podcast about how, at a mall or something,
someone had one of those expensive hair straighteners and I was like, oh, let me demo
this for you. It's great. And then, sure, why not? And then at the end, it's like, okay, well,
they're like, I forget how much, 150 bucks or something. And she's like, oh, no, thanks. Well,
I just did this for you. It's like, yep, I don't owe you anything. You volunteer to do this. And
that's an awkward thing to say, but that is the appropriate response to a technique like this
being wielded against you. And then a few months later, I bumped into somebody who went to one of
these mall, got roped into one of these mall kiosk stands and came home with an expensive
hair straightener. And I'm like, if only you had read Siltini's book, you would know that
you're not being an asshole by saying, no, thanks, I'm not taking, I'm not going to give you money
in exchange for the service that you provided up front that wasn't supposed to be part of this.
That you volunteered. Right. Yeah. So there's that one. And then there's the fashion module. So
I have a module, the last module we will have in the alpha phase is I've worked
in clothing stores for years. I really like fashion. And I think many rationalists don't
take it seriously. They don't take it seriously, because if they think it's an inconvenience and
a clothing is just there to prevent them from being arrested or cold. And that is this picture
and I don't like it. I don't like this idea, because in my opinion, fashion is communication.
My opinion is that you have layers of communication in person. And the first one is fashion,
then it's body language, then it's voice tone, and then it's the words you say as people get
closer to you, physically, that that's the layers they interact with. We are really good as a
community at knowing the right words. In fact, this community is unusually good at being
