a podcast very different from our own and also uncultured swine. Thank you. And as well as the
only rationalist I knew in Lancaster, Pennsylvania for years, my one of my oldest friends, Errol,
who is a programmer with experience in nuclear submarines in the Navy. So as a group, we've
been trying to meet at least once or twice a week since the quarantine started online.
And we have been trying to figure out how to attack a lot of these problems in a coherent way.
Yeah. And some of the problems we noticed, just to give you kind of basic rundown of the problems
we're trying to solve. One, we mentioned the rationalists are pretty bad at coordination.
And also another thing, once you've done all the reading, once you've read HP more about the
sequences, you're left wondering, Well, what now? What do I do with this? And that's something that
the likes of CIFAR has tried to try to accomplish to varying success. There's also a big problem
where there's not a lot of interpersonal accountability and interpersonal development. So
CIFAR, for example, they have their workshops, which are a few days to a couple of weeks.
Then you go home and you go back to your life. And there's no reiterating all that. There's no
other person you can talk to in your in meat space saying, Hey, how are you doing? What did you do
last week that helped you with your growth as a rationalist? Or what about this project you've
been working on? They try to accomplish that. But it's from the people that I have known who
have gone to CIFAR. It doesn't really stick that much. There's not enough structure there.
Then there's also the question of there are rationalists who don't have people,
IRL, that they can speak to and have interpersonal accountability for. So there's this problem of
a scalable community, something you can have in your home or in your immediate community,
and also something that scales up to the nationwide community or the global community
of rationalists. You have various communities you can join, various discords, podcasts you
can listen to, you can go post unless wrong, but they're all disparate. They're not connected
in any coherent way. There's not consistency there. So that's another one of the problems.
Then David mentioned that we feel like rationality has helped us a lot. But all I can really do is
create a counterfactual model of my life and say, hey, yeah, this was pretty bad if I didn't have
rationality. And I can point to some big things like my finances are orders of magnitude better
since I discovered rationality, my epistemology is more coherent, my relationships are better,
but I can't really point to a single thing. It's mostly just raised the sanity waterline of my life.
And people often come back with either, well, you would have been that way anyway, because you're
just a naturally smart person, or they come back with any other self-help program would probably
have similar results. And that is a perfectly fair criticism. If rationality is just like any
other self-help, I want to know that. As a good rationalist, my question is, what do I think I
know? How do I think I know that? How can I test this? But we don't really have a good way to test
that, like actual scientifically. And there's also just the idea of motivation. Having other people
to hold you accountable is one thing, but also just having people to motivate you and provide
incentive structures for you. Like in martial arts, you have belt systems, and people reward you with
belts, and you get a whole test to yourself where everyone is watching you demonstrate your skills
and spar with others. And then they recognize your talent. And we don't really have that in the
rationality community. So those are some of the problems that we have noticed. And in order to
solve those problems, David, would you like to give us the quick and dirty on the actual
game? So we
want to create an online organization in space. And we want it to be a place where we teach and
help each other grow and learn and build a formal structure around it. The reason that
we wanted to make something as official as a guild, not a business, but a guild because
a guild implies apprenticeship, it implies growth through it. And that's what this community
really lacks. We're actually old enough as a community now where we have seniors and like
baby rationalists. That was not true five or eight years ago, like the community was still too young
at that point. But now we actually have people who not only have done the work, went through the
sequences and all of that, but have actually made criticisms, improvements. It's pretty incredible.
And the other thing is the art can never be focused on itself or it becomes recursive.
So we wanted to make rationality instrumental. And I want to, I've heard a really good phrase
about Christians evangelizing, preach the gospel every moment of every day. And if absolutely
necessary, use your words. And while I am not a Christian, I appreciate the idea of this that
if you are winning, if the thing you believe is real, you don't need to advertise, people will
come to you and say, what are you doing right? So in that vein, we have named our organization
the Guild of Servants, because we should use rationality to serve the world, to be bigger than
our own egos and bigger than the things that make us feel that we are special. We are special in the
sense that every individual has unique gifts. But until we work as a group and work together to make
ourselves better, we're always just going to be a second rate internet community instead of the
group of people who has the ability to change the world. I mean, we were correct about the
coronavirus as a community way before everyone else. And while not many of us made huge changes,
I think almost every rationalist I know was slightly better prepared for the coronavirus
than the entire population of this country and most of the government. And nobody listened to us.
We had no social clout. So when we started panicking for that first month, we were ignored
by our local friends and communities. What was nice was being able to have the
foresight to help the people I care about prep who don't read rationalist blogs. So I got to
tell my parents, be like, yeah, there's the 15 cases. This is probably definitely going to be huge.
You guys should be prepared for, and I didn't really anticipate because I didn't have a good,
god, what, seventh month model, eight month model of what this is supposed to look like?
15 year model. We're only in the first year of lockdown. We've got three more to go.
So please don't joke. But it was at least one small thing that, hey, I happen to be
in a social circle that informed me that this is probably going to be a pretty big deal.
I'm able to look at what they're saying makes sense to me. I'm going to act like this is a big
deal too. And thus I can, you know, I called my grandma, made sure she had everything that she
needed to hunker down for a bit. And she said the most badass thing. I might have said this in the
air or not before. I think next week she'll be turning 86 or 87. And she's like, oh yeah,
this reminds me of like when Polio was going around. But back then not everyone had a radio,
so not everyone really knew what was going on. And I'm like, that is the most gangster fucking
thing. That's the most like grandma way of saying, oh, I've seen some shit this thing.
Like now I've got TV and internet, I'll be fine. But you know, in her house without electricity as
a kid, you know, Polio was ravaging the nation. And not not everyone had a radio was really the
statement that like, oh, damn, okay, yeah, that that a super dates that statement. And also
really adds the like, the level of you'll be fineness that I'm getting from from what you're
saying. I mean, and think about that, like you were able to legitimately make the lives of the
people around you safer. I hope I was at least able to tell them stuff. Listen, maybe it was only 10
percent safer. But when things are this dangerous, that matters. Those add up. Those things really
do. And we were right. Like I was a little bit paranoid when I heard about the coronavirus
stuff. So I went out and I used a little bit more money than I thought and I got some extra canned
food. I was like, I can't hurt. And you know what, when the lockdown happened, my family did not need
to leave the house for the first two months, we had enough food that we just didn't even have to
leave the house. I don't know if that really made a huge difference, but it made our stress levels
go down. And yet we help our families. Why are there no rationalists consulting the government?
Maybe not this administration, but as a general theory, like why are there no
rationalist consulting groups working for the government? Why are there none helping big
corporations pivot as soon as they see this to start making masks and ventilators so they
can make the most profit? Like these are all things that could have happened and didn't.
Yeah, yeah. So you mentioned branding a moment ago, Stephen, and that is also another focus
that we have. So we don't call ourselves a rationality guild, as you may have noticed.
This is designed to be its own thing, but it is heavily inspired by the rationality community
with all the knowledge and power that we have as rationalists behind it. So every cause wants to
be a cult, happy death spirals. We created this with all of that in mind. Everyone should know
real quick that he's not saying every cause wants to be a cult as in we want to be a cult,
but that is a sequence. That is a sequence post. That is a warning. That is a warning that every
cause wants to be a cult. So you got to do certain failure modes of organizing. And we took all that
in mind and we balanced the scales of pros and cons. We decided that we would own our brand from
the very beginning. So that's a problem the rationality community has, is they don't own
their brand. People brand for us. They look at us as this weird online community. And because we
are so detached from our local communities, that they have more power over our brand than we do.
Which is hugely despairing. I mean, I was just talking while watching a conversation on the
internet with some people a few weeks ago. And at some point, one person has some asshole
use quotes from a Slate Star Codex post to make some jerk point or something.
And that's their only exposure. And it's part of me wants to be a dick right back at them being
like, Hey, you know, if the first time you get mugged, it's a black person doesn't mean all black
people are bad. But that's not really hitting the nail on the head. It's like, it does make a
general thing about like, let's not generalize across an entire group of people based on one
interaction. But this is a bit on the side from that part of the branding issue. But I was having
this conversation then one on one with somebody. And they're not in the community. And they were
trying to explain to me like how from the outside this looks bad. And like, and so I gave them kind
of my explanation, my, my prior thought on like, well, look, you know, if one person miswields
the tools or misunderstands an argument and uses it poorly to despair to disparage somebody else,
that a, there's not much we can do to stop that other than having a solid brand that we're behind
and then saying like, look, they're clearly not in this club. But, you know, if somebody, again,
find some, some, you know, Robin Hansen is, is, is, I think, delightfully thought provoking with
basically everything he writes. And if you write something that can come off to large audiences,
is like very offensive, because they're not one of the things you mentioned about like being able
to relax on rationalists is that we are capable of the many thousands of year old revered tradition
of being able to entertain an idea without believing it. What are you talking about? What
nonsense is this? We can take absurd hypotheticals, talk about them coherently, and to the point where
it's like, yep, it's perfect sense. And then just go on about our day without, you know,
implementing eugenics or something. Right. So like, it's, it's something that I find valuable
being able to consider ideas that I don't necessarily want to promulgate. But they,
they went off and they found like the top post from the month on r slash the mat, which is the
Sains late star codex subreddit. And it was the culture worth read. And the top comment was on
like disparities in IQs with cross races or something. And they're like, so from the outside,
if I'm curious about what the rationality thing is, like Google places to look at it,
I don't know why you would find the mot first. But right. But if you did, the thing that they
wanted to talk about the most that month was IQ differences across races. And I'm like, I don't
really know how to address that. Like if you read the comments, people are saying, why the
fuck do we care about this? And, you know, other other saying things that almost everyone can get
on board with. But it, I mean, I just think that the proper response to that is, this is not a
rational conversation to have, because there's like, literally decades of research data that
shows that while there are differences between cultures, race is like the least important way
to measure it. And so therefore, it's a waste of our time, like we shouldn't prioritize that
conversation, not that it's bad to have it, or that we should be incapable of considering it.
But like, it is just kind of silly. But then they would say, well, then why was this such a
commonly talked about? Why would why was this the most upvoted talked about thing on the thread?
Oh, I agree with this person, someone should have stepped into the thread and said, this is a waste
of our time. Yeah, that's what I believe the moderators messed up. Because, like, unless there
was new research, if there was a new paper that came out that significantly shifted previous
assessments, then I would be more reasonable. But otherwise, I agree with this person, if I
that was my first exposure to the community, I would be pretty unwell with that, especially
as an Arab American, like it would be pretty frightening. Yeah, so I think not too long ago,
some Vox journalist resurrected the whole Sam Harris is evil, because he interviewed the guy
that wrote the bell curve. And so that was a trending topic for a while. Actually, delightfully
enough, I was just going to bring that up because she one of the authors that that post was on his
podcast, the most recent episode, which at the time of this recording is episode 212, Catherine
Paige Hardin. And it was actually a really, really good episode. They they they talked about
really, and she's also in the field of like genetic research, and how genetics, you know,
not genetic determinism in so many words, but like longitudinal twin studies and stuff, the
stuff I take part in, but don't do. And oh, yeah, you're a twin. I'm a twin, yeah. Are you forgetting
that? Which is like my my lame fallback for like, I am helping the body of science going forward
by always answering the summons from the from the University or the Colorado,
what, Colorado University, or whatever, CU, Boulder's Department of Behavioral Genetics,
and going there and do stuff every few years when they call. In any case,
they had a very fruitful conversation on that. And it does come down to like,
this is this is something that we don't know a lot about. And at the end of the day,
it doesn't seem all that valuable to know. And if differences, this is just the IQ thing,
I don't want to get too bogged down in that. Because any individual person you meet can be
anywhere. Right. And well, I mean, the thing is, is like some groups of people are taller than
other groups of people. Right. And like, and I don't again, I don't want to get too bogged down
in this, but he makes the point that like, if we take a list of the top 50 things that we all
care about, and that we all want more for ourselves or something, it's a good bet that one of the
that many of those will have some basis near genetics, right? Whether it could just be longevity,
you know, some families come from, you know, lineages, people that all die in their 60s,
and others have ones that push to their 90s for, you know, going back three or four generations.
And so like, that's a genetic thing. It doesn't have to be single anti CRISPR person is going to
immediately turn around as soon as they find the way to CRISPR bigger penis genes.
Um, so I guess what, what I, what all this comes down to is if I was talking with this person,
and, uh, I could we talk to you guys and say, Hey, look, this person's asking me, why is the
Mott, what is a typically good bastion of sanity, spending so much time talking about something
so stupid and like, it's hard to not think of a facetious more off putting example of something
to discuss. If you're just poking your head into the room, and you overhear, uh, IQ school,
and you're like, Oh, okay, well, I'm going to close that door. They're fairly insane in there.
What do we do about that? So I think you kind of hit the nail on the head. We need to have a brand.
So when someone crosses that line, we can say, listen, that guy is not associated with us.
Our organization will have certain principles, courage, curiosity, honesty, and I believe there's
there's a big focus on knowing how we're perceived by others in the world. That is the,
that is one of the biggest motivations to make a separate organization because we want to be able
to get ahead of that conversation. And there are certain conversations that are great to have
and fun to have as rationalists. We like to entertain ideas. But at the end of the day,
there are, if we want to raise the sanity waterline of the world, we have to recognize where that
waterline currently is and how our community is going to have effect on that. What ripples are
going to be made, how we go about raising that waterline and talking about IQ stuff probably
isn't something you'll ever see us doing as a, as a, as a organization. I have two, well, one thing
and one question, I guess. The first thing is that rationalism is always going to have a problem
because there is a large movement that's been under foot for decades to basically roll back
the whole enlightenment. It's very postmodern, very, you know, everything is subjective and
has a huge amount of allies right now in academia. Well, some places in academia,
but it's, it's the very much, God, there's a great article on it that I'll post soon,
