Okay, so.
All right, so that, that.
I apologize for not remembering exactly where to get that.
So then the question is, does this really kind of match?
I think this red has to be a little bit different.
I think it's not that dark red. I think it's that red.
And your, your, your knowledge may be, may vary.
Hey.
Oh, that's.
Julie. All right.
So your knowledge may vary on matching colors because of course,
you always have the trouble of matching colors on different
computers and monitors and so forth.
So, okay.
So that's pretty close. All right.
And all these are just the things that I've typed in.
So now I want to go to task three,
which is to replace the last column with a formula. Okay.
So here's where it gets fun.
So let me again, copy this.
Worksheet here.
Move it to the end, create a copy.
All right. And it picks a title for the tab.
I'm going to highlight that. And then I'm going to click in here.
Change this to task three.
Okay. So now this, this tab looks exactly like this tab.
In fact, when I click on them, you can't tell any difference.
And so.
All right. This column.
It's supposed to be the average of these three numbers here.
So what I want to do is replace this number.
With a formula. And this is where the real power.
Of Excel starts to come in. All right.
Oh, wait, more.
Chat.
My chat window. Did somebody chat.
Go to tools. Zane says go to tools.
I didn't see that till now. Let's try that.
Tools.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Oh, customized keyboard.
No, I don't want to do that.
I got my keyboard.
I don't know what you're talking about saying.
So.
Yeah, there's a lot of stuff in there, but I don't see what I need.
Okay. All right. So let's stay on, on this.
So I want to replace this number 20.
I'm going to use a parenthesis.
And I'm going to say add in this cell.
Plus.
This cell.
Plus.
This cell.
So I click in the cell and all formulas start with an equal sign.
And let's talk about, so on an average.
Of three numbers means.
I add those three numbers together and then divide by three, right?
So I'm going to use a.
A parentheses and I'm going to say, add in this cell.
This cell.
Close that parentheses and divide by three.
And so now the number is the same because the textbook was right,
that the average of those.
Is three.
Okay. So that's one way to do it.
We can also use a built in Excel function.
I'll do that in this one.
I'm going to say equals.
Yay, we have more time.
So here I'm going to say equals because I want to put in a formula.
Come on.
Equals.
And I happen to know that there's a function.
Within Excel called average.
And that's my version of it actually completes the typing for me.
So I don't even have to be a good typer.
It also shows me that there's some different functions. Okay.
So I might want to.
Investigate that to see what they are.
But I think what I want is average.
Now, once you've typed in a function, you see,
it tells you how it's supposed to be formatted.
All right.
So if I click on the blue, then I'll get the hyperlink help.
And it tells me how to use that function, which is really, really cool.
So we don't need that.
All right, so it says I should put in number one,
comma, number two, comma, number three.
So I can do that. I can put in number column.
I wanted to take number, the first number from this column.
So I'm going to click there.
I'm going to put in a comma.
Take the second number from here.
Put in a comma.
And the third number from here.
And that's legit.
So can you look right here on this part?
Let's see. Maybe I can make my screen.
So here's the formula.
So here in this row three column F,
I put in, add these three numbers and then divide by three here.
I said use a function called average.
So I didn't have to put in any other.
I didn't have to tell it that there's three numbers there.
It could figure that out on its own. All right.
But there's even a cooler way to do this.
And so I'm going to go to this cell and I'm going to say, let's use the,
put in another formula.
I'm also going to use average.
And I'm going to say,
instead of clicking these, I'm going to say,
I'm going to click and give you a range of numbers.
And then I have to close it with the parentheses.
And then when I hit enter, I get the right thing.
Now it's giving me a little bit of an error message there,
because it doesn't like what I did.
So now this function says, all right,
take the average of this range of cells.
And this is really cool because if I double click on this, well,
let me mess up my work here real quick.
Let me widen this so you can see.
If I double click on this, it highlights that range.
And if I made a mistake in dragging,
what I can do is I can say, okay, I'm going to drag it up there.
No, I want to drag it over here.
I want to drag it down here.
So if I accidentally pick that one,
oops, I get the wrong number, but I can,
I can drag this range selector around.
I can make it bigger.
I can say average these numbers here,
which is wrong.
That's not what I want.
But you see what I'm doing.
I'm able to use this function,
which is average, and then it identifies a range here.
And I can have all kinds of fun with that.
Okay.
So I've done it three different ways here.
Oh, and I want to look at this error.
So it's trying to tell me something.
So I click on the cell and it gives me a little yellow warning
symbol.
And if it is a real problem,
so what it's seeing is, is I did this in the middle of some cells.
So it thinks I made a bad, bad mistake.
So I'm just going to say ignore that error.
Because I didn't make a mistake.
And I'm going to get this back to where I want it.
Okay.
So I've done it three different ways.
I've done them algebra or the math explicitly.
I added those three cells.
Close the parentheses.
And then divide by three.
Here I did a function average.
And then the nice thing about this function then is I could say,
Oh, I meant to include another one.
I could say.
Put in a comma.
And then select this guy.
I could put in another comma.
I could select this guy.
Okay.
So you see having the cells explicit like that.
I don't even have to remember how many I did.
And it'll come up with that average,
which is wrong because that's not what the problem was.
All right.
So, and then this one is using the average function with a range.
And so forth.
So the nice thing about any of these ways to create this formula is I
can copy and paste formulas.
So I'm going to copy.
So highlighted that command C for copy.
And I'm going to say, put it in the, so I'm going to,
I could do command V.
I'm just going to hit enter.
And voila, it calculates those two.
It sees the same error.
So I'm going to say.
Ignore that error.
All right. So, um,
So that, that's the way I would format this table.
Let me look at the final result and see if I, um,
I can copy it.
Okay. So I have all white characters here.
Oh, I didn't.
Why?
I need my carriage return. So I'm going to go here.
Copy it.
Go here.
Okay.
So now I'm pretty much matching what the target was. All right.
I don't hear any rumbling.
Anybody have any questions or comments about what I did so far?
Um, I didn't have a color document.
So I didn't know it had to be in red.
Is that a problem?
