Um, no, you're,
whoever printed out your assignment needs a slap on the wrist.
Give me a minute. I'll do it.
No, no, don't, don't go slapping your mama's wrist.
Don't tell her I said that either. She'll beat me up.
But, um, yeah, I mean, that's the thing is, is sometimes that stuff happens.
Um, and some people are color blind. Um, so if you're going to pick a, uh,
Um,
A template.
You need to, or pick some colors you need to kind of be aware that some
people may, um, have a trouble seeing it.
So for example, if I said, Oh, I, I think I'm going to make this really pretty
by making these numbers green. Cause let's say they're all good numbers
and we want to make them green and I go up here and I say green.
Well, if your boss is color blind, he's going to look at that and say,
I don't see anything. What did you do? You know?
So.
Okay.
If you're talking to me, I don't hear anything.
I'm not.
Okay. All right. I just didn't want to mess up.
So I'm going to undo that with a, uh, undo command here.
Okay. So, well, let's actually go and let me make another copy of this raw data.
Let's see if I can get to the end. So this is extra. Okay.
Um, I'm going to try to use, so Excel is pretty smart.
So if I highlight the data and then go to tables,
I can actually pick a format here that, you know,
Oh, now it didn't do a very good job and it put these little arrow things on there.
I don't like that. So let's see if I can find one.
Yeah, it keeps putting these sort functions on here and I don't like those.
So, and I don't even know how to get rid of them.
So it automatically formatted it that way.
It forgot that I had a, so this is why things like auto formatting and stuff sometimes aren't great.
I don't know if any of these will work at all.
Yeah, I see it's not.
It doesn't understand that the first row is a title for the whole table.
So this is why I really haven't gotten used to using any of these auto formatting because most of the stuff I would do.
It just isn't going to work. I'm going to have to change this so much.
I might as well just start where I started and do it all manually myself.
I'm going to get rid of this tab because I don't want to confuse.
So if you go down here and say delete that tab, it'll give you one chance.
But once it's gone, there's no one do for this, at least in my version of Microsoft Excel.
Okay, so now we've got to make a graph here.
So what I'm going to do, I'm going to duplicate this thing.
Make a copy of it. I think that's task four. So I'm going to rename this.
And there's there's a lot of ways to make a graph. I could have a tab with just a graph on it, whatever, but what I want to do.
I don't have the same formula up above. So I'm going to copy that and paste it into there.
So now all these columns have the same formula, but it's a smart thing.
Except it's too smart. It's telling me that I have an error.
And I'm going to tell it to ignore that error. Okay, so now I want to make a graph.
So I'll go down here and pick a cell.
I'm going to go to the charts.
And there's a lot of choices here.
And if you play with Excel, you'll find summer, make more sense for data like this than others.
What I'm going to do is let's see.
So the graph that I want to create has a dot for each data point, and it has a line drawn. So that's a scatter plot.
I'm going to do this with the smooth line and the dots. So that that looks like what I want.
I could also do one where it draws a straight line between the data points, but that's might not be very useful. So I'm going to do this.
All right. It puts this little weird box in there.
And I can actually move this around.
And I can change its size as well.
It's about five inches wide, didn't I?
So three by five. And you can actually type in those numbers if you want.
Okay.
So now what I have to do is I have to go to the select thing to tell it what data to use. So I'm going to go to select.
There's none of these boxes are filled in. In fact, you don't use some of these boxes. So I'm going to say, the first thing I'm going to do is say add a series.
Okay.
And what I'm going to do now is fill in these boxes. So the name of this series, I'm going to click this little bitty data selection icon and the screen is going to change to this.
And so I'm going to say, here's a title for my data series.
So I click that and then hit enter.
It's going to be convenient because if someone says, oh, you need to change the title of your graph, you don't have to go to the graph and change it. You can go to the spreadsheet and change it.
And I'm going to make a plot versus length. So I'm going to select the data for length, which is this. I'm going to highlight those cells. I'm clicking and dragging.
And then the wide values. I'm going to plot. Now this is tricky. You have to highlight this. So it says equals one because it kind of breaks if there's nothing in there.
So you want to get rid of all of that. You want to delete that going here and select these guys.
And that looks kind of like what I want to get to.
So I'm going to, I'm kind of done with this dialogue. So I'm going to say, okay, so there's a graph. Actually, let me make it a little bigger so that
maybe I can see it. Okay, it's not exactly like this graph here yet.
Okay, some of the things I noticed is there's no legend.
The text here doesn't match exactly.
So I'm going to change the title.
And so something like that. So I probably shouldn't have picked the title from up here. So I'm just going to go in here. I'll double click that. Oops.
Double click that and I can highlight this type what I wanted to say, which was time.
And Swain's
the pendulum
varying links.
So just typed in the box.
So right now if I needed later if I want to change this I've got to go and type in that box.
Okay, so to format this and to keep it consistent. There's some things up here under charts.
So I want to
to
Oh, if I highlight the chart, then I get more things here. So let me go here and format.
No chart layout. So I want to look so there's things here like chart title.
Access titles who I want those so the horizontal access title I want it to say
length.
So here I can pick the font and the color.
Let's see.
It looks like it's red.
The font, maybe it's this Calibri or which is close to Ariel.
The font color was red. So I'm going to select that here.
It looks like it's bold.
All right, maybe that's all I need.
All right, and it says access title so I'm going to double click in there and I'm going to type length.
And I think I put it in front of these majors.
Okay, is that right? That's pretty close. And then I need to go back to my so I click the chart and I get these options under chart layout.
Access titles I want the vertical axis title to be when it rotated.
And it also has to so I can.
So now I've got this box highlighted and I can click on format selection and I get this dialogue.
Same font. Oh, I want it to be read.
Okay, and there's a lot of options in here on how this thing can look.
What I want to type is time.
Space and seconds.
And I'm going to click on close.
All right, so the target doesn't have a legend so I'm going to get rid of that legend that one of these chart layout things says legend.
I'm going to say no legend.
Oh, and it fills it up cool.
The other thing is that this has cross hatches.
And I'm not I've only got horizontals here.
So I want to
So when you click on this current selection you get all the elements of the title.
Okay, vertical axis grid lines, major grid lines. I want to format those.
So format selection.
Oh, I selected the wrong one.
I want to.
I want the horizontal axis.
Format selection.
Okay, scale.
Oh, I got to go under ticks.
That's ticks.
That's not what I want.
Okay, grid lines. There's a little tool here for doing grid lines. I want the
grid lines, major grid lines, and that picks some values here and you can move these around as well if you want.
The range on the chart here goes from zero to 1.2 and that matches what I've got, and it goes from zero to 25 and that matches what I've got.
So I'm going to go back. I need to make this font bigger. So I'll just highlight that.
Maybe that is proportional there. Okay, so now the only problem I see is that this line is a black line with black circles and so I got to fix that.
You can do that really quickly. You just put your cursor on the line and double click it and we can, we can do things like put in error bars if we want. I didn't give you any of those.
So the marker style, I want it to be a circle so you get some choices here.
I want to make it a little bit smaller. I can actually see it changing there. I need to make the marker fill. I want that to be black.
And I don't want an automatic line around it. Alright, so let me close that and see if that's close to what I want.
Well, the dots look pretty correct, but the line isn't what I want. Let me go back here.
There's line. I want that to be a black line.
Let me see what that looks like. But it's really thick, so I'm going to change the weight by going here and I'm going to click down the weight until it looks about right.
Ta-da.
Okay, so that kind of matches pretty good what I've got there.
Okay, so that's quite a bit, but you say you can make a chart look just about any way you want.
So if your teacher has a preference, you can match that. If your boss or your company has a preference, you can match that as well.
So the next part of the assignment was to take this chart and put it into Word. And there's two things here that I want to tell you.
If you just copy this and paste it into Word, then whoever you send that document to has your raw data as well.
So if you're working for a company, and this is a graph of your latest multi-billion dollar project, and you're going to go out and try to email documents to people, you would want to check with your boss
that we want them to have the raw data. Usually the answer would be no, you don't want to do that.
What you want to do is just send them a picture of this. And so there's a couple of ways to do it.
So that's what I'm going to focus on.
Since I'm on a Mac, I know how to do a screenshot. So I can do a screen screenshot of this and get a pretty decent picture.
And so that may be what I do. The other thing is if I right click on this, I can say there's a choice here for me that says save as a picture.
And then it says, okay, you want to save it as a PNG image.
Let me put it on my desktop.
So chart or graph.
Okay, so now I just saved an image to my desktop.
That is
something I can easily embed in Word. So let me go to Word.
I'm going to get rid of the chat.
Go to Word.
Here's my new Word document.
Hello guys.
And what I want to do on a Mac, and I don't know PCs well enough really to say, but on a Mac, I can just drag this in here and drop it.
And there's my image
in a Word document.
I'm a horrible typist.
So now that's in there and it's just a picture. No one gets, if somebody double clicks it, they don't get the data.
If I go here, let me just show you what happens if I go here and copy command C that thing.
And I go here into my document and command V paste it.
All right.
It's pretty much the same thing. It looks a little different because it's not perfect. But look what happens if my competitor
clicks this.
Oops.
Cancel our right clicks it.
It can say
select data in Excel.
So you actually are sending them the spreadsheet that you just made as well as the document. So
that's where that could be a problem.
And there's some tricks to having a picture in Word look right as well. If you highlight a, so let me get rid of this thing.
I hate that. I don't like it.
I can go here and say format picture.
I can change the size of it. So oops, it was supposed to be five inches. So it's, it was six. So I do that. And now it's five inches wide by about three inches tall.
So that's one thing. The other thing is to decide how it looks on the page. So you can go to this rap text function.
And like, you can say the one that I usually use is top and bottom.
Because then I can drag this anywhere on the page that I want.
All right, and it'll, it'll move the text around the picture in a funny in an interesting way.
So anyway, lots to learn lots of options, lots of functions.
Any ideas, comments, criticisms.
Do you do it a better way? Does anybody, did anybody find a better way to do some of this stuff? I guess would be a good question.
Yeah, my daddy, he's like a extreme expert Excel. And he helped me a lot because I am not Excel whatsoever.
And so he helped me and taught me some cool tricks and stuff and how to make it where like no one can go in and look at your data and stuff.
And the other thing that I realized is that when I finished my Excel project, I did not put it into Word. And I forgot to do that.
Oh, you better send it to me sometime before Monday. Yeah, if you want to.
But how many points will be taken off?
10,000.
No, I don't know.
The grading is going to be all over the chart on this because it is tough to grade, like I said in class. So if you're out of time and don't want to do it, that's fine.
You can take your lumps. It won't be much worse than a 90.
But you say you know how to do it, right?
