It would take you 30 seconds to do it and email it to me.
All right, so anyway, think about that.
David, are you okay? That was kind of quick and dirty.
It's funny though, because it took me and my dad like an hour and a half just to make the graph because he forgot how to do it.
Yeah.
And then he's just sitting there like, oh, what happened to the press that president and it's all done.
Not to mention he was on a line chart not a scatter chart. So,
I'm supposed to match what's in the.
Oh, he did a line chart.
Yeah, so the set see that.
Let me close this word document. I really don't want to save that. Don't save it.
Close Excel. No, there it is.
Give me my sheet back.
Oh, I did close it.
All right, I can't even use my own computer. Oh no, I just screwed up everything I did.
That was a bad click.
That was a bad click.
The frustration is real.
Yeah, so don't do what I just did. So there's times when it should have asked me, are you really sure you want to get rid of that.
And I went too fast. So I had minimized it. And when I tried to reopen it, it said, you're trying to reopen the document you want to revert to the original version and I should have said no.
That that was my bad.
What was I going to show you before I totally get off track there.
David said it took forever to make a graph and there was a one click thing.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, so.
Yeah, so if you go here and say chart, and you make a line graph.
Yeah, sometimes these things are okay but see none of these are smooth lines.
It's always going to just draw.
Yeah, so it did something there so see it's always drawing straight lines between the data points.
Whereas if you go to a scatter plot, you can say make a smooth line scatter plot and see how that looks different now.
It's really easy to change the type of plot. If you find Oh well, I really don't want the data points to show. You can go here and say a smooth line scatter plot with no data points showing and so forth.
It's really easy once you have some data picked or highlighted or what like I did here. It's real easy to go in and just play with the different charts let's see what happens if I make it in try to make it into a 3D surface.
Well there you go.
So you're looking pretty sharp now. It doesn't mean anything but.
Yeah, I did something didn't I.
3D stacked area chart. 3D stacked area chart. Whoa, dude, that looks awesome. It's useless but stacked bars.
Okay, so, oh pie charts everybody likes pie right bar pie chart.
There's a lot of cool options and sometimes it's fun just to take your data and play around with it and stuff like that so.
I'm so upset with myself.
I know what I'm going to do. I know what I'm going to do.
I never said so alright so lesson that you learn on day one of dealing with Microsoft is I didn't save it as an intermediate file so at some point.
So tip when I'm working on a real project like for my job or something.
If it looks right, I'm going to save it. I'm going to do a command s and save it. I saved my intermediate steps, because you'll you might accidentally do what I did and boom, all your, your, we've been on the phone here for an hour.
And my work is gone I got to start over so that's always a bad feeling right so.
Any other observations questions comments.
Alright, well thank you guys for showing up you make me feel like you love me and that's always good so.
And Microsoft crashed on me so that's not good either.
It might be the fact that I'm doing zoom and Microsoft and Microsoft doesn't like the Chinese or something like that. I don't know.
All right, yo.
I'm still sharing my desktop with you guys. I'll get this thing.
All right. Anyway, I guess I'll sign out and catch all on the flip flop.
All right, see y'all later.
Thank you.
