So in a sense, general relativity
follows from our classical thinking about space
when you notice some symmetries that you
haven't noticed before.
And you wrap some mathematics that you haven't had before.
So maybe these paths really do converge.
And I think if they do converge, it's really interesting.
Because it tells us something about the relationship
between physics and biology, that I think is important.
And what I hope I've convinced you today
is that there's at least some possibility that maybe
these two paths really are linking to the same thing.
Really, we can't think about constructing space time
from an organism or one of you.
So I'll just leave you with one picture, which
is that organisms and maybe some systems that
are organisms we can manage to construct this cycle from memory
to object persistence to error correction, which I really
haven't talked about much here, to space time.
I'll just make one comment that space is really useful,
because it means that I can correct errors.
I can put things in space and expect them to be there.
And that gives me an external memory.
So I have space.
I have an emerging memory.
I have a whole lot of memory, which I can use my ID card
to remember my name.
So organisms can do this.
And that raises the question, which
I think we can view as a phylogenetic question,
of how did this start?
Where in phylogeny does this cycle get going?
And how does this cycle change in different parts of phylogeny?
How do different parts of phylogeny implement this cycle?
And I think that's a really interesting question,
an evolutionary biology, that's what we're thinking about.
So I'll close with that.
Thank you very much.
I know I had to be a little bit of a diva in once.
So we're basically at 1 o'clock.
So if there are a few questions, that's great.
My next step is to go to the airport.
Do you remember the experiment that's not allowed to do today?
It's a global experiment.
There is another experiment in that kind
that's not in that category.
There was some carousel that the kitten connected with a hinge
together.
One of them is a carousel that is completely closed
and there is stripes in that carousel.
And one kitten is able to use his legs and to move.
But his movement affects the other kitten that they folded
and they're not allowed him to use the legs.
And they put that kitten from the beginning like that.
The result was that that kitten was blind.
And there is nothing wrong with that kitten.
Only because he never used his legs to close the loop
with the environment.
So his movement were completely not connected to him.
They had the other cut.
So they released that cut later on.
I don't remember exactly the time numbers,
how many months they put it there.
But they released him and let him use the legs
and he gets back his eyesight.
So maybe that related to this kind of thing.
I bet no one can do that experiment today.
One can easily think of the experiment should be
incredibly informed and completely adaptable.
I like this because I feel like you get this
at the molecular level.
And I think you can think of space as being
any area with less resistance.
If you were to define what space is in this room,
people would say, well, it's air.
This is your object, whatever.
It has more resistance.
But I think a molecule does this too.
Because as a molecule binds to another atom and it changes,
it has a memory of what it bound to.
And now you have object persistence.
Because now you have a different structure.
It changes the way the thing interacts all the way through.
And it has error correction because it doesn't bind.
It won't bind to a molecule.
It doesn't have the right valence electrons around it.
So once that falls into each other, it will reject it out.
And then it will grab the other one.
So I think you're seeing all of this,
not even the organism level, but at the molecular level.
Great.
Next.
Yeah.
I would love to be able to do psychology.
At the molecular level.
And really think about.
These things as agents that are in substance carbon.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, we're all crystallin lattices.
That's all we are.
You know, all the information that we're transferring and thinking
about all of that is being transferred through crystal lattice.
So what would be the memory in that kind of thing?
The structure.
Yeah, the structural memory.
And.
I think there's, there's in a sense,
bosses can work with them.
And the molecules can.
Write on their environments in ways that are persistent.
And in ways that they can go back to and get information.
At least I would have problems with molecules are doing.
Certainly organisms are doing that all the time.
Yeah.
There's a cool experiment field mice,
or they leave like literal markers on the ground that are visually distinct
from the rest to remember where to go.
Yeah.
And I mean, the word came originally from social insects.
Yeah.
Or memory.
If we, you know,
molecules using stick merging mice would be a super cool result.
But you can really nail it in here.
Makes me wonder if I was paired with Pam and I were talking about valence.
That's like a basic kind of foundation for cognition.
And when you just mentioned, like, basically all of biology,
it's just chemistry.
It's just physics of electric interactions.
Basically mostly valence of electrons.
This might be like a, you know,
no common relationship between those two,
but that's basically all that.
And molecules do a good sense.
Positive and negative charges.
Positive and negative experiences.
There we go.
There we go.
So, so Mike Sir is taking notes to talk to work songs about this.
Yeah.
I think there's also a good example of that you could put together
like systems neuroscience as well,
which is the first point of the scale free stuff, right?
It's probably all the same.
Like I, I'd be more surprised if it wasn't.
Thanks people that I keep up.
Yeah.
I think it's true.
Okay. Here to give this course.
Are you staying around for a bit or do you have to leave like right away
for the airport?
No, I'm glad.
Yeah.
Okay.
Can I ask a last question?
Why is there three special dimensions?
I'm sorry.
Can I ask a naive question?
Why is there three spatial dimensions and not two or one?
For instance, is there a particular reason to that?
Oh.
But there's, there's some mathematical facts about three space that I never
know that are really really interesting.
Yeah.
Like building knots or something like this.
I mean, you cannot do everything in two dimensions or one yet.
But there are also things that you can do in three dimensions that you
can't, for example, do in four dimensions.
So a, you know, four dimensions plus time would be, would not allow
certain symmetries that we depend on to kind of have some coherent notion
of objects.
So, and, you know, I'm sorry.
I don't remember what these things are, but that's a really interesting
question and a lot of people work on it.
And an important part of it is, is why three, not four or more.
And three turns out to have unique, unique geometric properties that are
really cool.
So when people talk about extra dimensions and string theory or something
like that, all the extra spatial dimensions have to be rolled up into
tiny little packages so that they don't interfere with, with doing
anything macroscopically.
Where macroscopic is, you know, above the plank scale.
Yeah.
Yeah, this is really interesting.
Also, if it's about distinguishing between objects, then also this
question if space can be continuous, for instance, because making very,
very small changes in the continuous way won't lead you to different
positions, right?
So, yeah, this is where the limitations imposed by energy density
really make a difference.
Now the, the plank scale is tiny.
But if you, if you try to go to go beyond that, the, the, the energy densities
are so high that it, it sort of feels like you're getting big again.
It's, again, I don't have a good intuitive grasp on that.
But the, the, the existence of this energy distance relationship kind of gives
you a fundamental discretization of space for free.
And when you look at these quantum information types, they're, they're all
based in finite dimensional Hilbert spaces.
And there's been a huge transition way from the kind of old quantum mechanics
where everything was done in continuous Hilbert spaces to the much,
