So what I'm going to do today is actually preview a talk
that I put together for the fifth session of a physics
of information class that I'm doing online
for the Action Inference Institute.
And this session is on space time.
And I wanted to do this here for a couple of reasons.
Reason number one is this particular session
contains a kind of hypothesis about biological systems
that I wanted to bounce off this group.
And the second one is that the question of where
space time comes from is, I think,
particularly relevant in biology.
And I think we can turn it into a biological question
as well as a developmental biological question
and even a developmental psychological question.
And so I wanted to sort of throw those ideas around
and see what people thought.
So a real grief review of where we've
gotten to in this class that I know Hunter Nell was in
and some of the rest of you are maybe in,
it's a class about quantum information theory.
And this is a super simple model system
for thinking about communication between entities.
We can think of two entities which together comprise
the entire universe of it.
So we can think of these two entities jointly isolated.
And the theory is just a general way
to describe how these entities exchange information
over some mutual value.
So this whole approach to quantum theory
is based on information exchange across boundaries.
And it turns out to be a really kind of powerful thinking
tool for thinking about how communication constrains
the structure of systems.
So we can think of the boundary as an information channel
that has a particular structure.
And since we're using quantum theory,
we can think of the balance as comprising some array of qubits
so quite a bit so it can be measured or prepared
by either system.
And talking about how that happens,
we're doing this in part to understand the free energy
principle better.
And so a couple of years ago, Mike and Paul Friston
and some of the colleagues and I put together a paper,
I think actually it was just Jim Gleisbrook,
reformulating the free energy principle
in quantum theoretic language.
And if you reformulate it that way,
then one can show that the free energy principle is actually
a classical limit of the principle of uniterity, which
is just the principle of conservation and information.
And the principle of uniterity is the fundamental principle
of quantum theory.
So it makes the free energy principle kind of naturally
fall out of just the assumption that you can describe
with quantum theory, which is kind of a nice result
because it makes the free energy principle look less strange.
And Carl's done a lot of work showing
that the free energy principle provides you
with a foundation for all of classical physics.
So relating it to quantum theory kind of closes
an important loop there.
And one thing that it does is automatically
induce compartmentalization in any communicating systems
that are interesting in a very specific sense.
It induces compartmentalization whenever
an agent has multiple ways of interacting with the world
and it can't deploy them simultaneously
for whatever reason.
So maybe it can't deploy them for some kind
of deep physical reason.
You can't measure spin along the z-axis and the x-axis
at the same time because those operations
don't commute mathematically.
But maybe it can't deploy them simultaneously
for a much more prosaic reason.
It doesn't have enough free energy
to thermodynamic free energy in the field to both do this
and this.
So it has to have some attention system.
It says, I can act on the world this way
or I can act on the world this way,
but I don't have the ability to do both.
So even that very classical energy
limitation on whether systems can be deployed simultaneously
induces this kind of compartmentalization.
And as soon as you have compartmentalization
between ways of interacting with the world,
you have to have some way of managing what you can do.
So you kind of automatically induce a metaprocessing system,
an attention system, an energy regulation system,
just by the demands of not being able to do everything
all at once.
So the physics kind of by itself gives you
some interesting and added fuel that one can then
ask, how is that implemented even at the cell biology level?
So it provides a different way of approaching
cell biology that's driven not by the chemistry,
but by the kinds of computations
that the cell was implementing.
We were talking earlier at the lunch table
or whatever it is about.
How do you take this horrible spagetti mess that's
the pathway diagram for a cell that abstracts out
all of the interesting geometric constraints and time
constraints and that sort of thing from the inside of the cell
and turn it into some sort of compartmentalized structure
that tells you where the borders are within that mess,
where the cells have to exchange classical information
in some data structure.
So in effect, where are the APIs inside the cell?
Which is the kind of question that doesn't naturally
arise in other representations.
So just to make sure that I'm on the same page,
the compartmentalization you show here,
like green, orange, red, the green and the red
would be Alice and Bob in your initial example,
where they're two separate.
Green and red are the two compartments or any two
compartments are separate entities
that need to exchange information classically
through your qubit map.
Right, except with respect to the original boundary,
green and red are different compartments in Alice.
And they're both looking at Bob, who's
on the other side of the boundary.
I see.
So actually, the next question.
Could you also reformat such that if green and red were
inside of Alice, could you also think about the Alice of Bob
in this case?
As far as they're talking to somebody else.
So actually, let me show you the next slide.
OK.
OK.
You can reformulate that diagram in a simpler way.
So here, what I've done is green and red are now Q1 and Q2.
These are two quantum processes acting within some overall
quantum computer, but they're distinct quantum processes.
So they have to be compartmentalized in the way
that it was before.
And you can use this kind of picture
to represent two agents interacting
with a common environment that are employing
both a classical channel.
So they're talking to each other in language.
And they're both measuring some shared quantum system.
And this is exactly what happens in all experiments
that detect entanglement.
And in fact, this is the minimal organization
to be able to detect entanglement.
So it's the kind of bottom line comment
is that in order to detect entanglement,
you have to have classical communication.
And so at the very depth of all of quantum information
technology is a requirement for a kind of communication
that isn't quantum communication.
It's classical communication.
So I think of breaking into sort of taking
the big mess of loss of communication
and loss of stuff flowing around inside of a cell
and trying to break it into like you were saying before,
this sort of sonic size APIs that communicate
over a somewhat minimal amount of wire signals.
It doesn't sound like a quantum problem to me.
So how does all the mechanism and formulas
of the quantum mechanics help?
Or am I just totally misunderstanding?
Well, no, I'm using the quantum formalism
as a particularly simple way of talking about communication.
But the other thing it gives to you
is a localization of thermodynamic requirements.
And so localization of thermodynamic free energy
requirements to only the places where you're
encoding classical information.
So one motivation for doing this is this analysis
that Mike and I did a few years ago of to what extent
can you represent the state changes inside a cell,
and in particular protein conformational changes
as classical computation in the way
that they're actually represented in, say,
classical molecular genetic simulations.
Where you think of proteins as sort
of exploring this configuration in state space.
And it turns out that cells lack the free energy resources
to do that by orders of magnitude.
So they have to be using some other resource,
some, you know, concurrence resource that's
energetic and free to do some of this computation.
So one question motivated by that is,
where do they have to store quite an information?
Sorry, where do they have to exchange classical information
that really is energetic for the excursion,
and that they really do have to put a lot of resources into it?
And so they're kind of obvious answers in the cell.
You know, wherever proteins are bound to a membrane,
they're transmitting a classical stage
across the membrane to whatever information
process that's happening on the other side.
