So one can think of this as what's
called a raising operator, which just
creates a field excitation in the green part of the field.
And what it creates is this black dot.
And then we can think of a different state
where black dot has disappeared from the green part of the field,
the white-green bit, and has appeared in the dark-blue bit.
So that's a representation of something happening.
And these white dots are now kind of excitations of a kind
of field that can create black dots.
So they're not yet objects in an intuitive sense.
They are objects in the way that say electrons are objects.
Where if an electron appears over here
and an electron appears over there from out of the quantum vacuum,
then the question of, is this the same electron
as that never arises?
It's not even a meaningful question.
They have exactly the same properties of their location.
But when did they count as the very same thing?
This is a meaningless question.
So at this level of description, that's
still a meaningless question.
So we have a space where something's happening that you can't.
There's no sense of there being an object in this situation.
But even in this really very simple, simple system,
you can think about an observer that
has enough memory to keep track of this sort of thing
happening over an extended period of time.
So an extended internal period of time,
because it's with respect to some internal memory
of the consequence.
So if you've got that kind of multi-step memory,
you can see state transitions like this,
where something happens in part of your environment
and then something happens in the other part of your environment.
Something happens in the first part.
Something happens in the second part.
And anytime you have that kind of periodic behavior,
that's a clock in your environment.
And it's a clock because you have enough memory
to see periodic behavior.
So you, to have that much memory,
you have to have the internal counter
that counts experiences and labels them in your memory.
So I can say, oh, I've seen that state before.
So as you can say, I've seen that state before,
and you can watch quite a few of them,
and you've got this kind of periodic behavior in the clock.
So notice what this does, it's just not required.
So you can define a clock in your environment
if you have distinguishable environment sectors that
have some typology that prevents them
from being arbitrarily exchangeable.
So you've got these connections.
You've got this graph structure.
You need some kind of flip-flop that's
implemented on that structure.
And you have to know that it doesn't require object having.
We've implemented it just with this quantum field
theoretic notion of events happening in one place
or happening in another place.
And you don't have to have a metric space.
You don't have to have any sense of distance.
So you've got a really, really minimal structure
on your spatial representation in your environment.
But you now have a nice external time reference
for that you can look at other events with respect to.
So this tells us something really important, I think,
for biology, which is that time is more fundamental in the specs.
We can expect organisms, even single cells,
to be able to measure time in their environments
before we can expect to see them measuring space
within their environments.
And organisms that we know about have things
like diagonal cycles, even bacteria,
that we don't have any real reason
to believe impose a geometric structure on their environments,
even though even bacteria distinguish part of their memory
from the native part of the environment.
That's the whole way that bacteria implement chemotaxis.
Yeah, just what you said.
They want to look towards gradients,
but they're so small that one side of their body
and the other side of their body are
at the same concentration for all practical purposes.
They cannot measure a gradient in space.
They measure it in time because that's what works.
Yeah.
And even before bacteria, movement came later, right?
First organisms didn't move much.
That makes all the sense.
At least I don't know right now.
And truly, you can guess how you would measure space
with that movement.
It's probably possible for some light diffraction patterns.
But without that, you can't move.
It's going to be way easier to measure.
There's a time that you have to come up to a space.
So it makes sense that that what involves much more
logic than you thought that.
I would expect that even that area of the camera,
or even your roll-box, the camera,
may not be representing motion.
So they may not be representing objects.
And if you're not stuck as well,
it's easier to represent than Francis' thesis.
So now let's think about what was in motion.
I'm sorry.
Can I ask a physics-related question?
Sure.
How does this relate to the isotropy of space?
Because if you compartmentalize space
into different cells, it does need
to have certain kind of, well, arrangements
that are light in one direction and in a diagonal direction.
Francis takes the same time to arrive
at a certain distance, right?
Yeah, let's get to that in a little bit.
We can talk about metrics.
OK.
OK.
I think that's really a metric question,
or almost a metric question.
OK, let's think about what do you
need to observe motion?
What do you need to be able to say
that there's some object that's moving around in my mind?
So suppose that I have this black dot,
and it's exchanging its position between light green
and dark blue.
But now I want to see that as motion.
So to see that as motion, I need to add an assumption, which
is this black dot is not just a field
excitation of some quantum field.
It's actually a thing.
And what it means to be a thing is that it persists through time.
It has some identity through time.
So then I can say that when it's in the dark blue square,
it's actually the same thing that
used to be in the white green square.
And that same thing is going to move now again
and be in the white green square.
So object persistence, this idea that I have a thing,
is deeply, deeply related to the notion
of translational invariance, which
is one of the fundamental symmetries that
allows you to define the spacetime of the sort that we have.
So we have to make this extra assumption
that moving something doesn't change its identity.
And similarly, moving something in the space
doesn't change the structure of the space.
So I have to make this assumption,
this is part of translational invariance.
If I move an object from here to there,
I don't change the topology of the spacetime.
We don't have a geometry yet.
So we still have to assume that it
doesn't change the connectivity structure in my space
to move something moving.
So what I want to emphasize here is
that this notion of object persistence is a classical idea.
It's not the idea that arises naturally in quantum filter,
which says simply that something appears and something else
appears, that they have no persistence idea.
And I think we can think about the entire history of 80 years
and interpretations of quantum techniques.
But hundreds of books and thousands of articles
written discussing metaphysics, basically,
has all been really a debate about object persistence
and what meaning of object persistence is.
Because as soon as you have object persistence,
you made the transition from a purely quantum theory
to a theory that's quantum.
Object persistence is what really defines
classical information.
It's I can write a bit, I can write it here,
and I can come back tomorrow and it's going to be good.
And there might be some noise that up to the noise,
it's the same bit when I went there before.
That's a classical idea.
So here's the quantum to classical transition.
It's the assumption of object persistence.
I think it's worth thinking about where
the assumption comes from.
Chris, can I ask a question so you can hear him?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So if you go back to the previous slide,
could we also not, in a sense, think of the sectors,
the green, blue sectors as also as things,
because they persist even though they do not show any motion?
Could we not think of those sectors also as things,
because of persistence?
I represented them this way to have a visual depiction.
But the intuition I'm trying to get across
is an intuition of location or distinction
between different parts of the environment.
So we don't tend to think of this little piece of space
as an object.
Right?
