No, some little voxels somewhere between me and the window.
We just tend to think of that as part of our coordinates.
So I've drawn it in this visual way, which suggests object
to it.
But a voxel in my space is really different from something
that I can put into that voxel.
So this thing that I can move around as an object,
whereas the kind of voxel is an abstraction.
So yeah, I don't think that there's something at all.
I guess I'm not an expert in physics or relativity,
but doesn't Einstein's theory of spacetime
say something about how spacetime could be deformed
or not stretched and contracted?
So doesn't it suggest that space is also an object in a way?
Yeah, well, we'll get to that in a couple of slides.
OK.
OK.
Yeah, hold your breath on that one.
So I want to talk a little bit about object persistence more.
And let us think about that from kind of a development
psychology point of view.
This is how we learn about object persistence.
And we get this in about the first three months of infancy.
We do this kind of motor babbling.
And we do it with objects.
And we don't have a handy colorful thing.
We just look at our own lips.
And notice what's happening here.
This picture illustrates really well.
There's visual attention.
And there's also motor attention.
So what we're doing when we're doing this motor babbling
is we're coupling a somatosensory and proprioceptive
representation of our body with a visual representation
of our body.
And visual representation is assigning object
to this thing that's otherwise a motor representation.
So what's a motor representation?
It's a representation, among other things,
of the amount of energy I have to spend.
It's effortful to do this.
And I can sense that effort.
So and this is very indirectly getting
to Santosh's question.
I'm starting to couple the ideas of energy and object
to it by doing this sort of thing.
And I'm also coupling it to the idea
of the persistence of time and manipulability.
So these are deep, deep, deep intuitions that we have.
And I think we can say, just based
on physiological analogy as well as behavioral analogy,
these are deep, deep intuitions that animals have.
And maybe even invertebrates have.
So we can think about space pretty easily
from the point of view of a dog.
And maybe even we can think about space
from the point of view of somewhat a frog or a fish.
But we don't have a good way, at least I
don't have a good way of thinking intuitively
about space from the point of view of something
like an insect that has a super different developmental
process than mine and isn't obviously doing this kind
of process that is the process that taught me what space was.
So I think we need to think about that when
we're thinking about space in terms of biological systems.
So let's just in the final segment here
think about what it takes to start
to impose a geometry on space.
So if I want to build a coordinate system,
I want to build a geometry in our earlier motion,
I need to have a motion with respect to something.
So I need some sort of designated preferred position.
I can say, OK, I'm moving relative to this.
And as soon as I've got that, I can
start to build some other variances.
So I can start to think about, for example,
rotational invariance because now I
can tell I'm rotating because I can say, OK,
this isn't rotating, but this is rotating.
So now I can think about rotational invariance
in the same way I can think about translational invariance.
And if I want to think about three dimensional space,
I can think about kind of size.
So if I move something, it gets smaller.
And if I put it closer to me, it gets bigger.
I learned that when I was three months old.
I hit my rattle when I was moving around
because I had this mother to be in for me.
You can also think of that as a kind of energetic dimension.
So if my object is over here, I have to spend energy
to get to it in a way that I don't have to spend that energy
if it's right here.
So you can think of this building this third dimension
in various ways.
But you always have to have this origin
to build any kind of geometry.
So once I have this, I can also do something really radical,
which is imagine like 20 people.
And I think it's an interesting question
to ask what animals are capable of representing themselves
as well as opposed to representing
their environments as moving.
And I don't know how to answer that question.
I think it's a really interesting question.
So finally, I don't just need an origin
if I want a coordinate system.
I have to have a ruler.
So I have to have a spatial reference
for that consists of this origin and some ruler.
And my ruler has to be translationally and rotationally
invariant up to some transformation.
And here we get to the relationship
between, say, Euclidean space, where the ruler is
invariant to translations and rotations and something
like space and general relativity,
where if I move my ruler around, it changes length.
And if I rotate my ruler, it changes length.
And that length change is a representation of mass
and general relativity is sometimes just pointing out.
So in fact, it's not that the space is a representation
of the object.
It's the change in metric that represents mass
in general relativity.
So it's the way my ruler changes as I move it.
And I think that's a very interesting concept
which we'll talk about again.
So once I have these things, once I
have this spatial reference frame,
now I can talk about objects moving in geometry.
And I have what we consider intuitively in space.
So notice how much more complicated this is than a clock.
Simple to get a clock.
It's really complicated to get this.
Space is a much more complicated notion than external time.
OK, so we're almost done.
I just want to think a little bit abstractly now
and interdisciplinarily now, and think about approaches
to emergent space.
In the physics literature, especially quantum information
and to a somewhat lesser extent, under the rubric
of quantum cosmology, there's a large industry
hundreds, thousands of papers that are working
on emergent space.
And it's all in a deeply technical, difficult language.
And this route involves many, many variants
on starting from some sort of information exchange
and usually entangling.
And working through the idea of error correction
and error correcting codes, and through the idea of lattice-like
discrete network types of topology
to get to some sort of spacetime.
And in particular, by always adding
a bunch of different kinds of assumptions
to get to Einstein's equations, to get to a spacetime that
supports some idea of mass, of gravity, or energy density.
I mean, all of those are important.
So some sets of a metric that changes
when you do certain things.
Now, there's a completely different approach,
which isn't expressed in incredibly complicated mathematics.
It's expressed in the language of developmental psychology.
And that way of thinking about spacetime
starts with perceptual motor capabilities.
So it starts from motor bandwidth.
And it talks about the measurement of effort.
So it assigns an energy coordinate at the top.
And it talks about memory.
And it talks about objects and invariances.
So it talks about the ability to move something around.
So this is the same thing that I'm going to do in a little while.
And from there, it builds this notion of a metric space.
And that metric space has at least an implicit energetic
coordinate that has to do with distance.
And it also has sort of an energetic component
that has to do with mass.
So I know that there are things in my space
that require a lot more effort to manipulate
than other things in my space.
But in this way of thinking about it,
that notion of effort and mass is not really anchored
in the space.
It becomes a different concept because there's
this classical notion of mass.
And the question is, do these routes
eventually produce the same thing?
And the sort of obvious answer is no.
The obvious answer is that the left-hand side,
this very recent two- or three-decade
afternoon theoretical physics that
starts really from string theory produces this very abstract
notion of space that gives you Einstein's equations.
But is that really true?
I mean, one gets general relativity just
by thinking about symmetries in our ordinary conception
of space that people haven't really focused on before.
Einstein really derived general relativity
from the equivalence principle, which
is the idea that acceleration and mass are the same.
You did it with all these thought experiments
of people in elevators and things like that.
