So what decreased us having likelihood for war moved us towards planetary boundaries on all the planetary boundaries.
We said we can all have more stuff without taking each other's stuff by taking all the shit from nature as quickly as we can.
So this was obviously not that smart for our own long term and now we're there where we're actually bypassing some of the planetary boundaries critical tipping points already.
There was a paper published a couple months ago in the American Chemical Society Journal that said the planetary tipping point on certain environmental pollutants,
particularly floral surfactants, had already been passed, meaning rainwater all around the world in very remote areas contained these PFOS forever chemicals beyond EPA safe levels.
That means that if you're gathering rainwater in the middle of nowhere for your off-grid sustainable thing it has beyond EPA levels of carcinogen,
neurotoxin, endocrine disrupting chemicals everywhere, no matter where you are on the planet because we've put that many of them into the environment already.
And an exponential financial system means an exponential amount of pollution, mining, etc.
And so the metacrisis, what happened for me was like, all right, well if we have to address factory farms but then shit we also have to address overfishing,
we have to address what is the problem set? What is the actual problem set that we have to face?
How do we make sure that when we're addressing it we don't cause other worst problems?
So how do we understand the interconnectedness?
I was always asking if we were to actually try to rebuild the world from scratch with 21st century problems and technologies and capacities that actually worked with the biosphere and human nature,
how would we do it and then what does enactment look like to get there given all the vested interests and issues in the current world system?
So you were mentioning third attractor. Third attractor roughly is there are two futures that we want to avoid.
Well, mention the first and the second first so that people can understand the sort of negative image of it.
But maybe just before you go there, just maybe explain what you really think, if there's a takeaway, what's absolutely different about this moment in history for mankind?
You've kind of said it in a roundabout way, which is explaining the sort of crumbling of the Bretton Woods world system
and that a lot of the solutions that we're trying to put forward actually generate bigger problems than we can possibly face.
And in many instances, and you can talk about in the situation of the arms race between China and the US with AI or biotech, for example,
without even talking about road actors that are in garages, but I think if you can sort of map this a little bit,
because I think that it's helpful for people to see their place in history.
Okay, so I was saying that the first existential tech was the bomb. We built a world system to deal with that.
So one of the answers to that world system was the global financial system, which has driven us to all of the planetary boundaries that we currently face.
Planetary boundary is a good way to put all the environmental issues in one place.
So when we're talking about dead zones and oceans, overfishing, species extinction, loss of pollinators, climate change, ozone,
all of those are basically places where the human social sphere, techno sphere complex is incompatible with the biosphere,
but that means we're debasing the substrate that we depend upon. That means it's a system that's self-terminating.
You cannot debase your own substrate forever.
One of the other parts of the post-World War II system was globalization, and these radically interconnected six continent global supply chains
that are necessary to make this microphone or these speakers or anything.
One of the downsides of that we've seen during COVID is the radically interconnected supply chain.
The benefit was you're less likely to bomb somebody who you depend upon for fundamental supply chain purposes.
This is one of the big benefits of globalism.
So the localism movement, if you were really successful at localism, there's actually less investedness in the other guy over there
when I don't actually depend upon them.
So these are some of the tensions we have to factor of, okay, do I want to make everything local,
or do we want to actually have interdependence on them?
But if we have it all global, then we get these cascading fragilities of where you can have an issue in Wuhan
and get supply chain shutting down all around the world, which then means you don't get the movement of pesticides and fertilizers
for the agricultural system in Iran and Northern Africa that probably put more people into radical food insecurity
than we're totally at risk from COVID.
So you can see how those post-World War II situations gave us this world of high interconnectedness
but very high fragility and then high planetary fragility.
And then also the exponential financial system meant the growth of exponential technology, you know, speeding up commerce.
And the key thing to understand about that is that we don't have one technological weapon of mass destruction.
Now we have many.
And in the World War II system, the mutually assured destruction system, you had one catastrophe weapon and two actors that had it.
So you could create a system of mutually assured destruction where neither one could utilize it.
We currently have a world where you have dozens of catastrophe weapons.
If we include all of the types of not only weapons of mass destruction but the ability to take out critical infrastructure
and in a highly connected supply chain system, we have dozens of catastrophe weapons with not just many state actors
but non-state actors having access to them.
So you can't put some mutually assured destruction system on it.
How do we make it through this much distributed technological power with the current incentive systems?
So if you want to look at what is unique to this period of time, humans have been here for roughly 200,000 years,
biologically identical, you know, 2 million years of hominids with tools.
We didn't reach the first billion people till 1815, right?
We were less than a half a billion people for that entire history.
And then with the Industrial Revolution and liquid nitrogen fertilizer, we went from half a billion people to 8 billion people almost overnight.
We simultaneously increased our energy consumption per person and our total resource consumption per person exponentially.
So we exponentially increased the number of people and the consumption of resource per person.
And this does bring us, so for the whole history of the world, we did not have the technological power to quickly destroy everything
like nukes or even to pose a threat to the biosphere as a whole.
That is only the result of post-industrial and now particularly post-late industrial technological capacity.
A really important thing to understand is, you know, as a species, we, because of tool creating, were able to move from early environments
to other environments in a way no other animal could and become the apex predator in every environment.
So when we over-hunted an environment, a lion can't increase its predatory capacity radically faster than the gazelles can
because predatory capacity only comes through genetic evolution, which is very slow over time and there's co-selective pressures.
With tool making, we were able to increase our predative capacity through a different process that wasn't genetic evolution radically faster
than anything else could increase its resilience to our predative capacity.
So we could over-hunt an environment then rather than have our population fall back, move to a new environment.
And so we've actually been on the beginning of a self-terminating path for a very long time.
It's just an exponential curve that looks like this.
And the first major bump was agriculture and then the next major bump was the industrial revolution and then it's been verticalizing.
And so regarding earlier civilizations, though, we didn't have the technological capacity, even in aggregate, to mess up the biosphere.
But we did have the technological capacity to mess up our own local environments and that's one of the main reasons early civilizations died.
If you actually read The Collapse of Complex Societies by Joseph Tainter where you read Jared Diamond's book on it,
many early civilizations actually died because they created topsoil erosion from bad agricultural practices,
cut down too many trees and stopped being able to feed their people.
So civilizational collapse from overuse of the environment is actually a multi-thousand year reality.
And if you think about early civilizations, one of the first insights you'll have,
whether we're thinking about the Ottoman Empire, the Egyptian Empire, the Roman Empire, is that none of them still exist.
So it's actually the precedent of civilizations to have a life cycle and to fall.
But most of them fall from internal self-terminating causes, either environmental ones or even if they lose a war to someone else,
very often they lose a war to a smaller foe than they had defeated during their peak
because internal decay and infighting happens from generational institutional decay.
So self-induced purposes make civilizations break down.
So civilizational collapse is actually the norm, right?
That's the first thing that's important to understand.
It's just it was always a local phenomena.
This is the first time that we really have a global civilization in terms of the supply chains that we depend upon to meet our fundamental needs.
And so we're in the process of a breakdown of this civilization.
But what that portends in scale and what it portends to be having the biosphere, the ecological effects,
but at a biosphere level is totally unprecedented.
And what I would also say is that our solutions to the previous problems,
because there's this nice narrative that there have always been problems,
but we always come up with solutions and necessities the mother of invention
and we'll figure our way out of this and then we get to live to solve new problems.
And that's kind of true.
But it is also true that the problem-solving process we have employed actually drives larger problems.
And you get to a place where those problems are actually beyond the scale of what the biosphere can handle in human capacity.
And so you actually have to have a different problem-solving process.
So if you think about making a technology to solve a problem or a business or a law to solve a problem,
you define the problem in a narrow way, like this viral issue or like a transportation issue or whatever it is.
You define it in a narrow way.
There's one or some small number of metrics you're trying to change.
And you create a technology or a law or a business or a non-profit to produce a first-order effect,
meaning a direct effect to solve that problem.
But it interacts with ecologies and societies and psychologies which are complex
and it has second and third and fourth-order effects on a whole bunch of metrics that aren't even identified.
And that's where the harm ends up being externalized.
So the metacrisis that we face currently, we can talk about very specifically what the generator functions are.
But if we look at all of the planetary boundaries from species extinction to biodiversity loss writ large
to nitrogen and phosphorus cycles to climate change and ozone,
all of those are the result of an exponential financial system coupled to a linear materials economy hitting planetary boundaries.
So you have to fundamentally make the materials economy go closed loop
and the financial system has to stop being exponential, which means a post-growth financial system.
That's a really, really huge lift to get from here to there.
And then when we look at all of the issues associated with externalization from exponential tech,
how do we steward the power that exponential technology gives us safely
does require a totally different level of consideration of like, yes, I'm making this immuno,
I'm doing this genetic modification science for cancer purposes,
but as soon as I've done it, it now becomes cheap and easy for designer babies and every other kind of purpose.
So how do we kind of mythopoetically say if no other animal had the ability to extinct species at scale
or destroy ecosystems or genetically engineer new species?
So this is not the power of apex predators.
This is the power of nature, the power of gods.
If we have the power of gods and not the love and wisdom of gods to steward it, we don't make it.
So to make it through this technological kind of adolescence, what is the infrastructure that can make it
and what is the social structure and culture that are required to be able to guide that are core interesting questions?
So you've very eloquently defined how good we've been for a long time at being self-terminating civilizations
and we've scaled it to the planet now.
So I think to go back to my question around the first and second attractors and then the third,
maybe browse very quickly on the first and the second because there's a whole theory around that.
But there's a theory of change which you're proposing through the third attractor and I think that's where there's hope.
And not only hope, it's sort of a story of collective ingenuity that has to unfold
and unfortunately you have to go through a little bit of a difficult phase to appreciate the complexity of the problem
with a new set of eyes before you can do so effectively.
So that's how the lens of the metacrisis is useful because you can't get to that third attractor before you've understood that.
So could you maybe just go quickly over the two first attractors and then the third one that will give us a little bit of a glimpse of hope?
If we just think about, if you can build some gene synthesis in your basement cheaply with no exotic materials,
if anybody can build gene synthesis in their basement, how does the world make it through that technology being a distributed capacity?
If you think about it for a while, the answer almost everybody comes up with is it can't.
So that can't become a distributed capacity.
Okay, so we have to make it to where the companies that make the gene synthesizers are regulated.
What about the DIY version that makes it on the internet?
Well, now either we have to control information on the internet and some kind of, so who does that that can radically control the information
or we have to know what people are doing in their basement, some kind of ubiquitous surveillance.
This is some of the thinking behind the IoT and sesame credit system in China is actually not stupid thinking.
It's forward thinking to distributed exponential tech and how do we deal with that?
So you can see that the solution to preventing a catastrophe can be a control mechanism that can look like a dystopia.
The two attractors that I say we want to avoid are catastrophes on one hand and solutions to catastrophes that involve being able to keep those from happening,
which requires both optics of what's happening and the ability to prevent it, which sound like control mechanisms, which become dystopic.
And so right now, one thing I'll say about the catastrophes is you have to look at the cascades between all of them together to make good sense of it.
If you look at exponential tech as one category and environment as another and war as another and supply chain and electrical grid separately,
you'll miss the way it actually happens.
So when does climate change become a catastrophic risk?
Well, you're talking about like the venousification of the planet or the drowning of coastal cities or something like that.
Long time before that happens, extreme weather events that start to hit high population density areas and cause human migration
can cause escalation to World War III, right?
So you think about the extreme weather events in Australia.
It was just very fortunate that that was low population density, low total population area.
You look at the droughts in Syria that caused population movement and did cause a war.
What if you look at the temperatures that Pakistan and Bangladesh and Northern India have been starting to hit during the summer
and just say some time in the next few summers you get past the temperature where the crops fail
and they don't actually have stored crop.
A lot of it was destroyed during COVID.
They don't have groundwater and when you're in a 50 Celsius heat wave,
but you're talking about an area that has 100 million people now as opposed to a very small number of people.
What happens?
Does the resource war fall along Muslim Hindu lines?
Does that lead to an India-Pakistan war?
So with climate change, you're not looking at climate change just as a problem itself,
but it is a force amplifier of the other problems and you have to look at all of them that way.
So there's a lot of different entryways to catastrophic collapse and we're seeing some of them right now.
And so one attractor is increasing catastrophes.
The other meaning a likely path the world goes.
Another attractor is the world recognizing that and saying,
should we have to keep that from happening?
So we have to actually deal with climate change through pricing carbon properly and degrowth.
But that is really bad for a lot of people because as soon as you make carbon more expensive,
you make all the commodities more expensive, which hurts the poor people the fastest and on and on.
And everyone who doesn't want that, do you use violence against them?
And so to prevent certain things ends up meaning control if currently human behavior is doing that.
And so how do you prevent increasing dystopias, which a lot of people think the Chinese state is in the direction of.
So a desirable future is a future that doesn't self-terminate and it doesn't have unchecked centralized power structures.
The question, one of the causes of the increase in nationalism is the distrust in globalism.
And one of the major reasons of the distrust of globalism is the idea that unchecked power doesn't have a good history.
And so the idea that we at least keep power checked in a multilateral way is preferable for a lot of people.
But if you have many different nations that are in economic competition with each other, nobody wants to price carbon properly.
Because if the US does, it'll be radically disadvantaged relative to China.
As a result, China's Belt and Road will geopolitically dominate the world and crowd out democracy and those types of things.
And so if you have nation states in competition with each other, they just can't deal with global issues well.
If you have global governance, who's creating a check on that power system to where it can't be captured or corrupted.
So I would say thinking in terms of the design criteria we need has to be able to do global governance.
It has to be able to deal with things like decentralized catastrophe weapons and basements.
But it also simultaneously has to have checks and balances on every power system or every control system that are there that are adjudicatable.
It would take me a long time to describe what I think the best processes for how to do that are.
I will say that there are technological systems that could be enacted that meet these criteria that align with human nature.
