I just want to say thank you for this welcome again from the team at Harvest.
It's great for me to have been able to suggest Daniel as a speaker here.
I'm very fond of him as a human, as a fellow futurist and as a thinker for our time.
I think it probably needs a little introduction. Why is Daniel here?
Daniel is not a prophet of doom, absolutely not.
He's trying to equip us with the understanding that will help us navigate some of the crises that are ahead of us.
It's something that some people call the metacrisis and he's one of the main people in the world now who can explain it very clearly.
I'll try and break it up a little bit so that we can go over some of the points again.
It's difficult to say what Consilience Project is in a few words because it has evolved over time to confront the reality of what the world is ready to accept.
However, it's certainly one of, in my opinion, the best attempts and very tangible attempts to help people navigate what's right now in front of us.
The news cycle is certainly not helping us understand. It's sort of distracting our minds from the real things that are going on.
So Daniel is one of these people out there who's working really to formalize the way that we can anticipate, connect, collaborate and work more effectively to solve problems that we are facing.
So Daniel, I think there's something that we should know about your past and I'm going to be provocative.
If you didn't actually start out with the same objective, you sort of thought that maybe we were doomed and that we had to accelerate doom in order to get somewhere.
I'm going to be very provocative so that you can explain your journey from a young man to where you are now.
I was homeschooled and when I was nine, I was at a gas station and a factory farming cattle truck pulled up and so I went and looked inside the holes.
The cow nearest to me was missing its eye and bleeding. All the cows were in terrible condition and I grew up loving animals, eating meat from factory farms, not putting the two together.
I was just kind of shocked and horrified by that. I asked my parents about it. They said that's where animals come from so I asked to go to a factory farm.
I became a vegetarian that day. I started working with PETA in Greenpeace and studying animal rights work.
That took me from the issue of factory farming to the issue of species extinction, whaling, overfishing the oceans, which took me into the issues of the environment and that took me into global poverty and just kind of the whole set of issues as a young person.
I was fortunate being homeschooled that I got to just have that be my curriculum. I was actually an educational experiment. My parents ran right and didn't have any fixed curriculum.
I just got a study that I was interested in so this became the context of most of my life study and the next really important part happened.
I was 13. I was working on a project that Greenpeace and World Wildlife Federation were leading to protect elephant poaching in a particular elephant preserve in Kenya where the poachers had come in over the preserve and hunted a bunch of elephants.
I saw the videos of the elephant slaughter and was moved in the same way as the factory farms and the thing I observed though was over the two years of the people on the ground working extremely hard to protect the elephants there,
the strategy was get bigger fences around the preserve so the poachers couldn't get in and do legislation to get harsher sentencing for poachers in the area.
All the activists had their life threatened but they finally succeeded. It was a huge win. Those elephants didn't get hunted but they didn't address the poverty of the people that were doing the poaching.
They didn't address a macro economy that creates poverty at scale. They didn't address the views towards animals or identity regarding them or black markets on animal parts.
The same poaching groups moved to hunt other things which happened to be the white rhino and the mountain gorilla both of which were more endangered than the elephant.
I was working with enough groups that I got to see those other issues get worse as a direct result of the success of that project.
And then that was like the second existential hit. The first existential hit with the factory farms was, I'm saying this to relate,
that was the first time I had like a suicidal ideation around not feeling okay being complicit with my species.
My species was somehow fundamentally fucked up and as a kid it wasn't that hard to realize if I kill myself all those cows are still in the factory farms.
I didn't help them. That's unethical. But then I'm like, if I stay alive to try to help it, can my life be a success while sentient beings are experiencing that much suffering?
What does it say about me that I can be totally stoked that my life is a success when other beings are in that kind of suffering?
I'm like, there's no answer for me that doesn't address that. So I remember thinking to myself then I'm like, alright, well if I die and factory farms still exist,
I failed like there is no definition of success for me that isn't a sociopath's definition of success that has to empathetically separate too intensely.
But at least the hope came that like activism might work. And so then when this thing happened where I saw that the activism for one thing made other things worse,
that was the next kind of devastation. And that led to me starting to look at how many other places where we were doing activism,
where the world was doing activism, did that kind of issue. And I saw that there were projects to solve global poverty by creating hydroelectric dams to bring electricity to areas,
and hydroelectric dams, of course, drowned whole ecosystems and extinct species, and on and on. And kind of like it seemed like the world was caught in these trade-offs where when they would focus on solving one problem,
it was too narrowly defined, the result of solving that problem would have externalities related with larger systems. I started to do kind of historical analysis on that,
and that became kind of a defining trend of all of the issues. We created the automobile to solve a transportation issue, which was that horses were a very limited means of transportation.
Transportation, horses in the cities caused a lot of horseshit in places like London. Literally the excessive horseshit in the cities of London was one of the kind of like significant impetuses to make a horseless carriage.
And in solving that problem and creating transportation that increased mobility and comfort for the whole world, climate change, like the venusification of the entire planet,
and oil spills, and wars over oil, and the US petrodollar, like all of that were the side effects of solving a transportation issue, you know, a couple hundred years later.
And I got to see that there was this underlying deep issue that statecraft, that is thinking about the well-being of its own citizens, the rest of the world,
so it's not just exporting its harm somewhere else and of the planet. And there's a lot of countries where they're genicoefficient,
meaning their measure of wealth inequality is pretty good within their country, but they import a bunch of stuff to make their country function from countries that have the worst genicoefficient.
So you can't actually do genicoefficient at the level of a country, it ends up just being a way to kind of whitewash the reality of global supply chains.
Oh, so the conscious statecraft thing. So how do you do what is good for your own country, what's good for other countries,
and what's good for the planet when there are fundamental trade-offs between them and you're stuck in those trade-offs?
That becomes really the deep challenging question. If we look at climate change today, we can see that for the planet and for all of us in the future,
we should not just decarbonize but degrowth. We can also see that any nation that tries to lead that will do worse GDP-wise in the near term,
which means worse geopolitically and actually so much worse that, particularly for the leading countries like U.S. and China,
change the control systems of the world. So so many of the people in the U.S. that are anti-climate change aren't actually anti-climate change
because they did a good analysis of the IPCC science. It's that the solution of increasing the price of carbon for us,
which will decrease our GDP relative to China's GDP in a great power game, which will increase planetary autocracy,
seems like such a bad solution that they don't want the climate change assessment because they don't want the solution that goes with it.
So a part of the thing that I focus on is how do we understand the interconnectivity and the generators of all the issues deeply enough
that we can come up with solutions that don't cause other problems. But one point was a little while after this I had come to,
I started doing forecasting on how many people have read Limits of Growth, the MIT Club of Rome book.
So I read that as a teenager and then started looking at a lot of other analyses on species extinction and biodiversity loss
and dead zones and oceans and all those things. And then I looked at the, you know, Stephen Pinker kind of stuff of everything's getting better.
A lot of people might have that question of like, you hear Stephen Pinker, Hans Rosling Gates and like everything's getting better,
and then you hear all the environmental statistics and like everything's getting worse. They're both true.
You can cherry pick your stats, but they're not equally true. The things that are getting worse are leading to the unviability of human habitation
ongoingly in a way that the things that are getting better don't converge on solving automatically. So there's a real,
and the things that we're making better are causing the things that are getting worse towards self extinction points, right?
Like grow global GDP where we all have like nice stuff because of that in a way that breaks the biosphere's capacity to continue to make life possible.
So we have to do something deeper than saying it's getting better and worse so we just choose. It's like the way that we make things get better
is a major part of what's making them get worse towards tipping points that are unique now to any point in previous civilization.
So when I was at 15, I came to the assessment that there was no chance that humanity would actually make it in time,
and that if we had radically less population, we might have a chance, and I started studying viruses and depopulation strategies,
which is a thing that an angsty but earnest caring teenager might do. I had a spiritual experience that took me off that path while I was working on it,
but I was seriously studying vector delivery of novel pathogens, and the spiritual experience was something Bucky Fuller used to say,
and I had heard it a lot but it hadn't hit me in the same way that the chicken developing inside of a shell is totally unsustainable, right?
When it's eating the unrenewable resource, the egg white, it's creating metabolic pollution in its environment, it doesn't even know that it's inside of a shell,
but it's in a developmental phase, and of course it doesn't have the beak or the gastrointestinal tract to eat seeds yet,
the whites are exactly kind of what it developmentally needs to go through that embryonic phase, and right as it runs out of whites,
as soon as its GI tract and beak and all the things are developed to be able to crack through the shell and emerge into a world where now it's part of a new phase,
and I started thinking about humanity as being unrenewable because of being in a developmental phase or a discrete phase shift that isn't the result of just a continuity of the previous lines,
and I thought about all the examples of caterpillar to chrysalis to butterfly, and that in the chrysalis there's a fundamental dissolution of all the organs
and a restructuring with a different genetic code that if a fetus went more than 40 weeks in the mother's uterus, it would kill itself and kill the mom,
but it has to go through that developmental period, and then the birth is a discrete kind of difficult process, and then the umbilical cords cut,
now there's a new developmental time, and so I had this kind of profound experience that developmental phases, whether inside of an egg or in a chrysalis or in a womb,
are always unsustainable. There is some discrete nonlinear phase shift that is different than the curve in the developmental phase,
and will be different afterwards, and I started thinking about if humanity as a species was in a developmental phase,
and there was a discrete phase shift that was different than the curves, what that might look like, but that got me off of the track that Thomas was bringing up,
but what's really interesting is a lot of my work now involves the way that exponential technology equals exponential decentralized catastrophe weapons for everyone.
Whenever we talk about the positives of exponential tech, AI, biotechnology, nanotechnology, cyber technology,
we talk about in positive terms usually like the democratization of this great technological power of creation,
but the democratization of catastrophe weapons is actually not a great idea, right? Like keeping nukes to the G8,
but you can do because it's really hard to make nukes, and you can see who's making nukes, and there's not that many places that have uranium,
and enriching uranium is hard, and you can see it from outer space, but it's pretty easy to make drone weapons,
and it's increasingly becoming easy, and the ability to use those for infrastructure targets, and specifically it's becoming pretty easy to make pathogens.
In the advancing of synthetic biology, we're only a few years away from the ability to synthesize novel pathogens on a desktop for $1,000 anywhere,
and so when I was a kid, that was not true, it was actually like a hard thing to do, it's becoming an increasingly easy thing to do,
while increasingly more people are feeling kind of concerned and disenfranchised, so as the group of people that would be motivated to change this world system in harmful ways,
and the group of people that are capable is converging and increasing, there's a lot of risk associated with that, how do we deal with that?
That's an interesting part of the topic.
I'm really excited that you didn't turn out to become a terrorist.
It wasn't motivated by not liking people, it was motivated by seeing self-induced human extinction as inevitable, and as being the only way out,
and that's actually like most terrorists are well motivated, they're motivated in service of something they care about that they feel is being harmed and they don't know other solutions.
We could agree, but I'll pause on that one.
I think what a lot of people here are probably expecting if you have heard anything about Daniel is you present a little bit about the meta crisis,
so there's a framework of thinking around how we can put dots in between a lot of the crises that we're facing collectively,
and instead of addressing one and creating externalities in another problem set, perhaps understanding the total problem set at the same time,
and before you act actually have a more enlightened perspective gives you more edge, so that's an assumption and a hopeful one,
and some people might argue that we need to act very fast on certain issues, so they don't really like this sort of temporization of it,
but I'm of the belief like you that basically having better tools to understand the world we live in is essential for us to make critical decisions,
and I would love for you to spend a moment unfolding what you call, or what we call, the meta crisis,
and why it's unique to this moment in history, and why humanity has to put some effort towards solving that concretely,
or we will probably end up in a pretty bad place very quickly.
So it could easily seem like the stuff that I'm talking about is just the collection of all the worst news in one place.
I would bother sharing it because I think it is true.
The risks that we're talking about are true, it's not determined that we definitely fail at them or that we definitely succeed at them,
so what we do actually matters in determining it, and there's no chance that we can solve it if we don't more competently understand it,
so more people competently understanding and seriously working to apply themselves to the unique needs of this particular time in the world
is something that I'm hopeful for, and I guess that's why I'm speaking here, and said yes to Thomas inviting me here.
So the meta crisis frame might actually help deal with some catastrophe fatigue because rather than see the issue of drones and autonomous weapons
and the issue of exponential tech-empowered terrorism and this planetary boundary issue and this pollinator issue and this forever chemical issue as separate issues,
I look at them all as expressions of an interconnected set of generative dynamics that we call the meta crisis,
where what it takes to solve any of them is the same, actually, and if you try to solve them without factoring these deep underlying generative dynamics,
you will at bet, you probably won't solve it, and if you do, you'll displace problems somewhere else and actually kind of mess the whole thing up,
so when you understand that all those problems are connected at first, it makes it seem more overwhelming because you're like fuck,
to think about climate change, I also have to think about geopolitics and fundamental changes to finance and all these other issues,
and that seems like a lot of complexity, but it actually takes it from too many problems to tractably manage all of which have solutions that end up externalizing harm elsewhere,
which means impossible, too hard but tractable, so hopefully in terms of being able to see it all as one interconnected set of issues,
you're like alright, there's a lot more learning that I need to do to be able to competently engage, but there is actually a way through,
there's actually kind of a tractable analysis, so that's what I hope to share.
So, if you can move towards what people call the third attractor or that you like to call the third attractor,
so that we sort of gravitate towards a landscape of defining what is the solution environment that we want to find ourselves in,
because obviously there are a lot of people who are very competent, who are deploying intelligence and capital and being very innovative about what they do,
but they sometimes miss the fact that they are creating really negative externalities in other, let's say problem sets,
so the third attractor to me seems like a very easy thing to understand for people, even though if we don't have the answer to what the third attractor is,
but it's at least theoretically a framework for understanding why the metacrisis may find a solution set through a third attractor.
Yeah, let me give an example though of how we solve problems and make worse problems that are current and really relevant.
We're working to try to change currently US federal government program and have had some really good success with it for pandemic prevention,
for preventing whatever the next pandemic from animal sources do not expel over would be.
And the federal government, and it's not only the US, lots of countries employ this approach.
The US has been leading the way in what seems like great science and technology and innovation towards preemptive problem solving,
which all seems like the right thing, but the approach to preventing zoonotic spillover involves viral hunting,
so going out and finding tens of thousands of new viruses in bat caves that have mammalian viruses that have never been exposed to humans before,
bringing them back to labs, doing gain of function research on them to figure out how they might mutate into things that are more virulent or transmissible,
and then publishing all those genome sequences to an open source database so everyone who wants to work on vaccines has access to the knowledge.
It seems like a decentralizing information, democratizing, multi-state coordination, science, anticipatory, good thing,
and it's maybe one of the worst things happening in the world, and so we're lucky that we've been able to shift it.
If you open source publish all of the pandemic grade viral gene sequences in an age where gene synthesis is becoming extremely cheap,
that we're about three years out from tabletop gene drives and CRISPR and like that, the bioterrorism potential of that is just unimaginable,
and even just the accidental kind of lab leak dynamics that when you have enough labs working with enough things,
the probability that none of them happens drops towards zero over enough period of time.
There was a lab doing gain of function research that figured out how to make an extremely virulent version of H1N1,
like an R0 of 18, H1N1 is like a 60% fatality rate, and it did that in a biosecurity level 2 lab.
So lab leaks happen, right, like this is an example of trying to do the right thing,
but not understanding the problem space well enough and doing something totally that's the wrong thing,
and what I remember the first time I was engaged in the UN network and it was a project with World Food Program when I was 20,
the solution to world hunger involved bringing conventional NPK based agriculture to the developing world,
so we didn't have to send food over there and the answer was way more nitrogen and phosphorus effluent into the rivers that would cause faster dead zones in the ocean,
and so I talked to the guy about it and I said, you realize you'll speed up the rate of dead zones in the ocean catastrophically if you do this,
and he said I hadn't thought of that, but those aren't the metrics I'm tasked with, and those aren't the metrics I'm tasked with,
so I'm going to, for a few years, decrease hunger while working to extinct the planet because that's what my accountability is like.
It just became very clear that that problem-solving approach was ubiquitous,
and so another great example is you look at the advancement of something like gene editing, CRISPR,
it's being advanced for purposes we all want, like immuno-oncology, how do you change 15,000 genes at once to be able to, you know,
cure and prevent cancers that we're genetically predisposed to, but all technologies are dual purpose or multi-purpose,
meaning every technology that you can make for some positive purpose has a military or otherwise weaponized or kind of externalizing application,
so the research that's being done on how to do that type of gene editing is making it then really cheap and easy.
Once we figured out how to do it, it takes major universities that have ethical review boards to do it for that purpose
to develop the technologies that then drop the price by orders of magnitude to do it for any purpose and it's open publishing,
so to give a little bit of history because some people might think, well, people have been predicting rapture since the 1600s,
there's always some kind of like Mayan 2012, whatever, and this is just new catastrophism.
I would really like people to think more deeply about what is discontinuous and novel in this time relative to other times,
so I want to argue that real quick.
The first technology we had that was powerful enough for humans to actually make the planet meaningfully uninhabitable was the nuclear bomb in World War II.
That was the first truly existential technology. It was not an exponential technology, meaning nukes don't automatically make better nukes
in the ways that computers automatically make better computers. Computation allows us to design better computer chips recursively,
you get Moore's Law, but it was the first existential technology and that was really a break from the history of the entire world of tech
up until that point because up until that point, every new military tech that we had, there was an absolute arms race to deploy it as quickly as we could
and to win more battles and territory based on deploying it. This was the first one where we actually had to make an entire world system
to ensure we would never deploy it because nobody would win, mutually assured destruction.
All of a sudden, you're like, whoa, we're so big that we can't actually deploy our tech without destroying everything.
We can't actually do the us versus them effectively anymore at that level.
So post World War II, and we haven't had another world war that is kinetic between superpowers yet and we're at the brink of it right now.
Post World War II, because of that tech, we rebuilt the entire global world system to deal with preventing kinetic World War III
and that kind of Bretton Woods world system, IGO world system has been effective at preventing World War III,
but that world system is almost totally broken down now and it drove all of the catastrophic risks we're facing currently.
Specifically, one part of the post World War II system was a international monetary system that created, that had exponential growth of GDP.
Why is exponential growth of GDP important is because the wars are based on everybody wanting more stuff
and if you don't have exponential growth of GDP, the best way to get more stuff is to take somebody else's stuff.
If you have exponential growth of stuff, everybody can have more stuff without taking other stuff roughly
or at least the major nations don't have to take each other stuff, they can do it through colonialism or vassal nations,
but exponential growth of GDP is comprehensively bad for the environment.
All of that growth of GDP is an important thing called the Garrett relation that shows a one for one correlation between energy used and global GDP.
It's a 99% correlation actually, meaning that the increases in efficiency of energy generation only give you about 1% change of more dollars per joule per year,
but for the most part, exponential growth of GDP equals exponential energy demand.
So climate change and exponential GDP are exactly correlated and all of that money gets used in a materials economy, a supply chain,
it's a linear materials economy that through mining, logging, fishing, et cetera, is unrenewably taking stuff from the earth on one side,
turning it into shit we use for a little while and making it into trash and pollution on the other side.
You cannot run, this is like so obvious, but you cannot run an exponential financial system on a linear materials economy
that has to be coupled to it on a finite planet forever, so you start to hit planetary boundaries, right?
