You're listening to The Great Simplification with Nate Hagins. That's me.
On this show, we try to explore and simplify what's happening with energy, the economy, the environment, and our society.
Together with scientists, experts, and leaders, this show is about understanding the bird's-eye view of how everything fits together,
where we go from here and what we can do about it as a society and as individuals.
Today, I am pleased to introduce Ayan Mahmoud. Ayan coordinates regional programming tasks within the Initiative on Drought Resilience,
which covers seven countries in the Horn of Africa.
She currently manages the USAID program portfolio at the Intergovernmental Authority on Development,
working on issues related to resilience, climate adaptation, dry land development, cross-border health, countering violent extremism, and conflict prevention.
But on today's episode, I talk with Ayan not in her professional capacity, but as a friend and as a citizen of Africa and of the world.
We discuss the growing challenge that climate change faces for Africa and many areas in the global south, and how what we call the polycrisis is already happening around the world.
In many ways, the discussions in our culture are not only energy blind, but also people outside our country blind.
What has managing and coordinating polycrisis responses in Africa looked like?
What can we learn from communities already dealing with poverty and climate impacts?
I hope you learn and are inspired by this conversation with Ayan Mahmoud.
Peace be upon you.
Peace be upon you, Ayan.
Peace be upon you, my friend. How are you?
I'm good. Good to see you. Good to see you in person six weeks ago or so.
Yes, absolutely. It was a good bubble. That was really a good time.
So, for people that don't know of you and your work, could you just start this conversation by saying your name? Where do you live? What do you do?
And maybe, you know, how we came together to be friends.
Well, my name is Ayan Mahmoud. I live in Nairobi, Kenya, and I work with the regional economic community.
It's a rec called IGAT, and I work on regional transboundary crisis, polycrisis.
And that's how we became friends. We were debating between polycrisis and collapse.
That's a wonderful one of the discussion we had when we met a few weeks ago.
So, my hope with this conversation is to kind of take our professional hats off and just talk to each other about citizens,
as citizens of the world living in vastly different places, and being alive at this time, facing what we do with the economic, energy, climate, biodiversity situation.
And you're the first person I've had from Africa or the global south generally, and I really would love to get some honest, deep perspectives from you.
And I would love you to do most of the talking.
So, maybe before we dive into that, can you tell us what the situation is on the Horn of Africa right now in eastern Africa, where you live just broadly?
Broadly, let me start by saying that the region is currently facing its fifth failed rainy season, and there are not many rainy season in a 12 months period, for example.
There are only two short rains and long rains on a yearly basis.
We're talking about either March, April, May, or October, November, December, for example.
Right now, as I said, we are facing, the region is facing its fifth failed rainy season.
The first one was announced in the midst of COVID in August 2020.
And of course, because of COVID, it almost went unnoticed, because the community dived into their economies and resources and the small resilience program that we've been implementing since the previous major drought of 2010 and 2011.
And the adaptive capacity that they had thanks to those resilience programs.
So right now, the region is facing a major drought, and the desertification is a reality to which the state must adapt with a clear indication that there will be more frequent and more intense climate change.
In fact, in Eastern Africa, in countries like Somalia, Ethiopia, and Kenya, which are particularly affected by shortage of water, food, and food, as I speak to you, according to the latest assessment, we're talking about more than 25 million people in acute food insecurity.
And we're also talking about millions of people that have been forced to leave their homes for lack of food and over seven millions of head of cattle and livestock that I've already perished.
So it's a crisis.
We are in the middle of a crisis, but it's not the only one.
That's what we are facing in the region.
Yeah.
Well, we were just at a conference that the title of it was called the poly crisis because there's so many different interconnected aspects of this.
For instance, what's happening in Russia and Ukraine is raising energy and fertilizer and food prices around the world.
So I assume that is also having an impact on top of the lack of rain that you mentioned.
Absolutely, Nate.
The price of commodity such as maize, sunflower, in addition to food and fertilizers have really skyrocketed.
And right now, in addition to the drought that I was just mentioning, it's a whole food crisis.
And at this point, I don't think it's only East Africa, but I think we are facing it at a global level, isn't it?
We're happy to hear that the first ship of grain left Turkey when we were in the conference together.
Wasn't it?
Or was it prayer to that?
I can't remember.
Thanks to Turkey who negotiated that within the UN framework.
So yeah, the global crisis that is brought by the Ukraine and a Russian word definitely has a repercussion and price of commodities in Eastern Africa.
So in Eastern Africa, and when I say Eastern Africa, that includes which countries?
Somalia, Kenya, Uganda, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Eritrea, what else?
Sudan and South Sudan.
We are eight countries that have members of the ECAD region, yes.
And to my knowledge, that is roughly 400 to 500 million people live in those countries?
We are talking about 270 million, I think.
The last prediction, yes.
A little over 270 million.
Yeah.
So roughly the size of the United States and population-wise.
Yes.
Do you ever take?
Yeah.
Which food in that region is generally grown or produced within the borders of those eight countries and how much is imported?
It's very hard to quantify in the sense that there's an informal trade that also comes into and rarely gets captured in the food trade figures.
But for instance, in a country like Kenya, Kenya import almost half of its grain consumption.
It produces, yes, but it exports as much as it imports from Tanzania, from Uganda, much like the milk production, for example.
I mean, there's a fair share that comes from the other countries in the region.
So when those who produce are not producing enough, even for their own consumption, they tend to reduce the parts that get exported and shared with the other countries.
And definitely the prices reflect that currently in the Horn of Africa.
I mean, one kg of maize, which is the staple here in Kenya, was maize flour was going for a dollar, for example.
But now it's more than double, it's 2.5 dollars, the kg of maize flour.
Not the common person.
You'd say the average Joe, he would say the average John, I can't afford it.
So how do you factor this in to your climate resilience modeling for coming decades?
I imagine you have models that look at how droughts and floods might impact things or maybe even higher temperatures.
But it's hard to model geopolitical impacts on energy and ammonia fertilizer and food as well.
But what sort of scenarios do you talk about with your colleagues or think about with respect to the changing climate and the changing geopolitical commodity landscape in coming decades?
That's a good question.
I feel we remain stuck in the usual way of doing things when we're doing climate projection, for example, where we don't take into consideration some key geopolitical factors.
Just like the current situation is an example of that.
We tend to remain in strategic planning and forget that we also probably would require a little bit of foresight and develop different type of scenarios.
It's gaining momentum within the region, for example, when we are developing the next phase of the planning.
As in we project ourselves by 2032, for example, what would be the situation?
What would be a regional situation?
The global analysis, the current trend, the relationship between Russia and the rest of the world, the relationship between China and the US.
So it's something that is slowly picking up, but there's no study or discussion paper that have been produced specifically for resilience programming.
Now, what we generally and what we commit ourselves to do is, for example, when we are planning for resilience programming within the region, we don't only look to water resources.
For example, we also link it with some rangeland development.
We link it with some alternative livelihood development.
We link it with income generating activities.
We make sure that there's a little bit of peace, not a little bit, but a lot of peace and reducing the conflict within the community, within the region.
So we're trying to be as holistic as possible, but definitely the strategy and the program that we have developed for the past 15 years didn't take into consideration the current.
Of course, that took almost everybody by surprise.
So other than the drought, which you mentioned, are there other noticeable current impacts from climate change in eastern Africa that you're observing?
The drought is the biggest impact of climate change in the area where I work as in pastoral and agro-pastoral areas.
This is my arid land, which I already discussed in terms of resources.
But of course, definitely, we also have the other aspect of it, which is excess of water and that's floods.
Didn't you tell me that there was a problem with nighttime temperature for animals or something like that?
Extreme temperatures.
Yes, definitely.
We have a very good memory.
Yes, the heat waves that Europe faced over the summer.
Well, that was our winter season and in areas within the Horn of Africa where, of course, we have winters.
We sometimes end up with temperature below 50, not minus 50 Fahrenheit, but below 50 Fahrenheit, which will equivalent to 10 degrees Celsius, 5 to 10 degrees Celsius.
And yes, of course, the livestock heads are also highly sensitive to extreme temperatures, whether heat or cold.
Well, that was what got us started talking in Denmark is, I asked the perspective from the Global North when you said,
oh yeah, the extreme temperatures are really affecting the animals.
And I was thinking like elephants and giraffes, but you were talking about livestock and cows.
Is that modeled?
Like the wet bulb temperature for humans, I know, has been modeled.
But in your work, do you look at increasing temperature stress on livestock in coming decades where the nights won't get cool enough for effective respiration and rest for animals?
Or is that kind of arcane and obscure?
No, no, you're absolutely correct.
This has been modeled, the effect of the impact of climate change, generally speaking, it could be floods, extreme temperature, any extreme climate event has been modeled.
And yes, definitely, it has an impact on the livestock body condition, for example, on the livestock health.
And it trickles down into the resources of the community, for example, if the cattle is weak, they don't get the expected price.
You see, they sell it at a loss or something if they ever sell it.
So no, the models are there.
The impact of climate change, generally speaking, on livestock has been studied.
The last that I remember was back in, I think, 2017 from some team that we're working with in the region.
So vector-borne diseases, right now we're even mapping the excessive light.
We thought it was eradicated, but somehow it's reemerging.
We've had a desert locust invasion back in 2019, just prior to COVID.
So when COVID hit the region for us, we were barely recovering from previous drought, 2016, 2017, followed by a desert locust invasion in 2019 and 2020.
And then COVID hit, and then the border got closed, and then less trans-boundary trade.
Because I mean, people in the communities, in the cross-border community relay more on trade across the border than anywhere else.
So yes, when I remember we had a conversation on polycrisis versus collapse,
I hope another perspective of the Global South.
Well, I think when people say, are we going to have collapse? When is collapse going to happen?
They're really talking about when is collapse going to happen to me?
Because collapse has already happened to Ukraine and to Syria and to whale populations
and insects and different communities around the world.
So I forgot who said this quote, but the future is already here.
It's just not evenly distributed, which is one reason I really was keen to talk to you,
because we so rarely think about what the impacts of the great simplification
or a reduction in global GDP combined with generally warmer temperatures
and extreme weather events have outside of Europe in the United States,
which is where many of my listeners of this show are.
We don't see on the news what's happening in Africa right now.
We did see the floods in Pakistan, but I don't think anyone has much of an idea
that there are 300 million people living in the countries around you
that are really struggling right now before climate really gets worse.
You have any thoughts on that?
I think you're actually right when you put this in perspective
and when we come to think about it, there are many different societies
living human, non-human who have faced collapse before we met.
And I think I was talking to a common friend earlier last month when I was reflecting on.
We say for us specifically in the home, it's the fifth failed rainy season.
But as you mentioned, I didn't see any major piece in any or global north news outlets, for example.
Some of the things that I was very frustrated with is the very little attention that the situation got.
And I realized I wasn't the only one because I saw two articles that were published afterwards
as I started digging into it.
And they were saying, globally, mainly the same thing.
That is, how is it that this situation has not gotten the attention that it would have gotten before?
I remember the 2010, 2011, and in magnitude, for example, compared to that previous drought,
it's a study that we're actually carrying out now, trying to compare what makes this drought different.
And is there anything that we can do about it?
Trying to mapping just the drought hotspot is just one thing.
Trying to better understand what is it that we are not able to do or what are we missing?
So basically, yes, we were wondering how is it that it has not captured the attention of the rest of the global?
And that's why it struck me, is that maybe the humanitarian community itself is collapsing
in the sense that the need and the magnitude of crisis at global level, it's so immense that things fall into the crack
and this gets now pushed into a second or hoping that somebody else will pick it up.
Well, I think underpinning that is as the crises accelerate, the focus is gradually but inexorably going to be more and more local
for the Japan and Germany and eventually the United States.
Partially ripping on my own country or the education system here,
I think one of the reasons to describe the lack of attention is I think 30% of Americans or something like that
think Africa is a country.
And ripping on my own self, when you told me when we met that you lived in the Horn of Africa, I didn't know what that was.
And I've been to Africa three times.
So I switched my globe around today.
The Horn of Africa is the horn here, which is exactly the eastern countries that you reference.
And you're from Djibouti, right?
Yes, I am.
So what do, I guess this would be a two-part question.
Obviously the people you work with understand climate and envision future scenarios.
But what are the average people in Kenya and Uganda think about or what is their response when you bring up global warming or climate change?
You know, it's funny.
I generally don't think they think about climate change.
I don't think they see this as these buzzwords that gets coverage.
And I don't think they link it with someone.
For example, I was talking to a colleague of mine whose wife produces as a bee, what's called apiculture.
She has a bee farm and she produces honey.
So I asked him, how was the honey production, for example, compared to before?
He says, oh yeah, now it has reduced.
We had to increase the prices.
So I asked him, and what brought that change?
He says, oh, you know, it's pollution, degradation, but never had he brought the word climate change into that mix.
I think it's the fact that the trees are disappearing.
Yes.
The fact that pollution is there.
Yes.
