Ethiopian Airlines, for example, was the only airline who maintained I am sure it was not out of philanthropy.
There was also a little economic incentive for them to do that, but they quickly quickly turn around and turn their planes into cargoes, for example.
And that was really helpful.
They was still flying around carrying goods.
So these are the things, things that make me happy, but on the other hand, and also things that that saddened me, you know, the crisis in leadership that I that I see more and more across the globe.
It is very scary, I see.
Is it a crisis in leadership because we're electing the wrong people or is it a crisis in leadership because we suddenly face a poly crisis and no leader has a game plan for such a complex threatening upcoming decade.
I think it's the latter.
I'm sure some sort of democratic leaders are exist around the globe, which is fairly good number, which is very good.
But I truly believe it's because of the poly crisis, the nature of the scale of the events that we are facing across the globe at this point.
So we need to educate future leaders about how these things fit together and how there are no solutions, but there are better pathways than others on how to how to navigate this is my belief.
Absolutely.
And be humble enough to understand that the North doesn't have all the solution and bring in, I'm sure I'm sure across across the continent, we have some eloquence better leaders than ever be.
So who are able to to explain that.
If I may need one of the things that I see is it also the technology gap, for example, you see how and I understand why most African think that Africa is what most American think that Africa is is a country because I hope it becomes one country.
That's where I hope we'll head.
But the challenge is, for example, it's more small things.
You know, if I set up an early warning system and in the case of flash floods, for example, and I have set up an early warning system.
The case of flash floods means that the rain, it has not rained on you, for example, for you to be swamped and affected by the flash floods.
But it has rained somewhere up the up there up north downstream somewhere to a point where you will be affected by those floods.
And you as an individual can can be a cross supporter.
So how do I reach that person?
These are the type of technology challenges that I genuine challenges that I'm facing, for example.
How can we make sure that when you have a crisis that happened in Chad, and you have communities that are crossing and setting settling up in Sudan, Sudan has the financial mechanism to take care of that, that mobile population.
That's just an example.
And these are across two, not only two countries, but two regional block, because I mean, we are aiming to become an African Economic Commission.
We're setting up the African Free Continental Trade Area for goods and services, and people will be able to move freely.
So these are the things that we have embarked on at Continental level, but of course, it's such a long way.
These are the things that occupy my brains nowadays.
So this podcast in many ways is using technology as a long term flash flood economic flash flood warning for listeners.
So we talked earlier about community and you just mentioned that the global north doesn't have all the answers.
So what community or daily practices in the Horn of Africa do you see or experience that would be helpful for Westerners listening to this ahead of what I refer to as the great simplification, which is a kind of an economic contraction and simplification of our lives.
Do you have any observations or recommendations?
Indigenous knowledge would be one because it's something that, and you remember Leila that you met is the one who was mentioning how, and that struck me because this is the same thing in our communities.
They are rich in knowledge, indigenous knowledge in how to sustain soil, but we tend to forget that.
We tend to turn to fertilizers and industrial mechanism rather than green and indigenous knowledge.
That's one.
They have indigenous early warning system that tells them they have the community peace agreement whereby before transhumance and pastoral mobility, they always send a diplomat envoy to go and inform the other community that they are coming.
Where should they settle?
You know, there's an elaborate customary law in the ISA community that's spread across Ethiopia, Somalia and Djibouti, for example.
ISA community, what is that?
The ISA community that is spread across Ethiopia, Somalia and...
ISA is a tribe?
It's a tribe, yes.
Oh, great.
And Djibouti.
And the ISA King sits in Deradawa.
So that's somehow the capital city for the ISAs.
So those customary laws were there before international law, before modern law.
Solidarity is another aspect of it.
We were mentioning, we're talking about it whereby you could, at the time of peace, travel, go through whole territory and food and shelter will be provided to you at no cost.
I mean, that's how welcome you would always feel within pastoral communities.
In East Africa?
Yes.
Yeah, that's not the case here.
Not remotely.
That's actually my biggest fear.
I mean, I worry about a lot of things.
I think the single biggest thing I'm afraid of is the number of entitled people that have their own story about the world that when resources become more scarce, their entitlement is going to blind them to community and sharing and peace and learning and all that stuff.
And maybe that impulse will be less in Africa because of you've been living this already on and off for decades or longer.
That's true.
It's true.
But you see, we also tend to, as a society modernized, we also tend to lose that.
And what scares me the most in a modern society, for example, if anything, God forbid, if anything were to happen to me on the road, that no one would come to my help.
You see what I mean?
The solidarity part of it.
Come and rescue your, it's just an anonymous person who gets, you see what I mean?
That's something that I see a lot in your country.
So I think what you're saying is you have to, by definition, be self-reliant, where in the global north, in my country, if my car breaks down or something, I just make a phone call and it's fixed with some money.
No, what I mean is, for example, if my life wears in jeopardy, if anything, God forbid, was, you know, assault or whatever, you know, an accident by God forbid, again, the level of solidarity or if I was, there's some tags who are trying to rob me, things like that.
Yeah, a physical assault to me as an individual.
On the other hand, yes, of course, if car breaks down, definitely the same thing I always call road rescue, same thing here in Nairobi.
But no, a physical assault is this thing that I'm worried is, if we become so entitled, that's what happens to your neighbor.
You're just so insensitive and insensitized to what happens to your neighbor.
You're just, okay, whatever.
Police is there.
Somebody will take care of it, you know, putting that on somebody else.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, do you have any specific recommendations for young people becoming aware of all this climate and resources and some of the issues that you work on, like teenager, college age, do you have recommendations to that age group of people listening to this program?
I think I'll invite them to be more aware of their surroundings, as in, you know, when, be aware of your actions.
There's things that are small, small, and I realize it's actually the small, small actions that things that you do inadvertently, for example, when, when, when you have wiped your hands and you throw a, or you finish a pack of chips and then you go and litter, you throw it around without realizing that's, you know, thinking who is going to pick it up after you, assuming that somebody
will go and clean after you.
That's go to the plastic, the huge, extreme use of plastic.
When you go to the beach, make sure that, you know, you collect your, some basic, and I think this civic engagement that at point, at the time, rather, was, was being taught in, in this, in civic education, that I realize what came, what constitute part of my environmental
educations is, okay, make sure that you collect your waste after you, you finish, you don't litter the beach, you know, you be conscious of, of your actions and how small, small actions will, will combine and become a huge, a whale who can't eat because of that piece of plastic that you have left.
And it might, it might, the whale might not be next to you, but it is true.
Definitely, you know, the impact will be felt.
You know, that French is Le fait papillon.
The butterfly's wings.
That's a thing, the butterfly wings exactly.
And, and, and how we, we feel a global impact of small scale actions.
That's for me, what I would think, it's very hard.
I think raising consciousness, being conscious of what you're doing and the time we're alive is, is probably the, the very first recommendation.
I agree with that.
So here's another heavy question or light, depending on how you choose to answer.
What do you care most about in the world, Ayanne?
What I care most about is human life.
Yeah.
Life in general, I found it, there's a sanctity in life.
And I don't know, I see too much suffering around sometimes unnecessary, but I, of course, I also believe that there's a creator and there's, there's a reason for everything that happens.
But, but yeah, the thing that I care most about is life, human and non-human.
If you were a benevolent dictator and there was no personal recourse to your decisions, what is one thing that you would do to improve human and non-human and planetary futures?
I would set up some standard operating measures that are inviolable and you can't, as in, in time of crisis, this is what we should, the playbook.
This is the playbook that we are going to.
Oh, like a break glass in case of emergency playbook ahead of time.
Yes, exactly.
This is what I'm working on that.
Yes, exactly.
See, that's what we're friends.
That's the one.
And actually make sure that they can't wiggle.
You know, they can't.
That's what the dictator is making sure that they take the part of it is making sure that it is applied, as in, you can't wiggle out.
You can't just, you know, yeah, well, I don't agree.
No, that is exactly to the letter going to be applied.
Is there such a thing like that being done in East Africa where there are blueprints and playbooks for a different economic environmental trajectory in the future?
Or is it, is it kind of on the fringe?
It's on the fringe here, to my knowledge.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Your previous administration.
I mean, don't get me started.
Nate, I swear that crisis of leadership, you had a whole book of pandemic prepared.
I don't know what it looked like, but some, for some, some reasons it was thrown out of the window, but.
But that's your point, right?
Is at the moment of crisis, the best plans by technically capable people in the past are discarded for political reasons.
Not only in my country, but in humans generally.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Yes.
So they exist, but they are very much at national level.
For example, and that's the thinking that we're trying to, that we've embarked on for the past, what, 10 years?
Yes.
In the, in the horn is you act a national, but you still need to think regional.
As in, how would you accommodate the excess?
I mean, the movement of population for sure you'll get 2015 other million of people who are on the verge of famine and across the border.
They will come to your country.
How will you accommodate them?
They will, before it turns into a riot, civil crisis and pieces of instability arises.
So, yeah.
Is there any discussion about overpopulation in general, in Africa, in the committees that you're in and such?
Or is that a taboo topic?
Oh, no, no.
It's not taboo at all.
As a matter of fact, youth and youth employment was ranked first in our driver of conflict, regional 2021.
We're still doing the 2022 one.
But yeah, in 2021, youth and youth in employment ranked top as a driver of conflict.
And we are aware of that in the region is protected to have a strong annual demographic growth and it's estimated to be ranging between 2.5 and 3.5%.
And right now, we have 270 million people and 60% of those inhabitants are youth.
I mean, as in 30 years and below.
So, no, we know that youth population, the challenges and the opportunities that they bring and how well you can manage it.
It's part of our planning and programming, yeah.
It's a really tough issue.
And in my work, I always talk about we have two population problems.
One is we have 8 billion humans on a finite planet.
And the other is we have a population of refrigerators and airplanes and cars and air conditioners.
And they're both relevant to our situation.
And people are rushing to the...
What was it?
Was it to Mars or to the space?
Yeah, people are rushing to Mars.
This has been a very wonderful conversation.
And I would love to have you back next year to take a deeper dive on some of these topics.
So glad to spend more time with you.
And I wish you all the best with your very important work in East Africa.
Do you have any closing thoughts or comments for our listeners?
Well, I really appreciate it.
I'm very... I'm humbled, really.
I don't consider that I have a response to or a knowledge or...
I mean, I'm sure you understand what I mean, but I really appreciate it.
I've appreciated the conversation and the opportunity that we have to work on some of those heavy, heavy questions.
You know, at times what you realize, what I realize is that not like you,
we are a time of a cascading risk as it is not one or two.
But it's a combination of all of those and at different magnitudes
and the challenges that each are bringing to this human life and the non-human life that...
I mean, the task is huge, my friends.
I'm happy to have you by my side.
That's something that I can tell you.
Salam, Haiyan, to be continued.
Salam with pleasure. Thank you.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification,
please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform
and visit TheGreatSimplification.com for more information on future releases.
