And the situation that I see, and I read about almost on a daily basis, yeah, the collapse that we're talking about, my friend.
So how are these topics?
Well, probably not collapse, but just the general economic trajectory, climate change, the environment, some of the issues that you and I discuss.
How are they covered in schools in East Africa?
And what do you think is working?
And what still needs to be changed with respect to education?
I think some have moved further and faster than other countries.
I remember there was, well, she passed away.
I think she was a Nobel Prize, a professor, a Kenyan.
She was one of those local leader and university leaders, social society leader who pushed and promoted that education.
The leadership through education, understanding what environment is and teaching how and actually how to cohabit and to live with the non-human at this point.
Protect the nature, plant trees, rehabilitate the environment, and include those curricula at a very early age, even at primary school.
So she's actually, for Kenya, a pioneer in that sense.
There are many other, many different type of area of the continent that are also acting at that same level.
But you see, as I said, it's not generalized at this point.
But in the United States, at least high school age students are learning quite a bit about climate change.
Is that the same in Africa or not in the schools?
It could be. Sometimes it is included in the geography courses, as in understanding what the climate is, understanding the different type of climate.
And within then, I'm sure that's where we studied the various declarations, the Rio and all those UN conferences, the UNFGC.
All the convention that came through the negotiation processes.
So yes, it is. But there is a contextual aspect to it that is not taught yet.
It still remains at the very general level where we have convention, trying to understand, have you ratified?
What would that mean? Don't litter?
For example, there are some good practices that maybe you will learn in an environmental club that I really hope and wish that they were more developed at this point.
So in our first conversation this summer, I learned quite a bit in addition to where the Horn of Africa is.
I was surprised to learn that there is an environmental ethic in Islam that's stated in the Quran.
And you explained that to me. Could you explain that to our listeners? I was totally unaware of that.
Oh yes, it's true. We are told as Muslims that we are part and parcel of the nature.
We don't own it. We did not create it.
So we have to be much like the rest of the non-human.
We were created by the creator.
And as such, it comes with duties and responsibilities to the environment.
One of it is to respect the non-human, the nature, the trees.
I'm almost speaking French. The trees, the insects, being merciful to animals.
You can use a donkey, but you can't beat a donkey.
And those types of animal welfare.
To a point where, of course, we have three big events in a year, which is the Eid after Ramadan, the pilgrimage, and the Eid after pilgrimage.
The one after pilgrimage, we sacrifice sheep or goat.
And then we're told, for example, be merciful.
Even in that way, you are to sacrifice that.
Make sure that the animal doesn't see the knife and you don't, you know, move it.
And says, oh, I'm going to get you dropped.
I mean, because you have to take into consideration the feelings of the animals.
And that's something that we are taught as part of our religion.
It is, it doesn't get, it is true.
I agree with you, Nate. It doesn't get publicized as much as the extreme gets publicized.
Yeah, that's that's the part of our religion that I'm really proud of.
Well, the extreme gets publicized generally in our culture.
And of course, the modern algorithms and the media are giving an even larger voice to the extreme.
And as we discussed, there are extremes in your religion and country.
And there are extremes in my country and the religions here as well.
And that's why when I travel, which I don't do much and I meet people like you,
I feel like a citizen of the world and I have a friend in another country that likes soup and music and laughter and animals and family and all these things that we share.
And yet above us are these country boundaries and these rules of who gets what and who says what and these financial markers that dictate give us a really narrow path for what we do with our life hours.
So I'm very happy to hear that Islam has some environmental ethic embedded in its its teachings.
Yeah, I'm just not a scholar and an expert in it.
But I assure you, there's a there's a huge aspect of the non-human that has been is in the Quran that God has has has brought on us.
There's a whole chapter on the ants and another chapter on the bees and how bees imported.
I mean, in the Quran, in the Quran, yes.
Wow.
I mean, that is what I deeply care about is the animals and insects and birds and ecosystems of this planet.
And I've concluded that we have to keep the human system together from breaking apart because a true collapse would be one of the worst scenarios for the environment.
Already, I imagine that if meat is scarce in eastern Africa, that the bush meat trade is probably accelerating.
Yes.
Yes.
You see, there's a case of Ebola in Uganda.
Ebola has been declared as a epidemic in Uganda.
I think in Uganda, that was a few couple of hours ago.
I think I read that.
Definitely.
I don't want to speculate what I was looking for.
I thought you were going to say, depress us further.
Well, depress us further.
Monkeypox for you, Ebola in this region.
Actually, let me credit the African countries because we were able to do to some extent to handle the COVID pandemic better than you.
You global north because of Ebola and unfortunate other other epidemics and pandemics that we had, we were facing.
Sorry before that.
So I have to credit my, we did something better than you guys.
Well, you probably did other things better than us.
You have vibrant communities granted at an economically materially disadvantaged level, but the community presence there is much stronger than in the most places in the global north.
Correct.
Yes, it is true.
It is true, unfortunately.
And we don't discriminate.
There's something that I was across many different nationalities in Africa.
We were extremely saddened by how African were treated in China, in India, and recently in Ukraine, you know, when war started in Ukraine and everybody was reaching and heading towards the border, either Poland or something.
There was, I mean, discrimination.
It is anyhow, unfortunately, the way that was really sad.
Yeah.
I just had a curiosity because I have been to Africa several times.
So you split time between Uganda and you have an office in Nairobi and then you're from Djibouti.
So just in your travels, just for me to live vicariously through your words.
What are the sort of animals that you come across in the wild animals when you're on your farm in Uganda, et cetera?
I am so scared of animals, my friend.
I don't have a farm yet.
I would have probably, I would probably leave that one to you.
Well, we talked a few weeks ago and you were in some village in Uganda.
Yes.
It was, no, I was in Turkana, cross border with Uganda.
Okay.
Yes.
And it's sound and we were doing some training.
So for cross border communities there as part of the resilience work that we were doing in terms of animal.
There are two types of, not two types of animal, but two types of spaces, geographic spaces.
If I can put it for the lack of better words, you have for wildlife specifically, you have the national parks and then you also have conservancies.
And the national park, of course, they are gazetted, they're limited.
So, so pretty much fenced out.
So we know it's only for wildlife.
But in conservancies, for example, you find a mix of livestock and wildlife.
And there are times of scarcities where we are, the times that we're facing now and sometimes back in 2018 or 2017, you have this insane human livestock and wildlife interactions.
When I'm talking about insane, it's often results in the death of either livestock or shepherd or wildlife.
I mean, I recall elephant and giraffe being killed by personalists because the resources were so small that that was either you protect your livestock and they get access to the resources or it's a wildlife.
These are some of the challenges that we face in remote area where we often work.
So here's an honest story from someone living in a rich country.
I deeply care about animals.
Africa has some of the most wonderful megafauna in the world.
So when I hear about an elephant or a lion being killed because it's encroaching on a village, I feel empathy for the elephant or the lion because I don't know the people in the village.
And yet, a few months ago, a raccoon was killing my chickens.
And I was obsessed with capturing it, which I did.
I didn't kill it.
I drove it away like 12 miles away so that raccoon had the highest carbon footprint of any raccoon around.
But it's the same dynamic.
It's just that here raccoons are plentiful and it's my yard and my chickens.
So I had a different reaction to in my brain.
Yet when I think halfway across the world of a lion or an elephant being killed because it's encroaching to me, the lions and the elephants represent wild nature of what once existed on this planet.
And I feel this urge to protect it.
Yet how am my reaction to the raccoon is any different than the people in Uganda reacting to their other animals.
It's the same.
Exactly.
And I'm happy you understand.
And in comparison, you see the raccoon, you can catch it.
I can assure you if they could catch the elephant and take him or her away, they would have done it.
It's just a different, we're talking about different scales of danger.
But yeah.
Yeah.
So you have children.
I am as a mother.
How is your knowledge of our global unfolding situation and your professional work influenced your parenting and the raising of your children?
I'm more scared now that I was before when I was when I didn't have the children.
The reason why I'm scared is I have that constant question.
What word am I creating for them?
And what citizen am I raising, for example?
You see what I mean?
It's questions as in like empathy, making sure that they see if they find a bee, they don't go and crush it because and linking that to the honey that they enjoy.
You know, whenever the throat is painful, they say, oh, come here.
Do you remember that?
That bee that you saw it?
Yes.
She is the one who is producing this nice honey.
So please don't go kill her.
So this type of education, it is, and I feel as a parent, we have a responsibility to raise the best citizen we can for the world and for the world to come as in.
I mean, it's very scary responsibility, my friend.
We didn't realize that when we were doing them.
But the way that it came as they're growing and asking so many different intelligent questions at their age, saying that, OK, OK, fine.
That's why you don't have to don't cut flowers because you see again that bee that you saw is going to come eat it.
And the butterfly.
Oh, what a beautiful butterfly.
Yes, you can see them because they saw many different flowers and trees around you.
There's another aspect that I will always carry as a memory is, for example, my country, Djibouti, again, there is a bit of the red sea that comes into the Gulf of Aden that comes into the city.
And we had to, as government of Djibouti, so that we were able to build roads and infrastructure.
We had to retake some of that space from the sea and fill it with land.
And by doing that, we lost some fauna.
We lost some beautiful pink flamingo that used to come.
And I remember that as a child going to school.
And we can't see them.
Really, you know, whenever I drive through town, they're not there anymore.
So this is the things that I keep in mind.
I keep vivid in my memory just to tell them that, you know what, they used to be and trying to perpetuate that memory of what was there before and how our action actually impact as a really deep impact on the other inhabitant of the planet.
You are a natural ecologist and I have no doubt you will raise your children to be great citizens with wide boundary thinking.
So I actually could keep you for hours, but I know it's Friday night in Kenya and you've had a long week.
So I would like to ask you a few closing questions that I ask all my guests.
And hopefully you're okay with these.
Can you tell us a story or two from your experiences?
What's happened along the way of this trajectory that delighted you about the human spirit and fed your optimism?
Yes, you know what feds my optimism is when I hear that peace prevailed in a time of scarcity.
That it I'm really hopeful that we were able to keep the loss of life at a minimum.
That's the thing that always makes me happy is that it is true resources are very scarce.
It is true that competition for those resources is also can also get deadly.
But still the communities and people have mentally grown enough to know that there is no point getting into a violent conflict or something like that because what's happened to your neighbor will definitely at this point happen to you.
And what goes around comes around as in, you know, karma is a reality and I believe in it in my religion.
We don't do harm to your neighbor because you never know what you can when you might need him or for reality.
I mean, for real.
So that's the thing that I'm hopeful for some of the things that I an example is the solidarity that I see when a community, for example, has been harshly affected by drought and the resources.
Are already depleted.
I'm talking about not only natural resources, but now economic resources and how how community come together, you know, to raise some small funds and make sure that, you know, so and so get the relief.
The first aid, the first relief, the first emergency response that it's always it's always at community level.
That's something that that I'm really happy about it.
On the other side, what I'm, if I can elaborate Nate, what saddens me is to see that at a global level, small wins at community level are not do not and can be upscaled.
You see what I mean, as in, of course, we see, we see, we see the first, first aid and first response that countries in Europe, Poland and etc provided to Ukraine.
In a more recent, see what happened in Masters Vineyard, for example, where a community mobilized itself to to come in and support to the migrant that were dropped there.
I see that but at a global level.
That's just a small examples.
I really wish there were mechanism whereby those solidarity action could be triggered.
A lessons covered was a was a was a harsh lesson for me in terms of development programming.
It showed that countries can end up, you know, being closing themselves, trying to protect yourself from, from, from and closing the boundaries, which could also mean, you know, the whole world came to a standstill.
As in now, when you hold resources and we and remember we we we moved from from being self sufficient to to relying on on another countries and another producer for for pretty much everything.
And one example that happened to me was when I needed medicine for my child, the medicine was out of stock.
Although the medicine was produced in Kenya, the ingredient comes from Austria, and Austria is the only place that produced that ingredient.
So because of COVID and delays in supply chain, that medicine became out of stock and they couldn't produce it in Kenya.
So these are the type of things that I want us as future citizens of this world if we were able to to hold our government accountable says OK listen, I understand you're afraid but at least can you make sure that you know there is some movement of goods that are that are possible.
