But climate change for most people in the home, it appears like this buzzword that has been confirmed by another.
And she's, it's a friend and a colleague and she's educated.
So I asked her, what do you think of climate change?
And as we're preparing for the podcast, and she tells me people should stop talking about it and start doing something about it.
So I asked her, what does she think we should be doing?
She says, yeah, well, let's just plant more trees.
And, you know, and then after that, we will take care of and try to manage the waste so that our rivers don't get polluted.
So, and maybe it's upon us because I don't know, we were too scientific when we're trying to explain that to the common people.
Maybe we should have broken it down into more.
Here's a thought, and I'm not an expert on this, which is why I'm so glad to be talking with you.
There's a growing climate justice conversation, which is that the global north burned 90% of the fossil carbon and hydrocarbons that are resulting in climate change.
But predominantly the impacts certainly in the near term and very likely in the longer term will be disproportionately felt on the global south, which has less economic and energetic means with which to adapt.
But I never thought about the fact that that climate justice conversation is probably being held among elites and scientists and such.
And the general public in those countries may not be fluent in the climate scenarios or even the logic of it.
What do you think about that?
I think I tend to concur with you.
I think there's a local definition of climate justice that for us in Africa would probably be more links to environmental justice, for example, whereby that entails the right to have access to use and to control mostly natural resources by the communities that share the land.
So that's, I think, a more localized, contextualized definition of climate justice.
And I recall a case back in 2003 where a local community in Kenya even brought a case against the government of Kenya to the African Commission on Human Rights and Human and People Rights.
And the Commission found Kenya to be in violation of the charter, the African charter, and that the community was displaced from their ancestral land without any prior consultation or any adequate or effective compensation for the loss of the property, the disruption, the loss of resources, the community.
We're talking about pastoral communities here.
There was even an aspect of the right to practice their religion and their culture and et cetera.
So when we talk about climate in an African context, most often than not, it has an environmental aspect to it more than.
So definitely, you know, when we are, we're trying to explain some of those big notions.
I also recall at some point, the ozone layer, I'm a child of the 80s, so mid 90s and the Rio, I remember that huge fear we had that the ozone layer was disappearing and we're all going to die.
And I don't know, do you know if it was ever fixed?
The ozone layer?
Yes.
Well, it was, but there's worries about it having a resurgence of risk.
But what ended up happening is that was one of the environmental stories where we had a smoking gun.
We could see what was happening and there was an easy economic fix, which was to change the chlorofluorocarbons in the spray bottles and things like that.
Yes.
So yeah, it did, it did heal.
Did you, did you start as a teenager in Djibouti caring about the environment?
Have you long cared about the non-human sphere?
I was a witness to the effect of climate change, definitely, because we see, again, when we're talking about pastoral communities, a third generation of pastoralists, my grandfather used to come in a period of drought.
So whenever he would come and say, yeah, it's a major drought, you have lost so much, so many different numbers of cattle and goat and sheep and etc.
So that always resonates the work.
I honestly have no idea whether that was what brought me to working on drought and community resilience.
But I don't know, maybe subconsciously, it contributed to, it's some of those things that I was very much sensitive to.
And it was very scary back in the 90s when we were told, no, no, no, the ozone layer is going to, it's going to be hotter and hotter.
And imagine Djibouti, we already had 54 degrees Celsius.
How are places like Djibouti going to manage hotter temperatures in coming decades?
What, I can't imagine too many, I mean, how many people have air conditioning, which itself generates more fossil emissions, of course.
In Djibouti and Saudi Arabia, in the Middle East, it's hard to even speculate.
What are your thoughts on that?
You see, the gap is widening in Djibouti specifically.
I mean, at least the Middle East, they can afford it there.
They have the, until fossil food just disappears.
But they have the resources to cater for the need, energy need.
In Djibouti, it's a whole different story because, I mean, we are less than a million inhabitant population and 75% of us live in the capital city.
And out of that, I think we are probably, you see that Pareto Law, where we have 20% that have 80% of the resources and vice versa.
So there's, the gap is widening between the middle class and those who can afford an electricity's luxury, to be honest.
I don't, it is very scary.
I will invite you to come visit Djibouti, especially in the summer.
Especially in the summer?
Yes.
But you are my friend, so in the summer, August.
I don't do well with heat.
It's hard for me to imagine 54 Celsius.
That would probably be a death sentence for me, unless I was air conditioned.
I don't know how to think about these things.
I mean, you're a professional, your work is on climate adaptation.
And do you have models looking at the hotter parts of Africa in coming decades?
And do you make recommendations on that trajectory?
Because it would seem to me that if there is a economically disadvantaged population that can't have electricity or air conditioning,
that the wet bulb temperature will get to points where it could be potentially fatal for more humans in coming decades.
Yes, we do have studies, just to answer that.
We have studies and we are actually commissioning some more studies that goes into analyzing the extreme temperature and the effect on,
I'm sure some have already been done on economy and on human populations specifically.
I'm sure it has been done.
But you're trying to undertake your own part of the analyzing the trigger and threshold whereby it becomes unsustainable and what action.
We spoke earlier about scenarios and scenario planning.
These are some of the things that we are hoping to achieve.
But you see, this is another gap that I notice.
And I'm not the only one.
I also saw that earlier this week, when John Kerry was at a conference, the US envoy for climate change at a conference in, I think it was in Senegal,
and the network of African negotiator were not really happy about some of his discourses.
And they, for once, and I think it has a little something to do with the upcoming COP 27, which will be now in Africa, in Egypt.
Among the scientists in Africa, we are calling more and more for African voice to be heard.
This, for example, is 1.5 degree that is being analyzed and scenarios being built around in the IPCC.
We already passed that in Djibouti.
I think we had a 1.7 degree increase between 1980s and 2017.
We were already by then at 1.7 degrees Celsius increase.
We had a little bit more inclusivity.
And maybe that's a component of the climate justice that we were talking about, having a seat at the table.
Of course, the seat is there, because I mean, I understand this is not the first time COP is in Africa, but still are the voices, are we loud enough to be heard?
So it's a whole different story.
Well, just hypothetically, if the voices were heard, what sort of things might happen?
We would talk a little bit more about the resources in Africa that are being mined, for example, and overly, overly extremely.
I mean, the continent being depleted of most of its resources for the benefit of, yes, of course, I own an iPhone, so I'm pretty sure I'm also guilty of that.
But for the benefit of those who consume the product, I'm talking about the conflict that draws from excessive exploitation of resources and the fact that we have areas in Congo
that have not seen peace for, I don't remember how long.
And it's not because people like to fight.
I can assure you if there was, I don't know, maybe if I had a magic wand, my friend, the word would be a little bit different.
I'm going to get to that.
I'm going to give you a magic wand at the end of this conversation.
Is there any discussion with John Kerry or in your climate work that the world's plans to decouple economic growth from energy use will
recouple our growth with material use because of all the mining and the rare earths and the metals and things like that, many of which are found in Africa.
So in some ways, the renewable energy transition is a bigger environmental burden on Africa and South America, etc.
Is that something that people talk about or not?
Yes and no.
I mean, I think the elite among ourselves, yes, definitely we are debating it.
But when you come to governments in plural, there's that debate that says, OK, we are barely getting into the same level of development as the Global North, for example.
So what exactly are you trying to say?
Are you trying to halt and reduce and slow us down as we get developed and get better infrastructure, resources, access to better resources and basic social services and etc.
Better health system, better education system.
What exactly are you trying?
Are you trying to hamper our development now that you are bringing up?
You were the one as in Global North.
You are the one who went on those years and decades and centuries of excessive pollution.
So and then the compensation that comes with it, for example, there was an element to that when the Paris Declaration was being approved and ratified.
Unfortunately, that discussion hasn't reached at government level yet.
You see, it still remains among elites, among the rest of us who have that debate.
It says, OK, what would that mean for Africa now?
So what is the general attitude towards the United States and the Global North?
And I'll ask that in a two-part question.
Amongst your colleagues, your professional colleagues that are working on these issues and amongst the general population in Uganda, Kenya, etc.
Your previous administration, we were a little bit scared.
This one we are. You guys got your sense back together.
You may be in for a yo-yo in the coming decade, but go on.
It's scary. It is really, really extreme.
It always scares me, my friend.
Do the extremes exist in your own political situation there in a similar way?
Definitely.
Somalia, for example, I've been facing El Chabab for quite some time.
Before that, it was some warlords after the collapse.
That's another collapse.
The whole country collapsed back in the 90s.
So yes, extremes, yeah, they always carry.
I think we tend to get under government of Somalia to their credit,
is tending to get it under control right now with the help of the contingents from the region, Kenya, Ethiopia, I think even Djibouti.
So yeah, through Amisom and UNSOM.
But to answer your question, among elites, yes, we ask ourselves,
why would you want to slow the development?
And is there some inequitable way whereby we could allow a certain level of development
without, of course, going all crazy and destroying the environment?
And then a little bit of economic compensation from the years and decades of over-exploitation, for example.
And then the common person in Africa, mostly they, they are very benevolent,
a very, very, a really good opinion of the United States on all aspects.
What about China?
Because China is really with their Belt and Road Initiative really trying to make a presence in Africa,
probably because of access to these minerals and materials.
Is there a growing respect for China or is it a different sort of dynamic?
It's a complete different dynamic at that point.
For China, there is, we've noticed the level of respect we'd have between the US government and the other government.
Although there is lectures on human rights and etc.
I mean, we understand that, that's the rules of the game.
And although China does not, does not interfere in the way governments conduct their businesses.
But it's still a risk and it's a gamble.
Honestly, I'm very happy to be in that place and I'm really happy that I'm not a government in Africa
or in a government in Africa at this point because it's a very, it's a very, you know,
you find yourself in a very delicate situation whereby you try to bring your country to prosper
and economically prosper and develop.
And the countries in the North do not provide the same type of arrangement that you'd get from China.
But of course, there's also a catch in that it is too good to be true, to be honest.
You'll see countries that have almost put some of the infrastructure on the balance with China as they get more loan.
So it is scary when we read about it as a common person and we see, okay, are they going to seize my airport or my port?
What would that mean for my country?
And as an individual, I mean, we have that presence, but this is what would that mean for me as a Ugandan?
If tomorrow they come in and seize and take the airport, for example, can they even do that?
So it's the geopolitics that you're talking about.
And the fact that probably we need to be a little bit more aware as a citizen of what would that mean and get that literacy.
When we spent time together in August, you mentioned at our conference more than once,
you mentioned that not everyone can afford collapse.
Can you unpack what you meant by that?
Oh, that was a heavy statement, my friend.
Let me start with an example.
We were doing, back in 2013, I was doing the review for, I remember at that time it was the MDG, the Millennium Development Gold,
and there was a Gold One, which was below poverty, a certain level, like $1.25 or something.
$1.25 per day?
Yeah, exactly.
That was the level of poverty below which somebody is categorized as being poor and proper.
So the MDGs, before we even move to the SDGs.
So I was at that conference.
It was a UN conference and we were analyzing and presenting.
I was a national expert at that point from civil society government within University of Djibouti.
And then when we presented and says, OK, the cost of life, that's $1.25 doesn't mean anything.
I think the cost of life is so high, has increased so much that pretty much 100% of the population at that point would be considered poor.
So some crazy number at that point.
So when we're in the middle of that discussion, one of the experts, and I can assure you, I don't think the person was joking,
said, but why don't we just raise, no, lower it down.
Let's just lower it down or just play with the threshold as if that is a solution to the poverty problem and the numbers.
Let's get a better report by just playing around the figure.
And that tells me that when we're talking about collapse, we're talking about people and population that really live with less than $1 per day.
People can afford meat.
For example, nowadays we're talking about the global crisis, the price of meat in some areas in Africa have skyrocketed.
There's a growing veganism in global north.
We joke among ourselves.
We were vegan before the rest of the world because some people really can't afford it.
So yeah, that's what I meant by people kind of thought collapse.
It's true.
They are already struggling on a daily basis to afford a meal.
We're talking about one meal a day.
Some people, you know, they go to work with empty stomach kids in school.
And that's one of the things that I really credited some of the government in Africa is to set up those canteen, the school canteen, kids that live home empty stomach so that they,
and then they come to school and get breakfast at school before they get to start the day.
Same, get the dinner, carry some small dinner home so that at least the parents get something to eat.
So you could imagine that there was a testimony about a nursing mother.
She was so weak, she couldn't afford the milk for, as in her body couldn't produce milk for, and she's still nursing.
