which if you know the logistic function,
you might ask, OK, why does this have
the shape of the logistic map with a parameter that
would give you maximum chaos?
I have no idea.
But it seems to have to do with some operational principle.
But yeah, it's the same equation.
So let's say this red function would
be a function of complexity.
So instead of measuring what complexity values we will get
with some model, then it's heterogeneous version.
We just thought, OK, what would be
the complexity of different distributions?
So it's like, OK, we'll just generate different distributions,
and then we'll just measure the complexity.
So let's say the blue dots would be homogeneous cases,
where basically all the elements have the same probability
of having one cylinder of strings.
So it follows the same complexity curve.
And then this will be heterogeneous distribution.
So basically, we generate distributions
with a certain mean.
And this is, let's say, where we draw the angles.
And then we see that it has intermediate.
So basically, when the homogeneous case is lower than half,
then heterogeneous is better and vice versa.
Why?
Because let's say if you have here, let me go back here.
Maybe it's clear.
So if we focus just on the red curve,
if we have a distribution of points somewhere here,
then let's say we will get some higher points of complexity
somewhere here.
But if all the elements have the same value,
then we will have very low complexity.
So let's say if in the distribution,
the average is greater than the mean,
then you'll be able to have a greater complexity.
But then we generalize because, let's say,
maybe not everybody likes this measure of complexity.
So we'll just look at any function
when heterogeneity gives you a higher value than homogeneity.
And we can get this with Jensen's inequality.
So if we just have a function, whatever function,
that we are trying to maximize or minimize,
then we just flip what I'm about to say.
And the homogeneous case will be when you have a value
and all the elements have that value.
And then the function of that value
will be the function, let's say, of the zeta
because all the elements have the same value.
So for the homogeneous case, the function of the mean,
let's say you get the function of the mean
because all the elements have the same value.
But then if you have a heterogeneous distribution,
then each of the elements will have a different function.
And then you have a distribution
of the function of the elements.
So if the mean of the functions
is greater than the function of the means,
then heterogeneity is better than homogeneity.
And we know from Jensen's inequality
that this is the case for any convex function.
And if it's convex, then homogeneity
will give you greater values than heterogeneity.
And if it's a linear function,
then we don't care because they give you the same value.
So that's like a very general way of deciding
probably when heterogeneity is better than homogeneity.
And we have applied this already to a few cases,
particularly in search, to genetic algorithms,
to the problem sales problem.
Here I just showed the n-quins problem,
which is this chess problem where you have n-quins,
so how many we have here, eight.
Quints in a eight by eight board.
And then you need to find the position
so that no queen is attacking any other queen.
But of course, you can increase the size of the boards,
which equals the number of queens.
So let's say this for 500 queens,
in a 500 by 500 boards,
and let's say with temporal heterogeneity,
you get faster and better solutions about 10%.
But then the question that we're interested is,
okay, how could we find optimal heterogeneity?
Because, okay, if we see that heterogeneity
in many cases is beneficial,
but then we could have more or less heterogeneity,
what would be the optimal heterogeneity?
And because of the non-flux theorem,
very probably this depends on the problem.
Well, actually we already have some results
that show that there is no single optimal heterogeneity.
It does depend on the problem,
but we want to analyze systematically
some general scenarios
because probably we will be able to say something about,
let's say what type of heterogeneity
will be useful to start with for different situations.
And of course, in the examples I have shown,
I don't consider cost,
because for example, for random muller networks,
we get greater complexity for more heterogeneity,
but this also implies more connectivity.
And then if connectivity is expensive,
then you might not want such greater complexity
or criticality because you want to save
on the number of connections.
I mean, that's just another factor
that right now we did not consider.
And another open question is
how heterogeneity has played a role in evolution.
How heterogeneity might benefit or simplify
or facilitate evolution with which mechanisms,
where has it occurred, what are the effects and so on?
I mean, this would be, it's a greater enterprise
and it's more, let's say like an invitation
or an open question,
but also in the projects that the lab is working with,
I can imagine that might be interesting
to study different types of heterogeneity,
like for example, in neural dynamics,
with some students we are starting to explore
different types of heterogeneity
in realistic models of neural networks
and also from the group of Wolfsinger in Germany,
they found out that if they introduced heterogeneity
in their artificial neural networks,
then they would classify much better.
And it seemed that this general understanding
that heterogeneity can increase the variety of a system
that's linked to Ashley's low-requisite variety,
it seems to me like a general explanation
for why this is the case,
but then I think we're still missing
like a systematic understanding
of what will be the precise heterogeneity
that should be used in different situations.
So just to conclude,
most models of complex systems
that have been studied are homogeneous
and we have seen that in many cases,
heterogeneity gives criticality for free.
So if we want criticality,
it makes sense to take advantage of heterogeneity
because then we don't need to search too much
in the parameter space to find that type of dynamics.
And also it would be interesting to explore
heterogeneous versions of different models.
The question of understanding better optimal heterogeneity
is open and once we understand that,
then we could develop algorithms
that would adapt the heterogeneity of systems
to their current situation so that they perform better.
Yeah, so if you have any questions,
I just invite you to subscribe to Complexly Digest,
which we edit already for some years
and then you can find the latest news
and papers about complex systems.
Thank you.
