Thank you very much for the invitation.
Pleasure to be here.
So I wanted to share some of our recent work,
but it took several years to develop,
to finally crystallize it in its present form.
And it has its origins in some work
that began more than 10 years ago with several colleagues
from the physics institute back in Mexico City.
So we began studying rank dynamics.
We were first using rankings of the Google Vengrams data set.
So the words in different languages, they can be ranked.
And you get a distribution which is nominal seed flow
because you're actually described it in the 1930s
and when the distribution had been described already
in the late 19th century.
But let's say we had enough data so that we could
study how these distributions change in time.
We explored many things.
And a couple of years ago, we published a paper
in Nature Communications where we, let's say,
after analyzing dozens of different data sets,
where we had enough data to study how rankings change
in time, we found some universalities
and we explained why these type of dynamics are universal.
But even before that, we were wondering
why, let's say, in languages, or in sports,
or in 1,400, 500 companies, or in city population.
I mean, all these different data sets
where you can get rankings and then
these rankings change in time, we
were finding similar dynamics or, like in this image,
rankings of universities.
Roughly speaking, in all of these,
you have the low ranks.
In other words, the most relevant elements changing slower
than the least relevant elements.
And our hypothesis was that this was useful for evolution
because at the same time, you could
have in a system robustness and adaptability, which
you want the essential features of a system
to be preserved so that its function is maintained,
but you also want some adaptability.
And it makes sense that the least relevant elements
are the ones that change so that, let's say,
you can explore at the same time that you maintain
the most relevant features of your system.
And I mean, this has been studied sort of in complex systems
and it's related to criticality that I will mention in a moment.
But let's say it seems that when we had this temporal heterogeneity,
we were getting for free this at the same time
robustness and adaptability that you find in criticality,
but I mean, I will go more into it.
So we wanted to study different types of heterogeneity, which
is basically when you have a diversity of elements.
It's usually easier and simpler and convenient to model
systems as homogeneous because then you
can treat all the elements as the same
and then you can make several simplifications.
However, it's actually easier for nature
to have heterogeneity than to impose
some mechanisms that will ensure homogeneity.
And an example you can see in synchronization
that it's easier not to have synchronization
and synchronization would be an example of homogeneity,
temporal homogeneity.
And if you have different elements with their own frequency,
then you have heterogeneity.
But of course, mathematically, it's
easier to speak about homogeneity.
But let's say we have powerful computers
so we can study heterogeneity and we have enough data
to try to match this with real phenomena.
So I briefly mentioned three types of heterogeneity
that we studied.
So structural heterogeneity, which
has to do with topology and has been studied thoroughly
with network science.
And one example is the commercial air problem network.
So you have airports as nodes and then
you link the airports if there are flights between them
and then the size of the nodes.
It's how many flights they have to different destinations.
And of course, there are some bigger ports like LA,
San Francisco, this one might be Denver,
Atlanta, in Europe, probably London,
Paris, Amsterdam, Frankfurt, and so on.
And these topologies have been studied thoroughly.
And they are more or less scan-free.
I mean, in some cases, it's not precisely scan-free.
But in general, you have few elements
with lots of connections and most elements
with not so many connections.
And this has advantages because you
can have an increased variety.
If you have a diversity of elements,
you can have systems that have functions
with multiple scales, then you can have an increased variety.
And this is related to Ashby's law of requisite variety, which
was proposed in cybernetics, which tells
that if you want a controller, it requires at least the same
variety as that, which is trying to control.
And this applies to machines and to animals.
So imagine if you want a robot in a factory
to distinguish between five different situations,
then it needs to have a variety of those five different
situations.
Variety is simply the number of states that system can be in.
So of course, there are different mechanisms
that will produce structural heterogeneity.
And I mean, this has been studied thoroughly.
And temporal heterogeneity has also been studied.
I mean, there are plenty of examples like solar flares.
They're also known as burst dynamics.
So human communications, all of this pattern,
like texts or phone calls or internet visits or usage
of money, brain activity is also following this pattern.
Epidemics, wars, and also it seems
that maybe mass extinctions have these distributions.
Earthquakes, foraging in different animals.
And the advantages of having different temporal scales
are similar to the advantages of having different spatial
scales or structural scales in a sense
that you can have an increased variety.
And systems can adapt at all those multiple scales, which
is useful if you don't know at which scale you need to respond
and say there's a perturbation.
And finally, we also study functional heterogeneity,
which has also been studied thoroughly because it's
everywhere, but because it's everywhere,
it's not named as such.
So I mean, here's an image of the seven samurai.
And I mean, could be an Avengers film or Ocean's 11.
So imagine a film where all the characters
have the same abilities.
It would be pretty boring because everybody does the same.
So you need to have the smart guy and the strong guy
and the funny guy.
And they all have different abilities.
And then that makes the film entertaining.
And at the same time, they're able to solve whatever
challenge they're facing.
Armageddon would be another example to do.
So if you have different elements in a system that
are better for different functions,
then the variety of the system will be greater than if all
have the same function.
Of course, if you have a homogeneous system,
then your system will be more robust.
Because if, let's say, one of the elements
fails for whatever reason or is destroyed,
then the other elements can maintain
the function of the system.
So if, let's say, depending on how many elements
and how much they cost, if our system requires a high variety,
it's better to have heterogeneity.
And if the system requires a low variety,
then it's better to have homogeneity.
And in most cases, it's just a balance
between those two extremes.
But let's say, in many different disciplines,
this has been studied in terms of specialization
or division of labor.
So the study of cooperation, coordination,
and communication will have to do
with functional heterogeneity.
In a sense, if you have heterogeneity,
that may imply that you have less competition.
So it can favor cooperation.
And for example, in sport teams, you usually
have heterogeneity.
So in soccer, you can have the best goal scorer.
But if you don't have good middlefielders,
then the goal scorer will never get the ball.
So of course, you need heterogeneity
of good players in different positions
in order to have a good team, and of course also
that they are coordinated properly.
And if you have a sports team, let's stay with soccer,
where all the players have the same ability,
then very probably it would be a very lousy sports team.
Because let's say, of course, you could make changes
and you could maintain the same level of the team.
But then, let's say, you wouldn't have a very good scorer
or a very good goalkeeper or a very good defender, and so on.
So in a sense, if you have heterogeneity,
you can do more with the same number of elements.
But if you have a repetitive task, mainly lower variety,
then you don't really need that increased variety,
so then homogeneity would be maybe cheaper.
And also, it might be easier to coordinate
homogenous elements and heterogeneous elements.
So yeah, it's a balance between redundancy,
where you have all the elements being the same,
and variety where each element is different.
So if you imagine a fight between two armies,
one where all the soldiers are exactly the same,
and another army where all the soldiers
are completely different, and there's
no overlap in their functionality, who would win.
And I mean, I think either case, it's not desirable.
