pretty possible show of being an integrated entity. Yeah, the experiment that you talk about with the
with the visual region being silenced, I think is really interesting. And it sounds to me like
an example of a more general kind of dynamic, which is the sort of top down control in that.
And this goes to placebo effects and just normal functions. Right? I say to people,
right? If I told you that with the power of my mind, I can depolarize 30% of my body, you know,
voltage chip and say you're crazy. But I said, well, this is what you do when you voluntarily
get out of bed in the morning, you decide you're going to stand up. And in the end,
what you've done is depolarize a bunch of muscle fibers. Right? So this high level,
whatever executive control you can muster to do voluntary actions has to, in the end, control
electrical states and cells. It just has to, right? So there has to be this, you know,
yeah, we're currently writing this piece on kind of this intersection between pharmacology
and beliefs and placebo and these kinds of things. And I think it's a huge, and so I'd
love to hear you talk about that too. I think it's a huge, it's hugely important because that's
where you cross levels. Right? You normally, and this is, you know, hypno dermatology, you know,
Albert Mason's kind of stuff where he was treating, treating skin diseases and getting new skin cells
to pop up, right? So what do you think about this, you know, this issue of transcending levels,
right, from some sort of belief structure in the top level control down to cells?
It's fantastically important. And it's a pure dogma of a kind of science that is less scientific
than it should be that such things can't happen. The idea that mind cannot change or have an
impact on matter is ridiculous. Of course, it does. The placebo effect is a perfect example.
Indeed, even things like cognitive behavioral therapy, if you believe that improvement in
levels of depression and anxiety is dependent on changes that can be measured in various
neuroendocrine functions and neurochemical changes in the brain, then a CBT, something
is common and widely attested to across the field is dependent on getting you to think differently,
and lo and behold, your brain actually changes. So it's very clear. And I have quite a lot to say
about that in a long chapter on consciousness and matter, which in which I effectively suggest,
spoiler alert, that that is actually completely irrational to suppose that consciousness can
somehow simply emanate from matter unless you have a different idea of matter, which I'm perfectly
happy with, that matter is no mere matter. I often say materialists are not people who overvalue
matter. They're people who undervalue matter. We don't really know what matter is. Matter is capable
of amazing things. I mean, if matter is all that is making you and me have this conversation,
then matter is bloody amazing. So I take the view that matter and consciousness are not
wholly distinct and that they are, in fact, manifestations at different levels or put it
a different way, phases of the same element or entity. So much as water can look like the
stuff that passes my house in a stream and is translucent and can run over your hand and
there it is, it can also be a block of ice such as we had last week, which is immovable,
opaque and doesn't go anywhere until you move it, or it can be in this room and you can't see it,
but without it, I couldn't breathe. So this water has phases that don't look like one another,
but I think consciousness has phases that don't look like one another. I would say that matter is
an importantly resistant element in consciousness because I believe for reasons that are probably
too long to go into here, but people can find out more by reading the matter with things.
I believe that resistance is essential to the coming into being of something. So
the creation of something is not done by a mere single pathway or gesture, but it requires some
hurdle to be overcome, some resistance to shape it. Rather as William James says rather wonderfully,
my voice is the air that comes from my lungs, but if I didn't have an obstruction in my throat
called my larynx, I would have no voice. So it's actually the larynx that all it does is obstruct
the flow, but it gives him his voice. So it's a bit like that. Fascinating. Perhaps I'm getting
too far away from bioelectric currents. I don't know, but maybe not. I don't think it's that far
away at all. And I think I'm in complete agreement with people like Chris Fields and Carl Friston
really trying to give a different account of matter that really places it as a phase,
exactly as you said, as a kind of behavior of mind that is more fundamental. Yeah,
no, I think that's exactly right. I guess towards the end here, I'd love to get your thoughts on
a more sort of personal, not necessarily for you and me, but for everybody. What would you say is
what do we take away from all this on a personal level, so we can do science and we can do scholarship
and all that, but what do you think is sort of the life lessons here? What is this mean for
us in terms of being beings? Well, I think there's a lot really, but the most important thing to
go through would be the concept of attention, because it is the fundamental difference between
the two hemispheres. And this is not something that I've come up with on my own. It's a very well
known fact that the left and right hemispheres pay attention to the world in different ways.
And I don't think you'll find any neurologist in the world who would dispute that.
And the difference is largely that one plays or offers a kind of detailed, focused,
very narrow attention to a detail in order to acquire it. So it has various qualities. It's
narrow, it's detailed, it's highly focused, and it's just something that we already know what it is
and we know we want it. The other attention is doing everything else meanwhile, so that while
you're getting and grabbing, you're not going to be got and grabbed by something else. So it's
looking at the whole picture, and so its attention is broad, open, sustained, everything the left
hemisphere attention isn't, and completely uncommitted as to what it may find. It might find a
predator, which is very important news, or it might find your conspecific, which is equally
important news. So it's those things that one is a highly relational attention to something that
is constantly reverberative, modifying itself according to what it's finding is not integrating
because its attention is already integral. So it doesn't need to integrate the fragments. The
fragments come from the left hemisphere's attention. Now, if you think that you think about the fact
that how you attend to something utterly changes what you find. So if you adopt a certain highly
detached, rationalistic, absent kind of way of looking at something, you see a mathematical
pattern or you see a mechanism, but you don't see the rest. So I mean, I sometimes say where I live
in sky here, there's a mountain behind my house, and the name of this place is Talisga, which in
comes from a Norse word, talisga, which means the sloping rock. So we know what this place
meant to Norsemen. It meant a landmark, which means danger, because there's a very dangerous bay here
for shipwreck. But also that same place was something completely different to the Picts,
who lived in the shadow of it, and who found shelter there and saw it as the home of the gods.
When people traveled here in the 18th century, they saw it as the mountain as a wonderful,
you know, many colored shape to paint and draw. In the 19th century, they realized it was an
exquisite example of columnar basalt. And to a physicist, it's 99.99% space. And even the other
0.01%, we don't really know what it is. So which of these is the real mountain? There isn't a real
mountain. They're all different ways of experiencing that mountain. Now, if you take that as a matter
for the way we experience life in the world, we can see many, many different things there.
And if we adopt this, I think, very narrow window of hyper-rationalistic and nothing
against reason, I think that the care of reason and the neglect of science in our age are far
more important than the supposed subjugation of everything to them. We're not scientific enough
because we have dogmas which rule out various possibilities that I sense you and I might be
more open to. And I think it's very irrational of us to adopt many of the positions that seem
rationalistic on the surface, formulaically, theoretically, but are not rational at all if
you think about the whole business of human life. So what I'm really saying is that
I think the whole purpose of writing this last book, The Matter with Things, which is a pun on
several levels, is that we have adopted a very reductionist, materialist vision of the world.
And we don't have to cast away either science or reason. In fact, we need to embrace what science
tells us and what reason tells us more wholeheartedly. And we will see that there is a much richer,
more complex, more beautiful entity there that we are in connection with and that it is our
privileged duty, whatever, while we're here to respond to it. And so I'm painting a different
picture and you ask, what is the payoff of this for us as human beings? And the answer is,
I think it can radically change people's lives and not to appear to be, I don't know,
saying how marvelous the book is. It is a fact that I constantly get from all over the world,
people writing to say, your book has had a total impact on the way I think about things,
my life is better, my work is better, my marriage is better, whatever. So something is changing in
people and I think that's real. I mean, tell me it's not. I don't believe you. So that's what I'd
say. It has philosophical importance, but it has everyday importance. I'll just say something about
the philosophical importance. Up till now, we've only been able to say when it comes to arguing
a matter in philosophy, well, this school thought this, this school thought that.
Take your pick. And so philosophy has gone on in this way. But what I think I've been able to
offer is that we can see the imprint of a left hemispheric limited way of thinking
on how we would take the world. And we can see the hallmark, if you like, of viewing the world
as the right hemisphere, we would see it. And what I've undertaken to show is that the left
hemisphere is more printed delusion, more mistaken, less reliable than the right hemisphere.
Now, if that is the case, and I can demonstrate somebody to try and refute it, I'd drawn a vast
body of literature. If that is the case, then when we take the well-known paradoxes, and I look
at about 30 in chapter 16 of the Matter with Things, you can see that one way of looking at
this paradox is that's the way that the left hemisphere take would be. And the other way of
looking at it is this is the way the right hemisphere would be. So for example, according to
the left hemisphere, Achilles cannot overtake the tortoise. It's just impossible. But everybody
knows that Achilles can easily overtake the tortoise in two or three strides. So what I think
I can show is that there are at least four aspects of that particular paradox that show that the
reason we get caught up in it is because we've espoused the left hemisphere's way of looking at
it. When we look at it from the right hemisphere's way of looking at it, there isn't a problem anymore.
Now, if that is the case, and if I'm right, then I have actually added, in a modest way,
something to the history of philosophy, which is that we can now make more weighted decisions about
which path is likely to prove in the long run more radical, more helpful.
Yeah, yeah, super interesting. I'm not surprised that people react that way to your work. It's so
important. And people, I think, are really looking for that. I get emails all the time like that asking,
so people looking for meaning in their life and saying so. And in fact, with a couple of
collaborators, we're actually looking at trying to tackle kind of this thing,
the loss of meaning. So with physics, with evolutionary theory, some of these things have
drained away with some stuff that we used to lean on. And some of that, correct, because we weren't
looking at it the right way. But it needs a replacement, right? We need to build it back up.
It's fine to sort of just destroy some of those things. But then we need to build it back up in a
more, in a more, in a better grounded, more meaningful way. And I couldn't agree with you more
now. And from my point of view, it is not part of the left hemisphere's evolution that it should
be looking for meaning. It's looking for stuff, things. And that's why I say the matter with things.
Whereas the right hemisphere is actually interested in purpose, in meaning, in what is all this
about. And what we now believe is that, you know, we're meaning seeking animals,
and that we must have meaning. So we invent meaning. But I say, no, it's not that we invent
meaning. It's that we either do or don't discover meaning. So in other words, the meaning is not
something we made up. The meaning is part of the process of living if looked at more fully.
What we are looking for is often a substitute for that, which we can paint on to reality and say,
oh, this is the meaning I've found to paint on to it. But that actually gets between us and what
the meaning is. And don't ask me to say in a few words what the meaning is, because I'm talking
about something that transcends language. Wow, amazing. So much to think about. Yeah,
I've taken a bunch of notes here. Thank you so much. This has been incredibly enjoyable.
I'll follow up. I have many, many other questions later. So if you don't mind, I'll follow up.
Well, it's been a huge pleasure for me to thank you for your time. And I'd love to do something
again with you at any point. So thanks a lot. Thank you so much. Yeah, absolutely. I'll be in
touch again. Thank you. Very interesting. Okay, good. All right. Bye. Have a good one.
Are we still recording? Yes, yes. I will send you. Okay, that's good.
