There we go. Great. Fantastic to see you. I'm so glad we have the opportunity to chat.
Yes, I'm very pleased indeed. It was something to have that little moment together on that other
podcast or whatever it was. I've been very interested by your work. What interests you
in mind? How did you get to hear about it even? I've been aware of it for a long time. I'm not
sure where the first time was, but I'm super interested in this notion of understanding nature
as it were in both directions. I like the sort of reductive quantitative stuff, but I also think
it's really important to go at it top down as it were in my language, but these are the things
that I mean, you integrate it very beautifully and you write about the importance of it.
And of course, in connection with neuroscience, but also more broadly, I'm also friends with
people like Mark Solmes who also take a kind of a psychiatry psychology approach to it. I think
it's very important to have both friends. And so yeah, I've been following your writings for
a really long time. That's great to know. Yes, like you were actually on the editorial board of
Laterality, which is interesting. So you're obviously interested in lateralization as well,
which is not something I'd twigged actually, but yeah. So I have
three things that I wanted to ask you about, and then of course anything that you would like to
talk about, but the asymmetry thing is one of them. When I was a grad student in Cliff Tabin's lab,
we characterized the first set of asymmetry genes. So this is the pathway that sets the
laterality of the organs of the body. So not so much, I haven't done any work on brain laterality,
but this was the question of how do your internal organs reliably determine left from
right in embryogenesis. And so this is how I ended up on the board of Laterality,
not from brain asymmetry, but through them through for years, we studied mechanisms of
left-right determination. And I think you say as well, I think it's a very profound problem. It goes
well beyond these issues of the heart positioning and stuff like that. I think
it's very profound, the way to amplify these chiralities that exist. We chased it down to
the single cell level basically, and other people have as well. So I was really interested. I saw
your quote on Pester and the importance of asymmetry, so I was hoping you would talk about that a little bit.
Yes, definitely. And talk about it going back a bit further than the positioning of the heart.
As I point out, Thomas Holstein found that in Nemetostella vectensis, the oldest
extant organism we have 700 million years old, there is already lateralization in
what he calls the ancestor of the vertebrate brain. So in this neural network, there is
already asymmetry. And it's fascinating. As you say, Pester thought that this was a fundamental
aspect of, well, he said a fundamental aspect of the cosmos. And Pierre Curie said the same,
and that asymmetry in living organisms is part of a reflection of that. So yeah,
so it's certainly a primary problem. If I remember rightly, was not your research on,
I haven't looked at this for a decade or more, but wasn't your research on how an organism gets to
know it's left from its right? Part of the argument, which I know you've taken very much further,
that it's to do with bioelectrical gradients. Is that not right?
This is right. One of the many things that bioelectricity does is scale up left-right
decisions made by individual cells. So people have now found chirality in bacteria, in single
human cells, in culture, in a dish. We found it in slime molds, all kinds of, I mean, it's,
as you say, it's completely fundamental. And one of the things that we found that
the bioelectric system does is scale up the very early left-right decisions made by individual
cells into a collective decision about, as an organ, so a collective of the cells,
what side of the body am I located on? So to me, what I love about this is because everything
that we've been focused on is this idea of scaling. How do you go from little tiny competent agents
to great big ones that integrate with a larger cognitive light cone and, you know,
in this unified perspective? So this was the first example of this that I really
got to work on as a grad student and then a postdoc, how the bioelectrics
actually serves us this glue that binds individual decisions into organ-level decisions.
Yeah. And I get that. And I think that's fascinating. But I don't want to lose,
if there's a lot more to say, I'm sure, for both of us about asymmetry. But one of the things is that
when you take that to the level of the morphology of an organ or the morphology of something as
extraordinary as the eye or even the brain, I guess you're not claiming that you've cracked it. But
I'd like to know how your theory about bioelectrical gradients fits into orders of explanation,
because it seems to me that it explains things at one level. But it might be
not unlike saying, how did Holbein paint this incredible portrait of Sir Thomas Moore?
Well, he used striated muscles in his arm and his hand, and there was also input from
the higher centers in the brain. But in a way, is it not just a description that a rather reduced
level of something that still requires unpacking and is not really explained by talking about
bioelectrical gradients? So I 100% agree with you that explanations purely at the physical level
miss the mark. And I'm completely in agreement with that. I do think, however, that one of the
neat things about bioelectricity, and it's not unique, there are some other modalities that
work this way, too, is that it allows us to merge levels. So it is a kind of mechanistic
explanation, which leads us directly to a cognitive explanation. In other words, and I'm not by no
means am I saying I've cracked the whole thing, but I think that the nice thing about bioelectricity
is that it shows you how large scale information processing, which you can imagine can rise up
to the kinds of explanations that we really want for these complex events, how that arises from
individual mechanisms. So what I like about it is that I think what evolution does is it uses
bioelectricity to get meaning and computation out of physics. And I think that's what we need
in the end. The physical events are great, but what we need is to find out where the meaning
comes from. And I think that bioelectricity, the bioelectrics is a step in that direction,
because, and I'll just take a step away from the asymmetry for the moment. In our work on,
let's say, from the regenerative medicine angle, we want to understand how do the cellular
collectives know to make one organ rather than another? And the treatment is not going to be
bottom up, which is what molecular medicine works on now, which is tweaking the genes and the pathways.
I want to literally convince the cells that they should be building something different than what
they're building now. I mean, I'm not using this as a metaphor, other than everything's kind of a
metaphor, but I'm completely serious about that. And so what we need to understand is how do these
electrical networks store memories? How do they have preferences? How do they navigate the space of
possible anatomical outcomes? And I think what they're doing is a tiny sort of precursor to
what happens in the brain. And I think they allow us mechanistically to talk about the memories,
the beliefs in a proto form, of course, of tissue that is not neural tissue. So I'm hoping,
I'm trying to develop that link exactly. I don't think that the mechanistic explanation is sufficient,
but I think the bioelectrics gets us beyond that. It literally lets us cash out, what does it mean
for a collective of tissue to hold a counterfactual memory? For example, we've seen that in Plenaria,
where we actually have animals whose tissues hold a counterfactual memory of what they would do
if they got injured in the future at some point. And I can tell a similar story about the asymmetry
as well. So how does the counterfactual, sorry, you have to excuse me because I'm an outsider to this
area. But how does that memory become instantiated over time? And how does it contain information
about hugely complex three-dimensional configurations, such as the way in which
intricate parts of the brain need to be organized? How can it hold that information?
And where does it store it? And slime molds, as I discovered, are creatures to be respected.
They're able to do extraordinary things like salt mazes and escape from their jars and all
this sort of thing. But clearly, they don't have neurons. So where for them is this memory stored?
Yeah. So the slime molds, I'll start with that just because there's so much less is known that I
can tell that quickly. We have a particular assay where you put a little slime mold piece
in the middle of a petri dish, about 10 centimeters diameter. And then you put some glass discs at
the edges, three glass discs at one edge, one glass disc at the other edge. These are just
glass. There's no chemicals, there's no food, there's no attractant, just glass. They're very
thin, they're very light, but there's three over here, there's one over here. What the slime mold
does for the first few hours is it gently, rhythmically tugs on the medium that they're all
sitting on an agar kind of a slab sort of thing, right? And it makes these waves, and it turns
out that it senses biomechanically the strain angle that comes back to it after it pulls on this
thing. And for the first four hours, it basically builds an internal something, and we don't know
exactly what, although I give you a hypothesis, it integrates that information doing not much for
the first four hours. And then it grows out towards the three discs, not the one it chooses,
it always chooses the three. And so during that time, right, it's sort of pulling together some
sort of representation of what's going on in the outside world. For some reason, it likes the heavier
masses better than light masses, I don't know why. And then it makes a decision, and then you see
the observable behavior. One of the things we've done is we've injected fluorescent beads through
this thing. And when you watch the beads flow in and out, what you see is that as it branches,
you know, it's very branched structure, right, like almost fractal in its nature.
When the beads are going down one particular vein, and then there are branches, sometimes
they go to the branch, and sometimes they don't. And so these juncture points, they open and close,
the thing has complete control over every juncture point. So it's basically a biomechanical synapse
at that point, right? You can, if you can control the flow of, you know, going this way or going
that way, this is the beginnings of some sort of hydraulic computer, I think, where you can
actually start to process information by directing where the flow of molecules are going to go
through your network. It's not a garden hose where everything just sort of goes under pressure,
it's very, you know, millions and millions of selectable points, right? And people like Andy
Adametsky think a lot about how you take that architecture and do computations with it and
make decisions and things like that. So they have a very rich cytoskeletal network, they have
bioelectrical phenomena, which we really haven't studied yet, although Andy has, they've got this
hydraulic thing going on. But it's very clear that they have periods of integrating information and
then acting on it, you know, in addition to the memory kinds of kinds of things that you talk about.
Yeah. Yes. I mean, that sounds absolutely fascinating. I still find it difficult to
know where we jump the gap from a mechanism in which a pathway can be closed or opened,
to where something like the three-dimensional structure of how you get through a maze is stored,
you know, but that's surely something to be working on.
Well, you know, Audrey de Souture in France has this amazing data where she's got these slime
molds and the slime molds dislike salt. They don't want to crawl over salt, right? And she'll train
them to crawl over the salt to get the reward. But then when she asked, okay, so it takes,
I think, about 10 exposures for them to get the idea that it's okay and that at the end of the
salt, there will be a nice piece of oat and whatnot. But what she found is that the way
they remember to do this is they literally store some of that salt internally. So it's a memory,
it's sort of pre-symbolic memory. It's like, I don't have a symbol for salt. I have the actual
piece of this thing that I now need to know is okay, you know? So it sounds to me like a very nice
sort of, you know, you're on your way to having some sort of a later maybe a representation of it,
but now you've got the actual, you know, the actual thing. That's wonderful. That's a lovely
idea. Yes, yes. So you sort of internalize the idea that this salt is okay because it's in me now.
Yeah, something like that, right? Yeah. I mean, the previous thing you asked, which of course
is the key question, is how do you store pattern memories in these well at all? And so one of the
stories that we have is this. If you look at, so we've developed a voltage imaging method, which
is like a sort of like brain imaging, except that instead of rapid spiking, what we're looking at is
very stable, spatially distributed resting potentials in tissue. So it's just much slower,
it's a much slower set of phenomena. And what you can see in these planaria is that there's a
particular pattern. And much like what we've seen in the face of the frog and the brain, the nascent
brain of the frog and so on, there's a pre pattern that we've learned to decode. And what the pre
pattern indicates is how many heads you're supposed to have. That pattern by default, right? So I think
what evolution has given us is an electric circuit with particular ion channels and such,
that by default settles onto an attractor that says one head, that's the pattern. And now why
does it mean one head? Because I'll describe in a minute, the cells interpret it thus. So it has
this pattern. What we can come along and do is not touch the genome whatsoever, but give it a
particular experience in physiological space using a blocker or an ionophore of various
ion channels, and change that pattern so that it says two heads. And when you do this, nothing
happens until you injure the animal. So what we have, and I have a nice video of this, you can
have an animal that is got, it's got a completely normal anatomy. So one head, it's got completely
normal gene expression. So corresponding to a one headed animal, but it has a different
representation of what a correct planarian looks like. How do I know? Because if we were to cut
that animal, it would then use that pattern memory to build what it says, which is two heads. So
prior to you, right? So prior to you doing that, it's a primitive counterfactual because it doesn't
reflect what's going on right now. It's an early form, I think, it's an early form of this
mental time travel, where you can hold on to an idea that, you know, it's not true. Either it's a
memory of something that happened, or it's a prediction of something that's going to happen,
but it isn't a reflection of whatever inputs you're getting right now. So you've got these sort of
schizophrenic worms that they have the body, they have a certain kind of body, right? But the memory
of what constitutes a proper worm is quite different, and it's already been rewritten.
And so I think this sort of thing is an early precursor. And then of course, you have to work
out, well, how is this pattern interpreted? And so we have now computational models that show
how a collection of cells looks at a pattern. Not each cell reads its own voltage, but it's
a group phenomenon. It only works in a group. How the collective of cells reads a pattern,
and first of all, decides whether that's correct or not, and that's required for regeneration
and repair and things like that. But also, how it will decide which organs to make down street.
And this is how in the frog, we can now rewrite these patterns. And so we can put eyes on the tail
and we have six-legged frogs and things like this, because that's the reference point that
they're using. And if you change the reference point, well, there's nothing else for them to
compare it to. They will happily, you know, the same genetics, the same hardware will happily
execute a completely different program. In fact, you can hop species this way. We've had planaria
that make heads of other species. And with 150 million years of evolutionary distance,
no genetic change needed. Right, right. So something very important about this,
you use the word attractor, which I think is interesting, because of course, it's a
non-mechanical propulsion. It's a sort of a drawing together from something that is
exerting an influence. And where that is and what it is is an interesting question.
And you also use, obviously, you can't help using words like compare and decide and so on.
But one's wondering, what is it that's actually, we can talk about the mechanism. But again, what is
it that is, it suggests some kind of decision making? Well, that's exactly what it is.
Not just the following of a blindly of something, but actually a decision. And so this is intriguing.
But yeah, I mean, you said also that it doesn't work on the level of a single cell,
but then it does, doesn't it? Sometimes when parts of a cell that are remote from another
part of a cell know that they need to be generating something that is deficient or defaulting in
another part of the cell. So that is intriguing, because that seems to happen at the single cell
level. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, no, absolutely. When I said it doesn't happen,
I just meant the bioelectrics is not, that's not the code. There's a different mechanism
that will do that. You're absolutely right. You know, this, one of the things that we did
recently was to examine models of gene regulatory networks, which are extremely simple sort of
paradigms of like deterministic, you know, genetic kind of things. And what we found is that if you
treat them as learning agents, meaning you pretend that the different nodes could be
conditioned stimulus, unconditioned stimulus response, they actually can exert six different
kinds of memory. So they can do associative conditioning, right? They can do, they can
do habituation, they can do sensitization, they can do associative learning, they can count to
