small numbers, they can do a few different things. And all of this is just in a super,
super minimal kinds of kinds of model.
Extraordinary. What a wonderful area to be working in. Too late for me.
But I rather hijacked things by plunging into things I wanted to ask you. But I know you
there were things you wanted to ask me, so please do feel free. Yeah, yeah. Well, so I have three
things on my mind. I wanted to hear you talk about the asymmetries and, you know, sort of as
broad as you want all the way up the scale to human life and so on. And the other thing,
maybe I'll start with the second thing, because I think it's more self-contained and kind of simple.
I've been asking people this, and I would like to hear your opinion. Imagine,
because I think it leads in some interesting areas, imagine some sort of discrete positive
experience, something pleasant that you enjoy, you know, whatever it is, it doesn't matter what it
is. And so now I'm going to give you two choices. The first choice is that you will get this experience
now, but then all memory of it will be wiped afterwards. You will have no memory of having had
it, right? And probably you see where this is going. The other option is the exact opposite.
I'm going to give you a memory of having had this experience and you will go on,
but we're not going to actually do it. You know, we're just going to sort of, I'm going to implant
the memory. And so what I'd love to hear is what do you think about that and which you prefer?
I found people split about 50-50 and they feel very strongly about which thing is obviously
the thing to do. And I'd love to hear what you think about it. Well, it contains one of the
elements in many, in a way, irresolvable philosophical problems that it is so counterfactual. It's like,
you know, there are a number of these things that come up in my line, but what does it mean?
We have no way of knowing what it would mean to have a memory implanted, but there wasn't
anything that caused it, if you see what I mean. If it's a real memory, I mean, it's true that,
sorry. Oh, no, please, go ahead. Yeah. But let's assume that a memory with all the force of the
idea that it really has happened. I don't know, but what it draws me back to was when I was training
as a doctor. And I remember obviously taking part of the number of endoscopies,
and you would see somebody really suffering. They were squirming, they were obviously in pain,
they were, you know, and I thought, oh, God, I never wanted to have one of these. And I remember
saying to the person who's doing it, you know, what do you feel about this? And they said,
you go and talk to them afterwards. They have no memory of it at all. And then I thought, well,
okay, but how would it feel like if somebody said to me, I'm going to torture you within an inch
of your life, but never mind later, you won't know anything about it. And it struck me that this
wasn't a satisfactory answer to say that the valium or whatever it was, would have wiped out the trace
of it, probably because I believe that at some level, experiences are stored even if they're not
consciously stored, and they are part of you, and your experiences make up who you are. And
it's just very difficult to say, yes, you can do what you like, as long as I don't remember it
afterwards. And that would be a very, because presumably, there was a part of you, but that's
perhaps hedging the best, it was a part of you that actually does, does remember it. So I wouldn't
know quite how to go with this, because I'm not sure that memory is is single, but you can, of
course, since it's an artificial experiment, it's a thought experiment, you can set it up in any
way you like, you can say, well, let's assume that you can't have any trace of memory, or you must
have absolutely full recall of this, as though it were completely real. I don't know, I've got an
answer to that one. Yeah, I mean, so I believe, I think it was Tanagawa that did this, had examples
of incepting false memories and mice of experiences that they've never actually had. Certainly,
people are working on it, and I think I've seen some papers from his lab and others where
they're now they're using optogenetics to now give, give animals, you know, sort of right
into the brain, a clumsy version of what would have been written if they had had this experience,
right? So they sort of trace what the, what the, what, you know, what the experience would be and
try to mimic it with, with, with optogenetic tools. And what I, so I, yeah.
No, it's just going to say, I mean, how can we know what a mouse remembers?
And indeed, how can we know, do we actually have the knowledge to say that a whole experience is
stored somewhere that you can actually find physically in the brain? Yeah. So, so I completely
guarantee, agree with you that I don't think we understand the encoding or where it's located,
or anything like that. But the kinds of work that he does, I think, looks something like this.
You have a mouse that experienced being in a particular cage, and it was very pleasant,
and it was very nice. And then later on, you give this mouse an electric shock in some other
environment, and it's in its unpleasant. And then what they can do is they can go in optogenetically,
and they can link those two experiences, even though, and I don't know all the details,
I'm not up on it, of, even though those two experiences never went together. And what happens
is that those mice, but not the control mice, when you put them in the cage, they show all the
evidence of being afraid that they're about to be shocked. So the idea is you've, you've created
an association that never existed. The mouse has never been shocked in that environment. In fact,
everything was fine in that environment. But you've now created, so, so, you know, I mean,
I'm not an expert in this stuff. So I'm sure there are ways to critique it. But I think that's the,
that's, that's the, that's the evidence, you know, it's this kind of behavior. So, so what I find,
the reason, the reason I like this question, I find, when people try to explain, this is what I,
this is what generally happens. One set of people will say,
all I have is memories of the past, you know, anything that happens now, it's going to be gone,
you know, moments from now, literally, and all I have are my memories. And so the experience means
nothing to me long term, I collect memories of things, and that's what determines me are my
memories. So I'll take, I'll take the memory, the actual experience is too fleeting, I'll take
the long term memory. The other people say the opposite, and they say, there is nothing but
the current experience, these memories, I can't even be sure of, you know, whether my memories
are vertical or not, who knows what happens with these memories, I want the actual experience.
And I am right now, it's me, and I want to do this, you know, I want to do this. And so, so I,
so I pick now, right. And it's really, I think it's exactly what you said, it's very much related to
this, you know, torture and forget kind of thing. Because if somebody offered you a million dollars
for that experience, you might think, well, future me is it was going to wish I'd taken the money,
right? Yes, hasn't me doesn't want, it doesn't like it. But future me is going to say, you dummy,
you should have taken the money, I'd be, you know, I'd be in great shape. Now I wouldn't have the
trauma, but I'd have the million bucks. So I think here's another thing. Yeah, please go ahead. Okay.
Well, I just, just to say that I think this really gets at the core of how people
think about themselves and whether they're persistent or right and all of that kind of stuff.
Yes, well, there's a lot to say about that. I mean, one thing, one immediate
observation is that it is absolutely impossible to recapture the rapture of
of a transcendentally wonderful experience. You know that you had it in a kind of technical way
that is there in the memory as it were. But, but you can't remember what it is much as thank goodness,
you can't remember what it was like to be in terrific pain. When you're in the pain is the
time you know about it. So the memory is not really worth having in essence. And it's to that
extent, it's only the having it that matters. But on the other hand, if what it has communicated to
you and told you cannot be taken forward in your life, then that's also hugely diminished in,
in value. So surely our personalities, our preferences, our whole characters are made
out of the experiences and the reactions to those experiences that go to weave a very, very rich
tapestry. And so if, if they simply don't get to be stored anywhere or become part of the picture,
then they've also been rather pointless. So in a way, what you've done is you've taken,
you've eliminated how each of these is really rather pointless on its own. You've made a beautiful
argument for the necessity of a degree of permanence. And the probably more interesting
point that needs to be made is about the continuity of persons. So as you know, in the matter with
things, I have a lot to say about time and flow through time. And essentially a difference which
you can find already in the way in which people respond to Zeno's paradoxes between the idea of
time or space as made up of an infinite number of fragments and the continuous space, the continuous
extension in space or time and the continuity of the person. Now it seems to me that this is
distinctly, and I have quite a lot of neuro pathological evidence about this, that the
left hemisphere tends to fragment the flow of time into this, this, this, this, this, now, now,
now, now, but there's no continuity between them. And it has the same problem in, in causing space
to have what Bergson called durée, as you get from the point, how do you get from a point to a line?
You know, what is a line? Well, it's an infinite number of points. Well, no, it isn't actually,
because a point doesn't have any extension. And so you can add as many as you like, you will never
produce extension. There's a difference between extension and particularity. And there is also
in time, there is also in the experience of the person, which is more like a piece of music. So
all of these things have the continuity of a piece of music, where you can find a note, but it
doesn't actually constitute anything really on its own. So what, what I think is that the left
hemisphere tends to say, I am just this here, and I and the world have to be recreated all the time.
In fact, Descartes said this, Descartes thought that everything had to be recreated moment by
moment, because otherwise, how would, how would there be me now and me a minute ago? Now that
seems to me to be a problem that you get into when you're using this kind of left hemisphere,
thinking which introduces all kinds of other problems, like how do I know when I look out of
the window and see somebody down there in the square outside the house, how do I know that
they're not an automaton dressed in a man's hat and cloak and so on, which was another thing he asked.
And these are typical problems for people with schizophrenia. And schizophrenia is very much
like a condition of left hemisphere overdrive with the right hemisphere attenuated. Now the
important thing about the right hemisphere is, is that that which produces continuity and sees the
whole. And for the right hemisphere, a fragment is never just a bit and a hole made up of those bits.
Everything is a hole at its own level. So a hole is made up of things that are holes at another
level, which are also holes. And you mentioned the fractality of, I can't remember what exactly
we're describing, but this is in a way a kind of fractality in nature. And I don't mean just human
nature. I mean, I think in the in the order of things that we can know. So with the right
hemisphere at work, it seems obvious that I am continuous with my former self. But for people
who don't have that insight, they see it as a problem. How do I constant? How do I now relate
to myself in the past? And, you know, famously, both a friend and a colleague at all solace,
Derek Parfit, the philosopher, believe that there was no particular continuity between the person
and their person, that same person in the past or in the future. And he was admittedly, and I
don't think that that's any secret. He was, you know, a very brilliant autistic person. And autism
has some of these same very strongly left hemispheric tendencies in it. So I think it depends on how
you think of yourself. But for anyone who sees themselves as an evolving process, rather than
a thing followed by another thing followed by another thing. In other words, more like a river
than a train of trucks, where each truck is linked to the next one, then, you know, it is a problem
breaking up a person's experience in the way that you have just described. Interesting, interesting.
This is that's extremely interesting. I didn't realize I've been I've been playing around with
this this idea of having to be recreated moment by moment. I didn't know that Descartes, Descartes
said this. Yeah, I didn't I didn't know that. Interesting. Yes, he did. Yes. Yes. And as I say,
he's not alone. I mean, the perfect didn't say exactly that. But he did atomize in a way,
the flow of the person of the experience of the time by seeing it as slices. And this time slicing
or space slicing to the two dimensionality that goes with it is absolutely typical of two things.
People who have right hemisphere brain damage and people who have schizophrenia. So in in the
matter of things, I have a whole chapter chapter nine on the parallels between right hemisphere
brain damage and the phenomenology of schizophrenia. Absolutely fascinating. Because of course,
schizophrenia is not an unusual. And it's also a spectrum. So people who are on the autistic
psychiatrists called the schizo autistic spectrum may display many of the phenomena
of the full blown condition up to a point and it influences the way they think about what it is
they're looking at. Amazing. Yeah, yeah, super, super interesting. Okay. The other thing I wanted
to get your thoughts on, which relates to this issue of identity and so on, is this and I read
this, I can't remember where I read it. But it was a story of a therapist who had a patient and the
patient developed a problem with dissociative identity disorder. And so what would happen is he
had this other personality that, you know, the patient that was, you know, he has a job and then
this is this other personality that likes to have fun doesn't like to go to work. And it was obviously,
you know, he would pop up in the middle of the day and mess up his, you know, mess up his career.
So, so, you know, they're working with the patient to integrate of some sort of integrative therapy
to try and, you know, sort of pull it together. And one day, he walks in, and it's, and it's the
other personality. And he says to the therapist, he says, what's this I hear about integration?
And the doctor says, well, you know, we'll integrate you to sort of, you know, be better.
And he says, integrate, what's going to happen to me? And they says, well, you know,
you'll kind of be gone. And it'll just be the other guy that knows how to go to work. And then
I'm paraphrasing. And he says, excuse me, what happened to your Hippocratic oath? I don't want
to be gone. Make the other guy gone. I have a fight. My life is funny. All he does is go to work
all day. You have him gone. I'd like to, I'd like to run the show. And so, and so, you know, the
therapist has a real problem, right? Because, because if he does his job, that personality,
which, you know, it's not a tick or a reflex, this is a full blown kind of thing that can,
that can talk to you and has ration and knows what the Hippocratic oath is and has rational
reasons and so on. Yeah, it'll be gone in some sense. And so I just wanted to sort of hear you
talk about anything related to that and what you think about those kind of issues.
Well, you've hit on another fascinating topic there. Dissociative Identity Disorder is
very problematic. And we do know from the viability of hypnosis that different aspects
of a person can be suppressed or brought forward. We don't know how. I mean, I think
anybody understands how hypnosis works. And Bernardo Kastrap actually describes doing,
or an experiment maybe not done by him, but in which a subject with Dissociative Identity Disorder
is, is given an EEG and areas and she claims she's blind and the areas of her visual cortex,
where there's nothing wrong with them, normally they do work, but they just are absolutely not
responding. So some, so some kind of suggestion or some kind of self suggestion can make bits of
the person and temporarily suppressed or repressed or whatever one likes to call it.
And I'm not saying that this is anything to do with the two hemispheres, but it is nonetheless
experimentally verifiable that by suppressing one hemisphere at a time, you can produce
different aspects of cognitive and emotional functioning in individuals. I mean, we used
to be very much reliant on split brain procedures. And those patients are relatively few and far
between now, but it's well known that after the procedure for a while, although the astonishing
thing was that they function remarkably normally, it was possible for them to be into manual conflict.
So one person, you know, would pick the flame colored dress out of the cupboard and the other
one with the other hand, but put it back and take out a black one, you know, so you've got that kind
of problem going on, which sounds a little bit like the patient you described. And we do know
the left hemisphere and the right hemisphere do have different values. And, you know,
Ono Guntyokun, who is one of the world's authorities on brain bachelorly symmetry,
is on record saying that effectively, I believe McGilchrist is right that the two hemispheres
instantiate different parts of a person. So I think that's the way I would think of it.
I mean, of course, it's a mistake to think that for most of us, our two halves of our brain are
sort of constantly a war. It's not like that as a very crude and an inaccurate way of thinking.
But it is nonetheless possible that we are balancing and I believe we are harmonizing and
balancing different ways of looking at the world that come from different parts of our mind,
and most probably from different parts of our brain. So that's the way I would think about
that. I like it because of course, it is a demonstration of the fact that we're not always
just this integrated entity that we think we are. What I thank God for most purposes, we do do a
