in English.
The thing explainer.
The book is thing explainer.
The original comic was Up Door 5.
So I think a lot of these sequences is catered to the kind of nerdy people that most rationalists
are.
And that if explained using different words, it could probably reach a wider audience.
Yeah.
That's something else that I think is.
Which is, I guess it's sort of a related idea of revising sequences.
It's also a product of its time.
Like a hundred years from now, these sequences aren't going to be useful because there's
so many pop culture references and anime tropes and things that like, you know, if you're
in the culture, but you just won't after a while.
It's like how they make people read the Quran and the original Arabic.
No.
That's Arabic.
Thank you.
But I mean, even so, it's been written like what?
500 years ago, the Quran now?
People aren't going to get the same thing out of it, even written, even reading the original
language they did then.
So on the other hand, it's only been 10 years.
We can do better.
Yeah.
I think it's a bit premature to start worrying about that.
Yeah.
I would be happy if it was still around.
And in the culture.
In the future, but then.
Yeah.
1300 plus years.
Oh, okay.
But I didn't realize it was that long ago.
People are discussing the other shirts always in the XKCD forums.
Okay.
I kind of hate that abbreviation, but it caught on.
What did?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Like if people went around calling me bro, I'd be like, I'm bro.
Although you could be like original claim to it because it's better than just like the
right.
My work handle is always zoos.
Yeah.
Which isn't any short of a zoo.
Right.
But it sounds cooler.
Yeah.
A lot of people do call me he like even among my friends though.
So.
E-Pain.
E-Dog.
Not E-Pain yet.
Haven't caused quite enough pain to them.
I'll keep working on that.
Oh God.
No manual.
Please.
No.
That was a big, yeah.
Yeah.
That was fun.
Biggie.
Uh-oh.
Why are we here?
Here's no audio.
Does anyone else hear audio?
Hi.
Your audio.
I'm hearing audio.
It might have just been internet outage.
Yeah.
Just for sake.
Listen to some tube clogged between here and there.
I've always thought was he was unfairly maligned for that.
That comparison.
I mean.
What?
The Senator who said the internet isn't like a dump truck that comes to your house.
It's a series of tubes.
I think he was unfairly maligned.
Well, I mean, it was clear from context that he didn't really know what he was talking
about.
But on the other hand, a series of tubes is actually a very apt metaphor for the internet.
I mean.
That's, I love that phrase.
And it is a nice visualization, I guess.
Makes sense.
You're constantly streaming data from one node to another.
And you have YouTube.
What runs YouTube?
The tube metaphor.
Oh, okay.
Yes.
I thought I said a dump truck.
Yeah.
I mean, I just because I like stretching metaphors, I could imagine having a faucet with two million
handles.
And that's the one that you talk.
You pull the one.
Don't be one website.
Yeah.
That would be fun.
Steampunk internet.
Exactly.
That was exactly what I was thinking.
That's a series of tubes.
I was remembering steampunk internet.
It was literally a series of tubes.
Awesome.
What is that?
Sorry for getting off the topic real quick.
But what was the music like, Steampunk music?
Oh, you haven't heard of Newark?
That seems like it would give you an alley.
Maybe I have.
I don't know.
How do I describe that genre?
You know what?
I will just, I will send you some of your songs because I haven't heard time thinking
of how I would like whatever compared to you.
So April, you say there is a sequences of Bridget out there.
Okay.
I looked over it, but like I said, it's about one sentence per sequence article.
So I didn't like sit down and read it because I'd already read the sequences.
Okay.
It's a good like resource if you're trying to remember a particular article or something,
I guess, but just reading, I don't think you're, unless you're like meditating deeply on
each sentence in it, you're not going to get much out of just reading it, I think.
Okay.
Macadam says that series of tubes is actually a very bad analogy, except for through the
calculations in the model.
All right.
I am bad.
I live on bad analogies.
I like it.
There it is.
Oh, that's the link in there.
Sweet.
So, or who was it that wanted to start this project to make a more concentrated sequences?
I mentioned it.
I think Jess said that they were also interested in the idea.
Yeah, I'm going to try it.
I'm actually, I haven't said this notification because I keep getting distracted, but I'm
actually going to see if I can take a sequence and cut it down really short without losing
a lot of information or just the emotional balance.
What do you think, April, of the sequence thing, the section that we have on, I want
to say all episodes, but that's a lie, on many of our episodes?
I think it does a good job of explaining it.
I don't always listen to all the episodes all the way through, so I haven't listened
to more than like a handful of the sequence sections, so I don't know if I can give much
of a detailed feedback on them, but they're good content.
I mean, let's be honest, we probably talk about them longer than it takes to read most
of them, so that's, if you're going for...
I don't think listening to them is a replacement for actually reading the sequences, but I think
they can help you, you know, get more out of them, if that makes sense.
I mean, to me, it's almost like we want more of the sequences.
Yeah, that's a good comparison.
Which, speaking of, I am...
I don't know what the word is, I have you next to me, I can at any time go to your house
and shake you and tell me what happened when you talked to Brian, and yet I still have
to wait until Monday to find out what happened.
I am dying.
You can get it in center access if you want it.
Okay.
I don't want to bother you every week, be like, Stephen, tell me everything that I'm going
to hear every hour.
I'd be happy to go over it.
I'd be like, why did I edit this entire episode?
I'm just going to tell it to you.
Yeah, I can tell you guys that.
So he finally got back to me after getting a chance to talk about it with his daughter,
and we'll talk about it out on, I guess, not the episode that's coming out on Monday,
but the one after.
So you guys get the sneak peek.
His daughter did pass the 246 test.
Cool.
Wow.
That is impressive.
That is impressive.
Yeah.
$5.
That is impressive.
That is impressive.
It was a seven-year-old, and she did it too.
So I asked if I could help her with the research.
The insight was that Brian's daughter asked him, hey, how will I know if I'm wrong?
And I'm like, all right, that's it.
She's good enough.
Oh, the 246 test from Methods of Rationality, Phoenix.
Also, I think it's probably the sequence of somewhere.
If not, someone posted in a great link that I've got open on my other computer.
Let's do it online.
I kind of want to give it to Phoenix.
Yeah.
I want to give it to Phoenix.
Phoenix, stop listening right now.
I mean, you can call in a note.
Oh, that would be great.
