That's the only reason.
You're kidding?
No, no.
The subsidized fisheries do not produce fish.
They produce, they fish for subsidies, they don't fish for fish.
You could replace the subsidized fisheries that we have
by artisanal fisheries and smaller-scale fishing
that would not be subsidized,
and we produce as much fish as the present fisheries
that are subsidized would produce.
This would only require that for a while,
the older fisheries are permitted to retire,
and you would have less fewer fishers
because they are now super efficient compared with before,
and you would rebuild the stocks that have been decimated
and that are at very low level.
Then you could, without subsidies,
produce catches that are bigger than now easily,
but the subsidies are a purely political decision
by the elite of various countries.
And is there an activism fight against that?
Yes, there is.
In fact, there has been several initiatives
that almost succeeded at the WTO
because it's not only the left, politically,
or the conservatives group that are against subsidies,
but also market fanatics.
They don't like subsidies, right?
People who think that the market should self-regulate.
They don't like subsidies either.
So there have been several initiatives at the WTO
to get rid of that.
And last, various colleagues and various scientists
had succeeded in making such a stink
that the WTO was going to make this its major emphasis,
and Omicron came and the Ampetus was kind of lost.
But it is possible that the WTO
takes a big chunk out of subsidies.
So let's assume away climate and ocean acidification
for the moment, which is not a good thing to assume away,
but we'll get back to that.
But I read somewhere that if totally left alone
that an ocean fishery could completely recover
in like seven years, is that true?
Well, the seven years is probably very optimistic,
and it certainly, it would be true for short-lived fish
such as anchovies and sardines to recover fish like rockfish.
You need a card, you need a bit longer, say, double that.
14 years.
But yes, in principle, and in reality as well,
if you don't fish or fish very lightly,
the stocks will recover.
Nate, an important point.
The only country that has successfully rebuilt stocks
based on legislation is actually the U.S.
The U.S. has one of the probably the best
fishing policy in the world,
and they have rebuilt lots of stocks that were devastated previously.
But the U.S. alone is not sufficient,
and in fact other countries like Canada and Europe,
the European countries, they have similar legislation,
but they don't implement it,
and the result is that the stocks don't recover.
I wonder how much of that is due to our economic privilege
that we can afford beef and other things
and other countries don't have that luxury.
And also the privilege of importing 80% of the fish
that is consumed.
So you can afford to.
So this is a fish version of NIMBY.
So you invented the term shifting baselines,
which I use a lot in my college courses.
Can you explain what this means
and how this relates to fisheries?
So basically shifting baseline is the notion
that when something changes over several generations,
say any generation perceives the change
that occurs only doing their lifetime, their own.
In other words, young people, they become self-aware,
they become aware of the world around them,
and that becomes the baseline that they will use
in the course of their life to evaluate change.
And they will complain and they will,
maybe they will fight to maintain what they had
when they were young,
but they don't have the same relationship
to change that happened to their parents or their grandparents,
because these changes are not subjectively perceived.
They are not real.
So every generation resets the baseline
that it used to evaluate the world.
So it shifts that baseline.
And so you can have a situation where
in one film that is kind of amusing,
there is a young man who says,
oh, this big fish,
and it shows something that is about one meter.
And on the same dock,
an old guy is talking about the same fish,
or they were talking about two meters.
He's talking about a saltfish,
and a saltfish of one meter are small.
They are juvenile.
And to that young man, this were big fish,
because he didn't know that saltfish
get to be four meters tall.
But this is so relevant, not only to fisheries,
but our entire natural world.
This applies to many things in our society.
We only look at things day by day.
And even when I was a child,
we had windshields full of bugs that would hit our windows,
and we'd take it for granted.
And I have vague memories of that,
but it makes me worry, Daniel,
that the largest animal in the world
when young people are my or your age
is going to be a cow,
and people are going to be happy when they see a squirrel.
There is a thing that is...
I also use Shifting Baseline for teaching purpose,
and the example with the windshield.
Actually, I do remember the windshield of cars
being covered with dead bugs.
And this is an amazing thing.
And this is particularly scary with global warming,
because people get used to this normal.
And this is terrifying, if you think about it,
because every generation has another standard,
and young people will not want to get back
to the cold winter that we had when we were young.
They will not.
I'm happy when it gets really cold here,
knowing what I know,
I actually get emotionally happy,
because it feels like normal to me.
So how do we try to counteract the effects of Shifting Baselines?
Is there any strategy?
The only way we can deal with it scientifically
is by identifying periods for which we have lots of data,
so that we can construct a world that is credible,
that has various dimensions,
and use this as an anchor point to assess change.
The climatologists do that.
The oceanographers do that.
They choose different periods,
because it depends on the data that they have.
You cannot use a period going back...
For example, I know journalist George Mombiot of Great Britain.
He has a wife who is a paleontologist,
and they talk about elephants and rhinoceros in Britain,
and they talk about,
that would be nice to reintroduce them.
That is never going to work.
But for the kind of work that you work on,
you have to have a solid baseline.
And in fisheries, a solid baseline is stupid,
because it could be earlier,
but it is 1950. Why?
Because 1950 is the time where industrial fishing
had not restarted from World War II,
and where lots of countries became independent.
This before they became independent.
So you have pre-neocolonel situation,
and also this is the first year from which the United Nations
published annual review of the world catch.
So for our work, it's crucial to use 1950 as a baseline,
but people who do so-called stock assessment
for managing fisheries, they use the last 20 years.
And that's a big problem,
because the last 20 or 30 years is a period
where the big stocks have all been wiped out.
Right, so you see a 10% increase,
and you think it's a huge success,
but it's still 90% down from 80 years ago.
Exactly, exactly.
And then you have the testimony of young people
being utterly ridiculous.
You would see them, young fishers,
they would say, I've never seen so many,
the stocks has doubled in size.
Yeah, it moved from 2% of what it was before to 4%.
Right.
That's real.
That happens all the time.
Well, here's another complicating factor,
is you've probably seen in my work,
I talk about as humans, we have discount rates.
We care about the present more than the future.
So a discount rate, like climate change,
we don't think about the year 2100,
because it's too far ahead.
But when you're talking about a shifting baseline,
is we also, the discount rate goes backward,
and we can't remember the distant past.
We only look at the last few years
or the last 10 years or whatever, yeah.
Yeah.
So more broadly, how have humans,
and maybe it's just our modern culture,
