become so untethered to the state of the oceans?
Because even in climate change circles,
the large risk to the oceans, ocean acidification,
sea level rise, declining oxygen, the Atlantic meridional,
ocean current slowing down, the risk to a canfield ocean.
These are all distant seconds in the media
that have fires, rainfall, temperature on the land.
Yeah, I agree.
But I don't think this is, we have become untethered,
because if you look at the older literature,
people have never been familiar at ease with the ocean.
Is that because we just live on land and we rely on land?
Yes, that's because we live on land.
For example, look at the older literature about 150 years ago.
The coastline was not seen as something that you wanted to live in.
That only poor fishers were living on the coastline.
The idea of looking at the coast and looking at the sea
and liking it is a modern idea.
And they have been, people who have written about that,
our love for the ocean is actually new thing.
If you read the Odyssey, again, the Greeks,
they didn't like the ocean.
They didn't have an emotional relationship to it.
They feared it.
It was a dangerous place.
It was inhabited by sea monsters.
It was not a world where people felt comfortable.
So we're one of the few generations of our species
to understand that there's more living area in the oceans
on this planet than there is on Earth.
And we're learning this at a really late date.
Yep, exactly.
And our relationship with the ocean and with water
is definitely wrong.
For example, I work on fisheries,
but I also work on the physiology of fish growth.
And you could say that's very esoteric.
But fish breathe water, right?
And there is no very little oxygen in the water.
So they have to work the head off
to get the water across the mouth
that they can extract the oxygen that they need.
That is the work that they have to do.
And on the other hand, for them, for fish,
it's very easy to grab something to eat.
But once they have eaten something, a smaller fish,
they still have to burn it, link it with oxygen, right?
Well, they have to extract from the water.
So the big work is not catching a prey.
The big work is getting the oxygen out of the water
into their bodies.
And every time they take their gills move,
how much oxygen are they extracting?
What percent?
The gills are very efficient.
About 80% is being extracted.
But moving that water is lots of work.
What I want to say is you find that in biology,
people have projected our mammal consideration,
which is we have to eat lots of food
in order to maintain our own temperature at a high level.
That's the reason why we are not reptile
eating every six weeks.
We need to eat all the time.
And so food is the thing.
But fish, it's not the thing.
The thing is for them is breathing.
And you can see the problem they have with breathing
in that they are moving now rapidly toward the poles
because the temperature gets higher.
Well, I'm no expert on this.
I'll just ask you, isn't it the ocean oxygen content
has already dropped 2% and much higher than that
in the shallows?
But there is the thing.
It's true that there is less oxygen in the water.
But the important thing is that fish
don't have their own temperature.
Their own temperature is that of the water.
And then the water temperature increases.
They need more oxygen.
How much is the water temperature increased
in the last 20, 30 years?
One degree, say?
That means they have to consume 10%, 20% more oxygen.
Because there's a multiplier.
They don't have to consume 1% more oxygen.
It's 10% or 20% more.
Is that what your work is called?
Gil oxygen limitation theory?
Yes.
And the problem is not so much that there is less oxygen
in the water.
It's true.
But the big problem is that they need more
when the water is warm.
So they have a double whammy.
They need more oxygen and there is less in it.
Now, you find, though, that most doctor work
and thesis work that students do is about food.
It's about the fish feeding.
Well, the problem is breathing.
And now it's being realized now because of global warming.
That fish have a problem breathing.
And that's the reason, for example,
while they move toward cooler water,
water that remains cool, toward the poles.
Because it's kind of like a behavioral homeostasis.
They don't know about climate change.
They're just trying to be in water that fits
their oxygen absorption capacity.
Exactly.
But in the literature, you find all kind of questions
that people ask themselves.
Are they moving in the northern hemisphere to the north,
toward the north?
Are they moving because there is more food there?
No.
They're moving there because they just want to breathe.
So this is a dumb question,
but we're like around one to one and a half sea,
depending on the boundaries,
warmer temperature in the earth.
Does that temperature equate with the one degree increase
in the oceans?
Are they kind of commensurate?
So most of the ocean is getting warmer.
And that causes the fish to want to move
forward in the south.
And you can see this.
I don't know if it's one degree here or there.
But in the US, you get fish now in New York
that before was in Florida.
In BC, where I live, you get fish now
that way before in California.
In Australia, you get in Sydney,
fish that way before in Brisbane.
Historically, when there was a big burst of CO2
at volcanic provinces and previous eras,
were all the fish near the poles?
They probably were floating dead on the water surface.
In other words, this moving toward the pole,
poleward, is a reaction that is a slow thing that they do.
But if the warming is sudden, like in a heat wave, they die.
When we met the last time, or yeah, you're right,
the only time that we met a few years back,
you weren't talking about this.
This sounds horrible to me.
I was unaware of this.
Basically, my work on this oxygen problem
was my dissertation about 40 years ago
and it was totally ignored.
And now it's because of global warming
that it's being revived and it's getting some attention.
It breaks your heart.
Because the other stuff that I do about shifting baseline,
about fishing down my food web and so on,
these are obvious things.
These are trivial things, in a sense.
But the oxygen thing is the most subtle thing
and you can think about it only if you get rid
of this mammalian bias that we have.
That food is everything.
So does this scale with the size of the fish,
like cetaceans, is the 1% change in oxygen?
No, no, no, they don't have problem cetaceans.
They don't have that problem because they breathe air.
Okay.
They don't have that problem.
Okay, so what about large fish?
Large fish are the ones that have most trouble
because the surface area of the gill,
divided by the weight, is lowest.
So in a short-term self-interested sort of way,
are people in Russia and Alaska
listening to this podcast happy
because they're going to have more fish
moved into their fisheries in coming decade?
Yeah.
There's no way you're not quite explicit about it.
This is one country that is located in high latitude
that will see for a while
an increase of the biodiversity
and an increase of the major stocks of fish,
whereas other countries, for example, in the tropics,
they are the losers again
because the fish that leave the water
are not being replaced by any.
So does this get into the difference in the fishing industry
between developed and developing nations?
And again, the poorer nations around the equator
are going to be at the short end of the stick
from their fish catch in coming decades?
Yeah, certainly.
Basically, if you present the fish catchers,
predicted fish catchers in latitudinal zones,
the cold-tempered countries will benefit
and tropical and sub-topical countries
will be devastated fishery-wise.
And you can see that on, for example,
