You're listening to The Great Simplification with Nate Hagins. That's me.
On this show, we try to explore and simplify what's happening with energy, the economy, the environment, and our society.
Together with scientists, experts, and leaders, this show is about understanding the bird's-eye view of how everything fits together,
where we go from here and what we can do about it as a society and as individuals.
Today's guest is Ocean Fisheries expert Daniel Pauley.
Daniel is a marine biologist who teaches at the University of British Columbia.
He is also the founder of the Ocean Fisheries Project The Sea Around Us.
Daniel is the author of numerous books and over 500 academic papers.
He's quite simply one of the world's foremost experts on the relationship between humans, oceans, and fish,
and on the state of the earth's oceans and the fish that live in them.
Today we talk about why fish are migrating northward because they need more oxygen due to warming water,
about the world passing peak fish, and about farm-raise salmon and many other topics not often discussed.
I expect you will enjoy and learn from this conversation with Professor Daniel Pauley.
Dr. Pauley, good to see you, sir. Good to see you too.
We haven't seen each other in a couple of years.
I have enormous respect for you and your work.
You are not very well known outside of your circles,
but everyone that I know who knows you refers to you as an uber-mensch,
someone who is dedicated to the oceans and a brilliant scientist.
I have a lot of questions for you. Let's dive in.
Many of the listeners of this podcast have heard of the concept of peak oil,
and probably fewer have heard of the concept of peak fish.
You're an expert on global fisheries.
Can you give us, just to start this conversation,
a view from the stratosphere on the state of the world's fisheries?
Has global fish catch already peaked and has declined?
What's the situation?
Indeed, the world fish catch has peaked in 96, quite precisely in 96.
Particularly in the North Atlantic, for example, where fisheries became industrialized,
the peak was achieved in 1975, but worldwide it was achieved in 96.
Basically, you have in the countries of the world that have good statistics
and active fisheries, industrialized fisheries, the peak was reached early,
and the catches are continuing to increase.
Some really, and some as an artifact of statistics that have to be optimistic,
and we have made a global review of our fisheries in the world,
and we have corrected statistics in so far as this is kind of specialized,
but when countries submit the statistics to the UN,
which is the only organization that compiles world's global statistics,
when the statistics method, the statistics method improve,
they don't correct retroactively the catch that they have.
In other words, they don't cover certain fisheries, now they cover them,
but they don't retroactively reintroduce the capture fisheries that were not covered before.
So you have an increase that is not real,
and when you correct for this point, then you can see that we caught earlier much more than now.
So there's two things going on.
We are 25 years past the peak in fish catch globally,
and also the decline from that point is understated because of statistics.
Yeah, and the UN, or the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Rome,
because it doesn't correct the statistics retroactively,
it has peak catch that is not very pronounced,
but our reconstruction of the world catch has a very pronounced peak in 96,
and since then the catch declines about one million ton per year.
Out of how many total?
Of 120, 125, and it depends what you count,
whether you count the catch that is discarded or not.
So the official catch that FAO, the UN, produces is 80 to 90 million tons per year,
and the real catch of the world is about 130 million tons per year
because lots of fisheries are not monitored by the countries that are members of FAO,
and the FAO doesn't correct the statistics that they submit.
So using the best scientific guess of statistics,
how much of a percentage drop is the global catch today versus 1996?
About 10 to 20 million.
So 10 to 20 percent?
No, it is a little bit less than 20 percent.
Yeah, okay, 15 percent or so.
Is that all ocean fish or does that include freshwater fish?
It doesn't include freshwater fish.
The freshwater statistics are even more messy,
and we are in a process of looking at them,
and we expect the catch statistics to be much higher than reported
because African and other countries do not monitor very well the fisheries.
See, when you have to do that in space, which you do with freshwater fisheries,
as opposed to monitoring them along the coastline, it's more difficult.
So you are a world expert in the health of and the risks to global fisheries,
and we're going to get into your work a little bit later,
but how did you first get interested in this topic in fish and the oceans?
I didn't really get interested because of love for the sea or something.
I was studying in Germany with a firm intention of working in developing countries
because I was biracial, I still am actually.
I was biracial in Europe, and my identity was always questioned,
and I didn't want to live my professional life in Europe.
I started studying agronomy, but the faculty of agronomy was people with old Nazis,
and not figuratively Nazis, the real thing.
They were in the 60s, late 60s, early 70s still occupying lots of positions,
and I didn't like this situation,
and I moved in the same university to the Department of Sonography and Fisheries,
which was very good and very reputed, and I grew into that,
and my intention, again, when I studied agronomy and later fisheries,
was to acquire a skill that would be useful in developing countries,
and I have realized that.
I did my master in Ghana in 1971, I did the fieldwork for my,
and then after I had my master, I worked two years in Indonesia,
and then after my PhD, I worked 20 years in the Philippines,
and from the Philippines, I was working in tropical countries in general.
So, taking a step even further back, if I recall correctly from our discussions over a couple of dinners,
you were an orphan, so how did you actually get interested in science
even before you got interested in fishing?
I was not an orphan, but I was taken from a mother who was not married,
and my father was a passing GI, African American soldier,
and I was raised as if I had no parents, but I do have parents,
and I met them when I was 19, my mother,
and later, when I was 23, I came to the U.S. and met my father.
So, I was raised in a decades-in-context, very difficult circumstances,
but I was not an orphan.
But how did you get interested in science then?
Well, basically, I left Switzerland where I grew up with this weird family,
and I ended up being, I worked one year in hospital,
and as a volunteer, they fed me,
but after that, I had only the option of becoming a non-skilled worker,
and that is not a good prospect.
And in Germany, they had at the time, in the 60s,
a program of encouraging people from the working class
to get back to high school in the evening from five to nine,
five times a week, four years, for four years, and I did that.
I switched from French, which was my first language to German,
and then I did this course, four years, I got Germanified a bit,
and then when I was finished with it in 69,
I had the degree that enabled me to go to university,
and so I kind of translated from being mistreated kids
from working-class background to being a budding scientist,
and basically, I evaluated that physics was not for me,
because I'm not good enough in math,
and chemistry is too small.
The things that you deal with are too small.
The molecules and the atoms, too.
I don't like that, and I don't like microbes either.
They are too small, and so I wanted to do agronomy
because it's important, especially in the developing world,
growing food, and then I ended up doing fisheries,
which is also important in the developing world.
So thank you for that.
Can you give us a brief history of humans and oceans and fisheries?
Didn't most of our ancestors live near seas or oceans at one point?
Yeah.
When humans moved out of Africa, the first Homo sapiens,
and people in the world, they probably moved along coastlines
because coastlines are never that cold compared to the inland,
and the technology for living in the cold had to be developed.
Also, coastlines were rich in all kinds of food items and stuff,
so the hunter-gatherers that we wear,
they peopled the world along coastlines,
and in a process, they exterminated all the large, defenseless animals
that they could reach, and when they penetrated finally
into the inside continent, into the continent,
our ancestors in all continents wiped out most of the large mammals.
We know that from North America, where the mammoth and the mastodont
and all kinds of giant sloth were eliminated,
but it occurred in all continents.
Now, Australia, in Europe, also the mammoth were exterminated by people,
and we know that also from islands,
especially in the Pacific, where Polynesians,
every time they came to a new island,
they would wipe out the large animals,
the Moas in New Zealand, and so on.
So that's what we do.
But it's harder to wipe out things in the ocean
because they're more diffuse than on land.
Yeah, that's right, and that's precisely why
we're doing that in this century and not in previous centuries.
We save the hardest for last.
Yes, it's very true, actually.
As we first, as hunter-gatherers, we wiped out the large mammals
and other humans that were not our species,
and then we've invented agriculture,
which wiped out much vegetation that was there,
the vegetation we didn't like,
and we place it by vegetation that we like,
wheat fields instead of forest, kind of,
and then we invented the use of fossil energy.
And I think that the big transition is the use of fossil energy.
It started with the steam trawlers in 1880, about, in the UK.
The use of fossil energy is the big transition in fishing,
and this allowed us to make, to punch into marine ecosystem,
to remove lots of things.
We were wailing before, but wailing is the large animal
exposing themselves because they have to breathe is one thing.
But getting fish from one kilometer depth or one mile even depth,
that you need heavy technology,
and this technology was developed in the 20th century.
So, getting back to my first supposition,
could peak oil reverse peak fish?
Actually, I have wrote a paper like that in science,
in 2003 or something like that.
If you look at peak oil, it's very similar to peak fish.
The shape is very similar.
And I was stupid enough to make a prediction,
which you should never do,
that fisheries would have to be running down
when fuel costs become too high,
because the fuel costs render fishing in the high seas unprofitable,
and had not counted with the key factor, subsidies.
Fisheries, big industrial fishing in the depth and in the high seas,
could not be conducted without subsidies,
but they are subsidized.
Big time, and that's the reason why they continue,
but they heavily subsidize.
Why are they heavily subsidized?
Because that's a cheap way of getting protein to the populations?
No, the reason is that the big fleet owners,
they play golf with the ministers.
