that are directed at making fishing effort cheaper.
And fuel subsidies and other subsidies.
If the fishing industry had no subsidies,
they would immediately stop fishing in remote areas
where they use lots of fuel.
Certain destructive methods, like trolling,
would be immediately abolished
because they are not profitable,
and the people who use this method
are fishing really for subsidies.
The subsidies are very important.
Another point is that I would set up
the network of marine protected areas
that we talked about all the time, but don't do.
Again, the US has done it in various parts of the world,
but like France, it's done mainly in the Pacific
away from nasty fishes that will protest.
Though there is, in California,
there is a good network of marine protected areas.
Without areas where you don't fish,
you won't have the big fish that maintain a population.
You need so-called big, what is it, boff?
Big, old fecund females that produce the eggs
that will replenish a population.
And without, they happen to be toffee fish also, right?
What the anglers want to have is boffs,
and they then go after the source
of replenishment of a population.
So you need areas where there is no fishing.
And with these two things,
you would actually really have fisheries doing much better.
And then I would, all over the world,
impose a system similar to the one that you have in the States,
where an old fish stock has to be rebuilt within 10 years.
And you have these legislations,
it's called the Stephen Magnusson Act,
and if other countries were having the same,
it would be in much better shape.
And then I would stop looking at fisheries
because we have a much bigger problem.
Is there any chance, Daniel,
that you envision in the next 30, 50 years
where world governments and leaders are populated
with ecologists and biologists as opposed to economists?
Could such a future exist?
Yeah, I can imagine it for,
because if you compare World War I with World War II,
in World War I, they drafted everybody,
scientists and non-scientists,
and sent them as cannon fodder to be killed in Flanders
and in France and so forth.
In World War II, all governments had the sense to say,
well, wait a second, do I really want to use my scientists
as cannon fodder? No.
You use them like Turing and the others
to decode, to develop radar system and so on.
So it was understood in World War II
that scientists can help deal with a crisis.
And I think that our civilization has the option now
of destroying itself
or beginning to look at what the science,
the virus discipline, offer.
And there is a good part of the population
and the political party in your country,
but in other countries as well,
that have decided to not listen, to go crazy.
But the alternative is that science is embedded
more and more and more.
And why do we need science all the time?
Because we always, we are pushing at the edge.
We are pushing everything to the edge.
For example, we have a huge population in huge cities
in terms of human protoplasm.
This is an ideal place for parasites,
to bugs and viruses to grow.
So you have to do lots of science
to maintain this population healthy.
Food, same thing, we have the system that we have.
We have no reserve.
We are at the edge.
So how do we not fall from the edge by using science?
So I think the more we push toward the edge,
the more we will need science
to prevent going over the edge.
So science will actually play a bigger role
or we will go down the tube.
I actually agree with you
and that's why I'm having these conversations
because there's so many issues.
Many people are aware of climate change.
Not so many people are aware of your area of expertise
and then there's economics and biodiversity
and social media algorithms and energy depletion
and now geopolitics.
I mean, the system science of our predicament
is really complex but it does fit together
and it does make sense.
So can you talk a little bit about your work?
You run an organization called C Around Us
as in Ocean and Sea.
We'll put all the details on the website
but can you give us like a one or two minute overview
of your work?
Basically, I'm a great admirer of Rachel Carson
and you know that Rachel Carson could write her book,
the most important book, The Silent Spring,
only because she became financially independent of necessity
and because she had written a successful book.
So the Sea Around Us made Rachel Carson in lots of ways.
So the Sea Around Us is a name that I gave to a research initiative
that I founded with a generous funding
from the Pew Child Trust in 1999
and we were the first two, three years
we were kind of floundering what are we going to do
with all these possibilities that we have
but we developed then this idea
of documenting all the fisheries of the world
in a standard way and basically there is
in much of the world two economies.
There is a formal economy that is embedded in statistics
and in the formal markets and financial markets and so on
and there is an informal economy that is well known
and in fisheries this is also the case.
There is throughout the world industrial fisheries
that well or badly managed
and there is small scale fisheries, artisanal fisheries,
subsistence fisheries and recreational fisheries
that are not managed and not even monitored.
They are pulled together under the heading
of small scale fisheries
and small means you don't have to care, right?
But actually small scale fisheries
make up about a third of all fisheries of the world
when you account for them.
So we put them on a map.
We put on a map the fisheries
and for example in the South Pacific
there is lots of small island states
that get the foreign exchange
by allowing Spain and China and other countries
to fish for tuna.
But the population doesn't eat the tuna.
The population eats reef fish
that are caught around the island.
But the Ministry of Fisheries
when they have one or the Department of Fisheries
doesn't care about that
it doesn't record what they eat.
This for example we know this
because the WHO, the World Health Organization
studies what people eat
and what people eat is fish.
But the Department of Fisheries
doesn't report any fish being caught.
So by linking different type of sources
we were able to reconstitute these fisheries that exist.
In the US for example
the fisheries that are run by the states
within 3 miles
they are not reported to the FAO as existing.
Also the subsistence fisheries in Alaska
which are quite substantial
are not reported.
And all countries, even developing countries
developed countries with good statistic system
they don't report fish.
Does that mean that the amount of catch
is underestimated?
Does that imply that the amount of fish left
is overestimated?
Yes and no.
So the underestimation is real.
It ranges from 10% in the US
to 400-500% in various countries.
For example in Central America
they report only fish that they export.
The other fish they don't care.
So they don't know in Guatemala
and in Honduras and so they don't know
what they catch.
And so the impact that all this fishing has
they have no idea what it is.
So when there are people
we have also in fisheries denialists
the same way that you have them in climate change, right?
So the denialists they look only at fisheries catchers
and they say it's a good shape
in developed countries and rich countries.
So they could be getting the wrong signal
on what's really happening.
They are getting the wrong signal.
And you have in fisheries the same kind of struggle
that exists in climate change.
Exactly the same.
And so that's what your work is calling attention
to that delta between.
Okay that's excellent.
While I have you and before I get to my final questions
that I ask all my guests
I'm just curious about two things.
