on our coast, the salmon in California
are wiped out, right?
They are gone.
In Washington and Oregon, they are not doing well.
Is that because of this, gill-oxygen limitation?
Yes, because temperature is going up.
And in B.C., they are not doing well.
But in Alaska, they are doing very well.
And in Arctic Alaska,
there are salmon runs that are establishing themselves,
and we don't know about them
because they didn't have salmon before.
Oh, my God.
So it is happening.
This transition is already happening.
And with salmon, it's very visible
because there is a major industry built around salmon.
So we could argue, and everyone would argue,
on ultimately how climate change will warm the Earth.
On the one hand, I think the fossil fuel availability forecasts
are way over-optimistic.
But on the other hand, I think the biological feedbacks
are probably way underestimated.
But if we do go to 2C, 2.5C,
doesn't that have a massive implication
based on your gill-oxygen limitation for another...
Yes, but this is not will.
This is already happening.
If you go to a country like Britain,
they fish now, fish that were before, in Spain.
And the spined fish before that were in Morocco.
And in other words, the composition of the catch has already changed.
And we published in 2013 a paper in Nature,
which we call the Mean Temperature of the Catch, the concept.
And basically you assign to each fish species a preferred temperature,
which is very stable.
And you can compute then the Mean Temperature of the Catch,
which is the catch multiplied with the temperature of that fish.
And you average it over all species.
And you can see in all countries of the world,
in most countries of the world,
the Mean Temperature of the Catch
start picking up in the 70s and 80s.
The fish were very much smarter than us.
They picked up very early.
And the famous hockey stick that man and others...
You can see the fish doing it.
And we have reproduced this, for example,
with Chinese colleagues.
I have the Yellow Sea, which is cold.
The East China Sea, which is medium.
And the South China Sea, which is tropical.
You can see this effect in the Yellow Sea and in the East China Sea.
But in the South China Sea, you don't get this effect.
Why? Because the fish that leave are not replaced by fish
from even warmer temperatures,
because there is no hyper-tropic, right?
So this effect, you can see it everywhere.
And we have colleagues in Greece
that have reproduced that result.
And we have recently, another paper come out
that describes the contrasted Japan,
Australia with Indonesia.
Indonesia, the Mean Temperature of the Catch, doesn't change.
And in Japan, it goes up.
In Australia, it goes up.
Meaning all countries now are experiencing
change in the composition of the fisheries catch
that are due to migrations.
This changes one of the questions I had planned to ask you.
I was going to ask you what are one or two major things
that could be improved about our current fishing practices
and industry, but it gets back to the climate thing.
Yes, if I may.
These movements of the fish that are caused by temperature,
they can be anticipated, right?
And the first case that comes to mind
is the negotiation between Norway, the Faroe Islands
and Iceland about a stock of mackerel,
a very important stock of mackerel that they had to share,
because it was intermediate between their waters.
And the negotiation took five years.
During the five years, the mackerel moved
and ended up only in the exclusive economic zone of Iceland.
And at the end of the five years, they had an agreement,
but the Icelanders says, we are not going to do it
because we don't need to.
They now are in our waters.
And this problem, it sounds like a totally esoteric problem.
You have it also in the US,
because the coastal, say in South Carolina,
you have management by the state of the coastal fisheries.
But the stocks are now found, not in South Carolina,
they are in North Carolina.
And so they cannot spend five years
renegotiating an agreement or fishing them,
because in five years there would be no Jersey.
So I was going to ask you what can individuals do
to support replenishing the world's fisheries
and what I'm hearing, what I'm intuiting,
is the answer is not to eat less fish,
it's to use less dramatically, less fossil fuels.
Yes, at the end of the day, everything that we do,
if we don't reduce the fossil fuel and the emission,
and we should add also now the methane from the tundra
and so on, right?
But if we don't tackle that problem,
the other stuff would be completely useless.
Now, I should add though that every individual fish
has another preference.
Say a species of fish is about 15 degrees centigrade.
Well, they will be some at 13 and some at 17 and so on.
And the more fish you have in the water,
the more variants you have.
And we know that from COVID, right?
The more people are not vaccinated,
the more variants you have.
And it's also true for fish in the water.
So if you had lots of fish in the water,
you have some that can handle the higher temperatures.
What are the type of fish that are selected for
in higher temperatures?
Can you give some examples?
Oh, the groupers and snappers on Florida
can handle high temperature much better than caught in Canada.
That's an example.
But also within the species, there is also variation.
Like they are variation between us white humans.
We are small one, big ones, brown one and white one.
So you have a distribution around these means.
And if you have a temperature increasing,
there will be variants that can handle this temperature.
But if the population is very reduced,
because you have overfished it,
then there will be fewer variants, right?
And so what we can do and should do is reduce the effect,
the fishing effort that we have,
reduce the fishing quota.
We will have more fish.
We can fish them more economically, more profitably.
We will make more money.
We will supply markets better,
and there will be more fish in the water
that can handle the heat.
So by throttling down our consumption of fish
and the overfishing,
we will increase the diversity of the fish,
which makes it a higher likelihood that some fish
will make it through this bottleneck
to maybe replenish and heal the fisheries
and also maybe buy us time to solve the climate emissions, etc.
Yes, but Nate, at this point, what I tell people is,
yes, we must reduce consumption,
but the individual route I must tell my friend and my buddies,
doesn't work.
What works is not this horizontal,
horizontal, that friend-to-friend protest and action.
What works is vertical action.
We go, we raise hell,
and we distribute leaflet in front of a supermarket.
That works, and we change the politicians.
Politicians, we address them.
We cannot limit ourselves to acting as consumers.
We must also act as citizens,
especially if we live in democracy.
Yes, I've come to the same conclusion.
If someone is listening and they care about the oceans
and the fisheries and the future,
setting aside the emissions question,
which is a really difficult one,
what can individuals do to support
some of the things you've been discussing in there?
You join the environmental NGO,
you join a group that fights for these things that you believe in.
Depending on your disposition,
you join radical group or less radical group,
because they all need it.
Like in the civil rights, Malcolm X was needed,
and Martin Luther King was needed.
Both were needed.
In the environmental front,
there is a group that pushes
and groups that settle agreements.
You need both.
Depending on your temperament, you join them.
The point is that you cannot,
as individual working on your consumption,
hope to affect anything,
because your consumption is much of its virtual displaying.
Much of it is virtual displaying,
and it has no effect.
That's what I tell my students,
is rather than minimize their impact,
they should try to maximize their impact
in whatever passionate about it.
Given your temperament,
and if you were somehow the benevolent dictator,
and your sole goal was to improve the health of ocean fisheries,
what sort of wish list of changes would you implement?
I would immediately abolish subsidies
