Salmon is at the grocery store
and I eat salmon.
By A, not eat salmon at all.
B, you eat farm salmon
or C, eat wild caught salmon.
I live in British Columbia.
It's one of the few places together with Alaska
where you get more wild salmon
than farm salmon.
But we are also haunted by this industry
which is driven by Norway.
And they have polluted
a good part of the coast
and also in Chile
by producing salmon.
And they have polluted also the intellectual world
in that they think
that people believe
that aquaculture is reducing the pressure on fisheries.
And farm fish are supposed to reduce the pressure.
But it's true when it is the fish
for example tilapia or other herbivores.
But it's not or when the fish are not fish
and they are mussels and oysters and so on.
But when the fish are carnivores
which is the case for salmon
what you have is they have to be fed
and what are they fed with?
They are fed with fish.
Other fish.
The other fish edible, they are good fish.
Anchovies for example are very much liked in the world
except in the anglosphere.
The descendants of British settlers everywhere
they don't like fish.
Not really, not sardines.
But the Spaniards for example
they love sardines and anchovies and so on.
So is it better for me to eat anchovies
instead of salmon in the same way
that it's better to eat soybeans instead of beef?
What you would end up is getting the fish tastier
the fish more sustainable in the generic sense
and they contain more of the goodies
that you can get from fish there.
The omega-3 and so on.
All of this is better in sardines
than in Norwegian salmon
to which you add also colorant
because they would be grey.
They look that orange.
That is so weird to me.
Are sardines also subject to gill oxygen limit?
All fish, all water breathers.
So sardines are going northward?
Maybe not as badly as swordfish or a marlin?
No, they also do.
In fact, I just saw a paper last week
about the sardines in the North Sea
in making smaller.
They're getting smaller
because this is also, besides migration,
this is a reaction.
The fish get smaller.
So when we were spent a few days together,
I remember you and I had a very long dinner
and some wine because you...
No, I don't drink wine.
I was having wine, you were talking
and I was very fascinated
because you have so many experiences all over the world.
You speak four languages
and worked with all sorts of different people.
Do you have a favorite memory or experience
that you have from all this
or any lesson that you'd like to share?
Oh, gosh.
I should have thought about it ahead of time.
I was dreaming when I was a kid
or when I was a young man
of working in developing countries
where I would be useful
because this was the thing in the 60s.
You wanted to help the people and be useful, right?
Boy, I wish we could have that again, right?
Yes.
And you know what?
I've been able to realize this.
I've been able to be recognized
as somebody who has helped empower people
because I have developed tools and concepts
that people can use
to do their own research.
And that makes me feel really good
about what I've been able to achieve
to empower people.
And I continue to try to do that
and for what is worth,
I had 70 PhD and master's student
and for what is worth, 80% were women.
That's another point.
My students are mainly from developing countries
and women.
So this empowering thing I take seriously.
Now, there were some difficulties
and the point is that if you want to be innovator,
you have to have a hell of a thick skin
and because people will attack you for anything,
because essentially if somebody has not found something
and you find something, whatever it is,
you are saying, you're not saying it,
but they think that you're saying that they were stupid.
So every time you come up with something,
there is somebody who is aggravated by the fact
that it's not them.
And so you incessantly have to fight
to legitimize what you do.
You're preaching to the choir.
You can imagine the podcast I'm having on here
with Paul Ehrlich and Dennis Meadows and other people.
I mean, it is lots of things that people don't want to hear.
So thank you for your lifelong continued work
and empowering people.
So what kind of advice would you give
to people today, Daniel,
that discover and understand not only the state of fisheries,
but nature, climate change, the economies,
what's happening, the general human predicament?
I would say get involved in fighting what is not tolerable
and you will discover who you are in a process.
The nowadays emphasis on yourself and your identity
and your personality and stuff is probably misguided
because you discover that you ready,
you can at best discover that you're ready to do something.
So you might as well do it.
That's great.
Here's a personal question for you.
What do you care most about in the world?
For myself, I would like to be able to maintain work
and for the world as a whole,
I think I would be like the contestant in beauty contest.
Peace. Peace in the world is what we need.
I grew up in Europe that was reeling from World War II
and I'm very conscious of this.
And the notion that we are doing this
and doing the second or first day of a new land war in Europe
is profoundly disturbing.
What we need is peace.
And then we can sort out the problem we have,
which are big and which require that we work together
and a war is the worst that we can do in this context.
What are you most hopeful about in the coming decade or so?
Well, basically we are faced with the option
with the possibility of our total,
of the destruction of our civilization.
We are faced with the potential of that.
And maybe we won't do it and that will be marvelous.
Imagine if we make it all the good things that will have to be done.
So we make it.
And that is the thing that I hope for,
that the greater Thunberg and the other people with wonderful ideas
and ideals will have the chance to expand and to grow and to be.
Because the alternative, which is that we are now in the late 30s
with the Nazi coming up, it is hard.
It's hard to swallow that because it's completely gratuitous.
We don't need any of this.
We don't need war of choice.
We never needed war, really.
But the notion of a war of choice is disgusting.
Not enough people talk about peace.
It is as if it was naive to speak about peace.
I remember one time somebody was arguing against the open union.
The open union.
And this person didn't understand that it is the only thing
that had prevented the open countries from fighting war against each other for 60 years.
We never had 60 years of peace in Europe before.
Never.
And now we can see that two countries that are outside the open union are at it.
Ukraine and Russia.
Yeah.
Thank you so much, Daniel.
We will be in touch and I hope many people look at C around us and your work.
And we'll have all kinds of references on the website.
You're welcome.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification,
please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform
and visit thegreatsimplification.com for more information on future releases.
