now. And I honestly think that a lot of it had to do with just studying some, I don't know,
being so exposed to real time facial expressions and actually like doing the work of trying to
analyze faces, which I did, makes it more like, okay, I know what's going on in this story now
whereas before it was just like people twitching their faces oddly, and I don't know, I couldn't
tell what anybody was trying to express ever. And I was just like, yep, this is my experience with
like being in an actual office and it's terrible. Oh, man. I tried to watch that show a couple of
times and I can't get past maybe if I skip the first season or something, but I kind of hate
Michael Scott as a character. I hear he gets better, but he's just like to me like the worst
kind of boss and everything about like he just exudes stress and I don't find it fun. That's
what I've seen a hundred clips of the show and a lot of it's he was just genius and really funny.
There was a better. Yeah. Yeah, that's what I hear. I should give it another another fair shake.
I'd like a lot of the gifts from it, but yeah, I agree. I watched an episode or two and I'm like,
I hate everybody on the show. Why would I bother watching them do things when I hate them so much?
There's a great video. They do a lot of cold opens where it's just like a sketch that doesn't go
anywhere. And there's one where, shoot, I forget, John Krasinski. Instead of him coming into his
desk because he doesn't like Dwight and they mess with each other. So instead of him coming
in one morning, it's Randall Park. And he's just like, Hey, Jim, or he's like, Hey Dwight,
and it's like, wait, you're not Jim. And he's like, of course I am. He's like, okay, if you're Jim,
what deal did you close? And he's like, Oh, you mean this one or this one? And he's like, no, no,
you're not Jim. And he grabs the guy's picture off his desk. John Krasinski. I forget his name
in the show. And he looks at it and it's, it's got Randall Park in there. And he's like horrified
because he's like, Oh my God, I've been wrong this whole time. Randall Park is Asian and John
Krasinski isn't. That's why it was so dramatic. Oh, yeah. So it was just like, it was a great,
I mean, so like those little sketches, I think are really funny. Like, you know, it doesn't
involve anyone being as nutty as they usually are in that show. But I guess I'm not informed enough
to talk about the rest of the office. But I did have a question, Inyash, in our here's some random
ideas to talk about. You had a couple of other things you wanted to, to get to. And I'm curious
about the second two, because we talked about the, you know, rage against the machine stuff.
So all right, the one of the other ones is this came up just by on the discord watching again,
Why We Cur, he's really coming up a lot in this episode, talking about driving in Sweden. It seems
to me that if society makes a really big deal about something, it can really kind of screw up
the practice of it for people. Because like, in America, driving just isn't that big a deal.
Like you, you get in a car, your family car with someone in your family, and they kind of show
you how to do it first in the parking lot, then in some like, more abandoned streets. And, you
know, for the course of a week or two, you pick it up. And then you kind of drive badly, and maybe
you crash the car or get close calls or something. But, you know, everybody knows teenagers getting
more accidents. And that's why their insurance rates are so high, whatever. It's, it's not a big
deal. You learn how to drive. And like in Sweden, apparently, it's this huge thing where not only
does it cost thousands of dollars for lessons, but like, it's, it's very rare for someone to pass
their driving test on less than the fourth time. And when, when Why We Cur was talking about it,
he was like, how do you merge onto a highway where all these cars are sipping past? Or like,
how do you know that without all these tests, how do you know to check all your mirrors and
look to your right before you start pulling out so you don't hit the bicycle pedestrian?
In most cases, like, I know, but like, he just said, like, the thing was the,
the way he said it, like he was taking the test and the instructor was like, oh, you didn't look
right there. That's a dead bicyclist. And I was like, wow, holy shit, like it seemed like it was
such a big deal and so stressed and so stressful, I guess, in their society that it just the entire
process of learning to drive seems to have become this, this massive thing that it just
doesn't really need to be. And as someone who's lost people to car accidents, I actually think
that people dying in traffic accidents is a big deal. And that we should be driving seriously.
I don't think, you know, I was just saying that we should take the acceptable loss of human life
over how easy it is to get a driver's license. No, I don't think. What point is? Well, I mean,
I don't think that it's not a big deal, but I think like they overstressed it to a rather
ridiculous degree that like the way people were finding out. Causes of death. I mean, like,
car accidents? Well, yeah, I mean, yeah, I was one of the really big ones in the US.
Well, so we should look and see what the difference is between, you know, the percentage of Swedish
car deaths versus American car deaths. I mean, if they're. Absolutely, the better outcomes.
That's a good question. I did not look. Yeah, so that would help settle it. But I am curious,
because like, you know, on my driver's test, when we finished, he said, other than that stop light,
you didn't stop once, but here's your permission to go get your license.
Like apparently I came to a rolling stop at every stop sign. So, but he didn't care. And I do think
it should be harder to get a driver's license. You know, it, it's, there's definitely like a fine
line, you know, should it be as hard to get a driver's license as it is a pilot's license,
you know, should you need 1,000 hours with, probably you don't need 1,000 to get a pilot's
license, but should you need hundreds of hours with a certified instructor in order to drive a
car to get to work? I mean, unless there's going to be some enormous new government department that
will enforce this, it's going to cost a fortune and most people just won't be able to drive anymore,
which like if you live in, you know, the middle of some, some city that's not a big deal. But if
you live where almost everybody lives, you need a car just to get to work, right? Dang it. I think
Jace has just already convinced me that I was way too blasé about this. And maybe we should take
this a lot more seriously. Well, both Jace and your particular anecdote about you fail horribly,
but here's your license anyway. So I think that actually, like, I have very strong feelings about
this. We should have self-driving cars. Humans should never have been given the ability to drive
cars. We're so bad at it. Yeah, every time I drive anywhere. And like, I guess it's hypocritical to
be like, and like, you know, and I drive all the time. So I see all these terrible things, but
nobody knows how to drive. Like the whole, yeah, I've definitely like, remember, the drivers test
being kind of shitty, not covering a lot of things that like, basically they were testing, like,
can you turn the car on and sort of drive it around and mostly figured, okay, you're fine.
But I see people just, you know, merging without looking and cutting each other off. And
especially like, I see this a lot when I'm driving, like towards Thornton area where one of my
partner lives. I don't know what the deal is, if it's just coincidence that I happen to just see
so many shitty vehicles. But like, there was a day where there was a car in front of me falling
apart. Like, I'm driving and something that like just falls off the bottom of their car, a long
piece of pipe. Oh my God. And I had to actually like, drive off the road a bit where luckily,
there was like a full two car lengths of margin on the side of the road. Like, because I was on
the highway. But like, I had to keep dodging like that. So I like pull up to this person,
you're still driving like your cars fall apart, you might want to pull over. He's and he's gripping
his steering wheel looking straight ahead and doesn't like behave as though he's heard me just
keep striving. But there's just so I like have relayed the story to a few people because I just
find this baffling. I don't know what was going on there. But yeah, that's the kind of thing that
can just like happen when you're on the road. I mean, yeah, I do still think like, Sweden seemed
like it's over exaggerated because I was hearing stories about not hearing stories. I was literally
reading people saying like, how do you manage to stay in the lane when you can't see the tires?
And you know, with the lines on the road are, I'm like, you just, you just from a little bit
of experience, you get the feeling of, you know, you know, how it looks when you're in your lane
while you're driving from your car from the driver's side. And I think another one that brought
up was like parking. And I thought they were talking about parallel parking, because you know,
that can be if you don't know the algorithm, it's hard to figure it out on your own.
Once someone teaches it to you, you're like, Oh, okay, that's how you do it. But before you've
been taught the method, it's tough to figure out. But I guess it was even just like pulling
straight into a regular parking spot. And I'm like, this just this doesn't seem at all difficult.
And I know Americans are reckless and bad at driving, but there's some things like staying
in the lane and pulling parking lot that seemed really intuitive and easy from the from pretty
early on. Yeah, getting a sense of how big your car is is the kind of thing you get sense of.
But like, first time in a new car, you might not get exactly right. You know, like I once in a while
will park my wife's car in our single car, little garage unit. And she drives a Subaru Forester,
which on its side isn't actually all that big, all that much bigger than mine. It just feels
a lot bigger because it's it's a taller car. And maybe a couple inches wider or something,
but not not radically. But it's still like, because the angles are all different, you know,
when you're turning to angle into this thing, because you can't just pull straight in given
our the way our parking lot is all set up. It's there's this, you know, moment every time where
I'm like, am I gonna, you know, hit the bumper on the edge of the garage here? And so far not yet.
But maybe this is a thing about like, in Europe, a lot of people don't own their own cars. And so
you're always driving some weird strange thing. Whereas in America, you have one car that you
intuitively get a feel of after a few bit of time.
I remember it taking a very long time to get that feeling. When I first started driving, but like,
I don't know, recently, I've been driving a lot of moving trucks. And it's definitely like a skill
that you can build. Like it takes me a couple of minutes behind the wheel of a new car to like
get the feel of the dimensions. And I feel like the first time letting any random model with
20 bucks drive a commercial vehicle is kind of insane. There's a great little clip on Family Guy,
YouTube, Family Guy, U-Haul, that summarizes it perfectly. But yeah, I mean, you don't need a
commercial driver's license to rent a, you know, big U-Haul and drive this from wherever you want
to wherever you want, right? It's surprising that I'm allowed, you know, I'm licensed to drive my
little Honda and then for whatever 50 bucks, they let me borrow it for a day, some giant truck
that is, you know, no rear view window and it's a whole different beast. But they're like, eh,
you're moving, it's fine, go nuts. And just the amount of weight in it, especially when it's
fully loaded, like is a drastic difference. You're like, holy shit, I got to start breaking a lot
earlier in this thing. Right. Yeah, I've only driven a U-Haul a few miles once. But yeah,
I mean, it's, it's a different thing. I think the, the weight thing I was probably already
in tuned with because I'm like, well, I got all my stuff in here balanced somewhat precariously in
the back. I want to, you know, slow, you know, accelerate and decelerate fairly smoothly. But
yeah, it's a nightmare. But I'm with Jay's 100%. We should not have apes driving cars.
I think our descendants will look back at us and be like, why'd you guys do that for so long?
You guys could have stopped doing it 15 years earlier. And we'll say, well, people threw a fit.
I guess, yeah. When I was trying to think of, of, uh, parallels to this, I was like, well, U.S.,
the U.S. is kind of that way about like sex and people losing their virginity. Like it's this
huge thing. Then people get all sorts of crazy neuroses about it when really it's
probably a pretty small step between what you were doing before and the actual sex. Like
people rarely jump in completely cold into losing their virginity. And you've been like
fooling around and kissing and doing lots of other stuff for weeks, if not months, if not years
beforehand. It turned out so bad that you die in sex sexual intercourse. I mean, it happens,
told people, uh, but like, yeah, people mess up in their BDSM scene. But like,
this is like, think about the amount of regulations around getting a gun.
You can kill so many people with a car so easily. Yeah. Yeah. I think we have a lot of pathos,
neuroses as a society in the U.S. based on how crazy we are about sex in general.
Well, even just like turning 18 or turning 21, people act like they're these big watershed
things. And you work out on your 18th or 21st birthday realizing you don't feel any different
than you did the day before. But there's just all this buildup about it. You know,
maybe graduating high school is not one of those things where, you know, you're told it's this
big dramatic thing and it's just not. It still feels like the exact same person I was when I was
like in middle school. Like it's just one of those things that keeps occurring to me like as I'm
getting into my 30s where I'm like, is there ever going to be like a point where I feel like, okay,
I'm an adult now. I hope I don't have that. I, I finally over the past two years have started
to feel that a little bit like even all the way up until I was 38 or something. I was like,
yeah, I guess I have some gray hairs and some wrinkles, but I feel just like fucking teenage
me. What the hell? But I don't know. I think, I think specifically having
certain emotional betrayals in my life recently really did change my personality a bit. And I
actually do feel older now. Like I trust people less. That's the correlating things I wasn't
necessarily trying to correlate. I'm just saying, if you want to grow older, have someone betray you
really bad. I think there's also the one, one way to feel a little bit like older and more
competent is just like getting good at some adulting style things. Like once you can file your
taxes and it's not a stressful thing or whatever sign up for new utilities or something.
Like adulting at all. That's just like a different form of homework. Like they,
the teachers told me, you know, do these problems and then I get a, the government says,
do these problems and then I get some money back. It was, it was literally the same thing.
Fair enough. Yeah. I don't quite have that sense. Maybe my, my metrics aren't, aren't, aren't right.
So, you know, I, I don't ever want to feel like an adult quote unquote, because in my
childhood experience, adults weren't happy people. And so like I want to be like, oh,
if being adult is like just, you know, being miserable or whatever all the time, fuck all
that. I'm going to, you know, just do whatever I want all the time and stay happy. So
I was going to say like a long-term injury also helps with feeling older. But on the other hand,
like you've had back problems for far longer than I've had and you still say you feel pretty
much like a teen, Steve, right? I mean, I don't know what teen Steven felt like. I mean, physically,
I feel old, but like, since I guess I felt this way for so long, it's just how I am. But
like my, I just mean like cognitively, I guess, and I'm probably modeling that up of, you know,
bad archetypes. But yeah, I mean, just, I don't know, I decided that like, nah, if, you know,
being mature means like, I don't know, whatever, doing boring adult stuff instead of having fun
and watching movies and playing video games, I'm just not going to do the boring adult stuff.
Yeah, forget all that. All right, what was the third item on your list,
Yash? It was confusing. Oh, okay, right. The last thing was gatekeeping as a way of limiting
new stakeholders. This came to me when I was finding out about eviction law, because, you know,
now that I went to place out that might become important. It, it's weird to me, like how many
laws there are making it hard to get people out of a place that you live, like,
even when they're actively doing bad things to it and not paying you any money. And really, it,
it seemed to just came down to the fact that like, once someone is somewhere, they kind of have a
stake in it. And I don't know how to put this exactly, like, once people mix their own lives
in with anything at all, they feel a sense of ownership and, and, and like, they've invested
in something. And that's, I mean, that's accurate, right? Another one that comes to mind is like,
I'm in, I'm the guild leader of a guild in World of Warcraft right now. And a lot of people, I
like, I have ultimate saying who can come and who gets kicked out of the guild. But you, if you're
in a guild for a few months, you put in a lot of time and you've like, you've dedicated some part
of your life, which you will never get back, because we're all getting older and dying into,
into helping to build this thing. And so it becomes like a really big deal to kick someone out, even
if, you know, legally the only, they don't have any, any right to stay. And the whole, the whole
idea, I guess, seems to have been that like, and squatters rights are the same kind of thing,
like if you own some land and someone just like moves in to a building, if you don't kick them
out within a certain number of years, it becomes their building, which just seems like the strangest
thing to me. But I guess like property rights are, are delimited by the government in order to
keep people from not killing each other, right? And that's what it is. When someone feels like
they have a stake in something or someplace, because they've mixed their own life with it,
