there's nothing fun here.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I feel like the farming game type things where like it's basically
a resource management game, but then the fact that you can also pay to get ahead
like means that people are playing it in order to compete with friends, I guess.
Yes.
But I mean, I think the main difference between like it and Farmville is that you
get to build armies and attack other people's bases.
And so like there's there's actually like a game component to it that isn't just click.
Yeah.
So like, I mean, it's not a it's not a stellar, you know, triple A game
that I recommend to anybody.
But I'm just thinking of as far as successful mobile games that aren't
at least complete crash grabs, that at least put work in to make it an actual
game, even if that isn't like the main draw.
I want to create a game called complete cash grab, where you pay five dollars
to attack like someone else on the map, and then they defend themselves by paying
dollars and whoever spends the most dollars wins.
There was an app briefly on the app store, I think called like I am very rich.
Yes, I remember that.
Yeah.
The 30 second version or the 10 second version is that basically it cost, I think
$50,000.
And when you open the app, it displayed a picture of a diamond that said, I'm very
rich underneath.
And I think the guy sold three of these.
Oh, he actually sold some.
Yeah.
Probably to teenagers in Dubai.
Nice.
I mean, I like that's the thing is this thing would have taken a few days to spit
out and get approved by Apple.
The fact that it got approved at all, they changed the rules and you can't do
that anymore.
But like, yeah, just make a quick hundred and fifty K and I mean, yeah, that
sounds awesome.
My brother got a quick $20 or I guess half of that.
Did you guys use the Google survey thing at all?
No.
Every now and then, like roughly once a week, sometimes twice, they'll send you
like a few quick questions and for every question you answer, you get between five
and 10 cents and each one only takes a few seconds.
And, you know, I've been doing it for a while and you can, you don't actually
get money.
You get credits.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I was gonna say, I've done mechanical Turk, but that's okay.
Yeah, no, Google Play credits is oftentimes based on like, hey, where have you
been recently?
What did you spend money on?
It's a, and you don't get money.
You get Google Play credits and I've used some of the credits before to like,
you know, rent a movie or whatever.
But I was, uh, if you don't use them within a year, they go away.
And I was like at $25 in credits and they were starting to go away as
fast as I was earning them just because I like, didn't really have anything to
spend them on.
I'm like, I don't want anything from the Google Play store.
Yeah, I bought a podcaster, which I really liked.
And then I haven't, yeah, I needed any other shit.
And so, uh, my brother who does, you know, uh, web development now, uh, I told
him, look, just put something real quick on Google Play for $20 and I'll buy it
and you'll get, you know, the commission you can get from that.
And so he made an app that does nothing and called it like the useless app or the
app that does nothing or something.
And I bought it.
And so now he has some of that money because my money was literally going away.
And I would rather they go to my brother than to just disappear.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I'm sorry.
I misunderstood what you were saying, but that's, that's actually really funny.
Yeah.
I was, I was kind of, kind of cool.
You know, he could turn that into like an actual service that he got shut down.
Hey, you know, you can, you can buy money with my app that caused nothing to download,
but then you spend Google credits on it.
And, oh no, it needs to be through the purchase of the app, doesn't it?
Yeah.
Although possibly he could buy like an app tokens or something.
Yeah.
But then he'd have to like put more work into it.
This was something that he just threw together.
No, no, but then I'm saying he advertises it as saying, get, you know, 90% of
your, uh, Google coins back as cash and that could be his service.
And then he'd just Venmo the people, the money, 90% of the money and keep 10%
for himself or his trouble.
That could work.
Yeah.
But I do want to point out that there's a business that will give you back most
of the money of your gift cards that you receive for like holidays or birthdays,
which I saw that I saw a guy pitching that on Shark Tank.
I thought that was kind of funny.
Oh yeah.
No, that's a thing.
Uh, and it's hilarious that that is a service that people need and use, but
that's not on topic.
No.
Yeah.
Okay.
So in that case, we should go on because we could, we could just keep talking forever.
I'll restrain myself and drag us back into conjunction fallacy.
Anybody else like when I was reading this one and the conjunction contrary
racy, it was like the conjunction junction song was just stuck in my head.
Yes.
Schoolhouse track.
It wasn't when I read it, but now that you have said it, it will be forever after.
Uh, so the conjunction fallacy is a whole bunch of examples and I'm only
going to pull out two quick ones so that we can cover what it is.
Uh, it starts out with bill bill is 34 years old.
He's intelligent, but unimaginative, compulsive and generally lifeless in school.
He was strong in math, but weak in social studies and humanities.
And then the, it gives you a series of statements about bill and you have
to rank them in order of how likely they are.
Uh, the, I'm going to ignore most of them.
The three important ones is bill is an accountant.
Bill plays jazz for a hobby.
Bill is an accountant who plays jazz for a hobby.
And the interesting thing is that the vast majority of subjects indicated
that bill was more likely to be an accountant than an accountant who played
jazz, but he was more likely to be an accountant who played jazz than a jazz player,
which if you think about it for a while, either bill is an accountant or bill plays
jazz for a hobby has to be either one of those more likely than bill is an
accountant who plays jazz, jazz for a hobby.
Cause you're any, any subset of people who are accountants or who play jazz is
not going to be 100% or even if they are, it would at most be equal, right?
There would be no world in where it's more likely for someone to be an
accountant who plays jazz than to just be someone who plays jazz.
Yeah.
Um, and the thing that Eleazar's pointing out was these people were supposed
to rank these six propositions by probability starting with most and ending
with least, and then he points out that the conjunction rule of probability
theory states that for all X and Y, P of X and Y is going to be less than or equal
to P of Y.
So the probability of X and Y are simultaneously true.
That X and Y are simultaneously true is always less than or equal to the
probability that why it's true.
Violating this rule is called a conjunction fallacy.
And yet when you give people these kinds of like thought experiment sorts of things,
like here's this guy, Bill, he's like this, uh, people aren't thinking about
probability, but there's a psychology thing that happens.
Well, uh, I don't know if any of us, if you want to like explain more of the, uh,
yeah, we, I'll give a couple of more examples that were, uh, that were
given in this, uh, another one was, uh, considering a regular six-sided dice
that has four green and two red sides, it's going to be rolled 20 times.
And you have to select a sequence from a set of three that might show up.
And if it shows up, you win $25.
And one of the sequences options was red, green, red, red, red.
And since green is on a four out of the six and red is on two out of the six,
that's fairly unlikely, but you know, out of enough rules, maybe that would
eventually happen.
Uh, another one of the options was green, red, green, red, red.
And if you'll notice a thing about these two, uh, it's not immediately apparent,
but if you stop to look at it for a second, red, green, red, red is strictly a
subset of green, red, green, red, red.
Cause the second one is just the first one with green in front of it.
So in any sequence, in any, uh, sequence of die rolls, if number two appears,
number one will have half to have appeared as well.
Uh, but number one could appear without number two appearing.
Uh, yet nonetheless, 65% of subjects chose sequence two, uh, in, in theory,
because this seems to be more representative of the die since it has a
higher ratio of green to red sides and the dice is a higher ratio of green to
red sides.
Uh, but again, strictly wrong, cause there's no way you could get to without
getting through number one, uh, and an extra condition on top of that as well.
Yeah.
So it's almost the analog of the thing about bill the accountant where sort of
if you think about, yeah, like the word representativeness, people are kind of
like, instead of thinking in terms of probability theory, they're kind of
thinking in terms of representativeness and like pattern matching.
Yeah.
Or is the second one, yeah, the second one feels fairer because it looks more
like it's got more, more of a balance between green and red.
And so at a non probabilistic intuition at it, you're thinking, well, if I had
to guess, I would say there'd be some number of greens and some number of
reds and the first one looks two red heavies.
I'll say, I'll say two where it has a couple of greens and the same number of
reds, but yeah, that's, uh, it is just the exact same pattern of one with a
green, uh, with a green before it.
And that it's funny.
Yeah.
I mean, I was thinking too about the, the bill example.
I remember when I first learned about this in high school, it was like, I
forget it was Linda or Alice or some, you know, 1970s girl name.
And it was like Alice is a feminist who is also a librarian or something, you
know, they give some big description.
And if you want to wait just a little bit, that's literally the next post.
Oh, is that right?
Yeah.
But you can go ahead and reading yet.
Oh, that's the one.
Yeah.
Perfect.
Okay.
Yep.
I will skip it.
That anyway, that one did appear in my high school textbook.
Um, yeah.
So experience with it when it went, or maybe we should wait to, we'll hold
off and see if I can summon any memories from high school that are like, uh,
