Therefore, I strongly encourage this public speaker to click the subscribe button.
Please click the bell icon and turn on your notification bell.
Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Ene Ashbrodsky.
I'm Steven Zuber.
I'm Jay Sticky.
And we have another episode for you today. And like all episodes, we start out with
the less wrong sequences. Yes?
Yeah.
Sounds fun. And a brief disclaimer that we're recording remotely due to COVID scares, so.
Oh yeah. Do we want to quickly mention that?
I guess by the time this...
Like, any talking over each other, like what just happened, is largely due to the fact
of talking, you know, over the internet, so.
Yeah. I guess by the time this comes out, people will have already known, because it'll
be a couple days after We Want More Should have come out. But we suspect that one of
the hosts of We Want More, the one who is not with us right now, has the COVID.
Yeah. Sometimes I'll line up. That said, Ene's daughter's school was closed last week due
to COVID outbreaks, which is, you know, who could have seen this coming? But, I mean,
I think he's recovering fine. He's just not, you know, able to sit and talk for two hours
without hacking up. So yeah, we're going to take a week off. I am trying to find content
to fill that for tomorrow, but because we're recording on Sunday, the day before We Want
More comes out. But it doesn't look like we're going to have anything ready in time. So yeah,
we'll just have to do a week off, which is no big deal. So, but yeah, then my wife was
sick around the same time, which is part of what made this interesting. But her symptoms
weren't quite the same and went away faster. But, you know, presents differently, different
people, different durations, et cetera. Her test came back negative too, which is good.
And I don't feel any shittier than usual. So I don't think I have it. So we're just,
you know, but still taking it easy.
All right. And hopefully we'll hopefully we'll hear from from Brian today or tomorrow, whether
his test has come back positive or negative. Maybe it's just like a really bad flu.
Yeah, it could be. I mean, I'm texting him, you know, every day, just to make sure he's
doing all right and to chat and he's doing good. So, you know, as good as one, it's just,
you know, coughing, sore throat, all that nonsense.
Yeah, I mean,
it's going to be really disappointing if he dies just before you get to the final exam.
It's going to really disappointing in general.
Said that because I don't like, I haven't actually met Brian, so I feel like I don't get
to make fun of him or whatever. But like, I've just been listening to my like backlog of
podcasts, including We Want More and I love We Want More. I'm really happy that you guys
did that because first of all, like I told you the other day, it's like I'm getting to
re-enjoy one of my favorite stories. But also I super did the like, what was it? The
Y butt thing, except with Harry. I always was just on Harry's side and just like, Harry's
such a great character and would defend him. And everybody was like, he's kind of an asshole.
And I was just like, no, he's not. It's just all the other characters are so unreasonable.
It's interesting to get an outsider's take on it. I think that's what I found the most
valuable, like, because not just outsider of like, outside the rationalist community, but
outsider in the context of somebody who isn't already like, doesn't already enjoy the taste
of the Kool-Aid. And so, like, it's not that I agree with him on everything, but I think his
perspective is valid. And it's enjoyable to see where, you know, we lie and where we don't.
But yeah, I mean, if I felt like he's at any risk of, you know, his, you know, if it's COVID or
not, his illness turning dire, I would be much more somber and serious about it. As it is, I
think he's, you know, on his, he's on the mend. It's just annoying. So yeah, he'll be fine.
Yeah.
All right, should we jump into the sequences themselves?
Let's do it.
All right.
First one is a condom in planning anecdote.
And this one really would have gone good with last week, but we already had three and didn't
want to expand it to four.
Yeah, this is another sequence related to planning fallacy, my like, biggest weakness in
life, planning my old nemesis.
Yes.
Sorry, God.
Oh, I was just going to say, I think one of my biggest weaknesses is aging.
You know, for that, I'd have a lot of things figured out.
I guess I mean, of the ones that I can currently work on, you can do it for aging, but not
anything super significant yet.
My biggest weakness is that my skin is permeable to bullets and knives.
Yeah.
I was waiting for that.
Still crack up a bit.
So anyway, this whole sequence is an excerpt from one of condom and psychology
articles called Timid Choices and a Bold Forecast, Cognitive Perspectives on Risk Taking.
And we can link the full paper.
I found it, it's like a 16 page PDF available for free online.
I found it on JSTOR and it's just, I think, open access.
But the summary of the excerpt, so in 1976, Cognitive was on a team trying to develop
a curriculum on judgment and decision making under uncertainty for his really high school
students.
And after a year, the team met to discuss how long they thought this project was going
to take to finish.
And Cognitive wanted to make the conversation more productive, which I appreciate.
So he had everybody write down how long they thought it was going to take before
they had a complete draft ready for the Ministry of Education.
And he says, the estimates, including his own, it ranged from 18 to 30 months.
So then he asks one of the members who was an expert in curriculum development.
So you've been doing this for a long time and your experience, how long did other
teams like ours take to complete their projects?
And the expert says, of the ones he could think of, 40% never finished.
For the rest, he couldn't think of any that took less than seven years or more
than 10 years.
And also he adds, Cognitive's team seems slightly below average in resources
and potential.
Yeah.
And the great part is, is that he says that 40% chance of failure and then taking
at least seven years, neither of these were outcomes that were an acceptable
basis for continuing the project.
Yeah.
So they ignored this.
Yeah, it says, it was so demoralizing that they just ignored the experts
forecast and also stopped attempting any long-term planning.
And so the end of the exit is the project eventually reached completion eight years later.
However, in the comments, uh, in the, the original last wrong post, someone
wrote, there exists a curriculum for the study of judgment and decision making
under uncertainty for high schools.
Somebody spent eight years developing it.
Where can we get this curriculum?
And in reply, somebody else linked to an article review of Cognitive's thinking
fast and slow, which, uh, I took a little clip out of part of the pleasure of this
book is Cognitive's willingness to incorporate counter arguments.
He inspects his own misjudgments, including a painful decade, sunk into a
committee work for a high school textbook that never saw daylight.
And he went the project.
So apparently it actually never saw daylight after all that.
It's like they finished it, but seven years after the planning window and no
one wanted to buy it when they were done or something.
Yeah.
As a couple of other people pointed out that the curriculum's going to be out of
date now.
Yeah, that's a good point.
But like, I guess it at least, um, informed his writing on thinking fast and slow.
So maybe planning a curriculum is way harder than writing a book, but like, it
shouldn't take, well, I was about to say it shouldn't take that long, but I'm not
even an industry expert.
So what's funny is like, you know, if we're sitting down for a planning
meeting at my job and someone's like, all right, well, the goal is trying to get
us out end of Q one next year.
You know, what do you think we can get done in that time?
I don't think that like an acceptable answer would be, I don't think this is possible.
Um, like, so I wonder how much of that is just kind of inherited from like the
work environment to where saying that I don't think this is even doable.
Um, or that like, Hey, look, I looked at the numbers, you know, like imagine
you're sitting down with your friends to do a startup or something.
And they're like, all right, well, what do you think the odds are for us getting
to market by the end of the year?
And I think that if you're the person who points out, be like, you know, 80% of
these never make it, you know, past the whatever, like even to the alpha phase.
Right.
I don't think that they would let you come to the next meeting.
But it's kind of like understood though that like, that's the rescue
taking versus like something like this sounded like kind of more run of the mill.
Could be column a little column a little column B.
I think, I mean, the only startup I've worked at is a fairly, uh, like robust one.
And I got in, you know, six years in, but, um, you know, at the beginning it's,
it was funded by one guy who was paying, you know, three engineering salaries.
So like he clearly was at least gambling with, uh, the confidence that this would
go to somewhere because he was spending hundreds of thousands of dollars trying
to get it going, right?
But, you know, if it's you and your friends doing it in part time, that's
different, uh, but trying to like actually sit down and start a company
and with payroll and I don't know, right?
I just, I gotta think that once you put your, not just like 50 bucks, but
something like $300,000 a year into it, you're thinking, okay, yeah, this,
this better goes somewhere.
Right.
Um, of course, too, if you're getting paid, you'll overcome some of the
assembling blocks that probably stop hobby projects from reaching completion.
Just trying to imagine working on something for 10 years and then having
nothing to show for it afterwards.
It's like my career in the video game industry.
Now there are a few games that came out.
They just, none of them ever really hit it really big.
The real thing was the friends you made along the way.
Yeah.
Womp.
Or the stuff you learned along the way.
Not for working the video games.
A lot of work.
It's probably like that though.
Like, I mean, with accounting, you're just doing the same damn thing.
Every quarter and then the numbers go away and don't matter anymore.
I would assume like anything where you're working on an assembly line
or we're extracting resources, you don't see the finished product.
Jack, you're just kind of doing the same thing every day.
I guess maybe most jobs are like that.
Or after 10 years, it feels like you haven't really done anything
aside from getting paid.
I felt way more satisfied that I was like being useful to humanity when I was
working like a food service job than when I was in the games industry.
It would have been different if I was making games that people love
that weren't really popular, but we switched from like a model of trying
to make like dungeon crawlers and tank games and like web game stuff
to click bait mobile game bullshit.
First of all, I was like, we're making like slot machines,
which is just exploiting people's psychology.
You're not even giving them a cool product in return.
And then secondly, like, you know, when you're working in food service,
it's like, well, at least I'm providing people with food,
which is one of the like basic necessities of life.
Yeah, I think the most profitable mobile game is Clash of Clans.
And I think it just hit eight years on the market.
And I'm not sure what it's made, but some billions of dollars.
And like comparing it's like the slot machine, random, you know,
nonsense cash grab apps that people just generate, put out for a month,
try and make some money and then start on the next one.
Like this one at least offers a game underneath and all the paid stuff is optional.
So like it's not paid to win or pay to play.
It's just paid to fast track, which you don't have to do.
So like, I don't know.
I think that the psychology, though, I tried playing it and I was just like,
