It's just a lot of fast timing, a lot of, okay, how do I go against this person?
Um, it's a game that requires a lot of, uh, like quick thinking and strategizing while in the
middle of a fight or approaching one. You can, uh, coordinate things. You can set things up.
Um, and then like the game is just pretty and fun and has a fun story. Uh, so in the
non-compet moments too, it's also really enjoyable. And, uh, what, what like genre is this? I'm having
our time picturing this. Uh, RPG with Katanas? It's, did you ever play it? Okay. I didn't play it
myself, but it looked a lot like the, um, first person fighter kind of thing, like, uh, Ninja
Gaiden. No, I think this is, uh, more like, you know, if you miss hit a button, you're going to
take damage and damage is severe. It's not like just a smash the square button until the enemy's
dead kind of thing. Oh, okay. Um, it's like, I mean, to go, I don't want to rail on it for too
long or not rail on it, but I don't want to, uh, hammer home how great it is for too long because
I don't want to suck up the whole episode, but like there are enemies with, uh, you know, there
are brute enemies, like the big heavy ones. They're one of the shields, one of the ones with spears
and one of the swords. And there are four different stances that you learn that you can,
one stance is good against shields, one stance is good against, uh, spearmen, and you can switch
immediately in the middle of combat without pausing the game. I think you hold like left
trigger and triangle to switch to the spear fighting stance or something. And so while you're
fighting a group of enemies and one's coming out with the spear, you quickly switch the spear
fighting stance and then counter that move and take the guy out and then switch back to the sword
fighting stance, but it's just really engaging. Um, check out YouTube and watch 10 minutes of
gameplay and check it out. Yeah, I'll check it out. Yeah, yeah, yeah. There's also a girlfriend
reviews on the, uh, game. So if you're, if you're like me and like that channel,
although she does not say, yeah, yeah, yeah, she says, hold up a minute. That's right.
Hold up a minute. You're running my catchphrase. Nice.
Okay. Uh, I don't know. Should I throw one of them out there or what?
I think Jason's going to say something before I interrupt it with video game stuff.
Oh, that's right. No, I was saying that I also have stuff that we could,
that I found that was cool. I don't know. I could, I could throw a thing out, but
sure, do it. Um, there's a list of posts that I really enjoyed. Uh, it's Katya Grace,
the bads of ads. Did I, did you see this one? Uh, maybe it doesn't sound familiar on the title
name of it. It's just about, um, it's first of all, like the best breakdown of why advertising is
terrible. Oh, I did see this. Okay. Yeah. The saturation of advertising and,
but it really like, it breaks it down like all the different ways that it just makes life less
good and, uh, talks generally about like attention theft and then at the end about what good and
ethical advertising might look like. I, um, first of all, this is like near and dear to my heart
because I hate ads and write about them all the time, especially the way that they're just shoved
in your face so much. Yeah. The ones specifically that are designed to, to grab your attention when
you don't want to divert your attention are the ones I really hate. Yeah. Back in the day when,
uh, TV was a still a thing and you sat down to watch TV, you knew there were going to be commercial
breaks. So you knew when to go and like leave the TV or muted or whatever. Like that was just part
of the deal. But when things are just like there to, to interrupt your thought process or what
you're already doing and try to take your attention, it's like you're, you're literally taking the
thing that I use to fuel my life. And I don't appreciate that. Auto playing videos with the
sound on websites. Oh, murder is what those people deserve to happen to them. I guess that's an
exaggeration. No, but it is almost, it's an understandable exaggeration because I don't
quite know what possesses them to think this is a good idea. Like I disable it or I leave the
site and I never come back. Like this is not something that the users enjoy. I don't know.
Speaking of annoying things, that's on the list. Yeah. Uh, I like this line stepping back, uh,
or no, it was, uh, sometimes I fantasize about a future where stealing someone's attention to suit,
uh, for the 14th time that they, to suggest for the 14th time, they watch your awful looking
play is rightly looked upon as akin to picking their pocket. Um, but the thing that actually I
wanted to say about this was something somebody pointed out in the comments, because it was about
podcasts. Uh, it was user mad saying, uh, I put my money where my mouth is, I support ad-free podcasts
uh, with unlockable ad-free versions on Patreon. This podcast brought to you by VP Nord VPN.
Sorry. Yeah. That's what they start talking about because they were saying that, uh,
first of all, it bothers them that we've been conditioned to accept ads as the price of the
internet and not have their precious time taken up with podcasts, who's aka people I trust telling
me about how much they love whichever meal box kid is paying them this year. And then, uh,
they talk about a time they emailed a podcaster to listen to when her podcast ran an ad for a
product that they knew she wouldn't support if she knew some easily Google backstory. And she
emailed them back, pulled the ad and said, Oh, I didn't use the product. I didn't know that it was
bad. And then, uh, mad goes on to say, Well, obviously, you know, a lot of these endorsements
are fake, but I find podcasts, especially insidious as the podcaster listen to relationship is
surprisingly intimate. And like, I rarely hear like tepid endorsements, um, of anything on podcasts,
most of them that listen to don't have ads. Uh, so I get by with very few like the Joe Rogan
experience opens with like six or eight minutes of ads, but he is nice enough to pre record them
and put them at the very beginning. So you just hit the skip forward button 20 times and then you
get to start the actual episode. Um, it's the ones where like partway through, uh, like a very
bad wizards does this, but they, they do it like in a self aware way, but is still kind of annoying.
Um, where they'll be talking and be like, Oh yeah, man, I've been so tired lately. That's why I got
this cool mattress. And, uh, then that's, that's their plug for whatever, right? Um, so it's kind
of funny how, uh, that, that all pans out. But yeah, some people managed to do it well, still
like, I still find it weird that it, it's sort of just, it's unfortunate that this is a money
making, you know, strategy that works for people who are making some or all of their income podcasting,
where clearly like they're providing a valuable experience for people. But what the hell does
like blue apron or how should I even say brand names like have to do with, I don't know, uh,
some like, or tabletop or PG podcast. Uh, it's just, I don't know. I think you actually had, uh,
on your blog, like years ago, probably at this point, but I remember there was an article you
wrote about, uh, like being pro targeted ads where you're like, I'd rather have, you know,
ads that actually like might be something that I might want to buy that like pertain to me personally.
There's a couple of ads I ran into that were really handy. They were telling me that someone
that I really loved was coming through town. I was like, Oh hell yeah, I'm going to go see him.
Thanks, ad. But, uh, yeah, I had that experience too. I mean, like, but there's privacy issues,
which are like a whole nother subject. But there's something else that Katya was talking about in
the original post where it's like, you know, could I, uh, let me just read the last sentence,
the last couple sentences is this, what would good and ethical advertising look like? Maybe I
decided I want to be advertised to now and go to my preferred advertising venue. I see a series of
beautiful messages about things that are actively helpful for me to know. I can downvote ads if I
don't like the picture of the world that they're feeding into my brain or the apparent uncooperativeness
of their message. I leave advertising time feeling inspired and happy. Yeah, but it is just sort of
like, it's not like people don't want to buy things. I don't know. It just, it seems like it's
just the coordination problems with, with marketing are so bad. There's got to be a better way to
do this stuff. Well, there's that great documentary put out by Tristan Harris, who was on Sam Harris's
podcast a couple of times. He was like the director of like ethics at Google or something. I forget
exact title that he had there. Um, but the YouTube or not YouTube Netflix documentary is called The
Social Dilemma, where it talks about the like digital avatars that are built by every activity
you do online that not just curtail ads to you, but curtail like certain permissions and offers
and stuff to you in particular. It's, it's rather insidious and more like, because I'd recommend
just listening to the episode he did on Sam Harris's podcast a month or two ago. It was a lot of fun
and Harris played the part of like the, the devil's advocate and he's like, well, what's so wrong
with, you know, I like seeing an ad for, oh, I didn't know this author put out a new book I like,
you know, it's nice to get that information. And he's like, sure, but it comes at a big cost.
And so, uh, I found that whole conversation really valuable and I didn't actually watch the
documentary because I'm already sold on it, but I will one of these days when I feel like being
bummed out. So, uh, probably in a little while, if, if things stop being less shitty and I have
less to be bummed about already, then I'll sit and deliberately bum myself out watching this.
Oh man. Deliberately bumming yourself out is not tight.
I think at least one person I trusted that they thought it was like pretty bad and pointless,
the social dilemma. Uh, Wes, maybe? I don't know. I haven't said it myself though.
I thought he said Wes, but stay, we love you bud.
Yeah, it does sound like a Wes thing.
I was thinking that too. Of course he hated it.
Uh, okay. But maybe he has good reasons. I, uh, but there's some,
there'll be some discussion that maybe I can follow.
Oh yeah.
Well, in that case, um, talking about bumming yourself being not tight, uh, the next thing I
was going, or the first thing I was going to throw out was that, um, I've kind of, uh, I was
listening to the skeptic sky to the universe recently speaking about, you know, podcasts
that we listen to and that sometimes pimp stuff for money because they need to pay bills.
But in a very recent episode, Steve Novella, who's the primary host, was going off about
pessimism and how pessimism sucks. And like what he said really struck a chord with me because
I have been for, I don't know, several months now on The Mindkiller, um, which is a different
podcast where we specifically do talk about politics. And it's, I mean, it's fun. I enjoy
hanging out with those people and, and I feel more informed. Yeah. And getting my mind killed,
right? But, um, always after I do this, I just, I feel like what, how is the government existing
as it does? And, and, and the, um, one of the co-hosts, David, is very much a, this is the
dumbest timeline. The government is terrible. What did you expect? It's, it's always, it's a
kind of pessimistic look on things. And like, I'm not trying to shit on David. He's cool. He's a cool
guy. Um, and we have a lot of fun. But like more and more, I've been feeling like, why do we even
bother having our government? It is awful. If you always expect the worst thing, you'll generally
always be right. And just in general, I've been feeling not like I did when I was a teenager,
when I was like, hell yeah, if we can like all coordinate and get together and work together
on these problems, we can fix our issues. And I've just been having more of a feeling of like
pessimism. And, and Steve Novella pointed out that like, pessimism leads to accepting things
that suck because, well, that's just the way things are. Of course, you know, everything's awful,
of course, the government's incompetent. And Steve was saying, no, we should do, don't be
pessimistic, don't accept things. If something isn't good, that is a problem. And you should
rage against the machine and go down fighting and screaming because, because that just as, as much
as pessimism feels like the wise thing to do, because it's who you know, it's a correct interpretation
of the world, maybe, maybe not, it leads to things being worse in the end. So it is a losing move to
to just be pessimistic as it brings you to accept crap. I don't know, what do you guys think?
It's hard because sorry, go ahead, Jason.
Um, he said, you actually said, I think that pessimism is like, there's it seems sort of wise,
because like, maybe it's a more realistic view of the world, but like,
sort of the meaning of pessimism is being pathologically negative about things.
Yeah, but what if you are accurately negative about things?
Well, I think there's a difference between reviewing the facts and choosing to be like,
okay, like, well, first of all, you can interpret what just there's so much unpack.
Like, I think it may be actively beneficial to be pathologically positive
to surround yourself with my little ponies in Steven Universe and like,
always see the good in stuff.
Well, that's like, sort of, there's a difference between I think, first of all, like,
diluting yourself about reality. But if you're, I don't know, if you're looking at the news and
you're only like, the thing I always point out is that the news is
deliberately like cherry picking stories that they that have like been focused tested to be as
basically attention grabbing as possible. It's more of the sort of attention theft thing.
When like, larger global data about the world shows things getting better.
But we like, but if you focus on all the stuff that's bad and you over focus on that,
and you discount the positive, repeatedly, you do train yourself to just expect the worst case
scenario to always happen. And you lose your motivation, because you don't feel like you have
any control over your life, over your outcomes, or that like humanity as a whole can do anything.
Right. Humanity is doing like really cool stuff all the time. But like, when we start looking at,
you know, all politicians are stupid, and I can't believe this is happening and like,
everything's so bad. It's like, is this really worse than like the dark ages?
Is Trump in office and like saying like COVID, COVID, COVID, everybody talks about
his COVID, it's over already, you know, like, but the thing is that like,
we're working on vaccinations and treatments. And if you think about, you know,
bionic plague, or other, you know, historical pandemics and compare it to now,
compare our situation to theirs. I mean, we're so much more informed. There is so much more
that we can do. Part of me finds solace in that kind of perspective, where, you know,
the Steven Pinker style, you know, things are a lot better than they historically have been,
like that's all great. But then it's on the one hand, you don't want to use that as to saying,
therefore, we don't have to push harder and keep going. And you also don't want to say like,
well, you know, it was way worse 500 years ago, back when a splinter would give you
infection and you die. Yeah, I'm not sure what the formal fallacy name is for that,
but I call it the starving kid in Africa fallacy. But in this case, the starving kid was, you know,
our poor ancestors. But like the, I guess, yes, even now in the state of the United States,
with over a quarter million dead from fucking this particular pandemic,
it like, yes, is that better than the robotic plague? Probably sure, definitely. But like the
point is, like, we as a species are capable of doing better. You know, I think Australia last
month had no cases. Like the the it is possible for our species to do better. And so like then
watching our our neighbors and community not is infuriating and drives me up the fucking wall.
So, and I'm not trying to to put down the the positive note you're bringing up so hard, it's
just like, I don't want to use any excuse to say like, well, no, but it could be worse because
sure, but that doesn't help, right? That's not what I'm trying to do either, because I can imagine
sort of coming to the conclusion of like, well, everything sucks. So what's the point of trying
both as like, or rather, backup? I think it's bad to, yeah, get make yourself really depressed by
how like, you know, focusing on the negatives or anything, then being like, well, what's the
point? I'm going to watch Netflix, and not go out and vote or whatever. Or, but also, you don't
want to just like, be like, Oh, everything is great. There's nothing to worry about in the world.
I think just it's the thing of discounting the positive, which like the thing that it's not
being a pessimist isn't having a more like accurate view of reality, being able to look at, okay,
there's positives and negatives here. And yeah, like that gets you out of either being pathologically,
like, you know, anchored on everything's fine. So I don't have to do anything about it or everything
sucks. So I'd like, so why bother doing anything about it? It's like a, are you using, I guess,
sort of, are you using the way that you view the world to motivate yourself, like in a healthy way
for yourself and for the species or it, you know, are you kind of binging on outrage porn and then
getting depressed and watching Netflix? That's a good point. I think that that toes the line a lot
more than I was giving it credit for. I think I just had a knee jerk reaction to it. I thanks for
the clarification. Yeah, sorry, I'm trying to like articulate something that I'm having a really
