Yeah, it's a tough balancing act for sure, but I don't feel bad.
So we can roll on if you want.
Sure, our posts, our sequence posts for next time will be burdened
some details and what is evidence?
And also, should I mention the thing that I have been talked into doing at this point?
Yes, actually, I was going to bring it up earlier
because when we were saying this one's really long, so I'll just skip to it.
I was going to say, but yeah, all right.
So on the TBC discord, a couple of people,
one in particular keeps asking me about this.
Shout out to you. Why we curse. This is all for you.
People keep asking me to like read the sequences.
And I'm like, but there's already two podcasts, two podcasts
that we link in every single episode that read the sequences for free.
And there was there was just like some desire to actually have me read them,
I guess, because people have gotten used to my voice and or like me or something.
And I was like, well, someone asked specifically again, why we could ask,
look, can I pay you to do this so that like it wouldn't be just such a terrible
imposition to you? And I was like, sure, I guess I would I would read a post for 20 bucks.
He's like, all right, I'm on it.
Just put up something so that I can get this money to you.
I was like, oh, God, OK.
So anyways, I have now created a commission, a sequence read page
on the Basin Conspiracy website.
There is a list of every single less wrong sequence
and a way to PayPal me $20 if you want to do that thing.
And I will read one of them and put it up.
And I can probably do between one and three a week, depending on like how busy
I am with other stuff in my life.
So please don't like swamp me or anything.
And again, there is other podcasts that are doing this, so you don't need to pay me.
But if you would like to, I will be happy to do that thing for you guys for
twenty dollars or even ten dollars for like the really short ones.
So yeah, there'll be a link included in this episode.
And I guess thanks in advance to anyone who does that.
You've also already done a handful on the Methods of Rationality podcast.
Yes, those are also already included in the initial page.
And the sponsor of those is just marked as HPMOR.com.
And yeah, if you do pay money for this thing, your name or whatever
you want me to put in the sponsored by space will be included on the website
forever or until the website goes down.
I was going to make a joke, but I don't think anyone want me to do them.
But I could just threaten to do them.
And if you don't have any ash to it, I will do it.
And then the world will be much worse off.
So nice, holding them for ransom.
So my question is any ash will will you read other things for money?
Sure, I suppose so.
All right, we've got them.
I don't have anything in particular in mind.
Just I just love this idea.
But you bet we'll find something terrible for you to read.
Now you have to.
I have a gun.
Oh, God.
I mean, it starts to with stuff that's copyrighted, there is the question
of actually getting the permission of the current rights holder.
So there's that.
The sequences are easy because Eliezer has already publicly said.
Feel free to do what you want with this, guys.
Alrighty, shall we move on?
Yes, what are we talking about for our main topic this week at Inyash?
Well, that is a good question, because I don't know, over the past few weeks,
I in particular have been kind of down and full of anxiety.
And I think it's in large part due to the election.
I don't know how you guys have been feeling.
You guys have been feeling the same way.
Oh, yeah.
You know, it's been a bummer, too, because I've been watching like,
I mean, everything has been talking about it.
But the last month of SNL nonstop openers about the debates or whatever
and watched last night's episode.
And it's just wall to wall election stress.
And, you know, it's weird.
Like, I don't know, the malaise you're talking about, man, like looking back,
like this all feels like, oh, yeah, I remember how this was like,
I mean, it just seems like yesterday where we were talking about,
oh, my God, can you believe the outcome of the election?
And then it's like, oh, yeah, like three times a week, this insane bullshit.
You know, like yesterday, the president tweeted out a video of those trucks
full of Texans harassing that Biden bus that they eventually ran off the road.
And whoa, I didn't hear about that.
Well, he tweeted out the he didn't tweet out the video of them running
him off the road, but they and harassing the vehicle.
Well, it was the harassment video that he posted.
You know, he posted in all caps.
I love Texas.
And like, it's just this is the the president and it stresses me out.
And, you know, part of me thinks it shouldn't.
But part of me, that part of me gets tired and gets stressed out anyway.
And so like, then you, but like this, the reason to hear about it,
because three things like this happen every fucking week.
And now we look back and realize it's been happening.
This has been going on for years.
And it's just like the whole world has been this exhausting and stressful nonstop.
I don't know, man.
We kind of try to avoid politics on this podcast sometimes.
I don't know. I guess not.
We don't focus on it specifically.
I guess we don't actually try to avoid it.
It's kind of weird though, because by the time this comes out,
like the election results will already be known, hopefully.
Not really. I mean, that's that's the thing is like because of the
the increase in mail-in ballots, like, I don't think we're going to have
a winner on Tuesday night.
We're going to have a prospective winner.
And like, I mean, the other thing to keep in mind here, too, is that like,
Trump could lose the election, but still fight to retain his seat in office, right?
The thing is, if we don't have a winner by Tuesday night, it'll be because
it wasn't so fucking overwhelming and obvious that he lost, that we have to
keep counting votes.
And to me, that in itself is a bit of a defeat because, like, we really
need him to lose that hard.
Just send a message to the Republican Party.
You know, don't do this shit again.
Well, I guess, I mean, this is all perspective.
I tell you what, we can make a wager.
Who wants to bet that there'll be a declared winner on Wednesday by the
time this episode comes out?
I don't want to bet on that.
I'm just saying that I would consider that already a lesser win, a bit of a defeat already.
I mean, Biden could be ahead by 15 million votes on Tuesday night, but there's,
I don't think that a concession is going to happen on Trump's side, right?
He would push it off for weeks and months while it was fought in court and then
debate, you know, challenging the results and making it this whole fuck all mess,
where then once it comes out, once all the, you know, votes are counted and they
don't try and do an Al Gore thing or they can't because he's lost by too much, then
he'll just, you know, sue a whatever the committees that are counting these and
drag this out for years, right?
If he sues individual voters for not voting for him?
I mean, I wouldn't put it past him if he thought he could get away with it.
Yeah.
So I guess it sucks because like everyone's saying, oh yeah, no, vote him out.
We'll all get this over with and I don't see it happening.
I see like, I mean, and everyone probably by now has heard, but like Walmart in the U.S.
stopped selling guns this week.
Yeah.
I think that, you know, like Red Cross volunteers, I've been sent instructions on how to handle
like basically prospective civil unrest next week.
And, you know, like, I mean, I guess the thing with Walmart, you know, to take it with a grain
of salt, like they don't sell the kinds of guns that you use to kill people with.
They sell, yeah, they sell like hunting.
They sell the kind of guns you can use to kill people with.
Right.
If you can hunt a deer, you can hunt a person.
Yes.
But I guess they don't hunt the one, they don't sell the ones that like you use for mass shootings.
They sell like 22's and like 22 calibers, which are not the ones that you use to shoot
a mob of people and like the small grain shotgun pellets that you use to shoot birds with and
stuff, they're not, they're not, they're not selling the kinds that you can use easily to
take to a nightclub and shoot 50 people or at least kill 50 people.
You can shoot people with 22, but they're not, they're small bullets.
Again, it's totally doable to kill people with them, but it's not the one, it's not the
weapon of choice for people who want to kill people with guns.
All right. Yeah, I guess it's not, it's not really a armed conflict sort of weapon.
That said though, I mean, just keep in mind what this still means is that like, you know,
somebody has decided, oh yeah, things have gotten insane enough to where we don't,
we don't want to risk putting these out on the shelves at our stores right now.
It's just a weird time to be alive.
One of the worst places to be, which do Walmart and police trying to protect themselves.
Uh, yeah, and so it's going to be here.
She always does time at Walmart.
That's where they store the toilet paper in the Walmarts.
So yeah, due to, due to, I guess, haha, I said due to, due to the general anxiety and
malaise and stuff. We, we like had a hard time getting our shit together.
So instead of like having a single unified topic, I just came up with a bunch of stuff
that grabbed my attention in the last week and thought maybe I would throw it out there for
us to bat around for a while. If you guys are down for that.
That sounds fun.
I've got some stuff that I grabbed.
I've got one quick thing just to shout out that we have been requested by one of our
awesome patrons, Lucas, to hope I'm saying that right, to do an episode on immortality research.
The, I feel like this deserves more than like my uninformed speculation.
So we're going to put that off until next episode where we have a couple weeks to do some homework
and actually form informed opinions. So that will be, that's my, that's what I'm bringing to the
table this week.
Yeah. So look forward to that if you, you know, are also feeling malaised and want to hear about
something other than Trump and COVID.
I want to say too, if you are feeling malaised and want something fun to do, we are doing
the, we've got a role on the Bayesian conspiracy server for, what do you call it, among us.
And so if you, if you're looking for people to play with, and it's a lot more fun to play with
people online, like that, you know, over voice, you can jump on this, jump on the Bayesian
conspiracy server, go to the, actually, I don't know if the welcome page has a bot for adding
the imposter role or not, but just at me and I'll, I'll either make the, make the robot or add you
manually. And that way, when someone jumps on to the, what, land parties channel and pings
imposters, you'll get a ping and you can play with people and it's a lot of fun. So yeah,
that's my, my, that's what I've been using to treat malaise is playing video games.
As long as I'm rambling about that, uh, Ghost of Tsushima is a game that I played a few months
ago when it came out and the, the single player was amazing. And they launched like two weeks ago,
an online mode that is so, uh, like broad and well done and, uh, versatile that I can't believe
they didn't charge number 60 bucks for it. It's amazing. And they totally could have. Um, it's
just, uh, anyway, it was free, free update. If you have Ghost of Tsushima and if you don't,
you can still buy it for 60 bucks, but the online version of that is awesome. I've been enjoying
this game like why would I enjoy it? Oh, uh, like, so the online is different than the,
the single player, uh, in a nutshell, um, it takes place in the age of the samurai,
they're fighting off a Mongol invasion and I played it coming off of, um, Last of Us 2.
And so this, this had like, uh, the, the gameplay is never stops being challenging,
but it's, it's, you're able to master it and actually get good at it and then really enjoy
it. It never stops being rewarding either. It's not like Dark Souls where it's just you
severe meatball your way into the enemy over and over until you memorize their movesets.
