hard time articulating, but it's more like the point of, I think rationality is actually like,
you know, let's look at both sides of this thing that like, let's not discount the positives,
but also like, let's, you know, be aware that the negatives exist, and then just make like,
the best decision based on the data and not based on like, what my emotions are doing right now,
or, and that's so many things. It's not to say you shouldn't take care of your emotions either. I
mean, that's I think super important as well. And I hear what you're saying. I think my, my
inner David spearman is saying, thank you. No, you're good. I think it's my inner David spearman
is saying like, my emotions aren't playing a role. I'm just making accurate predictions.
I assume everything will be dog shit. And lo and behold, I'm right 99% of the time.
Does that sound like I'm channeling him pretty well? I would say that is not inaccurate.
But I think that like, on the one hand, you can, you know, just a, as of all things,
this goes back to methods of rationality, you can take the quail perspective and say,
yep, so everything's fucked and fuck everybody. Or you can take the hairy perspective and say,
so yeah, we've got to stay here and fight and make this better.
I think, I don't know. I, I've been personally been finding myself espousing the pessimism thing
a lot more than I used to and would like to. And it's, it's been like negatively impacting me.
So I need to find some way to start surrounding myself with more positive things, even when it
feels like a stupid sacred thing to do. Yeah. Well, that's sort of the taking care of your
emotions part of that too. And also I need to like specifically stand up and say things like,
you know what? Sure, it's dog shit right now, how it's done, but it could be done better. And
someday we will do it better. Okay, like this is bullshit right now. However, like first of all,
let's give ourselves credit for the fact that we are doing X, Y and Z things that like we weren't
able to do in the past. And then also we're learning about all the ways we failed this time.
And like people are going to be more prepared in the future, know what to do differently,
better, etc. Yeah, I think part of it like with, you know, like the Steve Novella,
you know, don't, don't give in a cynicism and, you know, stab and fight rage against the machine,
like my rage against the machine tank is empty, right? Like part of it is just gets,
it gets, you get so burnt out on this. I'm sure there's a word for it, you know,
Trump fatigue or something. But I guess to Jayce's point, I like, I like the way you're putting it
that, you know, it's, it's, you can take solace in the fact that like things are better than they
were without saying we can't do better. And like the other thing too, you know, I just think about
this when for fuck's sake, this impeached fraud president got three Supreme Court seats that
like, you know, yes, worst case scenario, I remember when he nominated her and this was
obviously going to go through because of course, like, yeah, this could end badly. And it could,
you know, make the United States less comfortable for a few decades. But hopefully my view is that
like in the long run, how does Scott Alexander put it that like, you know, the, the, I forget he
paints this picture in the Molek essay, but like, you know, history might have might swing
different ways, but it always moves left. Like we are historically always on an upward trend
with the occasional setback sure. But like in 100 years will be better than we are now,
almost definitely, right? Or at least if you're based on historically,
things have been getting better, right? So setbacks aside, I think we're still moving forward.
Yeah, we still have the capability of moving forward. Also, I think that there's something
about sort of just like, also, I guess, believing in humanities, like potential to be good and to
be competent, where maybe that is sort of like the having blind faith or whatever.
Thank you. I think, I think that's what my problem was. I was, I was losing my,
my faith that humanity even had the potential to do good and do better. That like, it was,
everything always seems to reduce to status games and, and this zero sum fighting over, over
heavy shit. And, and I need to stop, stop thinking that. Yeah, like, because what's
everything, you're like, everything always, that those are actually like,
those are things that are literally false, I know. I mean, this is like really, I'm trying to
find this CBT article that I was, I'm going to just give up because I've been really articulate
while I've kind of half of my brain is trying to say podcast words and half of my brain is
trying to figure out where I put the link. But this is like literally how you use CBT to,
to combat depression and anxiety by catching when you have these thought distortions of like,
always never discounting the positive catastrophization and, and realizing like,
Can you quickly say what CBT stands for? Because there's at least three different things
that cognitive behavioral therapy. Okay, thank you. Not not CBD. Not to be confused with the
non psychoactive cannabinoid or whatever the other one is. The other one was cock and ball torture.
Well, I know I can at least advocate the CBD. I went off benzodiazepines entirely with a
CBD tincture. Oh, okay. Not CBT. Actually,
Well done, you guys. Thanks for putting a smile on my face. This was kind of grim.
Yeah, when you were getting to a dark place, I was actually also about to read you.
This is a super tangent, but like really quick. I was, since I was homesick from my like,
partner's Halloween party yesterday, I was playing around with AI dungeon, the
I think it was dpd2 at that point, right? Sort of interactive adventure game. Some people had
written some Halloween scenarios. And there was this clip from one that I found that is just excellent.
You walk towards the kitchen before you hit the doorbell ringing. It's probably your father
returning from work says your mother. He always comes through the front door.
You nod and walk towards the front door. You open it up to find a man standing on the porch.
He has a large gut and thinning blonde hair. His brow is furrowed. And he has a confused look on
his face. Hello, he says. I'm your father. I came through the front door. I know you reply. I'm not
stupid. Awesome. It's me. I came through the front door like I always do. This sounds like an alien
replaced your father. Yes. It's actually like, yeah, it does create this spooky feeling, but I just
love the playing with, you know, baby AI, how it'll be like really loose. And sometimes then
sometimes this is why humans are like great. Humor is really good for combating stress, depression,
anxiety. So yeah, and also like cute animal videos. The Great Britain Show. Yeah.
Japanese week this weekend. It was awesome. And I might need to see if I can find that.
It's on Netflix. Most recent episode. Oh, nice. Okay. I remember that. So were you,
I was going to say you were I just as you were breathing weird stuff. I remember you were going
to tease us with some kind of time travel thing. Oh, okay. Now I'm looking for another link. Okay,
it's not time travel. It's this. Well, the article is on psychology today. I found it as just like
a Google recommendation, which like sort of in the thing of targeted ads, Google is pretty good
at suggesting the articles sometimes too good. Because definitely I was supposed to be doing
my like programming boot camp. So I can talk about but instead I was reading shit like this.
In the time of Takasensia, which I will link so that people can read this but apparently the
psychologist wrote an article called is there such a thing as Takasensia and then received dozens
of feedback messages with stories of Takasensia bouts along with comments claiming that there's
no such thing as Takasensia. What is Takasensia? So it's sense of time. Yeah. People get apparently
like and it usually comes up when in reference to like PTSD, fevers, migraines, stress, fear, anxiety.
This frightening, like weird feeling of time going really fast or really slow.
Oh, yeah. And it's apparently like, if it exists, which I've experienced this, or at least I think
I have. The part of your brain that like creates a feeling of things being consistent and logical,
you know, time following, time sort of passing at the same rate. It can get messed up.
There's a couple quotes. So I felt like I was in a tunnel with a person approaching me,
the same person many times over and over again at great speed. I would hear a clock on a wall
ticking so loudly as I saw the second hand whipping around. It sounded like someone was
hitting a giant bell with a sledgehammer. I'm standing on an escalator going up but the people
on the down one to my right are descending five times as fast. The surroundings around me appear
to move fast as if someone pressed fast forward on a movie. Like all of this sounds stuff that
would be terrifying if you didn't know why it was happening, but like really enjoyable if you'd
taken some drugs and were expecting it. Yeah, I was going to say, first of all, this sounds like
things that people experience on psychedelics. Distortion or dilation of time, I think is
like something that is consistently reported as one of the side effects or intentional effects
of some recreational drugs. Well, it's different from doing it on purpose.
Yeah, I mean, it could still be really scary. I had actually an experience with this,
what I think is the same thing, when I accidentally combined drugs that should not be combined.
And the way that the psychiatrist explains this is in line with the like surfing uncertainty
predictions all the way down model of how your brain works. But I remember before I even read
that article or knew anything about that model. One time I was at this, I was at an anime con.
And then I like, it took some drugs that shouldn't be mixed and had like one beer. But like,
it was really scary actually, because it was early in the day. When we arrived at like,
I don't know, 10am or something, I like took some prescription drugs and like
some metropic. And then like that night, we were eating dinner and I had one beer. And then
suddenly it was just, I started experiencing time as just like a bunch of saccades or like
still snapshots with all the space in between that like, I think is actually
the stuff that your brain fills in to make it seem like there's this consistent pattern or this,
you know, okay, this happens, and then this much happened. And this person was walking across the
room at this time, like your brain's actually just like making all this shit up and filling it to
get like, you know, piecing it together. And it seems really logical and consistent. Unless you
break that part of your brain, and you realize how little sense experience you're actually getting
from the environment and how much your brain is just like, sort of making a hologram of what
it thinks is going on. I don't know. I think it's really cool. And also, something that I,
I don't know, something I'm just like interested in lately.
Yeah, it would be a good, not good. Oh, I was just saying like,
and since it's on drugs, you, you always then you have to wonder like,
is this because it is breaking down my brain's ability to fill in these details. So I'm noticing
it. Or is this because the drugs are just making me think this is what normally happens when
usually my brain is running just fine. Yeah, I don't know. Like, are you seeing the true
functionings without this, the, the, the, the artifice layered over the top, or are you just
having a malfunctioning period? Yeah, I mean, if you look at MRI scans of the brains of people
on psychedelics, which they, I know that they've done a lot of mushroom scans, I'm not sure about
other kinds. But what neurologically appears to be happening is that where, while normally
parts of your brain will show active electrical currents that are associated with whatever tasks
at hand or whatever you're processing, all of your brain is just lit up on mushrooms.
And so you experience what you're experiencing is actually the, the loss of your ability to
selectively focus to filter out information, which is kind of interesting. I also can't help
but imagine like how easily a trip could turn bad sitting is at an MRI. It could be fun. I actually
don't mind the rhythm of it and they tend to get really warm, which is nice. But it could be a,
you know, an odd experience for sure. I think it'd be hard to sit still.
Some noise-canceling headphones that played in some cool music and
because just being inside that hollow metal tube would be awful. But if you got something to look
at and something fun to listen to, it could be pretty good. Yeah, they usually throw on the
headsets that feed through, you know, whatever noise, but still an odd time.
I got to say, one of the most interesting things that happened from taking LSD to me was
you know how you have the, the saccades with your eyes where they're constantly moving just a
little bit and your brain edits it out. You never see it. I was coming down and I was looking out
my back door at the power lines and I could see them jumping, like just little, little bounces.
And it took me a couple of minutes to figure out what the hell was actually happening.
But like when there was something interrupting my line of sight to like,
a, not a post, but you know, one of those things in your window that goes up and down,
but just don't know what the term for it. But yeah, the central thing that would
break your line of sight, like the jumps to the left and to the right of that were different
and not in time with each other, even though they were, you know, the same line. And I was like,
oh, okay, I get it. I'm seeing the saccades. Like I'm actually seeing the effects of my eyes jiggling
a little bit all the time. And my brain is just failing to stitch it together into one seamless
thing. That's really cool. But the neat part was apparently some part of my brain got the message
that these power lines are different from all other power lines. And so for the next three weeks,
whenever I looked out there at those power lines, I could always see them not nearly as much as
when I was coming down off the LSD, but I could always see them jiggling just a little bit. And
I was like, how long is it going to take for my brain to realize that these are just normal power
lines again? And they should interpret them like all other power lines. And it took about a month,
but just the long term effect of that where it had really been ingrained in my brain that
these power lines, you really got to just take them on face value. They don't stay still like
all the other ones do. That's really funny. Yeah, that was neat. Yes, anyway, I want to
like this article because I don't know, I found it to be really fascinating and it brought up a
bunch of other questions about experiences that I've had. And I'm actually just curious to hear
if other people in the community have experienced this sort of thing and to hear more people's
experiences because they're really cool. And I think that there's something really valuable
about the experience of kind of getting a firsthand view of like your brain's abilities and then
also like your brain's sort of limitations. It's humbling. That's that's my random thing.
Okay. No, that's really cool. Some of my favorite action scenes, like both in novels and in movies
are things that try to portray that sort of thing where someone is under such stress that
it breaks down those those normal brain functions. And I remember Altered Carbon specifically
had one in the book where he disassociates from himself. Bullet Times, yeah, that's a good one
too. In Altered Carbon, he disassociated from himself. And that was really fun to read where
like he felt like he was trapped within him and just reporting on what his body was doing.
But I think that's one of the things that really got me into anime when I was younger because
in the 90s, like TV and movie budgets weren't nearly as big. And there were things you could do,
but it was harder and not as not as realistic. Whereas with anime, you can just literally draw
whatever. So when someone is having a psychotic break, you could just draw what the shit is
happening. And that was some intensely fun, fun stuff to watch. I'm assuming you're talking about
Evangelion. I mean, that is certainly one of the things I'm talking about. But there it's a common
thing in a lot of anime of that time period. Yeah. And maybe still, I just don't watch nearly as
much as I used to. That's something that I liked about anime as well. But I find that I always
prefer to watch animated things than live action, unless they do have like that incredibly high
budget that you're talking about. And I think because you're able to better portray emotional
experiences, even in the way they're designed, I've had to explain to people from like an art
theory perspective, like, oh, why are they drawn so weird? And it's like, the eyes and the mouths
are huge because you use them for expression. There's no nose because you don't use that for
anything. So it's pointless data. And all the crazy like symbols and stuff appear in order to
just better like communicate what this character is thinking and feeling and doing. It's very
expressive. That's the point. I know a certain Scott Daly who would who would have argued with
you intensely on that. Yeah, well, bring it on. Yeah. Different strokes. I mean, you know,
whatever it's doing in animation, it's, we're not exactly as fine tuned for that as we are for
watching someone's actual face. And so like, what was that? Especially for autistic. Right.
But I'm just saying like, it's, it's fun to see like, very subtle facial changes in human actors
that are hard to get across in anime, you know, they'll zoom in on the person's eyes or something
in anime and show them or whatever. But watching, I don't know, some good dramatic acting is is
also epic. Yeah, I actually started watching the office and I was not able to watch the office
before because it stressed me out. It still stresses me out, but in a like more enjoyable way
