not whatever or that are autobiographical rather than just like data.
But yeah, the third example is my favorite.
It's easy to summarize, uh, cause it's, it feels less abstract, like
mathy somehow than the first two.
Um, certainly the second one feels like, you know, you have almost
have to do math to see it, even though you really don't.
Um, but the third example was, uh, 1983, uh, or published in 1983, um, and
it was conducted in 1982 at the international Congress of forecasting.
Uh, the experimental subjects were 115 professional analysts employed by,
employed by industry universities or research institutes.
Two different experimental groups were respectively asked to rate the
probability of two different statements, each group seeing only one statement.
One, a complete suspension, diplomatic relations between the USA and
the Soviet Union sometime in 1983.
And two, a Russian invasion of Poland and a complete suspension of diplomatic
relations between the USA and the Soviet Union sometime in 1983.
So you had two groups, each were asked one of those questions and asked
how likely do you think this is?
Um, the estimates of probability for both were, or were low for both, but
significantly lower for the first group than the second.
Um, which again, if you were able to see both at the same time, you'd see
how, how insane that is because it can complete suspension, diplomatic
relations between USA and Soviet Union could happen for any number of reasons.
But since two gave a reason, it just sounds more plausible.
Oh, here's an explanation.
Yeah, that sounds likely.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I would think it would, you know, suspend disbelief or suspend diplomatic
relations or whatever.
Um, yeah.
And that's the moral.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Add a more detail or extra assumptions can make an event seem more plausible,
even though the event necessarily becomes less probable.
And then it ends.
Do you have a favorite futurist?
How many details do they track onto their amazing futuristic predictions?
And I feel like I must have talked about this before, because it sounds so
familiar, but I remember watching something with Michiu Kaku on TV, like 10 years ago.
And he was talking about how like, oh yeah, in 2030, we're going to have
like interactive wallpaper that'll be your TV and your, your, uh, your
tablets and all this stuff, be all over your house.
And, um, there were, there were a couple of other things that he tacked into it.
But I found surprising, like, and didn't really articulate at the time, but
looking back on it, I remembered it was like, okay, so not only have you said,
we're going to have this exact stuff, but it'll do these things.
And this is when we'll have it.
Why not just say at some point in the future, or maybe we'll have something
like this, but it was very finite.
Yeah.
I mean, he didn't straight up come out and say it, you know, at six 30 in the
morning on December 21st, you know, 2030, we're going to launch this product.
But he almost did.
Right.
Yeah.
Uh, I was like, maybe a little disappointed that they didn't get more
into the psychology of why we think this way.
Cause I like, when you do the first example, it's kind of like, okay, well,
you can think that we're giving some details about the Skype bill.
And then here's more details.
And if you think of, okay, well, maybe humans, when they're modeling other humans
are thinking of a story or they're, they're thinking of stereotypes of people.
Like the feminist librarian, one makes that one seem more obvious because
you're like stereotypes about librarians or just like likelihoods about someone
who is a librarian is likely to, you know, they probably have a master's degree.
They're probably well educated.
And, but like, but then the ones about the politics and the like probability
of the dice doesn't, you're not telling a story in your head about dice.
So it really seems to be something that like in the math part of our brain
that's broken that way.
Well, if we want to get into the next post that specifically does mention why
this happens, not mentioned, but explain why this happens, how they nail it down.
Yes.
This one is called conjunction controversy and then parentheses or how they nail it down.
And boy, this was a long one.
I'm going to skip a lot of it, but there was just a lot of discussion
about methodology and various ways that they tried to test this thing
and different techniques that they used.
Like at one point, even just straight up asking people what they were thinking.
But if you're interested in all the details, they are there.
And it is, you know, it's kind of interesting to read through it.
But we want to get more to the meat of the things which starts out with Linda,
which Stephen, would you like to take it away since you are familiar with Linda?
Sure. Linda is 31 year old, single, outspoken and very bright.
She majored in philosophy as a student.
She is deeply concerned with the issues of discrimination and social justice
and also participated in anti-nuclear demonstrations.
Also, this was in 1982.
Or no, it appears nice to need to book.
When was this conducted?
It doesn't say.
I'm going to guess in the 80s.
Anyway, please.
Yeah.
Please write the following statements by the probability using one
for the most probable and eight for the least probable.
And I'm going to go through them quickly just because, just to make the point.
So remember, we've got an outspoken, very bright philosophy major who is
concerned with discrimination and social justice and participated
in anti-nuclear demonstrations.
So one, Linda is a teacher in elementary school.
Linda works in a bookstore and takes yoga classes.
Linda is active in the feminist movement.
Linda is a psychiatric social worker.
Linda is a member of the League of Women Voters.
Linda is a bank teller.
Linda is an insurance salesperson.
Linda is a bank teller and is active in the feminist movement.
And so the funny thing is that I can't remember which one is without reading
it again, which is the highest voted.
But the last one was voted higher than Linda is active in the feminist movement.
The last one was Linda is a bank teller and active in the feminist movement.
And I think this one is easier to illustrate the point of at least part
of what's happening because you've got this model of Linda now.
She, you know, philosophy major, outspoken, concerned with social justice,
participated in anti-nuclear demonstrations.
And to hear that she's a bank teller, you're like, well, that doesn't sound
like the Linda I know that I learned about 10 seconds ago.
But then if you say, oh, and she's also in the feminist movement, you're like,
oh, OK, that sounds likely.
Maybe it wasn't more likely than, let me see here.
It was if you do the if you look at the actual ratings, the most likely
was that she's active feminist, second most likely was she's a bank teller
and active and feminist, and least likely it was she's a bank teller.
Right, that's right.
But they but they still put that at higher than.
Yeah, then just the just active in the feminist movement.
Bank teller and active was more likely according to people.
You know, bank teller and active was more likely than just bank teller.
Yeah, that's what I'm OK.
And do you do remember six point two for that one?
Yes, eight is least probable.
One is most probable.
OK, so the scale is kind of reversed.
Or the lower the number, the more probable something is.
Stephen, do you remember like when you came across this, how you felt about it
or how your class reacted or anything?
I don't.
It's hard to distinguish any memories I'm trying to conjure from once I'm making up.
If I am running with my intuition that my memory is, you know, give it 30 percent
chance that this actually happened, I seem to have some inkling over memory
of people saying like people defending their decision that the eighth one was
likely or like likelier than just being a bank teller.
And I think because we're using the same sort of like
psychoanalysis reasons I was using earlier, right?
Where it's like, well, no, but it said that she had all these things.
It's like, yeah, sure.
But the odds of that person turning out to be possibly just a bank teller are non zero.
And so any any world where she's a bank teller and in the feminism
movement would mean that she's also a bank teller.
And so like there's I think the easiest way and I don't know if he does this
in this long post because I didn't read this one.
No, a line graph, no Venn diagrams.
I think that either Venn diagrams or just circles with epicycles inside
are the easiest way to illustrate this, right?
You've got the whole space of possibilities of what she what she did.
And in one circle, you've got Linda as a bank teller and inside that
because it has to be inside that inside the bank teller circle is Linda
as a bank teller and something else, right?
Yeah.
So you can have the in the feminist movement as a bigger circle,
but it's only going to be partially overlapping with the bank teller one.
Like it's it's easier to visualize with a white board.
Right.
No matter how big the feminist movement circle is and how small the bank teller
circle is, their intersection will always be equal to or smaller than the bank
teller circle because it just has to be.
Exactly.
And that's that's actually a good way to think about it.
Yeah, the circle where they intersect can't be bigger than one of the circles.
Yeah.
So the he goes through a whole lot of why people make this mistake.
And eventually, the researchers came to the conclusion that subjects substitute
judgment of representativeness for judgment of probability,
which means their feelings of similarity between each of the propositions
and Linda's description determines how plausible it feels that each of the
propositions is true of Linda.
Since Linda more closely resembles a feminist than a feminist bank teller,
that one is more likely, but she more closely resembles a feminist bank teller
than just a bank teller, which is why that one feels more likely.
And Eliezer asks, maybe that's our theory, but how could we possibly know
that that is the case?
And he said, the answer was you take a different group of subjects
and just ask them how much each of the propositions resembles Linda
and then compare their ratings of how much each proposition resembles Linda
to how likely each person in the earlier group said each thing was
each statement was likely to be.
And he shows that this was done and the correlation between the two groups
on representativeness and probability was nearly perfect.
0.99 almost a straight line.
So, yeah, it was because people were thinking exactly that,
that she looks more like a feminist than a feminist bank teller,
but more like a feminist bank teller than a bank teller.
Even though if you were thinking with math, you would see how wrong that actually is.
I love it.
And what's fun is like that's the kind of like, I don't know,
creative approach to like, again, how do you...
OK, well, that's what we think it is.
