then they might get angry. And just because the law says, Oh, this is technically my car
or my house or whatever, and you have to go out now. If they're like, no, I have been using and
maintaining and living in this place for X number of years, I will fight you, I will, you know,
maybe start a fire and endanger the neighborhood, I will maybe attack someone violently. The government
doesn't want that to happen. And so they take the, the interest of all stakeholders into account,
even not necessarily people who have legal rights to stuff. And so, and so I kind of
like understood now why sometimes there would be, there would be an instinct to
gate off communities or, or social groups or whatever to not let new stakeholders just join
willy nilly, because then once someone is in, they do start mixing their life with stuff and
getting investment in it. And if you don't like what they're doing, it can be really hard to dislodge
them afterwards, both from them fighting back perspective and even from like a legal perspective.
So gatekeeping seems almost like a rational thing to do in various situations. I don't know. This
is just a random thought I was having. It is not well thought out. So I'm just kind of throwing
it out there and wondering what you guys think. That's the theme of tonight's episode. Don't sweat
it. I don't know. That's interesting. I see what you're saying. Like, you want a barrier to entry
into things because it, I guess, makes it more, it keeps out things that'll easily ruin the,
the, or that could easily ruin the situation. Is that a good distillation?
Um, yes. Like, yeah, someone joins a new community and they try to change the community norms a bit
that might, you know, annoy everyone else there. But on the other hand, if they've been part of
this community for a long time and contributing to it as well, then it's hard to just, you know, say
kick them out or ignore them. And that might be why you want to, you know, vet the people that
you let join your community in the first place. I'm trying to think of any things that this can
apply to. It seemed like, Jayce, you had some counter argument early on before I got going.
Um, not really a counter argument, but just, I wish that I feel like probably there are people
who are better equipped to talk about this because I'm weak on history and economics. But
I believe that the eviction laws are so strict because there was a point before that that they
were really heavily weighted or just maybe a hundred percent weighted like for the benefit of
the landlord. And it was, it led to this like really oppressive or I don't know, I'm sure that
there's also different opinions about this too. But yeah, there's definitely abuses that can be
that, that a landlord abuses the power can, can do, can, can exercise. So there definitely needs to
be some protections to protect against that. Yeah. I mean, um, the other thing is like my
experience is my dad, uh, is like a carpenter. Everybody also like started like when he was
in his fifties or so buying some investment properties, fixing them up and trying to rent them.
And then I also did this, uh, not the exact same thing. I like owned a house, lived in it and
rented out rooms to roommates. And some of my friends and coworkers also did this in my experience.
This is that I had and that I'll always hear of terrible tenants who are so protected by laws that
you like can't care for them. Yeah. Uh, and yet it can be as bad as like literally having someone
living in your house who is like eating your food, not paying rent, trashing the place, having
parties there all the time or having their like various like creepy boyfriends come by and just
giving them the key, like just all kinds, especially if you're living there too. But like,
my dad's like renters regularly would like trash the place that he'd fixed up and it ended up
costing more to fix it than like he had earned by having them as tenants. A coworker had a,
it was like his and his wife's first house. And then they got another one when they had kids
and they're like, we'll rent this one. And the person living there kept saying that they had
medical bills so they couldn't pay the rent, but they wouldn't leave. They went through the process
of evicting them, which I think took years. And the person was so mad that when they, when they
moved out, I think they broke all the windows and then also broke all of the pipes and let the lower
floor flood with sewage. Jesus Christ. In order to get back at my coworker who, you know, owned the
house and was still paying a mortgage on it. Is there no like way to get insurance against this?
Because all this is making me want to never rent my place. It's, it's a risky thing. I have learned
well the, that and I didn't learn it precisely the hard way, but almost that you really, really
got to be very careful who you went to. You mentioned vetting people. Serious vetting. Yeah.
I think also probably contractual agreements. Like I made the mistake of not making some of my like
friends pay or sign a renters notice. And then if they hurts, what is it called? It might just be
a renters notice, something like that. There's some document, but then like apparently legally,
if you don't have them sign an agreement, renters agreement, but you've let them live there for
a certain amount of time, then that means that like legally they now have a stake in it. And so
you can't pick them out even if you own the house because it's like, well, you invited them here
and they weren't paying rent before. So you can't just suddenly start charging them rently. It's
like, so are they? Okay. So then you have to prove that they've done something bad.
That sounds like madness. I'm with you. Like I'm certain that there's, there's probably some
really justifiable back reason for how things got to be this way. But, you know, because like you
said, tyrannical landowners or landlords or whatever, but certainly the state of affairs as it is
sounds just totally untenable. I feel like it's one of those things like universal basic income
where I'm just sort of like, if we have these like societies, it would be cool if they could
guarantee people at least like somewhere to live and food to eat like close to where like it seems,
I don't know, if we want to live in a society where we're pro human flourishing, maybe give
people the basics of like literally the ability to survive. But I don't know, maybe I'm just insane.
Yeah, you get out here with that pipe dream. Come on.
We didn't have to defend ourselves against ourselves all the time.
We have to hack human psychology in order to oh my god. I'm getting like four or five like phone
calls from elected or like representatives of elected officials. Are you guys getting those?
Well, I voted like a month ago, they need to get off my back. Yeah, someone called during the
recording too. This would be the third. I just have my phone nearby and I'm gonna actually
just get like, I'm gonna place it on the bookshelf. You know, that actually brings us full circle to
the beginning of the episode and we're a couple hours in so we can wrap up here. Yeah, we probably
should at that point. I just wanted to like kind of end up saying that gatekeeping sort of seems
it has a very bad, bad connotations nowadays. It is not a popular thing. And in general, I was
always against it as well. But I have come to see lately, it's practical applications is like a sort
of self defense thing. And maybe it isn't all bad. Yeah, no, I hear you. That's a bigger topic
than we have time for, or that you know, or brain for. But I am glad you got me thinking about that
because definitely there's I think ways that the model of economic like, you know, renter
landlord relationships and the politics around that like has parallels with the community
gatekeeping that you seem to be sort of paralleling it to but I'm sure that there's differences.
Well, we should have we should have time to get to everything if we all live to be immortal,
which would be the subject of our next episode. You could listen to us talk forever.
If you want to do forever and ever and ever. Oh, God. Yep. That was already terrifying. All right.
Who is our awesome patron? We're thinking this week. I got last episode. Oh, I think it was me.
Looks like this time we are thanking patron Mark and Mark. I made a clapping gesture,
but just came short of clapping into the microphone, which would have been a nightmare for everybody.
Mark, thank you very much for your patronage. You are helping everybody who listens to the show
get it without ads, which we all hate because they're terrible. I was just going to like reference
the bads of ads thing, where honestly, like, it's because of people like Mark that you guys
don't have to listen to us talk about are like really excellent mattress. And Mark and I have
chatted a bit. Yeah. And Mark and I have chatted a bit on Patreon and, you know,
seem like a cool dude. Glad to have you as listener. It makes me feel awkward to talk to
somebody I tendentially know in this medium. But, you know, we say the same thing every week,
but doesn't make it any less meaningful. We appreciate everything. And, you know, being
like we just bought new microphone stands, what, two weeks ago? Because other ones were
four years old, and they'd been through some some moves and gotten pretty beaten up. And
one of them, the superglue finally broke on it. So it was time to finally buy new ones.
And that's all possible. Thanks to listeners like you. So thank you very much.
Yeah. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Mark.
All right. Anything else to hit on this one? Or are we all set?
I think we're good.
All right. We'll see you guys in a couple weeks.
Cool. Bye, everyone.
