xanthines in particular, caffeine in particular,
can up-regulate metabolic process, they look pretty good.
The evidence seems pretty good on them.
The problem is, if you are trying to use it
as a replacement for sleep, it doesn't work.
And so, the time that people are most tempted to take it
is when they're tired because they haven't slept enough,
now you're gonna cause adrenal stress.
It doesn't replace sleep.
If someone is already in a physiologically viable place,
their normal cortisol levels,
their norepinephrine levels, et cetera, in a good place,
then caffeine can enhance that.
If they are not, it should not be used.
So, that's one thing.
Total dose is also important.
People doing several Red Bulls a day, not a good idea.
People using an appropriate amount of caffeine from some form
can be quite responsible.
And then, I recommend cycling everything.
I don't think anyone should be on anything all the time.
Any supplement, any mineral, anything.
And caffeine is the same.
How often you have to cycle it is based on
how quickly you get down regulation.
Caffeine can have a much longer cycle
than almost any psychoactive thing.
So, what I recommend is for people to do,
if they're using caffeine daily,
every three months, every quarter, get off for a week.
First two days, if you get a headache, use ibuprofen.
Two days per quarter is not gonna hurt you.
And it just makes it less miserable.
Take this time to sleep extra.
And catch up on wherever you did.
Not sleep enough, come back on.
Some things, we were talking about on the break,
chemicals that shouldn't be used more than once a month.
Caffeine is when you can use pretty often.
But do pay attention to, if you've got adrenal fatigue,
if you're taking it when you're tired,
if you haven't cycled, then you wanna pay attention.
All right, so that's just caffeine.
Now, beyond that, there are other stimulants
and there are blends of stimulants
and there's even forms of caffeine, different caffeine salts
and caffeine bound to different things
that have different peak plasma times,
different pharmacodynamics,
that start getting much more interesting
than just straight caffeine.
And then there's beyond the Xanthines,
there's whole interesting types of stimulant molecules.
Again, if somebody wants to go research bromentane
or there's lots and lots of interesting,
more potent ones people can use in stack,
but at your own discernment, study, et cetera.
So for pre-workouts, some kind of stimulant,
when the body's in the right place for it,
can be meaningful, everybody knows that.
People will use NOx enhancers.
I'm not gonna really speak about that very much
because they have benefit for some things.
The ratio of arginine to lysine
is actually pretty relevant for things like immune system,
viral immunity, human immunity.
If someone is doing a lot of arginine for a very long time
that can get off and if they have
any underlying subclinical infections,
there can be effect on it.
It's complicated, so I just say,
I'm not gonna really talk about that one right now.
Adaptogens as pre-workouts can be useful.
And then notropics can be quite useful.
And there's different kinds of notropics.
If someone takes cholinergics,
things that are affecting acetylcholine,
they can get faster muscle firing,
they can get faster response time,
faster sensory acuity.
You can get over-cholinergic,
in which case you'll have a tight knack or a tight job.
You saw it's not really problematic,
but if you notice those symptoms, over-cholinergic.
And you can do that regularly or just when you want
those effects.
There's a bunch of different things
that one can do for the choline system we could talk about.
And then there's other things one can do
to really increase focus.
So that they can kind of go into a flow state
more reliably and have all the things
that come with being in a flow state, right?
Better emotional resilience, better drive,
better focus, better follow through, less distraction,
the ability to access the best performance
that you're capable of without having
head trips get in the way.
And so you can create interesting kinds
of notropic stacks with rastatams, with ampikines,
with psychostimulants, with cholinergics, et cetera,
that can have a really meaningful effect there.
Yeah, I think I've probably, no, not probably,
I've taken stimulants on and off since I was 15,
pretty much since I was training.
And after, in my 30s, I dialed it back considerably.
And then I started, I'm fairly sensitive myself.
I take a little bit of pre-workout, you know,
I dialed it back and I was just taking just enough
to feel good in the gym.
And then I started playing around in the tropics
and I know, and then I was able to dial
the caffeine back a little bit even.
And I noticed that my training changed,
and specifically with Qualias,
when I was taking that, started taking that last year,
I noticed that I didn't even wanna touch
other pre-workouts when I was on that.
And I didn't need to take it right before I train.
It would be, I would take that in the morning
and I was just working and then I would go training.
If I added a pre-workout on top of that,
it was way too much.
It took me out of the place I wanted to be.
And I noticed that a lot of the ways my training changed
is I became, I didn't want the music so loud.
I wanted, I preferred the peace and quiet
and or, you know, just lighter music.
And then I also noticed a lot of attention
going into my movement versus, and a lot less,
I would say I was actually able to check my ego
a lot more easily in that I stopped caring so much
about how much weight was on the bar
and I'm much more focused on performing the movement
as well as I possibly could,
which then in turn helped me build
a much healthier, stronger body.
So, but it didn't give me where I'm at now
when I take no tropics and Qualias specifically before I train.
Everything feels much better.
I don't feel amped up.
I don't feel like I'm raging and going crazy.
And my overall performance specifically
with my breath as well is much more tuned in.
I noticed if I get overstimulated,
that I think anyone who's lifted is like,
knows the rah, get crazy and lift as much as you can.
And then if no one's paying attention
to their breath in that moment,
and I've noticed that my breath has become
much more synced into what I'm doing.
And overall, I feel like I'm gliding through my training
versus, you know, having to force everything.
Yeah, it's fun hearing your experience.
Many people have reported similar experiences.
Ben Greenfield and the guys at Aresfit
and the bunch of crossfitters and bodybuilders
and sharpshooters and whatever.
We didn't actually develop Qualia for athletics originally.
We had that in mind and we will develop more things
for that application.
We're developing it for cognitive enhancement
and really kind of cognitive psycho-emotional enhancement.
When people wanna be in creative states,
creative productive flow states,
there's a whole set of things that they're looking for
and it has to do with cognitive metrics
like short-term memory and long-term memory
and degree of concentration and duration of focus
and task switching and all those things, right?
It also has to do with emotional metrics
like drive and presence and empathy, interpersonal awareness
and emotional resilience and so we looked at
how do we address the underlying physiological mechanisms
of all of those processes simultaneously
where we're working to up-regulate the capacity
of those systems rather than just exogenously override them.
You all exogenously override them
and you get side effects and dependence.
If you up-regulate the regulatory mechanisms,
the side effects are positive
and you can get lasting benefits, right?
So that's our design criteria
and it's a very different notropic than most acts
because you're not just working with one part
of the acetylcholine pathway,
you're working with comprehensively
the whole acetylcholine pathway
and then the whole catecholamine pathways glutamate
many neurotransmitters from the synthesis
of raw ingredients into the neurotransmitter,
the transport across the synapse, the receptor site,
cell energy dynamics, the metabolic waste product
afterwards, as well as things like neurogenesis,
synaptogenesis, phospholipid membrane integrity,
so a lot of things we're working on together
but like you're mentioning as far as workout goes,
if you're really stimulated,
your proprioception might be fairly low, right?
Your body awareness might be fairly low,
