But almost no one lives to their genetic maximum.
We'll say the oldest people are always
in the 100, 110, a little bit older than that range,
but not much.
And let's assume that most people's genetic maximum
is over 100.
So avoiding dying of illness
is the first part of life extension.
So that's gonna be cardiovascular disease first,
then it's gonna be cancer, then it's gonna be diabetes,
and it's gonna be Alzheimer's.
So you look at how you decrease
the likelihood of all those things.
And that basically means support the health
of those systems.
We could do a whole show on that, but I'll just say that.
And then in terms of just like short little hacks
that can help.
So there's a few drugs, pharmaceutical drugs,
that have some good research showing an effect
in various aspects of life extension.
The most famous one is Metformin,
which is a diabetes drug.
Again, this is because blood sugar
and then cell energy processes make a huge difference.
This is largely gonna be working through,
blood sugar stability, but also through the sertuin genes,
which are some of the primary genes
that get activated in caloric restriction.
Caloric restriction is the biggest thing
that we know of so far for life extension.
Nobody wants to do it, because it's miserable.
Well, it also, I mean, for me,
I remember reading research that was saying,
caloric restriction is a great way to live longer.
And here I am trying to get as big and strong as possible.
So we're at odds.
So the way you put those two together,
for most people, is intermittent fasting.
Which is you try and get as big and strong,
you're taking in more calories,
but you at least drop your calories acutely
for periods of time.
Now, and again, and in doing so,
you can get elevation of AMPK levels,
you can get elevation and activation of sertuin genes,
some of the key mechanisms that mediate life extension
through caloric restriction,
without having to live on 30% reduced calorie all the time.
And where does protein fasting come in with this at all,
or is that a completely different topic?
Different topic, but heavily related to inflammation.
So protein fasting is,
Dave Asprey talks about, well, the difference between
and the benefit of intermittent fasting ketosis
and protein fasting in bulletproof diet.
So I would recommend that,
I think it's a good resource for people.
And just fasting from all protein for a short period of time,
a day or two days, some periodicity
to kind of deplete amino acid pool
and have a anti-inflammatory effect,
that's kind of what you're looking at there.
But the intermittent fasting is total fuel,
right, total calories primarily.
There are, besides metformin,
there are herbs that look like they do similar things.
So the famous Chinese herb, gynostema,
up regulates AMPK levels, activates sertuin genes.
There's some evidence that oxaloacetate
also has this effect that extract from rose hips does,
that the herbal extract called berberine does.
So if you want to kind of dive in,
there's a whole lot of things.
And the company Life Extension is a good company
for taking the research that's happening at universities
all around the world and kind of bringing it
into the supplement market.
As far as just like general early introduction
to the field goes, I think that's a good place to go.
Other drugs, deprenel, seligelene,
it's a selective MAOB inhibitor.
There are herbs that will do this,
the harmala alkaloids, barley grass extract,
and then not just seligelene,
but seligelene, you have a handful
of selective MAOB inhibitors.
For the most part, monoamine enzymes go up with age,
and that ends up affecting lower neurotransmitters
across the board.
And so being able to work with that,
but again, this is something where really like
to work with a doctor who knows what they're doing
because you can also have your MAO inhibitors be low,
in which case taking a, I mean, your monoamine enzymes
being low, in which case taking inhibitors is problematic.
If someone is under dopamine, under catecholaminergic
in general, then MAOB inhibitors are usually quite helpful,
deprenels are starting place, or other herbal processes.
Need to be very careful of stacking that with monoamines.
Then there are some drugs that have been prototyped
just for life extension that were not really
for something else, and we found off-label purposes.
Epitalon is one of the most well-known, well-studied.
This is injected in typically, you know,
intermuscular injections on rounds every six months.
There are a lot more human trials that need to go,
but the trials that have been done so far, very low,
what looks like very low side effect,
very high incidence of up-regulation of telomeres
and a few different interesting mechanics.
So what, so this would be injected every six months,
at what point in somebody's life would they be interested
in this, or is it so new that it's kind of like a,
not that new, could start, realistically,
the earlier one starts focusing on life extension,
the better, because if they start once they've already
had damage, reversing damage,
it's much harder than preventing it.
So if you start when you're 20,
and you are just kind of preventing damage
from ever happening, you're gonna be much,
much, much better off.
Most people won't, because they don't get that it matters.
They're pretty sure they're Superman,
and they wait until they're 30, and realize they're not,
and then they start, and then it's harder.
Yeah, that's when you usually figure out
you're not Superman.
Right.
Round 30.
What was that?
You're just saying that, because you're 35 now.
You're gonna say, oh man, 40 was the worst,
and 50 was the worst.
Well, I-
It's all downhill.
But I look at a very specific moment in time
where I'm like, oh, this is real.
Yeah, I'd go along with that.
27 to 30 was when I was like, okay,
I'm not a teenager anymore.
Like, I'm starting to sense the decline.
Yeah.
So I would say that exponential tech
in the field of biotech is changing this.
And over the next few years, we'll change it.
Meaningfully, this shouldn't be an excuse for people
to be dumb and say, well, we'll figure out
how to radically upgrade me with stem cells in the future.
But there are already a lot of things
that are meaningful, that are hard to get funded
because they are not treatments for disease.
And so they kind of have to be explored right now,
at least partially, through citizen science,
which is why people getting engaged,
doing quantified self-measurement,
sharing them is actually part of how the field itself
is evolving, because medicine,
the way we do medicine legally, is disease model-based.
And so when we're looking at optimization,
we just don't have the same kind of funding
available for that, which is why so much of what's
been learned about steroids, about athletics, et cetera,
happen not through formal clinical trial science,
but through biohackers sharing information,
advancing a field until it got interesting enough
that then people started advancing the field
with clinical research.
Earlier you mentioned PRP and prolotherapy,
which are relatively easy to come by,
but you mentioned stem cells at the same time,
which seems to be much, I don't know if it's harder
to come by, or it's just less researched,
or if there's still legality issues there,
or what have you, but it seems like it's higher potential,
but it still seems like it's not as common.
Why is that the case, or is that not the case?
We had a very sad and silly freeze
on all pleomorphic stem cell, i.e. embryonic stem cell,
research for quite a long time here,
which means that China and Japan and India
and other countries are much further ahead
than we are in this topic.
Many people who are getting stem cells
for spinal cord injury or other things like that
are flying to China or somewhere to get the work done.
We are starting to do more embryonic,
pluripotent stem cell studies,
but even your own adult stem cells from fat
or from bone marrow can be used very meaningfully
for tissue types that are somewhat similar, right?
It just means they can't change into all cell types,
but only into adjacent cell types.
But that ends up being enough
to have really meaningful effect on things like joints
and connective tissue and things that are meaningful there.
You also have new drugs that are coming about
and even supplements that increase
endogenous stem cell production.
