to your own subtle sensing as you're using your body.
Exercise will bring more mindfulness to breath
and will allow you to get into parasympathetic states better.
Which will have effects on recovery and stress
and many things.
There's a lot one can do here.
There's really interesting studies
on athletics and visualization,
using CBT, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy,
to deal with anxiety, performance anxiety stuff.
I would say one thing that everyone should explore
if they haven't already in this space
is EEG neurofeedback.
Because this is a way that your nervous system
can get feedback about itself.
It doesn't even have to be mediated
through your conscious awareness
and very quickly upregulate its regulatory capacity,
which can help psychological issues,
can help PTSD, can help nightmares,
can help stress, can help lots of things,
but can also really help physiologic performance.
Many groups working on this that are doing great work.
Dr. Andrew Hill, the Peak Brain Institute
has done work here for athletics in particular,
as well as other topics.
I'm actually connecting with him soon.
Great, so ask him about EEG neurofeedback for athletics.
We'll do, yeah.
Excellent, thanks for joining us, Daniel.
Anything else you wanna say?
If there's anything that's particularly interesting
to your listeners here regarding either
understanding the tropics in more depth
and stacking them or the hormones
or life extension or whatever,
if there's a lot of requests on particular topics,
I'd be happy to dive into those
at greater depth in the future.
Excellent, and do you make any post to social media
or anything like that,
or should we just send people to Neurohacker.com?
Neurohacker.com is good for if people wanna research quality
or research what Neurohacker's about,
get a sense of our approach.
We'll have many more products
and different product categories coming out
over the next year, all focused on mind, brain optimization
and we're on social media as well.
You can check us out on Facebook.
Excellent, thanks for joining us.
Thanks for having me.
