So if you think about aging,
we're mostly talking about a cellular phenomena.
So cells start to get senescent, right?
These kind of age cells, so their mitochondria is off,
some of their organelles are off,
so now they produce too much histamine
or they produce whatever, so they produce some wrong things.
So you get a biochemical cascade of problems.
And so what we wanna do to deal with life extension
is we want to prevent cells from senescing in the first place.
So that means the right antioxidant protection,
the right excitotoxic protection, right?
Like just protecting cells from all things
that would cause senescence.
That's one category.
We wanna be able to purge senescent cells
so they don't create a problem, right?
They don't create cascade problems, senescent mast cells,
senescent all kinds of immune cells, brain cells, et cetera.
So we wanna be able to trigger autophagy,
the natural process of cell death
and then not just getting rid of the cells,
but just also cleansing out all those old structures
that otherwise cause problems.
Because the shed receptor sites
can themselves be inflammatory
or problem-causing of different kinds.
And then you want to help create new cells, right?
So you want to increase stem cell production
and differentiation into tissues.
All of that's being explored
and great work is being done.
It's very interesting.
You've got like the company Neural Stem
is in phase two clinical trials
on a protocol to NSI-189 right now,
which they were originally doing
Neural Stem Cell Research for ALS
and for spinal cord injury.
And they found some small molecules
that could actually up-regulate
your own endogenous Neural Stem Cell generation
in the hippocampus.
And so people started getting huge benefits
in these kinds of actual neural damage dynamics
from a small molecule
rather than actual stem cell injection.
I think their chance of getting approved as a drug,
they're going for major depressive disorder first
is very high, in which case it's across applications
to neuropathy, to retinopathy, to ALS Parkinson's
will be very high.
So I think they were going to start to see a lot of drugs
and botanicals that are working on all of those aspects,
autophase, G, senescence protection,
and stem cell progeneration.
There's, I want to move into,
maybe I don't know if stimulants is the right word,
but pre-workouts-
Anti-aging, one more, just very easy one
that's more available than all the ones I mentioned.
TA65, it's an astragalous extract,
has pretty decent clinical trials
showing effect on telomere elongation.
There's pretty good reason to think
that telomere elongation is a good thing.
And the meaningful thing in being able to do that
without injection or prescription or whatever is meaningful.
So that's a very basic supplement
that people can start with that has,
I would say pretty close to no side effect profile
that's meaningful.
So, and you can correct me on,
this is how I understand telomeres right now,
is as your cells replicate, they're getting shorter.
And when they get to a certain length,
then we see cell death.
Something like that.
Yeah.
Is that over-simplified enough?
The genome has these things called telomeres at the end
so that as you don't get perfect replication,
what is being cut off,
what isn't replicating perfectly
is not actually coding regions of the genome.
But when you run out of telomere,
then you start getting into coding regions of the genome
having problems, which means mutation.
And so having the telomeres longer
means that you can have some error more times
before problems occur.
And you have mutations which...
No good.
Cancer and rate, all sorts of other things.
Awesome.
Stimulants are big in our field.
Most people would just,
I think the number one one that's being used is caffeine.
And then, we used to take it at one point,
was it dimethyl tryptamine?
No.
We took it every day.
DMT trips every day before we train.
DMA and you're thinking.
Oh, what one now?
Dimethyl amylamide, yeah.
That's right, that's the one.
Yeah, it was in Jack 3D and Oxy Elite Pro
and things like that, yeah.
It worked very well if you were wanting to lift heavy weight.
I've been reading that one more
than I've been reading the other one.
Yeah.
Yeah, DMT is a very interesting molecule,
not particularly good for athletics,
but interesting for other purposes.
So stimulants.
So we can talk about,
maybe we can just talk about
the whole field of pre-workout supplements,
of which stimulant is gonna be the main category, right?
There's, I won't talk about pre-workout
from the point of view of what someone's doing
with carbs or protein or whatever,
because that's gonna depend on the kind of workout
they're doing in the phase they're in.
The biggest thing that people do pre-workout
is some kind of psychostimulant.
Caffeine is by far the primary one.
Some people are just drinking coffee.
Some are doing energy drinks of various kinds
or pre-workout supplements that have caffeine in them.
Some people are doing ECA stacks,
which are very popular,
ephedrine, caffeine, aspirin.
And then some people get into more potent things
like clenbuterol,
DMAA, et cetera, et cetera.
Plenty of good illegal ones in the category.
And some illegal for dumb reasons.
Some illegal for good reasons,
meaning some of them are actually really dangerous.
Ephedrine shouldn't be illegal.
It should be used responsibly.
Shouldn't be illegal.
That's a dumb regulation decision, in my opinion.
Meth is, I actually don't think any drug should be illegal.
I think legalization of all of them
has very good evidence from Portugal in many places
that their use drops and we can regulate them better.
But I don't recommend meth as a pre-workout supplement,
even though for very short term it works.
I think during the break,
we were saying meth is a great way to lose weight.
Well, I mean, it used to be-
Out of restriction.
It used to be so commonly prescribed, right?
By doctors.
It was like an OTC thing for a long time for these purposes.
And I will say there are OTC and prescribed things right now
that are similarly dangerous that in the future
will be like, really, we gave people benzos.
Because they're bad news.
It is interesting how many things are illegal
that really aren't bad, I guess.
They're not having negative impacts on the body
and how many things are legal.
They're just being prescribed very freely or over the counter
that have negative impacts.
I would urge people to try to separate their mind from
what they've been told is legal, illegal,
or what your parents told you
and kind of just see things for what they are
and look at the research
and try to make decisions from that perspective.
All you have to do is compare pot to alcohol
or pot to cigarettes to realize that regulation is stupid.
The way that it's happening is stupid
in terms of how many people have had auto accidents
from pot versus alcohol and their general availability.
This is, the regulation is not based on science.
It's based on other stuff.
It's not hard to figure out what the other stuff is.
So, back to stimulants.
Caffeine, one of the world's favorite molecules
for obvious reasons, is caffeine bad for you?
It's an important question.
Yes and no.
If you take caffeine when you are tired, it's bad for you.
If you take caffeine when you're not tired
and you take it in appropriate amounts and you cycle it,
it can actually be good for you.
Good for you meaning longest lived industrial nation
in the world is Japan.
They drink green tea all day long.
It's obviously a lot of antioxidants
and theophylline and other interesting things,
but the Hunza's drink coffee,
a lot of the Blue Zones drink some kind of good coffee.
So, the fact that some stimulants,
