your presence and patience are fairly low,
which means risk of injury goes up,
likelihood to perform well
in terms of micro movements is gonna be much harder
and so we were actually really not surprised
but happy to see the kind of response people mentioned
with weightlifting and fitness
but athletics particularly,
the benefit they were getting
where they had very clear quantifiable metrics
with their athletics because of,
I mean this isn't a surprise,
everybody knows how much of any athletic is a mental game.
So if you're optimizing the biochemistry
of the organ systems that mediate your mind,
that's a big deal.
Yeah.
I feel like this would be almost more effective
for any athlete that has complex decision-making
as a part of their sport.
If you're a distance runner or a cross fitter,
you kind of know what exactly what you're gonna do.
You're gonna go squat and then you're gonna do your pushups
and then you're gonna do your pull ups
and then you're gonna do as fast as you can
as many times as you can and then you're done
and it's not really a mystery what's going to happen
as opposed to someone who's like a linebacker in football
where you're having to read and adjust
and there's more things happening
where there's just more to process during your experience
compared to being like a distance runner
where it's just like run from here to there
as fast as you can.
I would even say in cross fit,
that may be true with individuals
but anyone who's competed on a team before,
you watch the teams even at the games
and you can see people arguing with each other
and going there's a hesitation
and in that hesitation they lose whatever it is
they were going for
and it can get fairly complicated
in a team environment in that case too.
It's an interesting hypothesis
that the more decision making,
the more executive functions involved,
the more it would help.
Could very well be we don't have data to back that up.
What I can say that's interesting is that
even in so far as just things like
how many push ups can someone do before failure
or how many dead lifts at a particular weight,
we've had a lot of people report back to us
all time highs on very simple activities
because if you are decreasing stress
and decreasing distraction
and decreasing some of the mental interference
that's in the way and for many people
the actual straight benefit on sensory and motor nerves
that can be very interesting.
Earlier you were talking about
affecting the entire pathway
and not just kind of like siloing one thing
like when we mentioned testosterone doing injections
and just focusing on one hormone
that can be problematic.
And so many other new tropics and or disciplines in general
generally you're taking kind of one
maybe if it's proprietary blend
there's like two or three or four
different things mixed together
but the quality is unique in the sense that
I don't know how many you're in there
but it's gotta be dozens
there's gotta be 20 or 30 or 40 ingredients
in this one supplement
and that's because you're trying to affect
the whole pathway.
We're trying to affect many parts
of a pathway synergistically.
So if you look at any pathway that is
there's a natural regulatory process
you can see what are the rate limiting factors?
What are the rate limiting factors on ATP production
or ATP is actually one we didn't get to yet
that's a really big one.
I imagine actually a lot of your people do things
for ATP like carnitine, acetylcarnitine, right?
CoQ10, PQQ basic things like that, all great.
Some of them might do more advanced things
like methylene blue or mild granate
which are very interesting.
If not, they're worth looking into.
We do have some elements of cell energy
both ATP and NAD, NAD plus NADH ratio dynamics
built into CoQ and we will have more
in the upcoming future.
And so yeah, but let's take something like acetylcholine,
the most common no tropics are racitams
which have many effects but are primarily affecting
acetylcholine uptake on receptor sites.
The NMDA receptors in particular
upregulating acetylcholine uptake
in the postsynaptic neuron.
So you usually stack them with some choline donors
and there's a lot of different source of choline donors.
Some of them just suck.
They're not particularly good ones
or they have meaningful side effects.
Some of them are pretty meaningful
but they have different peak plasma times
and pharmacodynamics and kinetics.
So they'll be acting for a very short period of time
or over a long period of time
where they act more in the peripheral nervous system
or the central nervous system.
So we worked with what choline donors,
choline pneumometrics we want for all of those reasons
for immediate effects, for longer term effects,
for peripheral and central nerves,
for many different aspects of conversions.
We've got urodine converting to CDP choline,
converting to phosphatidylcholine,
converting to alpha GPC, converting to acetylcholine
and there's meaningful aspects in each of those transforms.
You have what other molecules are needed for the transform.
You need enough acetyl group with your choline
to make acetylcholine.
You need enough B5 to mediate that process, et cetera.
Then once you have the acetylcholine,
the presynaptic neuron to get across the synapse,
you might need acetylcholine S-rays inhibitors.
You need to make sure that you're not having
too much enzymatic breakdown.
And then the NMDA modulation that occurs
and then enough cell energy to process that, right?
So, and then you need to balance that whole thing
with what you do to glutamate
and balance that whole thing with the relationship
to histamine, with dopamine, et cetera.
So we factor all those things more deeply
than most people have had the opportunity to factor
applying system science, complexity science,
bioinformatics to how we formulate.
And my physiology from grad schools is fading these days,
but if I'm not mistaken, acetylcholine,
as the central nervous system fires towards a muscle
to contract, acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter
that is kind of the primary one
that facilitates that process.
Is that accurate?
So acetylcholine's involved in most all motor nerve function,
most all sensory nerve function,
major part of most synaptic communication
with other neurotransmitters involved.
So, speed of total synaptic communication,
it's why it's such a key place to start neurooptimization.
The, I was hanging out with my friend, AJ Roberts,
who's also in, you know, he's in the fitness field
and we were talking this weekend about one of the things
that he's noticed is mindfulness and meditation
is the largest growing niche within the fitness market
that's growing right now.
It's really becoming popular.
And for me, when I think about no tropics
and mindfulness and meditation,
I feel like it's all tied together.
It's all, it's not all directly doing the same things,
but where I'm trying to go,
it all helps me get to that place where I'm going.
And Ken, I know that you studied meditation
and things like that.
How is, how can meditation plus no tropics
and all this benefit the athlete?
We could get quite deeply into this topic
and since I know we need to wrap up,
I'll just say something briefly and closing.
So beyond the effect of decreasing just stress
and distraction and being able to increase focus
and presence and flow, which is huge, right?
The psychological effects on physiology are huge.
We also remember that every muscle that you're firing
is controlled by your nervous system
and increasing your nervous system's top-down
regulatory capacity for all the other systems
and not just your muscles, but your immune system,
all your physiology systems,
they have their own bottom-up cellular control,
but then they have major top-down control.
So to the degree that you can help the health
and the integrity and the evolving connectome structures,
et cetera, of the nervous system
and the neuroendocrine system,
you positively affect every other system.
Meditation, mindfulness processes can help,
specifically tuning into your body
and noticing body sensations.
You're activating your proprioceptive nervous system.
This will start making meaningful differences
