So you can do it based on labs.
You can also do some labs on your own.
So you can, there's a few companies
that will sell lab tests that you can either,
so Wellness FX is a classic example.
I'm sure your listeners know.
Lab tests direct, you know, it's another one
where you can go to LabCorp, get your blood ran,
get the results back yourself
or do salivary urine stool labs
that you don't even need blood draw for
and you can just learn a lot.
And a lot of people become kind of serious biohackers
and do that.
That's another fine way.
You can also just understand the symptoms
of various biochemical imbalances
and work on it there, that's sketchier.
But to the degree that the intervention you're using
is generally safe, then it's okay.
And then you can just use interventions
that are generally safe enough
that it's not even really symptom based.
It's just I'm willing to throw some money at it and try
and it seems like a safe, good idea anyways.
And so a lot of nutrients and a lot of adaptogens
would fit into that category.
Some things definitely wouldn't.
I'm not gonna eat too many reishi mushrooms.
You'd have to eat a lot of reishi mushrooms to have a problem.
Yeah, yeah.
It seems like method three was more your style.
Like, I'm just gonna try this out and see what happens.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm really big on trying something
and comparing how I felt this hour versus last hour
or today versus yesterday and things like that.
So we wanna talk about delayed causation here.
So this hour versus last hour,
if you're doing something that's going to affect
a neurotransmitter or a hormone
or something that you'll really subjectively notice
in short term, you'll notice it.
If you're doing something that's gonna have an effect
that's cumulative over a longer time
or it's going to prevent some aspect of aging
or help some slow aspect of tissue regeneration,
you don't go to the gym and get buff quickly either, right?
So how do you know if it's working?
Well, you've actually got to be measuring
because if you weren't measuring that you could lift more,
you wouldn't fucking know if you were increasing or not.
And if you're only looking for gains
you can see in the course of an hour,
you're probably doing the wrong thing.
So you have to pay attention to delayed causation as well,
which is important.
Right, I remember I had a lot of adaptogens to my diet,
specifically with a lot of different types of mushrooms
last summer and about a month later
I noticed that my joints felt way better
and I was just leaner.
Now of course another way to look at this
is you can look at what lots of people
have already figured out meaning look at
all of the peer reviewed research on it
and also look at the kind of field of the body of practice.
So examine is not a perfect website
but it is a pretty good website
for looking at nutrients, supplements, et cetera
and looking at the collection of clinical data.
So it's a good place to start
and then kind of Google deep dive from there.
PubMed has a lot of stuff
that you can at least get the abstracts on
and then the forums are great places, right?
And whether you're talking about forums like Longest City
or subreddits or steroids.com
or there's a bunch of shit in bad bro science
and then there's some gems of great stuff
and so if you have time and you're interested
you can find stuff there.
Yeah, nice.
Actually I'm gonna do a show with exam.com founder, right?
The guy who's running it right now, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, cool.
So I got a quick question.
So a lot of people they get the blood work done
they see their testosterone is low
free testosterone is low and they just go,
well I need testosterone.
I'm gonna go get my TRT, inject testosterone,
get my number back either into an optimal range
or in some people's cases way beyond an optimal range.
What are the downsides of just fixing a single hormone
when that's the only thing that you really know to fix?
Okay, so let's talk about,
so we were talking about hormones
and we just did adrenal so far, right?
So now let's talk about sex hormones.
So when-
The thing we're all interested in.
Yes.
So you wanna, if you're running a panel
to look at sex hormones and you just look at
total and free testosterone that's a close
to worthless panel because if total is in a good range
and free isn't, you don't know why yet.
Is it because too much of it is converting to DHT?
Is it because too much is aromatizing into estrogen?
Is it because it's bound up in sex hormone binding
globula and you don't know
because you don't know the things yet.
So at minimum you wanna run total test, free test
and DHT and see the ratio of those.
Now a deeper test where you look at
all of the androgens is great, right?
24 hour urine collection to do a traditional kind of
male endocrinology, super valuable.
And you can see Andrastine Dio and Andrastine Dio
look at all the ratios, super valuable
but at least those three because the relative ratios
of total test, free test, DHT, very important, right?
DHT too high or too low are big problems.
And so you don't just automatically wanna use DHT blockers.
Everybody who's used Propecia has then noticed
that their sex life sucks or that some aspects of life
suck, people who've used DHT boosters notice other things
that suck, right?
Whether it's increased cancer risks or hair loss or so.
Dialing those ratios in is important.
Also the ratio of testosterone to estrogen.
And so you can just do estradiol
or you can do a deeper estrogen panel
and look at all three primary estrogen types
to see how much aromatase transition is happening.
And then you can use natural blockers
if too much of your testosterone is aromatizing
into estrogen, you can use DIM is the primary thing
people will use and calcium, glucarate
there's a handful of things have some indication
or people will go up to an astrosol
and use a pharmaceutical aromatase inhibitor.
Sometimes a little bit of an astrosol upfront
to bring it back into range and then be supported
ongoingly by DIM and typically,
especially if people are gonna take testosterone
or even if they're gonna take DHA,
if they're gonna take anything that boosts testosterone
and they can see that they have a propensity to aromatase
that'll be one of the things they'll pay attention to.
Getting body fat down will also be a big part of that.
Paying attention to other estrogenic things
will be a part of that.
Progesterone as part of this panel is also quite important
for the ratio of progesterone to testosterone
into estrogen and sex hormone binding globulin, SHBG,
which is if your total test is pretty good,
your free test is low, your SHBG is high,
a lot of it's bound up in sex hormone binding globulin,
there's oftentimes underlying health issues
that are causing that.
Infectious, toxicology, and I'll just preface again,
and I hope this is on the show everywhere.
I'm not a doctor, this is not medical advice,
I'm not treating prescribing, diagnosing,
none of us are, et cetera.
This is just general educational info,
go talk to a doctor and find out more.
But oftentimes if you see something like sex hormone
binding globulin being high and then you explore
and you find a mucosal infection or dysbiosis in the gut
or some other condition like that
and you address it, then that will auto correct,
which means if you are going straight to test injections,
one, you might not be looking at why it's low to begin with
that is affecting other systems,
it could actually be affecting future disease states
that could be affecting a lot of other hormones
and important pathways in the body,
and creating external dependence
and all the side effects associated
that are not fun side effects.
And so I'm not saying TRT is bad,
especially as people are aging
and you just do have natural drop-off,
it's a reasonable thing to think about.
Young people should really exhaust all other options
before going there.
Once you start injecting, if you ever stop injecting,
now you have to go through this whole other protocol
to get back to normal and now you're dealing
with the same problem in the beginning.
You probably have some people who are in bodybuilding
or came from bodybuilding and they know a lot
about cycling and so they would come off a test cycle
and they would do an HCG cycle, HCG and then Astrosol
and some other stuff and you don't,
if you've been on test for a long time,
getting your base levels back up fully is really hard to do.
