A lot of people can address underlying causes
like we're talking about,
like getting their adrenals in good shape,
getting their causes of stress in good shape,
getting their mineral levels up,
getting their estrogenic processes down
and then doing things like,
that's a good time to do an HCG round, right?
To induce lighting cell upregulation,
there are interesting things to do there
and I would say any doctor who's worth working with
would understand these topics well.
So that's a little bit on test.
Now, there are, this is just what you'd call
kind of natural hormone optimization
and so everyone knows that if they're healthy
and they're 20, building muscle, losing fat, repairing
is very different than when they're 40 or 50
and that's just because of,
they weren't on steroids at 20, right?
They were just on endogenous steroids
that were actually well-balanced.
So being well-balanced is a great thing.
There are things someone can do
beyond just basic endogenous optimization
now that are, have many of, not all of,
but many of the upsides that previous antibiotics had
with a lot less of the downsides,
the science is advancing, right?
And so if someone's really interested,
it's definitely an area of study
and probably SARMs are the most interesting topic
to start with here.
There's a number of peptides that are interesting
for tissue regeneration and other purposes
and we haven't got into neural hormones
and HGH, IGF1 ratios and we'll get there
but Ostrane is a very interesting SARM that has-
What was the SARM again, sorry?
It's a selective androgen modulator,
so androgen receptor modulator
and so it's going to increase the effectiveness
of androgens for anabolic purposes
with a lot less of the downsides
of taking exogenous test in the effect
that's gonna have on adrenals,
on down-regulated endogenous tests,
testical shrinkage, et cetera, et cetera.
Is it making you more sensitive?
It is making the androgen receptors more sensitive.
Most of them are sensitivity up regulators
of androgen receptors, various androgen receptors
and they are getting to have multiple times
the positive benefit to kind of downside
that original anabolics had,
some of them significant multiple times, so.
So you get the performance aspects,
you get more muscle mass,
easier to lose body fat, more energy, et cetera,
kind of in the performance world and then,
but you're less likely to lose your hair
and to get man boobs and those types of things.
And testical shrink and have increased cancer risk.
Lose sperm count, testical shrinkage is the worst.
Yeah, so this is-
No one wants squirrel nuts.
Well, if you are not needing to produce testosterone,
then you're light excelsshrink, right?
Which is why you hit the HCG round afterwards,
but the longer you're on exogenous test,
the higher amount you're on and the more cycles you do,
the more that's gonna be a real issue.
Gotcha.
So the late excels are the cells in your testicles
that produce testosterone.
Correct.
And so there's some good websites like serotropic.com
is a good website, peptides.com, right?
There's a number of good ones where you can go learn
about a number of interesting molecules
that are research molecules
that if someone wanted to engage with, they could.
And we don't have any business relationship with them.
We just think they, from what we've seen,
share good information and or produce good chemistry.
So like I said, the probably the best starting one
for most people that's currently available is Ostrane.
SR-9009 is a very interesting one
that's very hard to find right now, has to be injected.
It is touted as exercise in the bottle.
That's a little bit too much to say,
but in terms of its anabolic capacity
to very little downside looks profound
from the early trials that are happening right now.
So we'll just say this a very interesting area of chemistry
and I would always start with the basic lifestyle optimization
and making sure that you're working out,
your workout routine is actually good, right?
Then I would look at all of the,
making sure your endogenous levels are good first.
And then if you're still looking for performance
on top of that, then this would be the next category
to look at.
Just hitting on hormones real quick,
addressing the other couple things
that might want to discuss thyroid hormones are important.
And so people can have obvious thyroid issues,
they're obvious, right?
If someone's total, if someone's free T3 is just too low,
if their TSH is too high,
so all the basic thyroid things are straightforward,
then there's also subtler things.
If the ratio of reverse T3 to free T3 is high,
then you're possible to have symptoms like low thyroid symptoms
even though your normal T3, T4 numbers look pretty good.
So I would say again,
if you're going to run a thyroid panel,
run a comprehensive one, run the thyroid antibodies,
run reverse T3, see the whole thing,
work with someone who knows what they're doing.
It's a relatively easy thing to dial back in place.
If there aren't deep underlying causes going on,
can make a tremendous difference,
especially to energy fat loss in,
like fine motor coordination,
all the things that are just part of.
Pancreas hormones, this is huge.
And this is mostly gonna be addressed by diet
and exercise and sleep, right?
Someone can go ketogenic and make a huge difference
to getting their fasting insulin levels down
and their glucagon in good place.
But sometimes they'll do all that
and still have this like,
syndrome X kind of thing happening.
And then it's like, all right, what's going on?
And sometimes it's low levels of vanadium,
low levels of chromium,
some of the minerals that are required
to actually have insulin receptor sites work well.
Or there are some other lying
Krebs cycle intermediaries
that are way too low issue going on.
And that's when you actually have to kind of dive in deeper
to the integrative medicine of it.
But if your fasting insulin levels are high,
fix that first.
Really kind of almost before anything
because that's gonna affect adrenal.
You won't get adrenals in good shape
if your blood sugar is out of balance
and you'll have suboptimal everything else.
And so you can just start with,
you get a glucose test kit for 30 bucks at,
you know, any drug store,
check your glucose levels first thing in the morning
and after food.
If they spike too high after food
or if their fasting levels are high,
then go and actually run some labs,
look at your insulin,
look at your glycomark or, you know,
a whole bunch of, depending upon who you're working with,
different markers and get that dialed in.
And last would be neurohormones.
And there's a lot of things to look at here
that can make a huge difference.
If you're having a hard time sleeping at night
because you wake up to pee,
even though you're not drinking that much before bed,
check your ADH levels, your anti-diuretic hormone.
If that's low, that can be enough
to just fuck everything up.
You have to look at why it's low,
but there are things you can do.
If your doctor wants you to get on Desma Pressin,
that can just instantly get you sleeping, right?
It can make a huge difference.
While you work on regulating it
and it's involved in so many other things,
it usually makes a huge difference.
So lots of neurohormones to address,
but HCH is the big one
that everybody's gonna wanna look at.
And again, as people age, exogenous HCH,
not a bad idea.
Again, do your own research
and work with someone who really knows
what they're doing there
because there are, of course, side effects
that are possible if you're going too high with HCH
or if it's inappropriate.
And there are endogenous things that you can do
if you're young to upregulate HCH, the right amino acids.
I mean, basically get good sleep,
deal with your adrenals,
take some arginine ornithine, basic things like that.
And then if there's still an issue worth working with.
So we could go more into these,
but we'll call all of this Hormones 101.
