adrenocortocotropic hormone, which is the brain hormone
that'll be stimulating cortisol production,
is going to cause that issue.
Now, that's emotional stress, and this is anything
from stressing over finances to relationship stuff
to work to anything, right?
Well, that's ubiquitous.
It's much more ubiquitous than it was
in evolutionary environments,
then also physiologic sources of stress.
So blood sugar imbalance causes cortisol spikes.
Any source of ongoing pain, so physical, structural pain
from injuries, from poor biomechanics, et cetera,
inflammation, not enough sleep, infections, toxicity,
all of these can cause those dynamics.
So we're talking about physiological
and psychological stress causes.
And so the real key there is to actually identify
and address the causes of stress
and support the adrenal glands and what they're doing.
So you can support the adrenal glands a bunch of ways.
You can just give DHEA, which is a generally valuable thing
for lots of people to do.
There are a few contraindications
regarding particular kinds of endocrine cancers,
which is why I say I like to have,
and there's controversy around that.
Some people think DHEA is fine in all cases,
but DHEA is the precursor hormone to testosterone,
but which also then means to estrogen.
And so one does want to pay attention
to that whole process, that whole chain.
But when you look at standard hormone optimization programs,
you look at somebody like Centagenics or any of those,
it's testosterone, HGH, DHEA is always the foundation of it,
and then other stuff on top of there.
And DHEA does have effects on testosterone
to the degree that it's low.
Going beyond low is not really gonna have that effect,
but it does have anti-aging effects
because it decreases with age,
largely because of accumulated stress over time.
So the things that you can do for adrenals
is identify the causes of physiologic and psychologic stress
and work to release them.
Have better stress support processes.
That means sleep more, meditation, psychotherapy,
whatever it is that's gonna help with not being bothered
by the things that were bothersome.
And then physiologic support for the adrenal glands.
This is the minerals that they need
and the vitamins that they need.
So B5 is a big deal, panophenic acid, magnesium, sulfur,
both very important.
The right pregnenolone is made from cholesterol,
so the right healthy fats are gonna be key here.
Oh, I wanna talk about the vitamins and minerals real quick
is we were looking at some products one day
and you were talking about some ingredients.
It's like, yeah, they've got this vitamin listed,
however, that vitamin in the form it is
in that supplement is not really that bioavailable.
Sure.
So what should people be looking for in that?
It's not a simple topic
because it depends on the nutrient
and the intent of the nutrient, right?
So if we're talking about magnesium,
there's a lot of different useful forms of magnesium
for different purposes.
Magnesium III and VIII is very useful
for crossing the blood-brain barrier
and affecting central nervous system magnesium levels.
Topical magnesium is great for not having to absorb
through the GI tract and for a number of purposes
that it has, especially with local application,
magnesium, citrate, et cetera.
So you've got maybe 13 interesting forms of magnesium
and then you have plenty of just not that interesting forms.
So the topic of right form of nutrients
is beyond the scope of what we could do here
because we'd have to kind of go through all of them.
We have to go down a rabbit hole.
We could do that sometime.
But there are good resources online
where people can study this.
So I guess, yeah, one thing we should just point out
is that before you're taking any supplements,
you can research to make sure
that you're taking the right types of B vitamins
or magnesium for what it is you're trying to get out of it.
Bs are particularly a big deal
because should this B vitamin be methylated,
should it be phosphorylated,
that ends up being a big deal
and it ends up being not the same for everyone
based on genetics.
So someone can have issues with methylation
and actually do better with different forms of B vitamins.
Fullic acid is famous for that,
but also B12, also B6, also B1, yeah.
Got it.
What else should we be looking at?
Are we still in adrenals?
Yeah, we didn't talk about adaptogens yet.
Okay.
So adaptogens are generally herbs.
We could also think of some mushrooms
as being adaptogenic that are not specifically
going to raise a level or lower level something
but have some kind of support to increase
the adaptive capacity of that organ or system.
Adaptogens are usually HPA focused
and adrenals as the core of that,
but they can be focused on a number of systems.
So what does adaptive capacity of an organ really mean?
So say we're talking about the adrenal glands.
Do we want to lower cortisol
or do we want to raise cortisol?
Well, it depends, right?
We can have issues of cortisol being too high
and that's usually going to be in response
to causes of stress, cause of inflammation
where we need to actually deal with the underlying cause.
But we may choose to want to keep the levels lower
while we're dealing with the underlying cause
so that we're just not dealing with a cortisol DHA imbalance
and all the things that come down line from there.
So you can use things that will actually lower
cortisol levels and you can use anything
from holy basil to phosphatidyl serine
to, you know, there's a number of things that can do that.
But you can also have cortisol that's too low.
The most common reason is it's been too high
for a long enough time.
You actually just fatigued the adrenal glands capacity
to produce it and you'll know that
because cortisol is low and DHA is low,
but ACTH is still high,
meaning there's still a impetus for cortisol to be produced,
but the capacity has just worn out.
And then you can do things that will extend
the half-life of cortisol like licorice
and more precursor like pregnenolone
that will help start bringing it up.
An adaptogen would be something that could help
the adrenal gland just do a better job identifying
what it needs to do and being able to respond to it
either way.
So rather than inherently lowering it
or inherently raising it, it's simply adaptive.
So, rhodiola, cordyceps,
Jin saying most summa, kudzu,
most of these fit into that category
with various degrees of research backing up
how well they work.
It seems most of those things,
if you ask the average person,
they wouldn't know much about them
and then a lot of people may have tried those things
and it didn't work until they think it doesn't work.
How would someone know they would need
cordyceps and ushrims or any of these other licorice
you mentioned or how would you know
which one of those things were gonna help you
with your performance to get bigger and stronger
and perform better and be a better athlete
or just have more energy?
How would you identify any of those things?
So there's, let's say three different ways.
Ideal, as I'm suggesting here,
work with an integrative doctor,
run labs and optimize based on labs because...
This is getting your blood work done,
look at your numbers.
Yep, yeah.
Because getting, say you have a pretty big range
for total test, for free test, for DHT,
for the cortisol DHA ratio.
Really being in the optimum part of that range
makes a huge difference from still being quote unquote
in range but in a suboptimal part of that range.
But then you can have downsides from being, of course,
outside of the range even on what you'd consider
the positive side.
So there's really nothing better
than lab based optimization at this point.
So if someone is interested, can afford it,
I recommend that you can go find docs who specialize
in that from the Institute of Functional Medicine
or places like that.
And particularly people who do bioidentical hormones
and other therapies like that for athletes
is gonna be very useful.
A lot of them will also know antibiotics
if someone happens to be using those
or is interested in, you know,
SARMs or other kinds of beyond just
normal bioidentical hormone support
and will know how to interface with that topic.
