Gotcha.
We talked about stress early on
and when we talk about disease in the body,
I hear two things brought up
and I used to hear inflammation all the time.
Everyone's saying inflammation, inflammation, inflammation.
And then now I'm hearing stress.
So we talked about stress, what about inflammation?
You should still be hearing inflammation all the time.
Inflammation is never an original cause of illness
because something caused inflammation, right?
There's something that is irritating some tissue
that inflammation is a response to.
So just doing anti-inflammatories
is not going to address the original cause.
So you have to say, is it a structural issue, right?
So you can have inflammation from a structural issue,
meaning your biomechanics off
or you actually have damage in a joint
or your biomechanics when exercising are off.
So you can continue to cause a Tier 1 inflammatory process
because of structure being off.
This is where the right chiropractic, the right body work,
the right surgery if you have to
or addressing joints through PRP or stem cells
or things like that can make a huge difference.
But also people getting their biomechanics down
makes a huge difference, right?
So working with someone who is really good at biomechanics,
really good with kind of the applied neurology.
So if you're moving poorly,
it's been pointed out to you that you're moving poorly,
and you're just like, eh, fuck it,
I'm just gonna keep doing my thing.
I'm gonna keep pushing my squats.
Because I want, my ego is just too inflated
and I don't want to step back.
Your squats are really gonna suck
when you have a knee surgery.
Or life is gonna suck later
when you have a hip surgery or back issues
or you just are always stressed out
or can't sleep that well because of chronic inflammation
or you increase the predisposition for diseases
that have more likelihood when inflammatory molecules are high.
So poor movement can lead to,
is leading to inflammation,
which is then causing a lot of this disease.
This is interesting because especially in our market
and especially crossfit weightlifting,
a lot of us just dose with more fish oil.
Inflammation's high, here's some fish oil.
And so this is probably the first time
I've had this discussion where
what's the origin of the inflammation?
Because inflammation's not a natural state to be in.
Well, I mean it's a natural process,
but it is a sign of something that is irritated
that is signaling some immune,
some repair process in that tissue,
which means there's some tissue damage.
Now obviously you're gonna have inflammation
when you work out an intentionally damaged tissue,
but if you can have excessive inflammation
because you're not just doing micro tears on muscle,
you're actually damaging connective tissue, et cetera.
And then if you have chronically elevated inflammatory markers,
then inflammation's less effective
and you don't heal as quickly.
And then you have the whole host of other things
that can start to be a problem.
So biomechanics being off is a huge one,
especially for people who are working out
and are more interested in the short term metrics
of how fast, how heavy, how hard,
and less in the long term metrics of,
am I gonna be able to do cool stuff at old age
like Jacqueline?
And so that's one.
You can have a similar, a biomechanic one
that's just from posture.
If you're sitting at your computer
in a position where you're getting a sore neck
or a sore back, you can just,
even if you're not moving on it,
just the chronic loading of weight and gravity
over long periods of time can be an issue.
So ergonomics matters.
So those are the kind of structural,
biomechanical cause of inflammation.
And then let's talk about biochemical causes.
So if someone's eating foods
that they have some subclinical allergy to,
you can get inflammation in the gut, very common.
If someone has got subclinical infection,
so they've got dysbiosis in their gut
or other forms of kind of subclinical infection,
and not just in the gut, but any of the mucosa,
the sinuses, the lungs, your genital track, eyes, right?
The mucosa is where the outside world
is actually interfacing with the body
to selectively allow some things in and not other things.
Certain things getting in that shouldn't
can cause major problems,
or the body having to work very hard
to deal with certain things
that shouldn't be exposed to can cause problems.
So again, this is where you start looking into infection.
And other forms of toxins.
So we can talk about mycotoxins from mold,
heavy metals, organophosphates.
There's a lot of things that can cause inflammation.
Also oxidative stress.
Oxidation's a major cause of inflammation.
So the right antioxidants are major anti-inflammatories.
And you can start looking at, well, what's going on?
Because we want oxygen to oxidize some things, right?
We want it to be able to oxidize glucose
in the mitochondria appropriately to produce ATP,
but not oxidize cell surfaces and other things.
So how do we make sure the body has
the right cell energy intermediaries,
which is a topic we can get to in a minute.
It's another huge area of biooptimization,
is ATP, NAD, et cetera, optimization,
while simultaneously making sure
that it has the right antioxidants.
So there's a lot in terms of causes of inflammation
that are worth addressing.
And then there are just anti-inflammatory things
that people can use.
If someone needs for pain,
I would recommend ibuprofen above acetaminophen
many, many, many times in terms of side effects.
And I would recommend neither of them very often.
And so, like you said, fish oil,
your omega-3 in particular,
your longer chain omega-3 and curcumin
are obviously the two most famous
and well-researched anti-inflammatories.
It's a good starting place.
Then you've got black cumin seed oil
and actually the anti-inflammatory effects of green tea,
of course, a tin of some antioxidants
that are affecting that cause of mucosal support.
There's lots of things someone can get into.
That's interesting.
I know quite a few athletes that pop ibuprofen frequently
and I've always kind of been like,
and that's such a good idea.
And I think people know that unless you're just completely
shining off your intuition,
but it's like, oh, maybe I shouldn't be taking this.
But I think most people who are focused on
the short-term benefit of that
because there's even research to show
that it can improve tissue repair,
like muscle growth with the use of ibuprofen.
But that's a study focused specifically
on the muscle belly repairing,
not necessarily what's happening in the rest of the body,
which is what you're concerned with.
Well, as your muscles get bigger,
your liver and your kidney and your intestines
don't get proportionally bigger.
They just have more to process,
more metabolic waste to process more.
And so damaging those organs that are going to be dealing
with allowing the muscles to work is just not that smart.
So if you think about five or 10 years ago,
it's almost hard to care about what you were doing.
You're like, whatever, it's about now.
And yet back then you were making choices
that were all focused on optimizing now.
And that's partly why today,
some stuff might suck for you, right?
You're in debt or you have bad relationships
with certain people or you have physiologic issues.
We're like, man, I wish I had paid more attention back then.
But then it's so easy to just keep perpetuating that.
And to think about how many decades of older age are real
and unavoidable and that when you're there,
what you're doing right now will be almost hard to remember
as having mattered.
So say, let's pay attention to what we're doing now.
Let's optimize it.
But let's optimize it in a way that optimizes next year
and next decade and 90.
Yeah, definitely.
Going into tissue repair, what are some things we can do
to optimize that outside of hormones
and keeping the inflammation down?
Those would be two of the big ones, right?
Having your anabolic hormones in place,
not having catabolic hormones too high
and having inflammation in place is huge.
Making sure you have the right amino acids,
you know enough protein, the right amino acids
and the right minerals.
Trace minerals, especially this is another thing.
