As an athlete, you're sweating more.
As you're sweating more, the benefit is you detox things
that are, you know, water soluble chemicals
that can come out through sweat
and they don't all have to come out through the kidneys,
which a lot of them can be damaging to the nephron kidneys.
But you're also releasing more minerals.
This means electrolytes, but also means trace minerals.
Probably replace your electrolytes,
you might not replace your trace minerals as much.
And so when you see young, healthy,
prime athletes who have a heart attack
or, you know, have other diseases come up,
one hypothesis is, you know, selenium is a trace mineral
and you look at its effect on the heart
or vanadium or chromium's effect on diabetes
or, you know, so many trace mineral effects
on key enzyme or other processes.
So if you're eating a diet that has lots
of organic vegetation in it,
you should be in pretty good shape
and trace minerals are deficient in almost all topsoil.
And if you're sweating more,
then supplementation is a valuable thing in that place.
Pay attention to making sure you're getting trace minerals
from sources that don't have heavy metals
and toxic load and et cetera.
So it's worth learning a little bit.
I'll just kind of do a high level flag on that in a moment.
Sleeping enough is key for tissue repair.
It pretty much only happens when you're sleeping.
It pretty much only happens in delta sleep.
So if you're not getting enough delta sleep,
you are not doing tissue repair well.
You're also not doing cognitive repair well.
You're just not, you're not gonna be doing repair in general.
So that's, you can't prioritize that highly enough.
Let's talk about tissue repair on joints.
If you have a ligament or a tendon
that is fully separated, you need surgery.
If it's not fully separated,
there is good evidence of the effectiveness
of both PRP and stem cell therapy in joints.
Some people will say,
and PRP more than prolotherapy otherwise,
but limited effectiveness there.
People say, hey, there's not much
in the way of good double blind placebo controlled trials.
Well, it's not really fun to do double blind trials
on putting needles right into, you know,
big difficult needles into difficult areas
and, you know, drawing blood with big needles for PRP.
And because part of the effect is mediated
through inducing very localized inflammation,
even just putting a placebo thing in there
has some of that effect.
So I would say as you're doing the research on it,
factor anecdotal research that doesn't make sense
that it would be placebo mediated, right?
So if you see pre and post ultrasounds
where there's a tear in a ligament
and there's no tear afterwards,
placebo shouldn't do that.
If PRP or stem cells are making that happen,
even if it's not a large double blind randomized
crossover trial, pay attention to that
and then find doctors who are good at that.
So that can make a huge difference for people.
We already mentioned hormones, but again,
having your test and your HGH in place is huge.
There are some peptides that make a huge difference
to tissue regeneration.
And again, I'll just reference the sources earlier
that we mentioned for looking into research chemicals
and peptides.
There's more, but that's a good intro for tissue healing.
Oh, a couple of other things, medical laser works.
So cold laser and hot laser, different frequencies,
but laser does have clinical trials
that are meaningful for upregulating local ATP production
helping with scar tissue, helping with repair, PEMF works.
There's again limited trials, but there are good trials,
post electromagnetic field therapy,
particularly very high amplitude.
And so this can help increase healing time
from both surgeries and injuries and just training.
The right frequencies of light work.
So near-infrared therapy and the kind of LED beds, et cetera,
these things do increase effectiveness.
Cryotherapy helps.
You can do cryotherapy in an ice bath.
You can do cryotherapy in liquid nitrogen cryo,
which is much, much easier.
It is easier.
And probably more effective.
I've done ice baths and cryo.
Cryo's three minutes, three, four, five minutes of,
that's not so bad.
Ice bath is...
Terrible.
Well, the first 30 seconds.
Exactly.
And then we acclimate.
Can we take a break?
Let's take a break and then we're gonna talk
about how we can live forever.
Sounds good.
Hey guys, Mike Bledsoe here,
and I wanna tell you a little bit about qualia.
Daniel Schmackenberger came to me over a year ago
and was telling me about the product that he had created.
I actually didn't believe that it was as good
as he said it was, and he handed me a month supply anyway.
And I started trying it.
And one of the things I noticed is when I looked
at the bottle is that it had a ton of ingredients
that I was already taking with a lot
of other supplements already.
So one of the initial benefits of taking qualia
was I was able to take less of other things.
So some of the things I was taking was,
I was taking an adrenal support supplement.
I was taking a no-tropic as well.
And by implementing the qualia product,
I was able to ditch those other two supplements
and just do the one.
Additionally, after taking it for a little while,
I'm not real big on the pre-workout stuff normally.
And I do take it on occasion.
One of the things I noticed is this performed,
or outperformed, any pre-work that I was taking.
So if I was taking a pre-workout in addition
to the qualia product, it was just too much.
So if you follow the show, if you've been following the show,
you know, in the last five years,
we really haven't done sponsors.
We haven't really promoted a lot of products super heavy.
And so this actually says something special
about what's going on with this
because it is something that I really believe in,
Doug really believes in.
A lot of the team in Barbell Shrug takes the supplement
and we really like it because it's not just
about performing better today.
It's about increasing your longevity.
It's about becoming better over time.
It's not a quick fix.
You will notice the effects immediately,
but you are going to, it is about the long game.
And as you can tell, you're listening
and watching this show with Danish Makenberger now.
He has really thought about the entire system
on how to improve the human experience as a whole.
So if you want to try this product out,
go over to neurohacker.com
and use the promo code BARBELL15 for 15% off.
Again, neurohacker.com and use the promo code BARBELL15.
If you go over there right now,
there's some really cool videos and blogs.
If you read a little bit, I think you're really gonna fall
in love with what they have going on over there.
So check it out.
And we're back with Daniel
and we were talking about tissue repair.
We're talking about hormones.
And I think that if you're not quite 35 yet,
this might not be on your radar,
but I know that for me as I've gotten older,
the anti-aging thing starts looking a little more attractive.
Can you speak about that?
Sure.
First thing I would say for anti-aging is
all things general health optimization
because aging is really,
a lot of what we call aging is accumulated damage, right?
We're looking at senescent cells,
but that's micro damage from inflammation,
from toxins, from nutrient deficiency,
from pathogens, from stress,
from insable glucose levels, from et cetera.
So simply having more stable and robust health
from all the basic things is the foundations of it.
Then again, you can build on top of foundations.
It's an area that is being researched
very actively right now.
You can look at organizations like Senes and Rad
and Calico and HLI that are all focused
on kind of radical life extension,
biologic methods of radical life extension
and other kind of technological methods.
This is where we upload our brains to a computer.
So that's transhumanist beyond biologic life extension.
Let's just talk about biology here.
And let's talk about two things
with regard to life extension.
First is just living to your genetic maximum.
And then the next thing is
how to live beyond genetic maximum.
So far, nobody has verified consistent good answers
for number two, but we're getting close.
