Also a bunch of basic supplementation.
So how people use protein, how they do their pre-workout,
their post-workout, what electrolytes,
brand chains, et cetera, they're using while they're working
out, basic amino acid supplementation.
I'm going to assume that that's all a given, and if not,
that you've got that covered pretty well on a bunch
of podcasts, and then we'll talk about kind
of more interesting things that would sit on top
of those basics being well covered.
So we're going to dive into the things that you want
to start looking at after you've got the basics down.
Welcome to Barbell Shrugged.
I'm Mike Bledsoe here with Doug Larson,
and we have a special guest today.
We have Daniel Schmackenberger.
He is the co-founder of Neurohacker Collective,
director of R&D there.
You developed the Kualia product,
which I've been taking for over a year now,
and hands down, favorite supplement.
We have a background in many bioscience fields
with a unique focus on complex systems optimization
through holistic approaches without side effects.
It's a mouthful.
More than the usual guest, mouthful.
Yeah, usually you don't have to write the whole thing down
and then actually read it off.
Usually you kind of just wing it,
but you're like, I got to type this one out.
Yeah, there's a lot going on.
And Daniel is doing a lot, and over at Neurohacker Collective,
you guys are working on a lot of really cool stuff
that I'm, you know, from what I understand
about what's happening, Kualia is just the beginning,
and all the stuff that you guys are talking about
doing in the future is really, really exciting.
So I'm glad that we're here at the beginning
and having this conversation.
Today we were wanting to talk about
how to get all the anabolic effects of, you know,
hormonally, I know everyone gets really excited about that.
How can I improve my testosterone and things like that?
We've had Kirk Parsley on in the past
who taught us how to make some lifestyle tweaks
so we could have more testosterone in our lives
so we get bigger and stronger, faster.
And we're gonna get much, much deeper today with Daniel.
Could you tell us what some of the basics are
that people might, just a quick overview of the basics
in case somebody missed something in regard to lifestyle
that we may glaze over here before so we can dive deeper?
Sure, let's take testosterone and hormone optimization
as a subset of kind of biohacking,
neurohacking, athletic performance as a whole,
which will include cell energy and tissue repair
and adequate focus and pre-workout and all those things.
So we'll kind of do a high level of as many of those
as we can cover today.
And I'll just reference briefly what we'll call the basics.
I'm gonna assume that most of your listeners
understand the right ratio of macros
for the phase they're in and the focus,
whether they're in a bulking phase or a cutting phase,
et cetera, they understand ketosis,
they understand intermittent fasting
and carbohydrate cycles and protein fasting
and they understand blood sugar optimization,
the need to get enough sleep
and how to optimize quality of sleep, at least basics there.
All of those kinds of things, right?
And there's obviously also a bunch of basic supplementation,
so how people use protein, how they do their pre-workout,
their post-workout, what electrolytes,
brand chains, et cetera, they're using
while they're working out,
basic amino acid supplementation.
Gonna assume that that's all a given
and if not, that you've got that covered pretty well
on a bunch of podcasts.
And then we'll talk about kind of more interesting things
that would sit on top of those basics being well covered.
So we're gonna dive into things
that you wanna start looking at
after you've got the basics down.
Cool.
What are some of the deeper things we can get into
when it comes to hormones
that goes beyond getting sleep and eating the right foods?
Well, so you mentioned you've had people come for
and talk about testosterone optimization.
Testosterone is obviously the first hormone
that most people, especially men,
think about when it comes to athletics.
And the primary lifestyle things
are gonna make sure that they have the right nutrients
to make testosterone.
Do they have enough zinc?
Do they have enough magnesium?
Do they have enough of the right fatty acids?
Are they sleeping enough?
Are they not in adrenal fatigue, et cetera?
Are they avoiding xenoestrogens from plastics and like that
and other kind of estrogenic foods?
Factory farmed meat or dairy that is estrogenic,
all those kinds of things.
The importance of getting body fat percentage down
for how that influences testosterone aromatizing.
So we'll call that all the lifestyle stuff,
the foundational stuff.
Beyond that, let's talk about different categories
of hormones and to begin with,
we're not gonna talk about how to have hormones
outside of their normal range,
but how to make sure that they are in their normal,
optimum range, which is very commonly not the case.
So that if people are having difficulty losing weight
or gaining muscle or repairing
or they're not doing it as well as they were
when they were younger,
very likely they're actually in suboptimal ranges,
some physiologic optimum range.
This is a place where I'm gonna recommend
actually finding a really good integrative doctor
who you can work with to run some labs
and kind of optimize based off of labs.
You can do it based off of symptomology,
but it's much harder to differentially tell
is this a thyroid thing or an adrenal thing
or an androgen thing or an et cetera.
So let's go through some categories.
The first thing with regard to hormones
that I would have anyone address as adrenals
before testosterone or anything else.
I actually focused on some,
I was taking some supplements for adrenal support
before I started taking qualia.
And I noticed there were a lot of things
that were fixed, I guess you could say.
I was waking up with,
oh, should I just say on the show, yeah,
with a raging boner.
Yeah.
Day after day and I was like, oh, this is,
oh man, I remember that was happening in my early 20s
and that you forget because it slowly subsides over time.
And I always associated that with more testosterone
and of course it's all tied together, all your hormones.
One drops, it's pulling some other ones down
and things like that.
But I remember focusing on adrenals
and not really thinking much about it when I was younger
and then all of a sudden it felt
like my entire system was improving.
Yeah, so let's talk about adrenals for a minute.
Adrenals do lots of things.
Produce, give or take 300 different hormones
that all have key purposes.
Let's kind of primarily focus on two major hormones
and the ratio of them that is the first thing
that people would want to dial in,
which is cortisol and DHA.
Cortisol is produced by the adrenal cortex.
It's related to sympathetic nervous system functioning.
And DHA is produced by the adrenal medulla related
to parasympathetic functioning.
The ratio of cortisol to DHA has a lot to do
with sympathetic overtone and the overarching relationship
between sympathetic and parasympathetic as it's translated
into the endocrine system.
So that ratio of cortisol to DHA affects everything
from lean muscle mass and fat burning to bone density
to genetic transcription, right?
It affects a tremendous amount of things.
And it happens to me that cortisol and DHA are both made
from the same precursor hormone, pregnenolone,
which is kind of the rate limiting factor in the equation.
So when there's increased stress
that needs increased cortisol production,
the body ends up shunting the pregnenolone to cortisol
and that ends up leading to not enough pregnenolone for DHA.
So the cortisol to DHA ratio goes up
and that leads to a whole host of imbalances
across everything regulated by the ratio of those two.
The ratio of those two is a very key thing to look at
as is the circadian rhythm of cortisol, which is,
so the basic test here is a four point adrenal lab
where you're looking at early morning,
late morning, afternoon, night on cortisol
and then an average DHA, usually DHAs,
and looking at both, is your cortisol doing the right thing
at the right times of day?
So is your circadian rhythm well balanced?
And then cortisol DHA ratio.
So if that ratio being off is a very big problem,
but why is that happening?
Yeah, so anything that causes increased stress,
and I mean stress from an adrenal glands point of view,
meaning increased need to produce cortisol,
which pretty much means increased ACTH levels,
