And so they had little RFID tags, and then they also had basically a card swipe for the, I mean, glorified card swipe for the bees, where you had an RFID reader appended to the hive.
And so every time the bee went in and out that the RFID tag would get swiped. And so there's a timestamp and an identifying marker on each of the bees.
So what I found is sort of multifactile structure of the individual movement is one of the best predictors of colony membership. And so what I tested this in was was a neural network.
Multinomial regression that basically took descriptive statistics, as well as multifactile spectrum with and also a T test comparing that spectrum with to the spectrums for linear surrogates to sort of test how, how important the non linearity of this aspect was.
And so it sort of gave me a reassuring existence proof that yes, in fact, it was, it was sort of, it did at least predict. I don't know about cause because I didn't control it, but it's a good predictor of, so it's also as if the swarm might put an imprint on an individual bees activity.
And so it's participating in a group gives it a slightly different multifactile structure than bees and in the other colonies. That was sort of the idea here.
So this was sort of another step towards sort of finding multifactile structure in swarms and then seeing some sort of indication that multifactile structure did actually co occur with if not support the group coordination.
Any questions about that?
Yeah, I have a question.
Sure.
Hi, I'm fine.
So for humans, as you mentioned, like speech patterns, now you're talking about the bees of the fractal identity tag almost. So the question comes to mind to me is does the fractal patterns you see in human speech, are they entirely out of our conscious control, or can they?
Yeah, I love this question. And I don't, if everything else that felt autonomic, like heart rate and all this, they always seem sort of beyond our control. I have not done the experiments trying to instruct people on sort of training their alphas.
But I would love to. And I think that's sort of like a wonderful entailment of these ideas if they hold sufficient experimental water and they are actually sort of doing that job.
But yeah, so I don't have any idea as to whether it's explicit. It seems to be moored as far as we know into sort of what could be nicer is like a simpler task context. It's like do this job.
And you don't understand all the stuff that goes on under the hood. But it's not like if you start thinking about tying your shoes, you can actually get confused because it becomes so background.
But I would love to sort of look at how explicitly we can get people to guide that. So I think that's a great question. Thank you.
One short follow up is that data side, the conscious aspect of side, is it more about humans about kind of like your trained speech patterns? Or is it and or is it influenced heavily by your current emotional state?
I'm sure emotions have have something to do with it. I don't have that information. But I did. But I, but it, but in that study, the thing, one thing I didn't tell you about is that I had one condition receive text to speech synthesize speech.
And so it wasn't a human speaker. And so there, but, and there was a different use of, of the multifactile structure off the top of my head, I can't remember what exactly that was, but, but there is a, it, the, the, that difference was found in it.
So the, the, the difference in speaker human or machine would did sort of pan out to a difference in how people use the multifactility structure in this in the speech. So, so yeah, so I think there's a lot of further further research to do there.
Thanks.
Thank you.
So I wanted to get on to slime mold, which so this is an example of another swarm that we wanted to tackle. And so this is a video of a lot of discernible amoeba racing around to aggregation or non aggregation sites.
And so, so this is for 540 slides of an image taken such that each pixel is between one and three micrometers.
And you can see that as, as, as you already know from, from, from your labs research, these are wonderful organisms that can glom together, and then sort of plant seeds for the next generation.
We're about to get together here into their larger structures.
I don't think we get to see the full slug here but we're seeing like a detail of them.
So we, so, so my colleague and I were interested in sort of how these structures, how these structures might or might not reflect cascade dynamics and so we saw a potential to use the spatial series here of the images and do multifactile analysis on that so you can basically
So it's applying the same principles to time to space now and so you're looking at pixel intensity in the, the grayscale.
So we're, we're, we're, so, so does anyone need any primer on Dicty or is, can I assume that we all, all know about Dicty here.
All right, so I'm going to race ahead then. So we have
the precision like so we selected three aggregation and three non aggregation sites for each of these frames and the time in between was about 0.5
or the, the sampling rate was 0.5 hertz. So the selections that we picked were squares of 330 micrometers squared.
I'm going to come back to this slide but I want to show you what those slices look like.
Okay, so here we have the non aggregation sites 123 and the aggregation sites, 456. And so you can see towards the right, as we get through the frames, the bottom three have the aggregations happening and the top three.
There's still amoeba in there, amoeba in there but they're not that they're coalescing there and that's, that's those weren't the hotspots.
Any questions about those choices.
So you chose these after the experiment was over. So you, you, you let them grow and then you were like, okay, yes, these were aggregated these were they did.
Yeah, so we didn't do this blind.
We actually wanted to test post hoc, whether or not the, the cascade dynamic stuff that we've been talking about would, would find any difference in the relationship across different event sizes.
So yeah, so this was pre cooked, and we got this from the, from the generosity of David next at the molecular bio department at Yukon so.
So, yeah. Okay, so we did background regression of these multifractal dimensions across each of those frames. And so, just to jump to the punchline the fractality of larger events.
Promoted the fractality of smaller events at the aggregation sites and we got the reverse.
So, so, so, so this is sort of analogous to the executive function task with the card sorting, where we got we got the, the ultimate sort of outcome, or the, the, the task setting there at the outset was was showing us different sort of relationships between large events and
smaller events. And so what we're finding here is that the, the, the aggregation sites that we picked were characterized across those 540 frames by an exchange whereby the, the, the, the fractal dimensions at higher to were feeding down on the fractal dimensions
and the non aggregation sites had basically the small events feeding on the smaller events. And so this was just sort of a nice existence proof again that we just sort of that this seems to be tapping into anything about what's going on so we don't know for for sure.
Like we haven't manipulated this so we don't know that it's causal, but it's at least sort of a window to sort of to sort of start seeing what sort of swarm like relationships might be unfolding in this big, big distorted fluid system.
Any questions about that.
So that's, so the idea here is that I'm just, I, I'm a psychologist struggling with being also, you know, interested in swarms and seeing swarms where other people see single organisms.
And so, whether or not this is one organism or multiple organisms on the, on the right here.
It doesn't necessarily change how we model the emergence of adaptive response to context. So, all of these relationships that we'd seen before complicate simpler models, I would say, but then multi fractal structure is a nice way to start unpacking what exactly is going out like how, how embodiment and how interaction might unfold and how we can start to see it happen.
And so cascades are weight are are a sort of a geometrical framework to start looking into sort of what swarms, we might individually be as humans and then we can propagate that back to the organisms that we definitely think are all swarms.
So yeah, so multi fractality is just sort of an interesting way to operationalize that idea.
So that's all I've got. Thank you. And I'm sorry.
