The name of the podcast is like, it was not intuitive to me.
What was it again?
The podcast very different from ours.
Okay.
Right.
Yes.
It's as close as I could get to the title while still being readily adaptable to future
projects.
Kind of like HPMOR podcast became the methods of rationality podcast.
Yeah.
Okay.
You were thinking ahead.
Yes.
I wish I had done that.
Because I mean, I don't mind that it's HPMORpodcast.com, but forever it's going to be.
Well, it's fine because now the thing that's being done there is we want more.
So again, HPMOR focused kind of circled back.
Yeah.
Actually, I want to say that as long as we're on the subject as far as the origin of the
podcast.
I don't know exactly where the tipping point occurred, but it was partly you and partly
Jeremiah of both the Slate Star Codex podcast and We Are Not Saved, which I'll plug later,
that somewhere just sort of pushed a podcast from being, oh, this is too much of, like
this is a thing that other people do to, okay, this is something that I could sit down and
like actually produce.
Yeah.
Add anyone with a microphone can do.
So two things.
One, Kevin Simler was the co-author of Elephant in the Brain.
I don't know why I thought it was David Friedman.
That name rings a bell.
And I know I've, I'll have to figure out where I'm associating that from.
And also, where can people find a podcast not like are very different from our own because
it's still not on the iTunes store where I can find it for my podcast app.
I get home from Denver tonight and that will be literally the next thing I do podcast related
even before I edit the episode that's coming out next week.
Currently it's only on Google Play podcasts and apparently hard to find even there.
So you can, if you want to look for it until I get the pod, the, put it into all the pod
catchers or to the podcast, like listening services, by the time this comes out, it'll
be, it should be up by the time this is, by the time everybody hears this as the podcast
very different from ours.
If you still can't find it, I am on SoundCloud as GSV bemusement park.
Cool.
Cool.
Perfect.
So why did you want to make a podcast out of this particular book?
The thing about it that's really refreshing, but and also leads to some of my small issues
with the book, which we'll get to is it's a pretty good legal overview that's not written
by a legal scholar.
It's written by an economist.
So not by a historian either, although he's done some legal scholarship obviously and
some history, but his focus is on, I guess, the meat of the matter when you're developing
a legal system, which is it's supposed to constrain conflicts and he looks at the incentives
that these different legal systems create to constrain conflict and how they might be
modulated by illegible ancient social factors or and to what extent, like a restriction
that appears to be religious is actually enforced by convention.
He talks about all these things in a way that's really refreshing compared to discussion
of legal systems by people in other disciplines, at least some of what I've read.
In particular, I would compare because they actually both appear in both books.
Murray Rothbard, another one of the Mises Institute anarcho capitalist economists, brings
up both the Icelandic and Irish systems, which appear in legal systems very different
from ours.
In his book, The Ethics of Liberty, the problem I realized very quickly on reading Friedman's
chapters is that Rothbard stripped out any analysis of why these things worked and just
sort of drooled over the fact that there was a seemingly functioning stateless legal system
so that he could make an argument that legal systems didn't depend on states.
And empirically, they don't, which is the point of the book.
One of the ways in which a legal system can be very different from ours is that either
prosecution or enforcement is not done by the state.
But the economic analysis of what's going on in the legal system is why these things
are interesting and why they might have things we could learn from.
And Rothbard didn't provide that, and Friedman does.
Okay.
So going real quick to the economic thing is the spark to thing in my head.
I've only heard the first episode of your podcast so far, I'm sorry, I'm having my
list now.
But the Chinese system, it seemed like one of the major goals of their legal system was
to not have people use their legal system because it was expensive and they didn't have
very many judges and people tended to like anything that went to the legal system kind
of fucked both parties.
And I kind of get the feeling we have the same thing in America that anytime you go
to the legal system, it's going to be runously expensive even if you're in the right.
And is this a common thing among legal systems?
It's not common, in fact, in feud systems in particular, in the Romani legal systems
and the Icelandic law as it's described, and Irish law to some extent, and definitely
Somali law, which I think the main feud systems the book covers.
There may be one other that's eluding me right now.
In a feud system, the thing that's backing the enforcement of law is the private application
of force or the threat thereof.
The risk of escalating that is why the word feud has such unpleasant associations to our
ears as moderns.
So what the quote court end quote process in a feud legal system often functions to
do is to get a bunch of people who aren't themselves party to the feud to publicly commit
to a particular resolution of the feud so that there are major consequences above and
beyond the risk that you take in the feud itself to continue to engage in the feud after
an agreement, after an arbitration has been issued.
To some extent, they even do this in the Amish system.
The Amish don't have a lot of crimes more serious than using a telephone, but for really
serious ones, they enforce all the congregations at some level and enforce some form of shunning.
One of the things that can be led that leads to shunning actually covered in both systems
in my second episode, the Romani and the Amish, is that refusing to accept a community settlement
of a dispute will lead to that punishment of ostracism.
If you don't accept the community's judgment, you're out of the community.
That sounds fair.
It's a really potent threat in the tightly knit communities that rely on this sort of
communal decision making.
The Romani have various quasi-religious beliefs about non-Romani that make it supremely undesirable
to be exiled from Romani society, and the Amish are pretty deliberately from birth not
trained to function in broader American society, so it's going to be difficult even if it
goes well.
Doesn't that make a lot of incentives for people to chase popularity then?
Because if you're popular, people are more likely going to side with you in a dispute.
It just kind of seems like a nightmare for any sort of more introverted nerd type people
to be in that kind of system.
There's some risk to that, and different feud systems dealt with it in different ways.
The Icelandic system, which gets a lot of discussion in anarcho-capitalist circles generally
and in this book in particular, dealt with it by making your claim, your ability to initiate
a court proceeding for a particular claimed crime a transferable property.
If you accuse someone of stealing your stereo or your TV, you could take them to court yourself,
and there's some agreed on schedule of damages, or you could sell it to someone else who was
better able to actually carry out the court proceeding.
This doesn't give you the status that would come from successfully chasing down and knocking
payment out of someone who committed a tort against you, but it's still prosocial in the
sense that someone is profiting from the resolution of this dispute.
The person who did the wrong thing is being punished, and that's a good, and it does lead
to status on the part of the person who does the successful prosecution.
There's an incentive structure under this transferable tort system to pursue compensation
for offenses, even if you're not yourself the offended party.
Do you first have to prove that you were offended in that way?
No, that's done a trial.
What you sell, as I understand it, is the right to make that claim in court.
There's a really good example of how this could be used in modern law that I will bring
up later when we get to that, but feud systems have a lot of ways of encouraging that commitment
and of making it desirable to go after offenders like that.
Just a couple high-level questions, because most of this is going right over my head,
so I need to start from a higher place.
Romani, are you saying Romani or Roman style?
It's spelled R-O-M-A-N-I.
They're not connected to the Romans or to Romania, and in their language the emphasis
is on the first syllable.
What modern systems are of that style?
They're like what people normally refer to as gypsies in casual conversation, right?
Yes.
I thought that was Roma, not Romani, I wasn't sure.
I do not understand any of the languages or cultures involved well enough to explain
the difference.
I know just R-O-M is a plural used sometimes, Roma is used sometimes seemingly interchangeably
singular and plural.
It may vary widely depending on the particular Romani offshoot that you're dealing with.
They generally speak the language of the society they live in with a lot of Romani loan words
mixed in, and they aren't a huge fan of having their languages or other aspects of their
culture studied for the most part.
I'm actually going to read Ann Sutherland's book on Vlokrom, the Romanian gypsy population
in the US in the next couple of weeks because it sounds hugely interesting, but I don't
understand the different Romani cultures well enough to explain why there are so many very
close but distinct words for them.
Got you.
Perfect.
I saw about 10 or 15 years ago a movie with Brad Pitt where he played an Irish Roma or
Romani person.
It was an interesting movie.
I think his part was sort of a side plot, but in the end you got sort of a feeling for
how justice is done with these people and it was like, okay, I guess for the most part
they don't get too involved, but when shit goes down they really fucking take it seriously.
At least in that movie.
There are three Romani groups covered in the book.
The Irish splinter are a fourth one that come to mind that the book doesn't discuss.
They may either be very similar to the Roman achal, the British Romani, or just not numerous
enough to have been widely studied.
I think the most interesting thing about the movie was that they had absolutely no faith
or trust in the legal system of the country they were living in, and so they were basically
an entirely separate legal system, and they knew they were breaking the laws of the land
when they enforced their legal system, but they just didn't give a fuck because this
was how it went down in their culture.
The three groups have different approaches to that.
All of them are consistently mistrustful of Gaza.
That's everyone who's not Romani authority, and they go as a civilization to astonishing
lengths to avoid having it consistently enforced against them, but they have different approaches
to the ground level relations they have with those governments.
The Kala, the Finnish Romani, are a very strictly nuclear society.
They're organized at the household level and nowhere below or above that.
They have a feud system that in practice mostly takes the form of when a feud breaks out.
Every member of each kin group on either side of the feud will avoid every member of the
other, presumably until some settlement is negotiated or just forever.
I just looked it up.
The movie is called Snatch, right on.
The Kala are interesting because they don't have the sexual taboos of the other Romani
groups.
They have a much stronger sexuality taboo, which consists of denying the existence of
human sexuality entirely.
Oh, I heard about this probably in Scott's review.
Yeah.
So they don't acknowledge the, as far as I can tell from the description Friedman gives
and I'm going to read Grunfurs' account to make sure that I've understood this correctly.
They don't actually recognize any individual's parentage by any particular individual.
Like women just sometimes get pregnant and no one knows why.
No, it's much more off the wall than that.
So if a couple wants to procreate, they are expected to leave the household that they
live in and then go someplace far enough that the woman's kin cannot find and retrieve
the woman who's fled.
