bad at them. Which shows that you're not the archetypal example of the person who makes.
I'm not going to high five you. High five. I don't want this room to leave without high five.
Okay, I'll high five you later. No, I mean, I'm just thinking like I don't want anyone to be
so miffed in disagreement here that we can't still be super friendly afterwards. Yeah. Or even
super friends. So I just mean like, I think that this is super not where I wanted the conversation
to start. And that's why we haven't even done the intro yet. But it's just worked out to where
we were talking about this and it came up. So because I think that this is like, it's hard.
The meta level I want to have this conversation at is like, how do you have conversations like this?
Because I think we're doing a pretty good job. We're not going to have someone like Steven in
here to help us. Yeah, exactly. We just have to like carry around with us.
Well, and maybe I'm, you know, if I, I'm not really in this, I'm more like interjecting rather
than being part of it. So I've been in difficult conversations like this and that's tougher.
No, but what you're doing is you're doing this really interesting thing that I would like to
see more people doing that I see people doing poorly in conversations like this.
What you're doing is just saying, I don't understand. Can you reframe that?
Yeah, I, well, really, because my goal is I want to understand. And so like, I think,
you know, one of the ingredients is to go in with an honest wanting to hear what your opponent,
not just hear, but to really see where they're coming from. And by opponent, I mean, like,
conversational partner. Yeah. But, you know, I just got me choked up about using the word
interlocutor because apparently I use that a lot earlier. That's a great word. I hear it a lot
nowadays too. Oh, good. Well, you can thank me for that. So there's this really interesting
article I read today by Ferret Steinmans, who if you're not familiar with him, he's an amazing
blogger and an amazing author, not a rationalist, but go look at him anyway. He's awesome. But he
was writing about how there's a tendency to, and I'd have to pull this up or link it to like,
really get it right. So I apologize, Ferret, if I'm getting this wrong. But to nowadays,
there's this concept where we have to win arguments instead of have discussions. And
especially on the internet, you go in, you wait in to like your friend's friends while we're
selling to said something stupid about abortion or something. And you're like, well, I'm going to
win this argument and prove everyone that I'm right and get all the social points. And I'm
going to come out the victor with all these like currency of social blotty blah. And what really
happens is you waste three hours of your time sitting on your friend's friends Facebook while
arguing with someone who is never going to listen to you, who is never going to change our mind.
And you're just in your own echo chamber screaming at the void.
So I think that's that's true. That's how people, many people will approach conversations and they
feel like that's the wrong way to go about it. But I don't think it's a new thing. I think we've
been doing that since debate. So since like the ancient Greeks, at least. And it's just louder
when we have the internet and everyone can do it. Right. And I guess the only thing, because I'm not
a fan of like the debate format, where two people who will never change their minds get together
and pretend to argue. But really, when they're just like laying up, you know, they're
laying out arguments and the other person lays out other arguments that never really like
go back and forth. I watched a really annoying debate 10 years ago-ish between Dinesh D'Souza
and Peter Singer. And it was super fucking annoying. First of all, D'Souza is a scummy
arguer and I think a scummy person. But the whole time, it was about the problem of evil was
supposed to be the point of the debate. Dinesh was like pointing at like, Oh, yeah, well,
Singers utilitarianism leads them to like say it's okay to kill babies and whatever other, you know,
he says you guys, you know, you guys should be giving way more money to the poor and yet he
doesn't live in poverty. So he's a hypocrite, you know, whatever. The whole point was like,
No, we're here to talk about the problem of evil. Let's talk about that. And the entire like 90
minute debate, Peter Singer was willing to grant that, yes, sure, humans, including babies deserve
to die because for whatever original sin, I'll grant you that. But why did God kill all those
animals in the flood? And he could he they spent 90 minutes dancing and Dinesh never addressed
that point. So like, I don't like debates for mainly that sort of reason. But the only reason
that I can get behind them. And maybe this is the steel man of that person arguing on Facebook
about abortion. Is that by the way, that was me like two years ago. So you're good to still man
your position two years ago on the internet is that if you do one thing, if you direct message
that person had that argument, then it's kind of pointless. But if you're doing it on a conversation
that other people can see, at the very least, you might get somebody who like, initially saw that
and they're like, Oh, man, you're right. Whatever good pro argument, pro choice or excuse me, pro
whatever good anti abortion argument they made, that almost does that's kind of convincing me.
And then they see someone else challenge it, you can you could swing somebody back, right? So
that's why you should always do direct messages, because you can actually have
a interesting debate of no or dialogue if no one else is listening in anything that's done in a
public forum, like a debate or a, you know, Facebook wall comment is always done for the
audience. I guess it depends why you're not going to change your position. Well, I guess it depends
on are you are you expecting a conversation or are you just yeah, that's the goal of the conversation
at that point, right? If you're watching, it's always done for them. So like there are people
at CSU that come by every semester and scream about like how you're all fornicating sinners.
Oh, those guys are funny. I love them. So we invited, I forget the guy's name,
but he invited him to like the I went to two of the lift meetups, they were called leaders in
free thought, it was like the atheist group. But when I went there, the first thing I noticed
that they're 32 people and thus 32 different versions of how they were atheists. Like they
introduced themselves with like super, you know, long, so, you know, many syllable versions of
philosophical positions of like, basically how they're atheists. So they didn't agree on that.
But we invited this guy to come talk about it. And in person, he was objectionable in what he said,
but very polite. And I thought it was actually really valuable. And so he wasn't performing.
But when he was performing, there are other people out there performing against him. And I
thought that was valuable. So it depends on how you're modeling your, your, your political, your
conversational opponent here. Are you are they performing or are they putting forward like,
you know, hey, I've been thinking this lately, what do you guys think? And if that could still
be performance, but if they're being genuine, then you can, you know, respond on the wall or,
you know, they might be worth talking to via direct message. But if, if they're not,
if they're this Reverend guy, I can remember his name on his performance day, then he's not going
to be forthcoming to like debate in private either. So I think just knowing what kind of conversation
you want to have slash expect to have before you get into it is my very long way of saying that
point. Sorry. Well, and I think I'm going to use Facebook as an example, because I don't really
interact on Twitter. So it's harder for me to say Twitter is like this. But on Facebook, you
aren't really there, or at least I'm not particularly there to have in depth, complex
conversations. I'm there to share cat memes and like randomly piss off any ash. It's only happened
once. Twice. Twice. Yeah. Oh, sorry. But when I do post things that are vaguely controversial on
my wall, I make it clear through how I model my behaviors. And this is going to make me sound
super holier than that. That I expect mostly civil conversation. I would like to think that
everyone would like that. But not everyone does. Every time I go to someone else's wall and they
posted something like this, or for goodness sake, read the comments on any of the original posts.
It's like a morass of vitriol and grossness. And I'm like, how does anyone live like this?
Like every time someone gets into an argument on my Facebook page and they're really offensive,
or people that I eventually unfriend because I just can't handle them. It's like every time
I get the notification, I flinch. Because I don't want to deal with that kind of behavior.
Yeah. So then that makes sense. And I mean, I wouldn't want that either. I was on Twitter,
like actively for two months and realized that it's impossible to have a nuanced conversation
with 140 characters. So I remember I was arguing with somebody about female genital mutilation
versus male circumcision. And they were trying to make some argument and like weighing the total
uterlines of men circumcised versus female circumcised. And that's how he kept putting
those female circumcision, which I don't like. Then again, you could use male genital mutilation,
whatever. But the point is my shit still works, even though it's been slightly lopped off when I
was a kid. And that's a large difference in scale. That's what I was trying to convince to him.
But it's really hard to do 140 characters. So I kind of just gave up the platform.
So I should get back into it and just follow people that I want to see what they have to write.
I mean, I want to say like breaking someone's nose is bad and
breaking every bone in someone's legs is bad. But one is more bad than the other.
And that's the argument I made. I was like lopping off the last digit of your pinky is bad.
And no one should do that. But no one should top off your whole hand either. And so
the point was that we were unable to come to a mutual, like,
I don't remember how long this debate went on, probably most of an afternoon or something back
and forth. And nobody changed their minds or whatever. It's hard to articulate a point in 140
characters. And now whatever 280, but that's not enough. If they're not willing to sit down and
read, you know, a couple of paragraphs, and they're not willing to really engage in conversation
anyway. So I guess Twitter could be fun. I guess that was my short history of Twitter for trying
to use it for probably not intended purpose. I got onto it to coordinate at a conference,
and it was great for that. So if I want to see what Neil deGrasse Tyson's up to,
I'm sure it's a great thing for that, too. But the really quick back out Scott Alexander,
I think just I want to just voice my thought on that, even though it was 10 minutes ago.
His whole not a feminist thing sounds like not women's rights, but it's not. He just doesn't
like theist and everything that comes with it. And I think as it exists. Right. And that's why
that the reason I thought of that was because I mentioned Neil deGrasse Tyson, and he likes,
he doesn't like atheists, he doesn't like anyists except scientists. And you know,
how much that's true for him really, who knows, but there's somebody out there who, you know,
I think that that makes sense that when you say, yes, I made this, then people are allowed,
or not just allowed, they're expected. Basically, that's the whole point of having a shorthand
to bring all this baggage with him back. Oh, so you believe all these things.
That's like, I don't believe many of those things. I don't know why you would think that I'm,
you know, I'm an atheist, I'm okay with killing babies or whatever. Right. So I guess I wanted
to free people who aren't familiar with Scott Alexander. He's not anti women's rights. No, no,
not at all. He's, he's, he's way too articulate to, to let that go so quickly too. And there's a
couple good posts on that that we can dig up if we want. So one of the things that's kind of
bothering me about the not a feminist thing is that I can only think of one person out of my
like 600 social media followers that identifies as feminist who is an offensive person
who has said things like all men should die, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, whatever.
Which means that if half of my friends are female statistically, that's around 300 women,
most of whom who I know identify as feminist are, are being lumped in with the one person
who is basically misusing the label. But that makes it seem like to me, your argument is, well,
that one person ruined the bunch. So all these other women who are feminists, I'm just not going
to side with. No, it's, if they claim they're feminist, you know, I, I, again, I'm still
siding with anyone who is fighting for women's rights and women's equality. It's the, the,
are we thinking about the same person? Yes, we are. Okay. All right. Yeah. When I went up to
Michigan to visit my in-laws, I still identified as a feminist and I was going to go to one of
the conventions up there and I got crap from the super conservative in-laws. And like, I sat down
and I schooled them and I was like, no, this is why I'm a feminist and really everyone should be.
And they're like, oh, okay, well, all righty then. And they did the same thing about it. I was like,
oh, huh, that was kind of neat. And then a few years later, I dropped out as well. And I,
I think it's because when the people who speak up that way and are toxic that way,
they do grab ahold of the movement and it can be hard to rest it back. The,
everyone nowadays who thinks about the Catholic church thinks basically pedophile priests, right?
Because the entire church supported them and hid them and very few people said much against it.
Even the laity after the whole scandal broke was like, well, okay, that was kind of shitty,
but well, what can we do? It was, there was no one saying, no, this does not represent us. And
actually now there are some people and I've regained some respect for Catholics because
of that. But the institution as a whole, I still find pretty corrupt. And it's a lot of that, well,
okay, this person is going to the extreme, but they're, they're fighting for us ostensibly. So
we're not going to say anything to them. I can think of plenty of people to use that same person
as an example. I can think of plenty of feminists who've stood up to them.
Oh, well, that's awesome. And there are plenty of feminists who say, say, okay, take for example,
and this is something I kind of wanted to bring up as like an example. So yay, opportunity.
Turfs are trans exclusionary radical feminists. Hold on.
Trans exclusionary radical feminists, they basically say that turf. Yeah.
So they're trans exclusionary so that what they, they're feminist, but not for trans women?
This is going to be, yeah, basically, they, they, yeah, it's, it's literally one of the most
horrible things I've heard in a while. Because I can, my mental model of what I'm, I don't know
this person you guys are talking about, but mental model of the extreme feminist, I could
totally imagine saying, you're not really one of us, you know, you didn't go through what we went
through. I'm making up again, these are not my positions, make that perfectly clear. I'm saying
I have an accurate model of I think the kind of psychopathic position that it takes to
hate on people that way. Okay. And this person in particular isn't a turf,
but I'm using turf as an example. There are people that stand up to them and say,
this is not what feminism is. This is horrible. And we should be able to include our trans
sisters as well in our community and in our uprising. But it's really a shame
when we have people like that in the movement, we have feminists who are
basically horrible people. And for allies to say, well, this one person is a horrible person. So
I'm not going to support this movement by lending my voice to that movement. I'm going to be over
here doing my own thing for women's rights. Yay. It's completely different. And it's,
we need as many voices as we can get to help cover the voices that are not representative of the
whole. And so when people are like, well, I'm not going to play anymore, because my feelings got
hurt. And you're not doing that. But that's kind of how it's coming across and how it's
come across from other people as well. It's like, but we could build something together.
And now you're refusing to because there's one bad apple. You aren't really an ally.
There's some organizations I won't support. But feminism isn't an organization. The Catholic
Church is an organization. Feminism is not. Well, no, it's an ideology. It is an ideology.
But when it embraces things like it is okay for women to say all men are violent.
I'm not okay with that. And, and yeah, the turfs say that. But a lot of other people are like,
you know, I don't support the turfs and their trans exclusionary thing. But yeah, they're
allowed to say that all men are terrible and all men are violent. That's punching up. So it's
all right. And no, don't I will fight for the the laws and the social attitude adjustments,
I guess, that I would like to see in the world without having to identify with the people who
say that I am terrible and they don't want me around. So I think you don't want me around. That's
fine. I won't be around. I think it's like it's less like you're going to take your ball and go
home and not play with them because they were mean, or one person on the field is mean. It's
like, you know what, I'm going to take my ball and go play somewhere else and not call it soccer
because you guys are you guys playing soccer being dicks or something, you know, whatever,
whatever it is, right? So you're behind the goals just you can't get under the umbrella term.
Right. And that's I think I can see that. I think that I'm for free speech, but I'm not going to
join Fred Phelps's church. Sure. I think that's a kind of a bad example. It's definitely his church
