Hello all.
Due to a crushing work schedule, Kyle wasn't able to do the sound engineering for us this week.
And unfortunately, we didn't learn about this until the last minute,
so this episode is basically the unedited, raw audio of us talking.
We apologize in advance for the lowered quality.
But you said you and Rachel were talking about something before you got here?
Or is that like for the podcast and we should wait?
Um, I can mention it and if it sounds interesting enough, we can talk about it.
I don't know if I could do a position justice, but at least I didn't wait hearing about it for
a while. Should that Facebook post that was something defending the use of inclusive terms
for people, as opposed to exclusive terms when you're like, oh, like all guys are shit or all
white people suck or something. Right. Yeah. And so putting my cards on the table, I agree
with Enosh's response that like painting with a broad brush like that isn't probably the path
of success for various reasons. Or is it moral probably? And I think her perspective was that
if you don't, if you paint with a, if you say some people rather than all or just don't even qualify,
therefore implying all, then like it's easy for people to dismiss it and be like, oh,
they're not talking about me. Which is true. I've actually seen that sort of behavior from people.
And I'm sure that we can. And you know what? I'm okay with that. No, you're not. I'm okay with
people saying that is probably isn't about me. If it's probably not about them. And if it is about
them, then maybe someone should tell them. Why? Because then they know it's not about them.
If they, if you look at, if you look at a thing and it says like all women who wear black
are blah. Hey, hold on. Do you guys want to do this on the podcast? Because this sounds interesting.
I feel like I'm learning. Okay. Well, I'll include it. Starting at 17 minute mark.
Okay. Make a quick note. Text me with 17 minutes or something. You got it. Cool. All right, go on.
Okay. So say for example, that I as a white woman wearing a black dress see something and it says
all white women who wear black dresses are blah. I can look at myself or yeah, or whatever. I am gay.
So yeah, but something pejorative or something unpleasant or something. I can look at that and
say, am I this way? And if I self reflect and say, no, that's not me. And I can be like, that's a
generalization. It probably is talking about these other people who do have this particular trait
that do behave in this particular way. And I can go on about my day because I know it's not about
me. How often do you got to hear all women are naggy bitches before it starts to really weigh
down on you instead of being like, Oh, am I a naggy bitch? No, I'm not. So I can go about my day.
Like zero times. I don't have a problem with people saying that it just tells me what kind
of person they are. Okay. So I do have a problem with people saying things like that sometimes.
Yeah, but I have my own sense of self identity where I'm like, Okay, this is who I am. This is
how I perceive myself. I can self reflect and be like, this is obviously not about me. So
but if you're still affects you, but hold on, but if you're assessing that it's not about you,
wouldn't you be doing that? Even if it said some women are naggy bitches? I don't like the example
but running with it. Yeah. If it's some are all like, I think the distinction is, are you
implying that it's everybody or not? So we can keep running with that example where we can run
with other ones. But well, okay, so real ones that I've seen are like, there's a great problem
with men or something. A real one. Yes. That is that is a very big one. I've written about that
one before. A similar one is black people are criminals. Right. And what are now black people
supposed to say? Am I a criminal? No, I'm not. So I just go along. That's actually something
that's quite different. How so? I was saying different is it's punching down, not punching up.
I'm sorry. Okay. I am familiar with the concept, but please explain it out loud. So I don't think
I am. So okay. So when you say punch up, don't punch down, you're talking about challenge people
in power with privilege, instead of picking on people who don't have power on privilege and who
are usually criminalized or otherwise, you know, put in a place where they suffer for that place.
Why are we punching people at all? It's a phrase. But it seems to be chosen that way for a reason,
right? Yeah, because I can say challenge power, but don't hurt people who have less power. Challenge
power is different because that's basically what it means. No, I think punch up is much more
appropriate than challenge power, because then that points out that some people are powerless.
There's a lot of white people that are living in poverty. And if you punch up by saying all white
people are shit, you're really punching down on a lot of white people. No, because if you say all
white people are shit, because I hate this example, but I'll run with it, because they tend to treat
black people poorly, or all white people are shit because they have racism problems. That's not
saying, that's not picking on poor white people because they're poor. Oh, but it is. No, it's not.
Well, not because they're poor, but it's picking on poor white people. Yes, because they still have
privilege, and that privilege involves their status as white. I understand there is some privilege
for being white. Yet, if you go to one of these rural areas where people are living in poverty
and tell them that they're privileged, they will be very upset at you, and rightly so in my opinion.
No, because the reason they have privilege is not because it's not like a monetary thing, like oh,
every white person is rich or whatever. You guys don't get monthly checks.
No. I'll keep that to myself. That's because I'm a woman.
You get a fraction of a check, right? I don't get monthly checks because I'm an immigrant, so.
Oh, okay, that does not make sense. Wow. But if you take a poor white person and a poor person of
color, you put them in the same exact circumstances in the same exact city, who's going to be less
privileged? I think that depends a lot on their situation. No. Okay. Well, if we're stipulating
that they're identical, then yeah, you can say all else being equal, the black person's worse off,
because so I think then the question is like, are you encompassing people in a better, like you
could say, man, talking about race stuff makes it dicey, but do you want to talk about sex stuff
instead? We could say all men have privilege because there is male privilege as well. Yes,
and if you take and yet try telling that to a man who is suicidal because of toxic masculinity and
the culture that expects him to be in certain ways and tell him that he's got male privilege
and see how happy he is about that. I think you're talking, you're confusing feelings and
circumstance. Okay. Because you say, tell this, like for example, take your example of tell this
white cis male who does have problems rising from toxic masculinity and say, fuck you and your
privilege. Yeah, it's going to hurt their feelings, but it's not going to change the fact that they
do have privilege. They do make more than women. They do have more power than people of color.
Statistically, white men do. Yes. If you're reducing an individual person to statistics again,
then you might as well say that the black person, you know, if there is a criminal,
since criminality is higher in the black population, it's different though. There's a lot
of reasons for it. Yeah. And some many systemic reasons. But if all we're doing is looking at
statistically white people are more privileged. Yeah. But it doesn't, it's a, it's not something
that hurts them. Oh, yes, it does. Being reduced to statistics. No, privilege doesn't hurt people.
Oh, privilege. Yeah. Okay. I'm sorry. I thought you were talking about being reduced to. Yeah,
sorry. My face is like, okay. But no, if you're talking about privilege and you're saying this
person has more privilege than this other person, you're talking about this person's societal status
and the benefits they get from it are different than this person's. And it's not saying, you know,
it's not talking about what is, let me rephrase that. It's not causing them damage.
So as a man, I am assumed to be more violent than you. Yes.
Do you don't think that causes me any damage in relationship to you in certain situations?
It actually, okay. So statistically, men are more violent than women. Exactly. But it's something
that affects how you live your life and how I live my life. But if I say all men are violent.
Yes. I'm talking from a place of, I am afraid of, of dealing with men because men are violent.
If you were to phrase it that way, that'd be wonderful. And that is something that builds
compassion and allows people to relate to each other. If on the other hand you say all men are
violent, I say, well, that's great. That's one of the reasons I hate being a man.
Okay. So but the difference is, is you're asking, you're asking a lot of emotional labor from people?
All I'm asking is for people not to reduce an individual to the stereotypes of their group.
Yes. But when someone says- Which I thought was a progressive ideal.
Yes. But when I'm, when I, for example, if I post on Facebook and I say all men are violent
and like post a meme or something that underscores my thought process there,
I'm not saying Inyash Brodsky is a violent motherfucker.
Hold on. Wait, let me think. Just a logical tautologies. Inyash is a man, all men, therefore
Inyash. Yes. That's, that's how it's read, I think. I mean, that's like, worth great logic.
I think that only the two people in this room read it this way because I definitely don't.
Well, it is simple basic logic. If you say all something is X and someone is part of that
something, then they also are X. The classic example of all men are mortal socrates is a man,
draw your own conclusion. I think going back to the emotional labor thing because I got sidetracked
and forgot about that. So I think this ties into it. So bear with me. Okay. When you're asking people
who have been victimized, when you're asking people who don't have privilege, when you're asking
people who, whose circumstances have caused them to have pain or suffering because of something
they are. When you say, I need you to do all this emotional labor and qualify everything so my
own feelings don't get hurt. That's a shitty thing to do. You don't think that men have ever or white
people or you don't think anyone in the world has ever not experienced pain and suffering because
of what they are? I think it depends. Mike Pence. Is he representative of the overwhelming majority
of people in the United States? He got voted in. That doesn't mean he's a pro.
Well, for, no one votes for the vice president. I'm joking. I'm really joking. So no one votes
for the vice president and people don't vote for people that are representative of them as people.
Yeah, no, I was completely joking on that. I'm sorry. No, so I mean, like, I just, I don't want to
grab a non-central example and say, well, look at this person and like that person could be one
in 300 million, right? So I mean, I think we're talking about like broad strokes. Also, can I
get a clarification point? Yeah. I have come to understand a bit of what privilege means.
They might be clear that I'm kind of an idiot. But you're talking about it like it's a number
between one and 100. But I don't think that that's the best way to think about it. So like,
you have so much privilege. And then maybe you could, to me, it looks like it's like a, however
many boxes you want to put people into, they get points per box of privilege or anti-privilege
or however you want to measure it. And so maybe you could average out those and say, look, we've
averaged out these 60 boxes, you would look like you have two out, you know, let's say 67 total
privilege points out of 100. Now, I'm being simplistic, but like, to say that this person has
more privilege than this person, just by looking at one factor doesn't seem like enough. Okay.
No, it's not like a numbers game. But like, you can, if you're, if you're saying one has more
than another, then there's not, there's a comparison game. No, there is a comparison
game. Like, for example, I as a woman have less privilege than you as a man.
In some situations. Because I get interrupted when I'm trying to talk about things.
I've been interrupted on the show before too. I'm making, I'm making a really snarky point.
Okay. I'm making a very snarky point. But that happens because I'm a woman. I don't get interrupted,
but men don't get interrupted nearly as much as women get interrupted. I have seen that.
That is privilege. That's privilege in case in point is men have more, and I don't, I don't really
know if it's a respect thing, but I want to say respect. Men respect other men more in order to
give them the time and the space to express their ideas. Or we're equally afraid of men and that
the same reason that women allow themselves to be interrupted is the same reason that men
don't interrupt other men is because we're afraid we're going to get our asses kicked because
Enos is bigger than me. So I think that actually is kind of a poorly, poor way to say stuff.
And that was a somewhat flippant, free-spot. Yeah. You guys can't see the smiles in the room.
So I also want you to ask how much privilege does the man have over the woman or vice versa
when dealing with a police officer or in a court of law? Because women get preferential treatment
in those cases. They get lesser sentences for the same crimes. Their storage facilities or
jails or whatever aren't as bad. Storage facilities? Yeah. I'm not a big fan of prisons.
Okay. Yeah. I just hadn't heard that phrase before. So okay. High five. Thank you. They get help from
officers as opposed to get aggression from officers much more often. But the reason why is because
they're perceived as helpless. And that's not a privilege thing. That's like a bad stereotype.
It's like saying, oh, you're helpless. You couldn't help yourself. And you know,
we're going to let you off easy because you're just a stupid woman. You know what? I'd be
willing to take that societal judgment if it led to less prison time. Yeah. But I feel like
I'd go years of less raping. But it doesn't because say, for example, I'm 34 and I get sent
to prison for whatever reason. But I get a lesser sentence than a man. That doesn't mean that I
haven't spent the rest of my life dealing with the effects of privilege on me. It's like saying,
it's not a get out of jail free card. It's a, this is the circumstances of my life. And I have to deal
with not only the, oh yeah, I get out of jail free, but I have to deal with men interrupting me. I
have to deal with getting paid less. I have to deal with every single thing, the fashion standards,
everything that comes with being a woman that makes me have less privilege than a man.
You aren't expected to violently defend yourself. You aren't assumed to be a sexual predator.
You aren't assumed to be a child molester. If anyone ever sees you with a child other than
your own, there's a lot of privileges that also come with being female. There's a difference
between privileges and privilege, though. All right. Can I, and those, I would argue, those
aren't privileges. Sorry, Stephen. Go ahead. No, no, you're good. I kind of want to just,
if you don't mind completely derail that line of conversation, or at least ask how useful it is.
We're getting into the oppression Olympics here, and that's obviously never useful.
I mean, that might be, that might come up, but I want the point of kind of the episode to be more
about like fruitful conversations. So if it's not going somewhere, we should, right, we're talking
in circles now. Well, no, no, I mean, it might not be a circle. I guess just at least take a meta
step back and say, is this the kind of approach that will lead to a good conversation? Or is
this actually getting us anywhere? So is it going in circles? So like the, like,
raising up data points, like, well, this person's more privileged here, this person's more privileged
here. So like, I am factually curious as to whether or not like, you know, a black person who came
from, you know, two Ivy League graduate parents and was born with, you know, all of the, the societal
benefits of being in a nice neighborhood and with a retirement fund. No. I'm joking. Yeah, sorry.
I don't think, his parents Ivy League grads, I thought that he was. No, I don't think so.
Yeah, he had nice and humble origins. Yeah, he was an Ivy League grad. Yeah. But yeah, so maybe
his kids, our Barack Obama's kids less privileged than, you know, somebody with some, some white
kid with kids, if we were to have kids, sure. I would argue, yes. That they're less privileged
and more privileged. Less. Yeah, okay, good. So that's, that's what I was thinking. Yeah. So
that's, that's what I was getting at, that it wasn't just like a sliding scale based off of one
factor. It's an amalgamation of a number of factors. Yes, exactly. Okay. I think anyone who
argues that Barack Obama's kids are less privileged than my kids would be is insane.
But they still have to deal with the societal consequences of being persons of color.
Yeah, sure. But then they can snap their fingers and send the secret. That's what privilege is about.
Then they can send the secret service out and with a snap of their fingers, which is a privilege
most of us don't have. But those are privileges versus capital P privilege. Yes, that, that exactly,
that exactly is a difference. They, they even have capital P privilege more because capital
P privilege isn't just about your skin color. It's also about your class. Yes. But I'm talking
about skin color and gender, most specifically in my arguments. This is a thing which the, the
left or people like to call intersectionality. Yeah. And it's important to keep in mind that
people do have different privilege in different ways, which is basically all intersectionality
is. It's a fancy word for that. Oh, sorry, go ahead. I interrupted you. That's okay. Go ahead.
Check your privilege. One of the things that I run into when I'm discussing this sort of stuff
with you in particular is that you always tie it into the way that it sounds. And this is,
