is a lot worse. I'm sorry, not a bad example, bad comparison. Okay. Because people who are in
support of free speech are not saying that you have to support everyone who's how am I saying
this because that's kind of not what I wanted to say. I'm sorry. Where you have like, to be
someone who supports free speech doesn't mean you have to agree with everything.
There's no party line. Well, the party line is that everyone can say what they want as long as it
doesn't cross into actual violent threats. Yeah. And so there's no the party line for feminism
isn't we hate all men fuck you men. It's we would like to be recognized as people we would like
to have the same rights as men. We would like to have the same privileges as men. And that's why
I still support feminism, but not capital F feminists, because a lot of those are people that
attack people that I like, even other women. And there is I was also exactly where you are
right now a few years ago, where I called myself a feminist. And now I call myself like,
still believing in feminism, but not in the feminist movement, because I feel like it has
been hijacked enough that I cannot be part of that movement in good conscience. Just jumping in,
I use the frames, I use the phrase women's rights activist. Yeah. Because I mean, then that's,
that shows exactly, I guess, activist is an isteword, but that's kind of cheating.
But that that says, Oh, okay, I know what they're for women's rights. Whereas like,
you know, I remember a few months ago, someone asked me if I was an atheist, and I'm like,
I gave the question some serious thought. Because like, yes, on paper, do I believe in God, but
I didn't know what else they assumed came with that label. And so, like, poisoning the well
is a logical fallacy if used in some ways, but it's also a thing that actually happens.
And if you feel like the well's been poisoned, you're like, Okay, well,
I don't want to be branded in with those other atheists to keep whatever eating babies, I'm
going to go ahead and, you know, call myself something else, not nonbeliever, maybe that's
why I would like to not be lumped in with men. But I can't not be. And I think that that's why
it makes sense that you're having not just you, but why you're able to articulate, like,
the position of people who don't like the inclusive language there pretty well.
Like, I remember I was at a friend's house a few months ago, and things were pretty rough. And
like, they were talking, it was two people, and they were talking about like, how men suck,
and you know, whatever. And I'm like, you know, man, hear me sitting quiet, here's a guy with
self worth issues, you know, being told by two people I thought were friends that I suck, you
know, great, I'll name you guys in my suicide note. Thanks a lot. Like, you know, you are excluded,
you are their one male friend. Well, actually, one of them was a guy too. Oh, so it's just like,
it, it's hard, especially if you're not in a position where, you know, you're able to just
dispassionately engage it, like how do you, well, how do you, you know, respond to somebody,
including you, and in slanderous ways that don't, or not slanderous, like, bad labels that don't
apply to you, you respond poorly, you don't like it. It hurts your feelings. And it's okay to say
that. Like, yes, not everyone has to, has to, you know, kowtow to your feelings all the time or
whatever. But like, to the extent that you can, and it doesn't take that much work, you should.
I get like, if you're coming from a position of crisis, or talking about a trauma or something,
then yeah, you voice your stuff. But if you're having a casual conversation around coffee,
like, you're not, and assuming, especially if it's a casual conversation, you're not coming
from one of those positions, you don't need to be shitting on everybody that, you know, you've
never met. That's my, that's my two cents on it. Granted, I'm in a better place now, I can have
those conversations than I could before. But it did sort of illuminate to me, like, oh man.
Okay, well, principle of charity is giving your opponent like the, whether they phrase something
the right way or not, giving them the best, best interpretation that you can really think of.
Or asking them what they mean. Right. So that said, this gave me some insight into like,
why people with tiki torches were marching with swastika flags. It's like, they've been told by
people like, you know, imagine being, imagine being one of these guys, and not obviously like
every racist shitbag is marching with them. But some people who aren't necessarily racist
shitbags are marching with them. And I think they get there because they're going through
some shit, and they go try and tell their friends about it. And half their friends are like,
good, you deserve it, you white piece of shit. And the rest of the friends are like, oh man,
well, you can't be going through that because you're a man, you shouldn't, you don't have those
problems. They're like, well, fuck me, these guys aren't telling me that shit, I'm going to go hang
out with them. So like, I would actually argue that the, I would say that's maybe a 0.001% of
that group. And I'm, and I completely, I'm totally willing to concede that. I don't,
I'm not willing to put numbers on that, but I imagine there's somebody marching with them.
Yeah, like one dude in the back with like a tiki torch from like Target instead of Walmart.
Because because because they found a group that wasn't putting them down. Yeah. And so like,
I think it may, maybe more, it was probably started out with 0.01%, but I think that's how
they accrued enough people to be able to swing the general election. Well, and that's the whole
MRA thing, right? That's, it's part of it. Yeah. With like the, I don't know my history of this
very well. So I'm going to just kind of slide over that, but it's my impression, and again,
not history, impression that a lot of this rose out of the like depths of the internet,
where you do have those echo chambers that are telling you these things. And for, and
there is a tendency when you tell people who have privilege that they, that their privilege
is hurting other people for them to react in a nitric fashion that says, well, fuck you.
I think that is more of a tendency for people who are actively being hurt and shit on.
It doesn't, if your life is miserable, it doesn't help you at all to be told,
well, you have privilege. So suck it up. Okay. So I dated this guy in high school,
who is probably he torched up by now, I'm sure. But he was your 4chan kind of person,
your Reddit kind of person, not like the good parts of Reddit, but like the rest of Reddit.
Not like the slash, the Bayesian conspiracy subreddit. Exactly.
Or animals being bros or wholesome memes, or the other ones that I said.
The deep depths of the Reddit continent that touch 4chan.
And he was one of those people. And so I, when I see people when, for example, when I look at
Gamergate, I see him as one of those people online that's like, women shouldn't be involved with
video games. Fuck you. How dare you even try to touch our video games? These aren't your things
to touch. There's a lot of people out there like that. A lot. And he wasn't doing this because
he was hurt. It's because he didn't want me playing with his toys. Can I make two quick
points on that? Yes, please. So one is that I was having a conversation today about cultural
appropriation. And I think that's kind of where gamers and the filming at the mouth,
morons who are Gamergating, we're coming from, where they're like, this is our stuff.
We got shot on this for decades. Now that it's cool, you guys be part of it, that's lame.
So I think that I can put a steel man on that very hollow straw man position that they're all,
I think, let me rephrase that. Also, I need to clarify that I do not sympathize the tiki torch
wielding white supremacists. I think they're wrong. I'm sympathizing with the occasional
person who probably wanders into the group to find somebody who won't tell them that they're a piece
of shit. But the, I guess, my mental model of the straw man, excuse me, steel man position
behind the people who were, I don't really know what happened during Gamergate. Like I said,
I don't get outside and that means also I don't get online. So I guess the idea that like, oh,
now nerd culture is cool. So now, you know, I endure it swirly through all of primary school,
but now that, you know, there's a TV show, Big Bang Theory, now nerds are cool, now it's okay,
screw that, you guys suck. So I think that I made a, I'm making a very vague comparison to the
my vague understanding of cultural appropriation and saying maybe there's some common nodes there.
That's not cultural appropriation. No, it's literally cultural appropriation.
No, it's not, though. They're the totally same thing, except that it's now white guys being
appropriated. No. No. No. Okay. So before we get bogged down by that, I'm going to say from my
understanding of what cultural appropriation is, which we can talk about later, if we feel like it,
that's a whole nother topic. Yeah, that's a whole nother. That's fine. So it's a pushing past that.
I just wanted to say that if my understanding of like, you're taking somebody who's been oppressed
for doing something that the way that they've been doing stuff, and then as somebody from the
outside, you're like, Oh, I'm going to take this and make it my thing now. And then you're not
suffering any of the penalties for it. If that's what cultural appropriation is, and that's what
happened to these gamers, maybe whatever, not maybe not these gamers, but some gamers,
somewhere, hypothetically, maybe, past all that. What was the other thing I was going to say? Oh,
about people. So that's, that's not, Gamergate is sort of a totally different. Yeah. Well,
it's sort of totally, it's not the inciting incident is at this point, I think almost entirely
superfluous. Someone got cheated on, there was a bad relationship, whatever. What it is, is an
emotional reaction to literally what you're saying that the gamers used to have their own culture
and community, and now everyone can play games, and they're very mad about that. I disagree about
that principle, though, because I grew up as a gamer. Yeah. But I was excluded because I was female.
So does that mean that it's not my culture? That is a good question. Yeah. And I'm not like trying
to say, you're a gamer, gay fucking. No, no, no. Well, I mean, that's the thing. I am very much pro
cultural sharing. And I think 98% of cultural appropriation claims are bullshit. And, and
this isn't, for what it's worth, this is not cultural appropriation. It's a completely different
thing. So, but the definition is completely different, and it deals with other things that
we aren't addressing, and we'd have to address in order to actually make that argument. Okay,
we should get that to another day. So, but when I say, Hey, you know, I want to,
I want to have this thing that I've been doing all my life, that I've been enjoying all my life.
And then someone comes up and says, Hey, you're female, you don't get to have that.
Mm hmm. That is horrible. Mm hmm. And that, and it's like, Oh, I have this part of my culture
and my part of my identity. But I'm not allowed to have that because I'm female. And because you
with your TT torches and your Pepe the frog and what the fuck ever say that I can't fuck you.
And the thing is, is it's not just the problem with this kind of discussion, not this particular
discussion, but the discussion online about Gamergate is that it doesn't have any real life
consequences for the people who claim they're being persecuted, the MRA people, the Gamergate
people. But it does have real life consequences for the people that they're persecuting. I was on
a panel at Worldcon in 2016 with Briana Wu. We had police officers outside the door. Because
of people that had done death threats, given like sent her death threats. Who is Briana Wu?
She's one of the main players in Gamergate. Okay. So I opened the Gamergate can of worms
without having read the label. You want to recan it now? I don't want to let you finish your
point, but I want to be clear that everything I said about it came from my position of like,
I heard it was this video game related thing. So that's, if anyone says it was actually about
this piece of shit. And I'm like, well, I didn't know that I'm talking about something else then.
So scratch the whole label and just talk about the appropriation quote unquote of nerd culture.
Maybe is what I was more making a point about. And the thing is, is saying like, hey, I was hurt
for this kind of stuff. And now you say it's cool. Yeah, that sucks. But there's also the opposite
part of that coin that says, you know, I was picked on as a kid for this, but hey, you over there,
you aren't being picked on for that. Can we talk about this? This is cool. I'm going to go talk
about Superman with that guy and not get punched on the face for it. That's awesome. And being able
to look at stuff like that is awesome. We're having this like persecutory persecutory. That's why I'm
a huge part of this cultural sharing stuff. A persecutory complex and says, well, you aren't
allowed to have nice things because I wasn't allowed to have nice things at some point in my
past. That's bullshit, right? Yes. Yeah. But the people that are saying you're not allowed to have
nice things because they're my they're the only things that I have. And they're the only things
that I'm going to hold on to with the death grip. Like I'm still talking about Gamergate. So,
but when they say you as a woman cannot have these nice things that I've had all my life,
you know, I was shunned for liking them earlier. I'm not shunned for liking them now. And I have
this huge community. That sucks. Especially when it turns into I'm going to send bomb threats to
your house. Yeah. Oh, that happens. Brianna Wu is what you're saying. Okay. Yeah. And we had to have
a freaking police officer outside our door at a convention. I agree 100% with everything you've
said. Sorry. I think we're agreeing. I think I'm just ranting at this point. Okay. Sometimes it's
good friends. You got to get those things out for sure. That's why I have a blog.
And that's why I'm here. So I think the other thing I was going to mention was you said that
there was this. It was a while ago that I got us on the video game thing. But
you had said something about like presence online or something ruining stuff or being so toxic.
And I just I had this sort of like realization a couple weeks ago that
so I did this thing for mental masturbation for like trying to imagine counterpoints to like
things I agree with and what the world would look like if I was wrong. Or if I was one of
the people that I disagreed with what their world looks like and what could change their mind.
And so I was trying to imagine what it would be like to talk to somebody who's
to get political a full on like Donald Trump supporter not necessarily Republican or I guess
necessarily Republican but not just every Republican but like someone who's like Donald
Trump's awesome and here's why. And you know all that shit that they're saying about him all the
shit that he said about himself well that's just all fake news that's conspiracy that's that's
that's slander to try and you know diminish this awesome guy. I'm trying to picture what their
worldview looked like and to them like all of the you know lame stream quote unquote previously
mainstream media that says yeah I remember that time that he said grab him by the pussy and he
said that you know it was locker room talk and I was saying he never said it so it's fake news.
Their position is like yeah that that never happened you know whatever or the tape was
doctored or something like that right hypothetically whatever. So I was trying to think of like
I sort of put myself in the position of someone who thinks that way. And then like all right well
what could change their minds to make them like realize no a lot of this is propaganda that is
making you believe what you believe and a lot of the stuff that you say is propaganda actually
isn't. So then I had this kind of like moment or like my heartbeat went up and I was like wait
how would I know if I was in that situation what if everything I believe is propaganda and
you know all the stuff that I don't believe is the actual truth. And then I realized the world
looked a lot like it actually does in that you would get like so the cool thing about being
online is the anonymity one of the cool things quote unquote cool. It has its perks but in
situations like this you can be arguing as somebody. Are you saying there's privilege to going online?
Moving past that as one of the things that you can do is say you're somebody you're not and so
you know you get like leading up to the election you got a lot of stuff on the internet that you'd
come across in your news feed via Facebook Twitter whatever of stuff that just wasn't
true from people that we've now learned well we learned two years ago but every intelligence
agency in the world who's looked into this agrees like yes there are people in Russia
going online making accounts and retweeting or making up stuff grabbing pictures putting you
know fake headlines over them and signing them along. These are these are actually
going to exist doing just this sort of dismiss information campaign to sow disharmony and
I sort of realized that or I guess I anticipated that this is probably happening on the left too.
This isn't just fueling fire to the far right this is also sowing disharmony on the left
and so like the number of people that you disagree with online that you see like oh there's some
idiot who you know thinks this absurd thing I can't think of an example right off. The shootings
that just happened there was a slew of articles recently there's been 18 mass shooting or 18
18 school shootings since the beginning of the year the numbers nowhere close to that and yet it
got massively shared I saw it like three or four different times I think and I bet the reason that
it got shared is because then people who look into it for a second say that's not true this must
all be bullshit and so it's a great way to like make people question what they see and make people
hard to unify well no it gets shared a lot because it tells people exactly what they want to hear
