this is, okay, this is going to sound horrible. I apologize listeners.
You make it sound in a way that it's like, it's kind of a pression olympics. Like, oh,
well, you're a woman. So you, you don't go to jail as often or all this kind of stuff.
But it makes it seem like you're disregarding the experiences of people at the holistic
experience of the person as their specific status in society by pointing out like, well,
they don't go to, they don't go to privileges often. They don't go to jail as often because
they're women or they don't, they're more rich than this one white family. So therefore they,
they have this better thing going on and we can erase, this is, I'm extrapolating,
I don't think you're actually saying this, but we can erase all their other
lacks of privilege because they're rich. I think that is literally what people are doing when they
say all white people, all black people, why, or all men X or all women Y, they are erasing
individuals. They are reducing the holistic experience of being a person to your statistical
group sucks in this particular way. Okay. I can see what you're saying and it does for the individual,
but it, it does for the individual with privilege because it sucks for people without privilege
too. Because if I say all men scare the shit out of me, that is something I can legitimately say
as a woman because the vast majority of my experiences with men, the people in this room
excluded are fucking scary. Yeah. No, there's a big difference between saying all men scare the
shit out of me, which is a fact about you and your experience in life and all men are violent
predators. But this returns to the previous argument I was trying to make. And then again,
I got sidetracked of expecting people to always qualify their statements to make you feel better.
I expect everyone, regardless of who they are, to not be,
I don't want to use the term racist because it's not just a race thing, paint with a wide brush,
to not be stereotyping assholes. I don't care if you're a white person talking about black people
or a black person talking about white people or anything. There's, there's just no excuse for
saying all people are acts. That's actually a matter of privilege. And the reason why is because
it's emotional labor that a lot of people may not have the ability to go through because of their
circumstances. It's like extra labor to type the word all. No, it's emotional labor. It's not just
like actual like, I can't type three letters, blah. It's the, I have to take a step back from
the circumstances that have deeply hurt me to make sure I'm not hurting other people's feelings.
And I have to go through all the emotional rigmarole to make sure that I'm being as open and as
honest and as perfect as possible. When all I want to do is say, men have fucking hurt me.
And you're expecting a lot from someone like a rape victim, for example, to say,
um, you know, like make some post or something. And they're coming out, they're doing all this
stuff. They're like, this, these are my fields. And these are the things I'm experiencing.
And men are fucking awful. You're expecting that rape victim to qualify. Well, not all men are
awful. Yeah, the thing is, I'm not actually expecting that because you take individual
circumstances. If it is a rape victim talking about their experience, I'm not going to jump in
What's that? How do you know? If, say, for example, I'm going to get really, really personal here,
guys. Woo. Only if you're comfortable. No, it's fine. That's I prefaced it for the reader or for
the listener's comfort. Say, for example, I post this meme on Facebook, and I'm really bad at coming
up with memes. So I'm not going to try that. And I prefaced it with all men are fucking awful.
And it has to deal with like something to do with rape or sexual assault or something like that.
And you come and look at it. And you don't know me. I mean, or we're like,
10 gentle friends or something. And you say, well, fuck that person. How dare they make that
judgment? I'm a rape victim. I'm not going to be like, well, how about don't make all my men,
all my male friends feel when I'm coming to this place where something is resonated with me?
And wait a minute, I have to make sure I'm not hurting their feelings. And all of this stuff.
When all I want to do is say, I have been hurt. This is my experience. I want to share this. And
I want to share this experience that I have had in a way that makes me feel like I'm not alone.
And you swan in and go, well, not all men. Yeah, or a worse version of being actually does that.
So yeah, exactly. Sorry, I didn't mean to be like, and you and I have come in and personally
hurt me as a rape victim. No, that's not correct. So like, I know somebody who's raped
by somebody who is Persian. And if she had said all Middle Easterners are pigs,
she would have probably been rightly shit on for that. But like, and then, you know,
like I've been the victim of I've been I've been physically assaulted by black people and white
people. And if I were to say black people scared the shit out of me, I think people be okay to
call me out on that. Okay, like, and just to be clear, they don't. This was 10 years ago. Yeah.
But like, and I think I count the number of times I've been I've been physically assaulted. It was
more times are white people. But that's also a numbers game. But yeah, that aside, Fort Collins
is super white, right? So it's hard to this is one of those things that, like, I feel like I'm
unable to get my head around it, because like, I might just be missing the piece of the machinery
that people have when it's so like, but in this case, it's like, I can see the hole where it is,
whereas like in other places, I can't. So I think it ties back to like the unfortunately phrase
punching up not punching down. Because you as a person of privilege in your race, for example,
you say black men fucking scare me. Why? Well, even if it was true for me, would I would I be
called out for saying that? I think so. Probably. And I think so. Yeah. But like, because by saying
that you wouldn't be like when I say all men scare me, I'm punching it. But black people some
men are black. Did those men scare you too? Yes. So but not because they're black, but because
they're male. So the sweeping statements that you make matter, like it matters what group you're
sweeping. Yeah, kind of. Okay. I think that because I guess it's hard, like maybe I'm missing, like,
this is this is what I was getting at. Let me try to rephrase this, because I think I think I know
what you're missing. But I'm not quite sure if this is going to help or I'm just going to confuse
you further. You've interacted with me twice, but I want to hear what you're saying. No, no.
But okay. So if I were to say all men scare me, that would be me as someone who has again,
this is going to be a numbers game kind of thing, but someone who is traditionally less privileged,
saying that people in power frightened me. Sure. If I was to say black people scare me,
I'm in a position of power over them through to my privilege of being white,
that would be punching down. What if you said black men scare you who have privilege over you for,
see this, this spot like that numbers game is just weird. So like, you can, you can miss,
you can skip all this arithmetic and just say, don't paint with a wide brush.
If you just don't do that, right? So and I understand that. And I like in a perfect world,
we wouldn't do that. But you're also talking to people, you're, you're basically telling victims
how to behave. So to be clear, I think I want to pull up one thing, because a lot of your examples
are saying, I feel this way. And that's, that's me personally. And that, and I, I'm not the kind
of guy I've never gone on to someone's common board and said, not all men or whatever. But
like, I don't, I imagine the people who would say, your assessment of your feelings is wrong,
and here's why, are probably smaller than the people. Like if someone says, all men are rapists,
and like, they're not just, you know, they're, they're, or kill all white men or whatever the
hashtag that's going on a few years ago. And it's like, Oh man, I'm a white guy, I don't want to get
killed. You know, I think I have a problem with that, that hashtag. So those people aren't saying
like, Hey, I've come from this hard spot. And this is, you know, me talking about my feelings,
they're, they're making it like more of like a policy statement rather than like an expression of
their, of their internal feelings. And that's like a, that's a very different ballpark. And I
think that you're playing two different sports. So like, that's like one, one's hockey and one's
booze ball or something. Sure. And I think people, I'm not sure which one's which, and you're out of
but the, I think that telling somebody that they're feeling wrong is different than saying, Hey,
your policy, your, your proposed policy here is wrong. Yeah. So you're right. There is a different,
there is a different experience in saying all men are rapists versus kill all men.
One is a statement, the other is a call to action. Right. And like, but both I think was a one,
one can be wrong and the other one can be just bad. So yeah, I mean, those are true. But like to
say, I'm afraid, like if the, if the sweeping statement is inclusive saying, I feel this way,
like I can't tell you how to feel. And like, you know, if someone said, I'm, you know, I'm scared
of all whatever, like that sucks. I'm sorry. Like that's the only reply that you can have to that.
You might say, Hey, if I can help, let me know. I don't know, you know, whatever. But like the
correct response to that is like compassion. If, if someone's thing is like,
you know, get all men are rapists. And so like me as a non rapist would be like,
I draw objection to that because I, I, my existence validates your position, your, your claim.
So, you know, there's also like the political move of like, how are you going to win hearts and
minds by calling all your allies, your potential, not all of your potential allies, but the majority
of potential allies rapists. So like, or maybe not the majority, well, maybe the majority. There's
a lot of white people. Yeah. Oh, we're talking about white people or men or whatever. Yeah,
it's hard to keep track. But like, if you're, if you're going to shit on all of them for the sake of
the like, of the problematic subsector, you're, you're not, I guess it doesn't strike me as a
politically savvy move. There's something that's kind of bothering about this because I sort of
agree with you, but I sort of don't. And I'm, I completely want to acknowledge that I, like I
said, I think I'm missing something that I can get around to articulate what I think I'm missing
in a second. So yeah. Okay. Um, being an ally isn't something, it's something that you personally
choose to do. And I understand if you, if someone says like, if I were to say fuck all men, I hate
you all or whatever, um, I would, and then still expect, oh, how am I going to put this? It's not,
I'm not putting this well. Um, here, go with your thought and I'll try to gather mine. I'd be happy
just to give you the principle of charity if you want to hack your way through it and just
say that if you, I'd be happy to go with my thing, which was, yeah, go with your thing and then I'll
get back to my thing. So I think I'm like, the example that I came to a few years ago,
realizing that I'm missing, like that I just, I literally can't get it is, uh, when people,
I met people who preferred non-gendered pronouns and I'm like, well, how come? And they're like,
oh, I don't like what comes with this. I don't feel like a she or he. And I'm like,
what does that even feel like? Well, so I was like, I think at first, I can't remember where my
confusion came from, like, why not? Or what's that mean? But I came to realize that they have a sense
of like their gender that I have no idea what they're talking about. I look inside for my gender
and there's just, there's not even an empty box. There's not a box labeled gender in my brain.
So I, my position is like, okay, you guys have a sense, you guys have an aspect of your sense of
self that I do not have. So I'll just, I'll take your word for it and let's do what you guys want.
So I'm wondering, so this isn't the same kind of like there. So I think there's,
running with the analogy of boxes in my brain, there is a box that has like,
that's labeled like understanding of this kind of stuff. And it's just like dusty and full of
spider webs. And I can't really figure out, I don't have a flashlight. So,
as someone who hates being male, I absolutely understand the non gender people and why they
want to do that. Because I dislike everything that comes with being categorized as male. And
I would love to see a world where we didn't have genders and we didn't see people that way. But
I can't be non binary because I don't think it fucking matters. I can ask my friends to call
me they them. And sure, they'll do that to indulge me. But literally, everyone in the world will
still look at me and see a male and I will still get all the stereotypes that come with being a
male. So why would I put that extra burden on my friends for no advantage? I think your experience
is different from theirs. I mean, it probably is different from a lot of people. Because I know
quite a few but non binary people and they don't express their sense of gender and self in that
particular fashion. And so for them using like they them or Zasia or all those other non traditional
pronouns makes it a different expression of experience than just hatred, just necessarily
hatred for your current gender. So not to discount your experience but to kind of elucidate other
people's experience as well. So back to what I was thinking because I think I finally gathered my
thoughts. People who are less privileged, who are suffering, who are experiencing societal
consequences for their intrinsic selves have zero obligation to pander to allies feelings.
That I think I can agree with that while still having my position that it's politically not savvy
move. But the thing is, is as an ally, say for example, I want to support people of color
as a white female. And I have the privilege of being white and being able to have certain
things in our society because of that. If a black woman came up to me and said, fuck you whitey,
I'd be like, okay, I'm still going to be an ally to people of color. But not to her.
There's a difference between being friends and being allies though. Yeah, do you support
freedom of speech? Sure do. Yeah, you support freedom of speech, even if it's fucking Fred
Phelps out there saying burn the gaze, right? So you can be an ally of freedom of speech without
liking Phelps. Yeah. And yet, like, if enough people, like, let's run for Fred Phelps example,
if enough Fred Phelps has told me to go fuck myself, like, you know what, maybe this free speech
thing isn't all of all that was cracked up to be. Yeah, I really like the free speech thing,
which is how I always think of it. But I no longer think of myself as an ally with anyone.
I will I will work for principles. I am an ally to principles. And if that puts me on the same
side as some people, great. But if not, fine, whatever, I'm working for the principles. And
if they want to say, well, you're not an ally, I'm like, fuck you, I don't need your approval
to continue pursuing these these principles that I wanted. I think that's like what Vivian was
saying was that there's a difference between being friends with the person and an ally to their
goals. I just find the word ally toxic now. Things like, well, this person hurt my feelings
because I am, how am I going to phrase this? This is the thing that you have to phrase delicately.
And I'm probably going to do it wrong. So yeah, saying I don't want to be an ally to
LGBTQ people because this one person was mean to me is the same as taking is this is really
hypocritical when you go in and say not all men. And I wasn't saying that it would be one person.
I'm not saying I'm not saying you guys are doing this. And you know, if somebody was whatever
beaten up by whatever group that they were previously working for, and then they're like,
okay, you know what, I'm going to stop going to those marches because I got my ass kicked
to the last two of them. Then it's like, you can't really blame the person. But in general,
I think the response to like enough criticism from the side that you're trying to support is like,
okay, well, if you you guys clearly don't want my help, it's kind of like the feeling that it's
hard to avoid. And I'm not really speaking from experience because I sort of don't go outside.
So I want to I want to briefly talk about Scott Alexander here. When I first found out that he
was not a feminist and actually anti feminist, I was like, what the fuck is wrong? He's absolutely
the sort of liberal, pro equality sort of person that I would always assume as a feminist, right?
And it wasn't until much later that I realized it was because of his experiences being attacked by
groups that call themselves feminists. And it's gotten to the point now where I, I am still pro
equality, but I also wouldn't call myself feminist anymore because of the types of people that have
taken over that movement. And I've made it really unwelcoming and toxic to almost everyone. I'm
feminist. I am feminist in principle. I am not feminist in being related to the political group.
Which one? Exactly. And the thing, the thing is, is you're, you're doing the same thing you
kind of decry other people for doing. Okay. You're lumping. I am. I am happy to say that I am pro
women's rights without calling myself feminist because enough baggage comes with that word now
that I don't want to be associated with it. For you and for your experience, though. Yeah.
And so you're saying that if I were to say I hate all men from my experience, would that be just
as valid? As saying what I don't want to be labeled a feminist? Because of all the experiences that
I've had with feminists. Yeah, that's just saying I don't want to be labeled a feminist. Whereas
opposed to I hate all men is actually you could say I hate all men. That's fine. That's just the
expression of your opinion. Yeah, I keep doing this like I statements when I should be doing
non I statements. Well, no, that's the thing. I statements are fine. Yeah, I know. But it's when
people say all men are shitty. Those are you statements and those are the ones that are not
necessary. Yeah, and for the sake of the argument, I should be using you statements. I'm just really
