in a garage or cyber attacks on infrastructure targets, this is now a can happen in a basement
thing. It's very different. So having catastrophic tech that is not that hard to make,
that is decentralized is very different. That's one thing. Also, when there's just one type of
catastrophic tech, maybe there's different delivery mechanisms. It can come from a sub or a plane or
whatever, but it's one type. The mitigation strategies or the prevention of war strategies
are different than when you have multiple different types. And the forecasting of how could one of
these get first attack without triggering the other ones? It comes nearly impossible to figure out.
So it's actually really worth thinking through all of that. And if you read, say, a book like
The Doomsday Machine by Daniel Ellsberg, Daniel's still alive. You should get him on your show.
It would be actually really incredible to have him on your show if he hasn't been yet.
And talk about how many times we went into the countdown sequence based on computer glitches
or errors during mutual destruction and how fantastic it is that we're here at all.
You also think about, okay, so making nukes was actually a pretty hard thing to do,
figuring out how to split atoms. But yeah, it's still less complicated than the other type of
tech and the tech mitigation we're talking about. But notice what the Manhattan Project was.
It was, let's get all the best minds in the world. Let's create an unlimited black budget and figure
this thing out. We don't have something like a Manhattan Project tending to the existential risks
of today. And we have something like, at best, little bitty academic orgs, like the Cambridge
Center for the Study of Extential Risk or the Oxford Future Humanity Institute that have nowhere
near that kind of concentration of brain trust, national support, funding, whatever.
So that's another big thing of like, why is it that society can't coordinate adequately to
recognize a major risk and be able to give the adequate degree of investment needed? Because
if you want to take that argument that as we get new problems, we get better problem-solving
capacity, we can say, well, the last biggest set of problems we had was way smaller than these
and had way more problem-solving capacity put towards it. So what's going on there is important.
One thing to think about is the role of the politicization of information
and how that makes everything more difficult to solve. So for instance, I remember
in March of 2020, early March, when the first COVID numbers, the fatality rate numbers were
just coming out from various parts of the world, and we were all looking at those cruise ships
and wondering what exactly the disease we were dealing with. I remember at the time
reading articles about, you know, sort of trying to piece together a picture of what this disease was
and having no semblance of a worry in my mind that the article was distorted by political bias
in either direction, because we hadn't yet decided who was on what side of the COVID issue. There
were no sides yet. They were not drawn. You know, there were people worrying, for instance, that
Trump was going to use a kind of alarmism about COVID to institute the authoritarian policies that
he's always wanted to institute from the beginning and force the whole nation into lockdown. That
was a plausible idea or worry that many people had. I only say that just to show that people
really did not know where the left and the right were going to come down on this issue.
And I remember the feeling of relief, just knowing that I can read an article about an
extremely important topic and not worry that political bias is really infecting it in either
direction. And even then, the epistemological problems of figuring out what is true were immense.
Right? Is the fatality rate 0.1% or 5% right? That's the question people were asking at that time,
and it was a very difficult question. Now, fast forward a month, the political lines have been
drawn, and now you have to devote brain space when you're watching TV or reading an article
to trying to unspin it, because now we've just imported all of the machinery of toxic
partisanship and confirmation bias and everything into this issue. And I could palpably feel the
shift. And it occurred to me how much better off would we be if we could treat every problem in
civilization, if we could treat climate change and AI, particularly climate change like coronavirus
in the first week before it was politicized. So where does the politicization of information
fit into this problem for you? Yeah, I mean, it's pretty central. When we talk about governance
and the original thesis that we need fundamentally better types of governance for the scale and
magnitude of consequentiality and speed of the types of things we're governing on today.
Governance is about coordinated choice making. How do, especially if it's not autocratic, if
it's going to be a democracy or a republic or an open society of some kind, how do we coordinate
choice making across a lot of different people, businesses, agents? And our choice making is
informed by both our sense making and our values or our meaning making. So what do we think is
actually going on? And what do we think a solution to what's going on might look like? What will the
effect of that thing be? So that's both sense making and then forecasting. And then the meaning
maker and the value generation is what is it that we care about that we're trying to make a choice
in the service of. And so if we want anything like an open society, we have to be able to
coordinate our sense making and our values with each other to be able to have something like
coordinated choice making emerge. And so that means that we have to have something like an
epistemic common, right? A commons where we can make sense of things together and we're oriented
to be able to have clear sense making together. And we see that that isn't happening. And there's
a number of historical reasons why that isn't happening. We can see that the fourth estate has
undergone massive erosion for a number of reasons as has the quality of education relative to training
citizens to be able to have adequate civic engagement for the complexity of the issues we
face. So this is actually kind of an important point if we step back a little bit is we say
well, what is the role of education for any civilization? The role of education is that
for that civilization, there's different ways we can talk about it. This is not the only meaningful
way, but one meaningful way. For that civilization to continue to function, there's a lot of tasks
that have to happen. There's a lot of knowledge and problem solving capacities. And so the role of
education is to be able to train up new generations and have intergenerational knowledge transfer
of everything that is needed for the tasks of that society to be able to happen. And so you can
think of it as a kind of social transmission or social auto-poesis. But in an open society,
as opposed to a closed society, if we have some type of autocracy, everyone doesn't have to
be engaged in the choice making of the society as a whole, they just have to be able to carry out a
labor function or whatever specific function within that they have. If we have an open society
where people are supposed to be engaged in a governance process of a foreign by the people,
which means that the choices that are happening at the macro scale of that nation or whatever
group it is, they have to be able to understand well enough to contribute to the choice making of,
then the education in that society has to not just prepare them for their role in the market
or the workforce, but also prepare them for their role as a citizen to be able to engage in
governance. And so whether I'm voting on a proposition or whether I'm voting on a representative
who's going to vote on a proposition, do I understand the propositions and the pros and cons well
enough of what the DOE has to do with regard to the grid and energy policy or what the DOD has
to do with regard to military capacity? There's a big educational load required. There's a larger
educational load required to develop citizens capable of doing open society. I think people
can understand why the idea of democracy is actually a kind of radical idea, which is the
idea that you can have some very large number of people, most of whom will never meet each other,
who have different life experiences and want different things and different worldviews,
different religions, that are all going to somehow coordinate together effectively to run
something like shared infrastructure, as opposed to have a king or a parliament or some small group
of people do it, or a tribe where everybody coordinates together, but it's a small number
of people where everyone can be in a single conversation. Everybody can know each other
and compromising for people that you know as a different creature. And this is why modern
democracies emerged following the enlightenment of modernity and the idea that there was some
basis by which we could all come to make sense of the world together, the philosophy of science
and the Hegelian dialectic. We could all independently come to assess base reality and come to similar
understanding about it. And through something like a Hegelian dialectic, we could understand
each other's values and say, is there a value or is there a proposition that can meet everybody's
values better? And can there be a recognition that if this thing is not the optimal thing you want,
it's still better the system as a whole than autocracy or warfare between us separating.
And this is where we go back to all the founding founders of the US, the statements that they made,
like I think it was Jefferson that said, if I could have a perfect newspaper and a broken
government or a perfect government and a broken newspaper, I would take a perfect newspaper,
because if the people could all be well educated about what is actually going on in the world,
they can make a new government. If the people aren't well educated, they can't possibly be
engaged in good choice making. And so whoever's effective at predatory rule will end up ruling.
And I think the quote that is most interesting to me was, I'm going to paraphrase one of George
Washington where he said something to the effect of the number one aim of the federal government
has to be the comprehensive education of every citizen in the science of government.
And I think it's such a key insight to say the number one aim of the federal government,
after just fighting revolutionary wars, not to protect its boundaries.
And after creating a government as opposed to a pure laissez-faire market so that it could
institute rule of law, the number one aim wasn't even rule of law, because you can protect your
boundaries effectively with a military dictatorship. And you can institute rule of law well with a
dictatorship. But if it's truly going to be a democracy, if every citizen isn't comprehensively
educated into the science of government, everything that they would need to understand to participate
in governing well, and the civic virtue to actually do so, it's not going to stay a democracy.
And we can see for a bunch of reasons how both the educational system and the Fourth Estate
that would mediate their ongoing informantness have decayed to a place that is nowhere near
adequate. We don't have anything like government out for and by the people. People don't understand
most anything government is engaging in, nor could they are particularly oriented to it.
So the idea of a republic is mostly not even a good simulation anymore. It's mostly just a vestigial
story. And so then the question we have to ask is if we want something like an open society as
opposed to an autocratic society, we can see autocracy on the rise in other parts of the world
and it actually being more effective at a number of things. If we want something like an open
society, what would it take to have an open society coordinate effectively in the presence
of these types of issues we face and coordinate more effectively than autocratic ones do to not
have the world be seated to that structure? And at the foundation of what it would take
is something like the capacity to have shared sense making across the space and shared values
generation to orient towards shared coordination. And so then really key becomes what does it take
to do that? What does it take to create a systems and a culture that doesn't pollute the epistemic
commons that doesn't culture war that works towards communication that is seeking to bring
about shared understanding first rather than subgroups, strategic aims.
So this is a huge problem, obviously. And it's a problem that is unique to America and not unique
in the sense that we're the only place that faces it. But it's so on the one hand, you have a country
like China or any other autocracy where I know some people from China and mostly what they say
about political conversations is that they just don't happen. People just, for the most part,
don't discuss it. There's just a boundary on what topics you can talk about. And within that
boundary, you feel quite free, in fact, and in some sense, freer than Americans are to speak.
But there just is a hard and fast boundary about what you can talk about in polite conversation.
And that boundary is more or less chosen by the Communist Party, right? So that doesn't exist in
America. Obviously, to the extent that there are boundaries on what you can talk about in polite
conversation, those boundaries are imposed from the bottom up in some sense, or at minimum,
not from the government, from the elite, right? By elite cues and by sort of the consensus of
people with a certain status that have blue check marks on Twitter and so forth.
And the related problem is that in many European countries, they are premised on the notion
of a single ethnicity with shared values. And certain problems don't arise in that context,
the problem in Europe has been that different nations go to war with one another. And to the
extent that nations go to war within themselves, different ethnic groups, that has in many cases
been solved by simply creating nations that have one ethnicity with one religion. So there's a
substantial body of agreement about values to begin with, right? There's a kind of unity.
And then in the case of China, where that unity is sort of imposed from the top down, right? So
those are two ways you can get to unity through autocracy or through just forming a nation that
already has a substantial amount of unity to begin with because the nation is a natural outgrowth
of what was once an actual tribe of people. And then in America, you have a totally different case
where we have freedom, we don't have autocracy, but we are extremely far from a single tribe,
right? We're lots of different tribes with deep disagreement on values.
And that's a problem that is very difficult to see how we make progress on. And it seems
in my lifetime, I've only seen it get worse as a result of social media and
the way we consume information now, where you just get a personalized menu of events and opinions
that are perfectly crafted so as to either confirm what you already believe
or give you the worst impression of what the other side thinks about an issue
so that you can dismiss them entirely. And on various measures of polarization,
this problem has been getting worse. And so it is a deep question to ask.
How do we update democracy for the 21st century, for a 21st century
multi-ethnic nation that is committed to freedom and doesn't want to become an autocracy,
doesn't want to impose unity from the top down, but nevertheless can't fall back on
what works in other places that are also free, which is just having a sort of natural unity?
Oh, man, you touched like eight different things. It would be nice if we can get into,
hope we can come back and close some of these loops. On the social media thing you mentioned,
I'm not going to start there, but we should come back and double click on it because it's actually
a really, it's a fundamental part. I believe you had Tristan Harris on recently, so we won't repeat
that. It's a good one for people to listen to I'm imagining, but there's a couple pieces in terms of
that are all of the structures made in modernity were made on broadcast media, meaning some central
broadcast ability through a newspaper, through following the printing press, which then turned
into radio, which then turned into television, which meant we could make sure everybody got
similar messages. And so as soon as we moved to a decentralized kind of media where everybody
could broadcast and then there's way more answers than anyone can possibly look at. So then whoever
controls the search algorithm or the recommendation algorithm is actually curating the information
space. That's actually not just a change in magnitude. That's a change in type. That's a change in
type in a very fundamental way with the nature of the technological infrastructure that is mediating
civilization, changing, and then the new civilization, the social tech needing to change and having not
changed yet. So that's a big one I'd like to come back to. But the most fundamental thing that you said
is you can see examples where there is a certain kind of order that doesn't seem super top down
imposed. It seems more bottom up or kind of culturally supported where there is some kind of
depth of shared culture that creates enough binding energy to overcome the cleaving energy
between the differences of the people. You can think about what's going to hold a number of
people together being a ratio of the cleaving and binding energy of that population. And
when we study the history of sapiens, we can see that for the most part, for a few hundred
thousand years, the groups never got beyond a certain size, famously the Dunbar number.
And it's a big question as to why. But we see this in all other animals, right? Like chimpanzee
troops are of a certain size. They get a little bit bigger and then they end up cleaving. And it
similarly has to do with where does the bonding energy between them provide enough benefits to
overcome the cleaving energy between competing interests. But the fact that there's something
like 200,000 plus years of human activity and with brains similar to the brains that we have
that never got above 150 people is like, oh, there's something very deep there to look at.
And this is why many social philosophers talk about the fundamentally tribal nature of humans
