from an evolutionary bio standpoint and why it's important to understand that.
There's a lot of ways we can think about the Dunbar number.
One way is up to that number of people. I can know everyone very well. I can know everyone
intimately. And we can actually all sit around. We can all participate in a single conversation.
We can have a tribal council where if there's a big decision to make, everybody's voice could be
heard within just literally mediated by the ability to speak and everybody hear it without
a microphone or tech of some kind. And the time that it takes for all the voices to be heard
to actually make a decision. And so if I'm going to live in a society where I'm going to be
subjugated to the choices or be responsible to mediate the choices, I want to have a say in it.
If we start to get to a situation where there's so many people they can't all have a say,
then why would I just not cleave and go make a smaller group?
So then the question of why did we start, when did the Dunbar number end,
mostly has to do with a time period around the beginning of agriculture movement from
hunter gather, large enomatic cultures to agriculture. And a number of critical changes
that occurred around then, but some of them have to do with up till that point, human populations
the population would actually outstrip the resource of an area. And then they would move.
And so you'd get this migration. And this is why we can see that humans wherever they started
ended up becoming apex predators across every single environment on the planet,
where no other animal did that. Like that's a very uniquely human thing because we could
make ourselves adapted to different environments through tools, clothes and other kinds of tools.
Once population starts to outstrip an area and you can't move anymore because we've done all
the moving that's possible, then tribal warfare becomes an obligate situation to deal with resource
scarcity. Once any group starts tribal warfare, all the other ones have to do it in an obligate
way or they die by default. And so now you start getting a tribal warfare race, a kind of multi
polar arm trap or arms race. And so now it makes sense for two smaller groups to unify together
because they have more binding energy, which is they're going to die on their own.
And so I'm willing to give up some of my choice making freedom. I'm willing to be a part of a
group I don't have as much to say in because the group that I have more say on on my own is going
to die from some larger militarized group. Now as soon as that group gets larger than the other
group gets larger, they both increase their weaponry, they increase their ability to do division of
labor and coordinate and stores of resources and those types of things. And we call that kind of
the evolution of empire. So it's important to understand that the, and this is actually why,
you know, when Machiavelli talks about the enemy hypothesis that the idea that humans are tribal
and they will keep breaking down to smaller tribal scales unless there is a unifying force and the
unifying force is almost always an enemy. Doesn't have to be, but there's actually social theory
argument on this. I would say it doesn't have to be. But that generally what will unify a group
of people together with a shared identity involves what is outside of that identity that needs them
to be bound together. And so, so yeah, this is an important idea is that you can have a shared
identity, which we call a culture that has everybody kind of police each other or create order with
each other in a distributed way. And so that when we look at Japan or Singapore or the Nordic
countries and look at the relatively lower crime, higher education, et cetera, and try to apply that
to some huge diverse country like the US, we can see that they have certain cultural prerequisites
in place we don't have. That's like a hard and really important problem. And it's why there are
some people who are proponents of the idea the US actually needs to break up into some smaller
entities that can have more cultural homogeneity. I think that is a definitely impossible way to do
it because all of the states to say we tried to separate into a red nation and a blue nation or
whatever subsets of nations, all the states have nukes, none of the forces in Europe or whatever
when we were dealing with kind of European rise did. And so do you want groups that have so much
enmity and antipathy with each other that they can't participate together and have to cleave
both having nukes with no defensible airspace in between them sharing a border? Like that's a
problematic situation to think about. So you either get order because of some shared cultural
basis or you get order because it's imposed or you don't get order and you get chaos and the
thing breaks down because of chaos. So if we say that civilizations fail either because of too much
chaos or order that comes the wrong way through imposition, those are the two different failure
modes. So what we need is emergent order. The emergent order actually has to be at the level
of culture before being at the level of institution. It has to be ultimately the fact that humans are
making choices based on what they value and what they care about and how they make sense of the
world. And if the order is not arising from within them, it's imposed on them. And then
that imposition has to be mediated by a monopoly of violence of some kind and becomes its own
failure state. So the question of how do we get emergent order in a situation like the U.S. and
some or the globe if we want to think about where we have authentically global issues that we need
to coordinate on because no country can deal with ocean dead zones or species extinction or climate
change or exponential tech media risk on its own. How do you get emergent order between people that
have very different histories and different conditioning? That's one way of framing what I
would say is like the essential question we have to figure out right now.
Yeah, so I want to zero in on this idea of the U.S. breaking into smaller countries or
not as a serious suggestion, but as a tool for thinking about what some of the problems are.
So if you, for instance, take the idea of being in the news lately and defined last summer of
the police killing unarmed U.S. citizens, particularly African Americans, and consider how
important the raw size of the United States is to this particular problem, to a problem that
results in riots and lives lost and businesses destroyed and so forth. Consider if America
were identical in every respect but the size of Canada, roughly one-tenth the size by population.
That just means any bad thing related to one person harming another would happen
one-tenth as often. If there are say 40 unarmed Americans killed every year,
then just there are four in this hypothetical version of America that's just one-tenth the size.
So it's just four stories a year as opposed to 40 and just fewer opportunities per unit time
to become outraged about something. And the important thing here is that
anything that happens anywhere in America feels like it happens here in the relevant sense, right?
So if something happens a thousand miles away in a different state, that can cause a riot
outside my apartment, right? Because conceptually it happened here in the sense that is relevant
for the rest of Americans. And so many of the problems we face are, if not a direct result, but
then exacerbated by the size of the country, right? We're trying to do something in this country that
has never been done before, which is have a population of a third of a billion people
that are not culturally the same. We've had, for all intents and purposes, open borders
longer than any other nation has ever tried to have open borders for. And I'm speaking not
about our current immigration policy, but about the long run US history, right? We let
Europe come in in the 19th century and until the 1920s or so. And then since 1965,
we've pretty much let the world come in relative to at least border policies in other nations,
such as Japan and China and so forth. And so we're trying to have a massive country.
We're trying to have a country that relative to most nations on earth has a very liberal
border policy. We're trying to be a nation of immigrants and immigrants from very different
places with very different values from one another. And we're also trying to have no autocracy and
freedom, right? So this is a very difficult problem. It's a problem most countries haven't even
been approached with a 10 foot pole because they'd be so worried about the results, right?
And it's obviously a problem. It's a challenge that we suffer from in many ways. It's also,
I think, a challenge we should feel proud for attempting, however imperfectly, because most
places on earth have just not attempted it. They've said, well, fuck it, we're just going to close
the borders, we're not even going to try, and we're going to remain a certain size,
which is fine. It's just that often, it's one thing for someone to look at the
social, the problems of divisiveness facing America right now from a different country
and wonder what the hell is going on here. But I think it's crucial to recognize the
context that we're trying something that most places simply don't try for good reason.
But it occurs to me a country like Singapore, which you mentioned,
the way that they deal with race relations there is just totally different, right? They have,
obviously it's a city-state and it's many ways not analogous, but they have three major ethnicities
there, and they have a quota system where they actually, from the top down, don't allow
residential segregation, right? They don't allow, you cannot have a situation there,
like you have in New York with Hasidic Jews, for instance, all living in one neighborhood,
or with blacks and whites heavily clustered in certain neighborhoods, because they don't allow
it. They enforce integration by policy, and they found that that's a stable equilibrium.
But whether or not that would work in America is a moot point because it could never be done,
right? We have a culture, we have a taste for freedom here, culturally, for not being told
where you can and can't live that people in other places of the world simply don't have,
right? If you never had freedom in democracy, there's nothing built in, I think, to the human
spirit that necessarily favors it. So, I chalk that all up to you as elements to think about
in this problem. Is there anything in there that you want to react to?
Well, when you say what we're trying to do here is novel, so of course we have some novel
problems, and yet the problems are the result of a meaningful set of intents and experiments.
I wouldn't even say there was a clear set of intents, right? Because when you look at the
number of people who were here at the time of the founding of the nation,
and if you even look at, in those writings, what the forecast of the most people that would
ever come about, it was nothing like what has happened. So, the intent has been a kind of
evolutionary force over this time period. And, for instance, when you think about the ideas in
early formation of the United States democracy, the town hall was a central idea. And the idea
that the people who locally lived in an area were largely affecting each other more than
anything else because transportation was slow and communications were slow. And the total
population was small enough that everybody could pretty much fit into a town hall and be part of
a conversation. So, civic duty was not mostly voting on a representative. It was actually
being able to be in a situation where the sense-making that anyone had could be heard.
Someone was like, no, that's not the situation. I've been out on the border. Here's what's going on.
Everyone's sense-making could be heard. And rather than just getting to vote on a pre-crafted
proposition where both voting for it is good for some things and damages other things, which is
why almost every proposition gets half of the vote, almost no propositions get 90% of the vote,
is because they're almost all based on theory of trade-offs that seem beneficial to some subset
of things and harmful to another. But nobody was involved in crafting the proposition outside of
usually some special interest group that wasn't even trying to look at how does this benefit
everyone. That was actually alien to the core idea of why democracy might work. The idea of why it
might work is can we actually have a conversation first to come up with what everybody thinks is
going on and what matters to come up with a proposition in a real-time conversation that
seems like the best proposition that meets everybody's needs simultaneously. And then voting
is a last step if we can't all just come to a shared agreement that that makes sense as a way
of sublimating the rivalry or warfare. So, as soon as you get to too much scale and you can't do that
anymore, then you have to over depend on representatives. Then the people who are representing
have their own set of interests that become, and as it gets to a larger and larger scale,
almost no representative is really talking with the people in a meaningful way. And so,
whose interests are they representing? The idea that the state is going to institute law that
allows the market to do the good things the market does, but where there's unhealthy market
incentive, predatory aspects, there's going to be rule of law that binds it. You can only have a
state buying the market if the people are binding the state, otherwise you end up getting regulatory
capture. And we can see that that has happened across the board. Well, how do the people bind
the state when it gets to that big of a size? And there's that much information, that much
complexity, we can't all fit into a town hall. And that's a fundamental question. We can see that
some of the founding thoughts on why we needed representatives had to do with who rides a horse
from this area to meet with the other town halls and figure out what the state's going to do.
And it's like, so when we see what Audrey Tang has done in Taiwan with working on creating a
digital democracy, someone else would be fantastic for your show. She hasn't been on.
Can we create a town hall? Can we use the kinds of exponential tech that Facebook and YouTube
are using that end up destroying democracy? Could we use them to mediate democracy where we were
able to actually have everyone be well educated on the issues we're able to assess? Do these people
even, can they state the pros and cons on a specific proposition? So it doesn't have to show
leaning. It just shows that there's actual understanding of the issues before they vote on
it. Is there ways for them to vote directly on things? So there are ways to be able to track
what representatives are doing and the financial accounting and the relationships between
the commercial sector and the state better. And this is where I'm saying the radical increase
in scale in particular debased some of the ideas upon which democracy seemed like it would even
make sense or be possible. So now you have to rethink how do we have everyone be educated enough
about the issues and be able to understand the other positions on the issues well enough and
participate in proposition creation, not just choice making on the proposition that is bad,
yes or no. How do we redo that utilizing the digital technologies and other new technologies
we have that both make it more consequential to do that and also possible?
Well, yeah, I guess there is a fundamental problem, which is that
much of the people, much of the reason people are interested in issues
is because those issues are terrain in a battle that exists. The analogy I sometimes think of is
people get into sports usually first through rooting for a team and then through learning about
the sport, becoming interested in the sport because they care about one side winning in a war.
It's a it's a rarer person who first gets interested in baseball, neutral to who wins,
and then only later begins rooting for a particular team, right? So much of the reason
people want to become educated about any particular issue is because it's already
terrain in the culture war that they can fight for, right? People first look for the fight and then
get want to get informed in the context of the fight, which is totally natural. I'm not claiming
to be exempt from this. This is something I experience in my own psychology and I see
in society in general and other people. And so it's easy for me to be pessimistic about the
possibility of finding a tech based solution to a problem that seems inherent in our psychology.
Can you talk me out of that pessimism? So the question you bring up is a kind of
real politic critique or question of is human nature inexorably the thing we're up against?
So if you read Machiavelli, we read the 48 Laws of Power or anything that is kind of doing
a real politic assessment of patterns of human behavior historically,
the argument can be made that humans are intrinsically and maybe there's a Gaussian
distribution based on their genetics or their whatever it is something of how much of this,
but that as a the distribution as a whole humans are either innately too irrational
or too rivalrous or both to be able to have something like adequate sense making and adequate
integrative values to be able to have an emergent order and culture beyond an in-group that is
unified against an outgroup. That would be the question that we are kind of bound to if there
isn't a big enough outgroup, we will never be able to get the binding energy, we will go tribal on
each other. And this is one of the arguments about one of the things that happened in the US.
Obviously the US has had rivalry for a long time, the Civil War was a good example,
there have been plenty of examples across partisanship or class or race or region or
but we can also see that there was a kind of patriotism and reunification
associated with World War II and for a little while afterwards.
And when we look at the intensity of partisanship in the US today where
