money into those trades. Forget about them. Do it for 30 years. You're a young man. Maybe you're
doing it, right? I'm not expecting you to tell the audience your financial position. I'm just saying
there's a way of testing this view. It's not that hard. Most people in the hedge fund world
are not doing this, and they think very closely about the inflation rate of return.
I believe there's about a 50-year bubble. I mean, so one of the things that unites us
is I was thrilled that you were also focused on the early 1970s as a real and mysterious discontinuity
with respect to growth and distribution. It's one of the biggest puzzles. So 1973 comes
a lot of indicators crash. You can say, fine, the higher price of oil. That's great,
but the higher price of oil goes away, and those indicators do not come back very well.
What do you think? Okay. First of all, let's just do this slowly. Is it mysterious that more
people aren't focused on what happens around 1972 to 74? Of course. 10% of the profession
should be working on that. Instead, people are doing these little narrow things to publish,
but it's hard to get a clear answer to the question we're discussing so no one can publish on it.
The referees will shoot down whatever you turn in. I would rather see people just
write and speculate on the more important questions. But if you ask, what do I think
happened? Clearly, oil was a major factor. Well, let me give you just a little bit of
your due, which you can't do, but I can. I think my favorite version of the graph that shows
how violent this change was is something that you focused us on. It's not perfect,
but it's measured GDP, whatever the failures we have of that measure, together with measured
male median income. Those two things are going up in lockstep before 1973 or so,
and then one of them flatlines and the other keeps going up. Is that graph something that you
developed? I presented it. Obviously, the numbers come from other people. I've done a lot to draw
attention to it, but I don't pretend it's original with me. I think it was a great observation that
that graph was so clean that it caused people to stop denying that something happened. Then
they almost immediately, in my experience, and correct me if yours is different, they go from
not believing that something really big happened to immediately telling you exactly what it was
that happened that explains it. The rich people stole it all or something?
Yeah, or it's all about Bretton Woods or it's all just about the oil shock.
I think the missing variable, once you get through oil prices, over-regulation,
a number of factors that people have already discussed, but I think the increasing feminization
of society is a missing factor in this whole equation. That norms have changed. Women as a
whole are more risk averse. We're much less likely to fight a war in a more feminized society,
so in my opinion, this is very likely good on net, but change is harder to accomplish in some ways,
and people are more comfortable with higher levels of regulation, and that's how things are.
There's pluses and minuses, but it will slow down measured economic growth.
Now, can we talk about, to use your term, a feminized economy in a public sphere
without having to celebrate everything that is feminized and demonize everything that was lost?
Well, it depends who the we is. I do think one should consider costs and benefits,
and to a large extent, men have accepted a more feminized society because it has very strong
positives, so I'm completely sincere when I say on net, I think it's a good thing.
But both experimental evidence and portfolio evidence, women are more risk averse,
and as a norm, my guess is not proven, but my speculation is that really matters,
and it is in addition to other factors about productivity and regulation and spending more
and fighting pollution and oil prices and so on, which are at this point more or less well known,
and that's why I think the slowdown has mostly persisted,
and I do think you will have extraordinary periods, like 1995 to 1998, when information
technology does so many good things, it overwhelms the negatives, I think we'll have more of those.
So let's assume for the moment that both feminization of some kind has occurred,
and let's also just stipulate for this purpose that it's also net positive,
up until the present. Let's imagine that going forward far fewer women choose or are able
to form families and become mothers. Sure. How does that change the equation potentially? Could
that tip this increased level of feminization negative? Well, could it, even now, forgetting
about the speculation, it's a significant gain for elite men and quite possibly a negative for
non-elite men, and you see that in the data very clearly. Due to marriage. Correct. So marriage has
an incentive as much weaker for some subclass of men, who seem to be fairly numerous,
religiosity seems to be down. Total fertility is down. It's now, I believe, at about 1.8. It used
to be at 2.2. And if you look at social indicators for a lot of men in the lower middle class
income or educational category, you see massive problems. And that's part of the story.
What sorts of economic behavior do you see change with, let's say, lower status males
really taking the brunt of some of the shocks to our modern economy?
Well, marriage is good for men on net. It feminizes them for one thing.
So greater health, lower depression. Correct. Less drug abuse, suicide rates lower and so on.
And we're seeing those variables for significant numbers of men move in the wrong directions.
Median income, as you noted, as I presented, that has been stagnant for the median male earner.
I think those numbers are across a long enough period of time. They're unreliable in some ways,
but that there is a problem is completely indisputable. To say, oh, it's gone up exactly
so much between 1970 and today, that is an illusion. But that it is a problem and indeed a crisis,
that is very much a reality. And you see it again in many other indicators,
not just the income numbers. That's how we know it's real.
What have women potentially lost from increased feminization, even if it's net positive for
them as well? Again, women is quite a large category. So is men.
Do you want to break it up into low status and high status females looking at some of the issues about
how high status females use low status females to perform kin work that would otherwise have to be done?
I would say this. There's evidence that stress levels for a fair number of women are higher.
If you think women now have the chance to have better careers, which is great for the economy,
and very good for the person working if you're in a career you enjoy. But at the same time,
it may be hard to convince the men they should take on a greater share of child rearing responsibilities.
So the woman ends up having to do both. And the income level is higher, but the stress level is
much higher. And I think there's both scientific evidence and anecdotal evidence. That is true.
I couldn't tell you offhand how large a class of women that is, but I do know it's been studied
pretty extensively. Why do you think it's so difficult to discuss costs and benefits
and even the facts of gender within economic theory without it becoming so contentious
as to effectively make the enterprise somewhat unprofitable?
Well, it's hard to discuss in many settings, not just in economics. I think actually economics
is one of the better settings to be able to have such discussions.
There are two areas in academia where you can still say things that are either counterintuitive
or possibly politically incorrect. And that's economics and philosophy, and both are healthier
for it. So to me, not evolutionary theory. I know that area less well may well be true.
I would say that that's probably my, I mean, it's under a ton of pressure. No, don't get me wrong.
But I do think that if you allow political correctness into evolutionary theory, there is no subject.
Probably true. Again, I couldn't say economics is under some pressure now.
But it's so data driven that results get out, right? They may be reframed in particular ways
or certain angles of it. Talk down or put any thoughts about the wage gap.
Well, which one between men and women?
If you adjust for demographics, it mostly goes away. I do think there is also discrimination
against women in labor markets, but I don't think it's measured by the wage gap.
That's one of my problems. I've gone so far as to claim that academic tenure
is increasingly withheld because a large number of females find child rearing so fulfilling that
it competes, even if they're at the very top of their profession, as researchers. And so by
forcing people, both men and women to wait longer and longer for a permanent job offer,
what you do is you start selecting out against a very talented, usually female assistant professor
who may discover the joys of raising three kids and will have a 15 year period of decreased
productivity. I've argued we should abolish tenure to be more fair to women. There are other reasons,
but that alone is sufficient. You think that that's somewhat land... Absolutely.
The frustration being that those of us who think of ourselves as concerned with actual
discrimination against women in the labor force may not want to sign on to the, you know,
women get paid 75 cents for every dollar that a man gets paid because that's not a good argument.
And the elite men who benefit from tenure, they'll just call it meritocracy and somehow
compartmentalize and not see how it's an unfair system. But another thing I would say that I
would really want to stress, there's a lot of kind of tough talk on like the right wing about
oh the claims of women about discrimination or overblown or incorrect and so on. And
I get where they're coming from, but the discrimination against women in markets,
it's very real. It's very significant. And our main self image of ourselves should be as problem
solvers who will reduce that discrimination and take on some kind of emancipatory perspective.
To do that, I think you have to be objective about the evidence, but the goal is not at the
end of it all to dismiss it or the Democrats are wrong or the left wing is terrible. It's really
the wrong approach. Like focus on the individuals is a big problem. I'm telling people to come
out from a different perspective. I say come at it from greed. If you imagine the number of insights
that are held between female ears and putting up extra barriers within the workplace means that we
have fewer minds that we can query, it definitely seems to me the case that given differential
success rates, if you believe in anything like intellectual equality, there should be a bonanza
to be unlocked from having women highly productive in the workplace. I mean to me,
greed rather than obligation seems to me to be the right strategy and not everybody loves that
approach. Yes, but there is a collective action problem. So even if you as an individual say an
employer are greedy, there may be social norms that make it hard for you to benefit from your
insights because the other people in your workplace, customers may have screwed up expectations and
norms and you can't just wave a magic wand and kind of see through all the myths of gender
and hire the right people and automatically succeed. There's some educational issue, a
collective action problem where large numbers of us need to understand what's going on better
and see which are the actual discriminations, which I think are often matters of expectations
and role models and implicit biases which can be very strong. Well, you asked about gauge theory
earlier. When we ran into trouble trying to introduce gauge theory into the core of economics,
it was going to have a very unpredictable effect because it was going to be a backwards
incompatible, sorry, a backwards compatible upgrade of the entire theory with making it
compatible also with the world's most beautiful mathematics found in particle theory, general
relativity and differential topology. What I found was that their economics was set up for it to be
a battle and that my wife and collaborator did not want the fight. I was just ready to duke it
out with these guys for the pure pleasure of shoving it down their throat. It's an extremely
sort of male aggressive perspective on an innovation and because it was under her name,
given that it was her thesis and we would collaborate on part of it, there was no ability
to actually have that fight. The norms of the profession favored conflict as a means of
exploring something and that because women may have different feelings about how conflict
should be handled, I worry that like in this instance where you had somebody from the
developing world who's female presenting a new idea that such ideas can get lost very easily
if we don't have a more balanced workplace. There's a lot of self-examination going on
in economics right now about conflictual norms and how seminars are held, but I worry a bit
will address the superficial aspects and be superficially polite and not change actually
being rivalrous in the way that is screwed up. We'll see how it evolves, this is a new movement,
but so far I'm not yet optimistic that we'll get at the actual problem.
You aren't?
Well, we'll see in all fairness, the people who raise it are completely correct to raise it,
I'm on their side, but at the same time we can't be naive, you've got to realize problems are
deeply rooted and to just focus on the superficial symbols of the problem, you can end up
not fixing things.
So we've referred to this podcast as audio and video samas dot that effectively this is
pirate radio for a new generation. You were famous within economics for a couple of moves
that seem really nutty to me and I think the first one is that you turned down Harvard
to go to George Mason as an undergraduate because you thought you could spend more time
reading the great works of economics. Do I have my facts more or less right?
I didn't apply to Harvard. I had a very strong academic record and this was back in the late
1970s. I believe I could have gotten into many top schools, but I only applied to George Mason,
in fact. So my high school guidance counselor thought I was crazy. I had SATs, top percentiles
and so on, good grades, but for me this was a version of homeschooling. I was choosing
homeschooling and most of all I hated the idea of living in a dorm. I considered that so barbaric
that as a 17 year old I thought I want a life, I want a car, I want an apartment. George Mason
was a commuter school. It had an interesting economics department, but most of all I wanted
my personal space and ability for classes not to be too hard or have too much homework and I would
just work on my own like every day, all day long, morning through night and I did it.
Was it a great decision? Well, it's not for me to say. I don't regret it at all. I'm very happy I
did it, but great by what standard. It could be a lot of decisions you make, exposed, you're glad,
you turned out to be you and you'll endorse them, but that's not quite as informative as actually
seeing the Exante trade off. Okay, but then you went to Harvard for grad school.
Correct. Which was necessary for me to get a job. Right. And then your research job.
And then you came back to George Mason. After a stint at UC Irvine. That's correct.
Okay. And you start choosing to blog. Yes, that's correct. That was I think 2003 though
my memory could be off by a year. Okay, now this puts you in a group with people like Peter
White in physics who are starting to really upset standard academicians, if I recall correctly,
because the power of this blog to upend what had been thought to be the meritocracy, if you have
somebody who can think and write very clearly and in a lively fashion, suddenly they're able to have
a different kind of influence than you might have through a journal like econometric or something
like that. But I'm not sure I upset people. At first it was not taken at all seriously,
so no one was upset. And then it was very quick all of a sudden that it was taken very seriously.
And then people decided they needed to suck up to me or to the blog. And there was not much of
an intermediate period where I fought some kind of war against opposition. I didn't understand
that. So in general, the power of this blog, once it was realized, caused people to
want to get along with you. People are very nice to me, as I think they should be,
but they're not always nice to each other. They're nicer to me than they are to each other.
And that came suddenly. And before that happened, they just ignored me. There was never much
hostility that I'm aware of. Well, I tried fighting you on a couple of points, but I was very
ineffectual. So I can see that you're disturbingly likeable. I don't feel I'm one of these people
who's had to fight off this incredible opposition. And you know, I persevered and they told me this
and I stuck with it. That doesn't ring so true to me. It was like, I did my own thing.
World, like who knows, they weren't paying attention. And then somehow magically it worked out.
And what do you think the current status of economics blogging? I mean, I just.
I most of the blogs have faded and have died. Who's still in it? That's worth reading.
It depends what you count as a blog, but econ log with Brian Kaplan, Scott Sumner,
and other people is great. Scott Sumner's own blog is very good. Arnold Kling,
ask blog, it's called. Polk rugman is not really blogging anymore. The debates happen on Twitter,
which I think is a less effective medium, but obviously it's quicker. And in that sense,
quote unquote cheaper. And obviously Facebook, Twitter and other social media have beaten out
