In my Twitter feed, some of the very stupidest questions were being applauded,
say by PhD economists, like, oh, you know, get tough, you know, show Mark Zuckerberg.
So even at that level, there's an expressive response that encourages this behavior,
and that's why we get it. But when you then think, gee, this system is going to regulate
speech on the internet, I say no way, you know, Zenger was right.
I think that's different. Have you ever watched giraffes fighting or bunnies?
I've seen bunnies fighting on the internet. I'm not sure I've been amazing, right?
And it's like, I think I got this from Joe Rogan. Bunny UFC is just they fight in such
an intense fashion. I think people are cheering some of these hearings in the same way that they
would cheer for like one rabbit over another. Of course, it's like a cockfight. It's just
interesting watching people beat up on each other, particularly if you like one more than the other.
I don't think that people are anywhere near as stupid as I don't think we're getting the
government we deserve. And let me give you an analogy which is plaguing me for many things.
We used to think that TV was the idiot box. And we clearly just didn't understand
long form television of the form that has been discovered with Game of Thrones or the Sopranos.
I think that there's a long form politics that we want and we're smart enough to
know the difference between what we have in that. And we can't get it because it's really
not in the interests of people who have more leverage than the rest of us.
I don't think it's the elites who are keeping this long form politics from us.
I think it's the voters. There are plenty of candidates on the Democratic side.
Some of them are quite smart. You may or may not agree with them.
Who do you find quite smart on the Democratic side? We won't talk about dumb.
Mayor Pete and Andrew Yang, for instance, seem quite smart. I'm not familiar with all
the candidates. So if I haven't mentioned your favorite, I intend no slight.
But they're obviously both quite smart. Their chance of winning is pretty small. They have
gotten media exposure. I know Andrew Yang has sometimes kept out of the CNN graphics and so on.
But you didn't of itself hysterically funny as if it's, you know, we're back in 1994
and no one will be able to discuss this because we don't have a lively internet.
But the people who manipulate emotions are more likely to be the Democratic candidates
than those two individuals. And that I don't blame on the elites. I'm not saying the elites
are blameless, but it's mostly the voters. Do you know Frank Luntzwell?
I've met him and I've heard him talk. I wouldn't say I know him well. I think he's very smart.
I think he's very smart too. I went to college with him. And for those who don't know,
he was a Republican pollster who pioneered the use of particular phraseology for a common concept
and he more or less discovered that we don't actually have opinions about underlying
law or facts or theory, but we have hugely divergent opinions based on how the same
underlying stuff is presented to us. That death taxes and estate taxes may be the same thing,
but we oppose the death tax and we're for the estate tax. Do you believe that this
level of emotional manipulation would go away if we started getting tools with which to discuss it?
Clearly that kind of emotional manipulation is higher in some countries than in others,
so it's impossible to believe it's some fixed eternal constant. But the United States has
a long history of emotional and sometimes populist politics. In the 80s and 90s, I view as an outlier
kind of era where things were relatively calm and reasonable, even though at the time it didn't
always feel that way. It didn't feel that way to me at all. But compared to the mid to late 19th
century, my goodness, right? Yeah. Then you had people in Congress attacking each other,
a lot of partisan media, a lot of outright lying. So I don't see America becoming like Switzerland
anytime soon, but clearly it's not impossible. Well, I think one of the things that really
strikes me about that is that the Lee Atwater's and the Frank Luntz's who
put a sort of a deliberate spin on this kind of mean-spirited emotional manipulation,
were surprised that it didn't behave, let's say like rugby, where you have a bunch of gentlemen
take the field, play absolutely brutally with each other, and then going back to being gentlemen
when the game is over. Frank Luntz has told me that he just hates the current state of our politics,
that it's far too mean-spirited and destructive, and he can't locate anything that he's done
to kick this into high gear. It's a very strange thing. There's a disconnection between working
on these campaigns in a somewhat scientific fashion to use people's passions to sort of take
over their decision-making, and then there's this inability to understand, well, how did we all become
uncivil? I wonder if one of the problems in America is our temporal distance from war. So there was
World War II, terrible event, but it did make us more instrumentally rational. And if you look at
something like the Manhattan Project, phenomenal achievement, as you know, done really quite quickly
would not have been possible outside of wartime, even in an earlier America. Then there's the Cold War.
Now the Cold War, let's say it ended in 1989, 1992. That's a number of decades. Young people today
don't know about it. So without a common enemy, maybe the enemy becomes each other in some way,
and we're more mean-spirited because there's a lack of a common enemy. That's to me the most
likely single hypothesis for what's happened. And it's evolutionarily rational that when there
isn't a common enemy, you would attempt potentially to make your slice larger at the expense of someone
else's slice who might be on your team. Whereas during wartime, that would be seen as sort of an
unforgivable offense because you have something much bigger to organize around. And I think it's
interesting, the one issue where there is at least potentially a common enemy, maybe not quite vivid
yet, but that would be China. Sure. Opinion on China, it's not polarized Republican versus Democrat.
I've spoken to people in Congress on both sides about China. There's a mix of opinions,
diverse opinions within each party. It's not that all the Republicans line up on one side and all
the progressives on another. So there you see polarization actually not being so strong.
I think China's done a wonderful job of manipulating us by making sure that most of their
activity is below a threshold so that it appears that they don't really have any global designs.
Of course, there's a narrative that says China really cares only about China,
and it's not focused on the outside world. My view is China has very strong Asian designs.
I'm not sure they have truly global designs, but I view them as a threat to liberty in Asia.
Sure. Now, I guess I have a question. Do you think we're living through a very unusual time
in the last decade and really probably the last five to seven years?
I'm not sure I would slice up the years that way. I now see the 1980s and 90s as the unusual time of
calm and feeling of triumph and that neoliberalism can do no wrong. That's the outlier. The turning
point for me is 9-11 and the financial crisis. Now you have Trumpism, a series of very strange
events that are causing people to revise many things they had believed and were responding
by being nastier to each other. I see the cutoff point as 2001.
Do you see anything, for example, to me? I view the apparent death of Jeffrey Epstein
as one of the most bizarre news stories I've ever seen. It seemingly happened with
every bizarre coincidence that would be necessary for somebody in protective custody
to meet his end under a situation in which everybody wants to know exactly who he was,
how he was connected to the intelligence communities, where are his probable co-conspirators?
They seem to still be alive. Nobody seems to be tracking this down. The news media seems
preternaturally uninterested in it. If you look at top podcasts, there are lots of podcasts that
are dedicated to the Jeffrey Epstein question. Anybody could make money even debunking conspiracy
theories about murders of Jeffrey Epstein by the intelligence community. What the hell is going
on that we're not even talking about? I haven't followed the details of the Epstein death very
closely, but in general, it's very hard to get me to believe in conspiracy theories. Just looking
at base rates, how many people killed themselves in prison versus how many people are killed by
outside conspiracies in prison, other than the case of someone who snitches on the drug gang and
they're shipped in the shower, that kind of thing, which is pretty common. I'm not close to
thinking that was a conspiracy. I would say I have an open mind since I haven't studied it,
but I don't look at it in recoil and think, my goodness, this is so strange.
You don't have to believe it's a conspiracy. You can believe that there are two camera
failures and that there's some guards that were asleep on the job and that a freakishly
long period with nobody killing themselves in that facility happened to be ended because there's an
arrival of an unpredictable event. What I'm trying to do is what I believe. You said it well.
My point to you would be, if that's what I believed, and that is a part of what I believe,
but I have a probability distribution that puts far more weight on other things than I
think your probability distribution does, I would be interested to discuss that and to show people
just how the conspiracy theorizing mind is led astray. It would be a wonderful opportunity
for a rationalist to take this on and to sell a bunch of papers by showing what nonsense this is
and even Michael Schermer at some point. But is the market for that so large?
It's hard to prove he wasn't murdered. My point is people wanted to talk about this
much more than papers wanted. Why not do a special on what is known about Jeffrey Epstein's
connections to the intelligence community? Just that. What is known? I'm not saying that he has
huge connections to the intelligence, but what do we know? I read about it in my blog comments all
the time. I'm not sure how much of it to trust, but if I look back on history, to me it's remarkable
how few successful conspiracies there are. There can be a lot of circumstantial evidence that
something was a conspiracy talk of Pearl Harbor, JFK assassination, many other cases, but they
don't quite materialize as actual conspiracies. How does the McCullum memo on Pearl Harbor affect you?
Most historians think it was a series of massive screw ups, and there were clearly pieces of
information put on tables and left around, but there was no committee or individual such as FDR
saying I'm going to let this happen. I'm not saying that I don't think anybody wanted Japan to attack
us with that ferocity in Pearl Harbor, but the question of did we want Cassus Belli for World
War II? Were we interested in potentially getting torpedoed in British shipping lanes or choking
Japan, which is resource poor for natural resources, so as to induce them into some
act of belligerence, hopefully much smaller than Pearl Harbor? Sure, but that's not a conspiracy,
right? That's a plan that went wrong. Well, it would be a bit of a conspiracy to attempt to get
someone to attack you so that you could enter the war claiming to have been attacked.
I don't know. Maybe you don't think that is. Well, if that's a standard military strategy,
maybe this is the reason why you don't see as many conspiracies because that's just normal
operating procedure. I guess I'm always shocked by how many relatively large and complicated
conspiracies have been proven to have existed, have not fallen apart, and all these standard
things that you can't get a large number of people to do something without somebody squealing,
that people have an urge to purge, so nobody keeps a secret. This has been, to my mind,
clearly disproven just by proven conspiracies. What is to you the most dramatic large-scale
conspiracy? Well, Cointel Pro has to be the best of them. What happened there? The FBI had a dirty
tricks department that actually fed misinformation to create fake news into the mainstream media
with the intention of killing law-abiding Americans because the FBI didn't like their
politics. That's pretty bad. That's a large number of people, too. It's not what I see
as a conspiracy. We know, for instance, as a fact that the CIA supported abstract expressionism
within the field of painting because they thought it would neutralize propagandistic
art and make America's less communistic. I don't think that's seriously disputed.
I got into a much more interesting discussion with an economist, not too long ago,
who was looking at my work in economics and said, Eric, the person said to me, Eric, I can't stand
to see you fighting the Chicago School of Economics. Are you aware that this was really
just a bulwark against totalitarian communism rather than a theory that was intended to be
operational and descriptive with predictive power and that now that the Cold War is over,
the problem is we didn't tell the children that it was really a political project rather than an
analytic one. I know or knew most of those people. They were economists. What they said they believed
was true. They had careerist concerns. They wanted to make the world a better place.
That's actually the best theory of the Chicago School of Economics.
Well, I don't know. There's this very funny paradigm which I call earns as an X, spends as a Y.
For example, in physics, I would say that Edward Whitten has earned as a geometer,
but he's spent as a string theorist. In economics, I would say Milton Friedman earned as an
economist. He was a very fine economist, and he spent as a political theorist. In part, this game
of earning in one place and spending somewhere else is depending upon how you view the history of
a subject. It can be far more important to the participants how they spend rather than how they
earn their credibility. Sure. Look, Friedman made some mistakes. He thought that educational vouchers
would work easily and simply and be quite popular. That hasn't turned out to be the case. He was more
optimistic about shock therapy than he should have been. Though I would say on the whole,
shock therapy has done well on average. Look at Poland, right? Poland is a successful, fairly
free economy. But what explains that, I think, is just simply that Milton didn't see the future
course of world history, and he was imperfect and maybe too optimistic about some of his own ideas.
And you'll hear all kinds of accounts about the Chicago boys and conspiracy or the Habsburg
monarchy. You hear this from Lyndon LaRouche, or the CIA funded them in Chile or whatever.
I don't feel those are the correcty historical understandings. The more or less superficial
account. They had ideas. They believed in the ideas. Some of the ideas were wrong. A lot of
them turned out to be really quite correct. Their overall record is pretty good. That superficial
account, I think, is fundamentally true. So now that we've somehow found a way into economics
after burning through some other stuff. We were never out of economics. But please continue.
All right. Well, that's the problem is that you can't leave evolutionary theory.
Can we talk? And again, let's feel free to turn any question around on me, although I'm not an
economist. What I find astounding about the field of economics is that on the one hand,
I can't get enough of it. I need to use its concepts, its terminology, some of its models.
And on the other hand, I think it's an absolute abomination that it's not that the field is
broken, so much as that the field is fixed in the same sense that the world series can be fixed.
I find that whenever I go into economics, there's this sort of Mott and Bailey type approach,
where there's this very defensible core of economic thinking. And then there's this absolutely
tortured, just so story, that we tell that almost always seems to flatter institutions and power
and the structures that would be upended if we actually just let the field run and
reach the conclusions that would emerge from the models.
It may depend on what exactly you're being upset by. But keep in mind, at least in the west,
what you're calling institutions and power are the most successful institutions the world has
seen ever. So there's something to be said on their behalf, right? And economics, if our just so
stories are fairly positive toward those institutions, we shouldn't be repulsed by that. There may be
margins where they're getting things wrong. So I would say no economist that I know of is really
willing to write a critique of the National Science Foundation. Why is that hard to prove?
But I think the logical reasons are the obvious ones that I want to alienate a potential funder.
The only major critique written was written by myself with Alex Tabarak. Other than that,
it's a virtually empty literature. I've accused the National Science Foundation
of specifically destroying the pipeline for STEM labor, for the purpose of making STEM labor
cheap for employers to the detriment of American aspirants. Sure, I've read that. But within
economics, it's very hard to find criticisms of the NSF, virtually impossible.
Okay, so here's an interesting question to me. Economists have been very comfortable turning
the lens of economic theorizing on absolutely any group save one. They'll do it to priests,
they'll do it to scientists, to politicians. They cannot imagine, I mean, that this is going
to escape notice forever. My wife has talked about economics squared. What is the political economy
of economists themselves and where are these papers? Now, you don't find it interesting,
particularly, that this field doesn't exist. I think they do it now on Twitter. So they
accuse each other of having bad motives or being captive of their funders. So with social media,
you're seeing a blossoming of this kind of attack. There are still criticisms they don't
