phone. Even the real Tyler Cowan will probably answer the phone, but you're harder to model
for that reason. I'm incredibly flattered even if that isn't your attention. The idea that you
would have a hard time doing that means a lot to me. Peter is an insanely difficult person
for most of us to model because I don't think it's even consistent session to session.
Peter is so driven by the search for something new that whatever it is that he's thought last
is now incorporated into, well, that's old. Where do we go from here? I mean, it's just,
it's a constant, but that's part of the model. So I have my own Peter teal model. Now you know
Peter much, much better than I do. But I think of it as you really do need to incorporate everything
you know into your current view consistently or you're failing. So your views should be a kind
of random walk because if you can predict their direction, it means you should already be where
you're headed and there's something wrong if you're not. And the other part of my Peter teal model
is the way in which he is an intensely moral thinker and how the moral element of his thought
interacts with the cognition and strengthens it. And again, you know Peter better than I do.
No, he's insanely moral. I will retreat, but that's how I model Peter. He's moral. He's religious.
But that, but it's not just that. It's how the moral and the cognitive are integrated. He does
so well. I'm picking up on this weird feature. So I had him as the inaugural episode of the
interview episode of the show. And I would say that one of the one of the reactions that people
had is, wow, I've never seen this side of Peter. And of course, I've never seen any other side of
Peter. So the delta between the private and the cartoon, the private person and the cartoon
character that the media portray is got to be one of the largest deltas I've known for any other
human being. Sure. Yeah. Anybody else you think we're getting wildly wrong if we go by their media?
Well, most people, I think, and plenty of these are people I don't know, but my default assumption
is if they're very well known, the media is getting them wrong. Right. Not true in all cases,
but it's a better default assumption than the opposite. So I agree that that that's true. But
what I'm looking for is where is the distortion most? Well, Charles Koch would be an example.
Tell me about Charles Koch. So I have the experience. People perceive me as being somebody
who is not going to be friendly to the Koch brothers, certainly the image of the Koch brothers.
And a lot of people I respect think very highly of the Koch brothers. And I notice in myself that
I have a module that says anything Koch related has to be seen as the work of the devil. I don't
even have a thought before the word Koch starts to tell me that this is something I can't even
entertain, which is fascinating because of my political milieu. Just noticing metacognitively,
wow, I didn't install that module. How did it get there? Just to be clear, Koch Foundation is a
major donor to my university and programs I'm connected with. Peter has supported some things
I've done just for our listeners. Charles, I think in terms of being an executor and integrator
and synthesizer is the most impressive human I have met, as far as I can tell. No kidding.
That the high returns of Koch industries over such a long period of time, and it's not in a
sector based on a kind of like trick. Well, Google obviously has done very well. I don't want to call
Google a trick. No, they figured out search. It's a kind of natural monopoly. Yeah, they've done
a wonderful job since then and YouTube and all that. Yes. But Koch Industries has worked in pretty
competitive sectors and earned high returns through competence and execution and understanding
and developing processes which are replicable on a much larger level than the individual of
Charles Koch or anyone else in a way that all the other impressive people we know have not done.
So that is his and their most impressive contribution. But he is a man of the utmost
integrity and to make it clear on issues such as climate change, I don't at all agree with him.
But I've known Charles for a long time. He's absolutely a straight shooter and does what he
thinks is right and is a great American and is very much a person to be admired. Wow.
That's a reason enough to invite him onto the portal if you come. And there's plenty of things
I disagree with him about just to make it clear. Charlie Munger. Is he somebody that you have had
interactions with? I've never met Charlie. I had a dinner with Charlie and I was very impressed by
I've heard that from many people. He's a very tough, tough minded individual, but there's a big payoff.
Yeah, probably true. Yeah. I don't even know what his media reputation is. Is it the opposite of that?
I don't know. My sense of it is that he is happy to be overshadowed in the media by Warren Buffett,
but that to those who know, he's a powerful, independent man. I noticed that in my own work
relationship with Peter Thiel, people who don't like me will say, oh, they're always talking,
use the word boss. Well, your boss did this. Your boss said that like they'll really emphasize
the hierarchy, which is something that Peter has never done bizarrely. And it allowed me for a
long period of time to move somewhat more quietly while Peter got more of the attention. And I
don't know that there isn't a version of that at a different level with Munger and Buffett,
where Munger is known by everybody who should know who he is and Buffett gets most of the headlines.
Yeah. But are there great arbitrage opportunities with other people whose
reputations mask incredible contributions? Well, I don't know if it's arbitrage because if the
people are famous, they've already been doing things, right? So it's not that you can come along
and hire them for minimum wage. Charo, who used to do the Gucci Gucci Act, was a student of
Segovia and a fabulous classical guitarist. Dolly Parton, you know, some kind of a genius
who happens to hide behind, you know, a physique that draws most of the attention,
but she's really just an incredible thinker. Correct. Artist. Along multiple dimensions.
Yeah. Who else like this? Well, this is a controversial name, but Michael Jackson,
and I don't at all mean to excuse the things it certainly seems he has done.
But as a musical talent, even before the bad news came out, he's been grossly underappreciated,
getting back to the theme of creative individuals, often having these highly problematic elements.
Right. Well, this is this is this thing that I don't know how to get at in mathematics. I think
we do an unbelievably good job of not removing the names of despicable people from their own work.
So for example, I'm very partial to the work of a guy named Pascal Jordan
in the algebra of quantum mechanics and quantum theory, who is a committed Nazi.
And there are tons of Nazis whose names are discussed along with their work,
even to places like Hebrew University, where I was for a couple of years. So it's a culture that
says we don't get to choose who brings the gifts and we don't get it to choose whether or not
we acknowledge them just because they did something in the rest of their life that was untoward.
I think we should stop with the ex post purges, which are in any case highly, highly selective.
But that said, I'm never sure what is exactly the right policy looking forward.
How do we do that? Do you think I don't think we figured it out?
When I hear any side in that debate, I think, oh, they're wrong,
but they can't all be wrong or maybe they are all wrong. But I don't think I have.
Well, you heard my strategy for this. I'd be curious to get your take on it.
I think that we Jews should call for the destruction of the Arch of Titus that commemorates the sacking
of Jerusalem and the carrying off of Jewish booty by, I guess, Roman hands with the idea being
that this is so preposterous that we should tear down this ancient arch,
even though Jews have always hated this arch, that it will evidence to people just how insane it is
to attempt to do this excision or exorcism. I don't know what you want to call it retroactively
when we obviously have a society built on structures of oppression.
I don't think it would show people that. I don't think it would be digested or
interpreted properly. And here's my worry. So you can say, well,
we're going to have a moratorium on canceling people in the past,
but the past and the present are not so neatly separated. And there are people who are a part
of the past, but also part of the present number of people in comedy, but many others who are
either active or they would be active if they would be allowed to be active.
And in those cases, I'm not sure what we should do.
Do you have a strong feeling on Louis C.K.?
He seems to be the case that a very large number of people want to see him return
in a very large number of people want to make sure that that does not happen.
I don't know all of the details. Maybe he's done things I would find worse than I thought,
but the marginal cases I tend to believe we should allow for rehabilitation. In general,
I believe in second, third and additional chances. And it's striking to me how many
people in the political debate will be, oh, ex-convicts, we need to allow them to have jobs
and rehabilitate them and welcome them back into society. But these other offenders,
often they're white men, by the way, they cannot in any way be allowed back on the concert stage
or wherever. Now, maybe you think they ought to be working in a cafeteria somewhere. I don't
know, but I'm pretty sure those emotions and intuitions are not consistent.
Are you conflicted yourself?
I'm conflicted myself. My gut, which I'm not saying is correct and clear,
is for second and third chances. But I understand incentives matter as an economist. And if everyone
gets an n number of chances, then penalties don't matter so much. So that's why I'm conflicted.
I was thinking about having, I keep threatening to do this, somewhere I have a list of 20 paradoxes,
which I've called the Hilbert Problems of Social Justice, named after the famous mathematical
problems. And that there are certain intractable problems that have to do with contradictory
impulses where you can show people that there's no way of solving these puzzles.
But they still insist on trying to apply these axioms and heuristics as if they
lead to a compatible social ordering. Is there any way in which people can be
dissuaded from trying to purge themselves of the fruits of all oppression by showing them
what that would actually mean, do you think? I don't know. But again, the view that we purge
nothing may be problematic as well. My own podcast series, Conversations with Tyler,
I'm doing one in two days with the fellow Shaka Senkor, who's a convicted murderer.
I love Shaka. I haven't met him yet. Spent 19 years in prison, seven years in solitary,
36 times was written up for in some way, treating guards badly, has confessed to
these charges. And I had to think long and hard, like, should I do a podcast with Shaka?
No, you're making a great decision. And that was the conclusion I arrived at. But
it's still a question, right? I found Shaka to be, I mean, I've only,
it's very weird. There are all these people in my personal and private life who
are now coming up, potentially, in the context of, should I have a podcast with them? I think
Shaka, you can ask almost any question about his time in prison, about what the transformation
has been. And I think you'll get a very credible answer. I thought I found him incredibly thoughtful
as a theorist about the entire system. That's also my sense. But the question of,
does the fact that we can learn from someone in any way exonerate them, I would still say,
I don't have a clear answer to that. That's true. But I guess it matters for me at the margin for
selfish reasons that matters. I'm really looking forward to talking with Shaka. But
if you try to generalize, I don't know where we're left. So let me give a really clean example,
because the person is no longer with us. And I think that the artistic contribution is
more fascinating than we care to admit. Have you ever heard the song by Charles Manson called
Look at Your Game Girl? I've heard that there are songs by Charles Manson, but I've never heard it.
I don't think so. I struggle with this because it's an incredibly
beautiful performance to my ear. And the human being who created it
is obviously almost synonymous with the level of madness and depravity that we wish to insulate
ourselves from. I don't know how to reconcile that because I see the sensitivity and the gift.
And my feeling about it as a song, if you could just disembodied it,
I think it'd be a great song. If you actually think about what it is that you're choosing to
promote, this is not a very famous song because of its association. I think it would be a huge
disservice if its popularity came to have us reevaluate its author. When the John Lennon song
Run For Your Life comes on the radio, which is a song about wife beating, it seems. I do actually
change the channel. I'm not sure I'm consistent, but it bothers me. And that's John Lennon.
And I don't want to listen.
Are we not entitled to some hypocrisy? We are, but we need optimal hypocrisy.
You need a kind of consistently inconsistent, optimal hypocrisy. And no one's found that yet.
Well, I really like that because I feel that I can't get through a day without
my hypocrisy. And people are always trying to take it away from me. And all I really want to do is to
minimize it and to make sure that it's functional rather than just a complete dodge.
But we also need some hypocritical sanctions against hypocrisy. So there are multiple layers
here, right? So you can't just sit content in your hypocrisy even if it's optimal.
Tyler, I could have you here for the rest of time. Can I instead say that you are welcome to come back
anytime? I would in fact love to talk to you about gauge theory and other matters of how we
push the economics profession forward. But, you know, there are a million topics I could talk to
you about have absolutely nothing to do with our area of professional overlap. Will you consider
coming back? I would love to come back. And I'm still planning on having you on my podcast,
which we absolutely will do and might have even happened now if you hadn't invited me onto yours.
Well, I would be completely honored. It would be a fantastic adventure. So thanks very much for
that. Well, let's make that happen. Eric, it's been a great pleasure. Okay. You've been through
the portal with our guest, Professor Tyler Cowan. Make sure that you subscribe to this podcast on
Apple Stitcher Spotify or wherever you listen to podcasts and go over to YouTube and try to find
our channel and make sure that you both subscribe and click the bell to be notified when our next
episode drops. Thanks very much. Be well.
