blogging. It's been great for my efforts. We've played a kind of last man standing strategy
and done very well with it. So I'm not worried about the death of blogging. My view is like,
bring it on, you know, there's the death of Tyler Cowan that works. But until then, you know,
blog will continue. Just ask the question, how many websites can you go to every day where
there's reliably interesting content? So there's New York Times, there's financial times. There's
a bunch of others. Well, do you think that the comment section of marginal revolutions,
your blog is a large draw? I don't know. I think it's pretty terrible. I hope it's not a large
draw. But since it has a lot of comments, it must draw someone. It does seem to draw a lot of
interest where people really want to mix it up there. I don't know whether people provide context
for the post. So I shut down the comments section for like 10 days, just as an experiment. Yeah.
And all these people wrote me, they're like, we know the comments were terrible, but they gave us
context on your post because you would just say things we wouldn't understand. And we'd read the
comments. And now we know what's at stake. So now I think those people are doing something pretty
valuable, even though like the actual quality of what is said is highly variable to be generous.
Do you have the sense that we're part of a weird movement of,
I don't know how to call it, like thinkers who aren't much recognized by the standard structures.
I am a standard structure now. Oh, stop it. You are not.
Patrick Collison, for example, is somebody who a lot of our world that I share with you holds
in very high, we hold him in very high esteem. I don't know how many people in the country think
of Patrick as a mind rather than as a very rich CEO. Patrick is one of the smartest people ever.
But I think a whole bunch of people know that now. Do you think that he's being tasked by our
government to really think through difficult problems in technology? I would ask him an
heartbeat. Well, I don't know what our government has in mind, but I want to get back to this idea
of like who are the structures. So marginal revolution, it's a blog, but I don't view it
as just about me. I view myself as editing a daily magazine for economists and other smart people.
And like it's the daily magazine for economists and related kinds of thinkers. So I don't view it
as like an outside thing anymore. I know it has this funny, weird early years of blogging look
like a 1990s website. That's like a retro inside joke and all that. That's so cool. I like it.
Yeah. And I don't even know how to make it better without it looking kind of stupid and gross.
But like I'm the establishment, not the only part of it. Okay, so you're going to pretend to be
the establishment. I'm going to pretend to be the establishment. You can attack me now.
Well, who are the best heterodox thinkers that live sort of on the periphery of the consciousness
of the establishment? I don't know what to make of the term. I'm serious. You.
Absolutely. I wrote a blog post about you and I said before this podcast, I didn't just defend
you. I said Eric Weinstein is one of the most interesting people to sit down and have an extended
intensive conversation with. This is why it's so hard to fight with you. You couldn't be kinder,
but I'm trying to think about whose signal we can boost at the moment. I think you remember
when we went to that meeting on how to think about measuring and reforming science for higher
productivity. Laura Deming, for example, blew me away. I thought she had some of the best insights.
I don't know how to boost her signal enough. She's somebody like Patrick
that I want more people thinking about. We have a mutual friend who is incredibly generative
and very dangerous, Michael Vassar, intellectually. I'm never sure what's up with Michael. I've
spent time with him and been very impressed, but I just don't know what he's doing.
Yeah. Can you enlighten me? No, but that's a bad sign, right? No, no, no. I can tell you that he's
theorizing about woke as a concept. He's much more for it without buying it in its own terms.
That sounds like me, but what are his intermediate products?
I don't know. I mean, it's just there are these people who many of us
talked to over the years. Or Guern. You must know who Guern is. No. You don't know Guern.
Just G-W-E-R-N. Just Google to Guern. He is a man.
Is he like the Daniel Schmuckdenberger of our time? Do you know Daniel Schmuckdenberger?
I don't, but I think you will the way you put the question. Yeah.
So Guern lives in Southern Maryland and just like lives and he writes these essays on the internet
and he collects information. He's a phenomenal guy, very friendly. If you meet him seems super nice.
I don't know him well, but I have only positive things to say about my interaction with him
and his essays will blow your mind. Scott Alexander.
But this idea. Okay. So Slate Star Codex. But there's no longer heterodox or orthodox anymore.
Ideas come from the internet. Whether everyone likes that or not. Okay.
For the last 10, 15 years and the people we're all discussing are in various ways
significant players on the internet. And of course it's diverse, but they're not
like quite the outsiders anymore and neither are you. Oh, really? I don't know that I can
get my ideas inside of the institution. My claim is, is that when the heterodox thinkers
are finally invited back in, like I think. Where is it you want to be invited to the
council on foreign relations? They would bore the hell out of you. Not the way I'd do it.
I don't know. I mean, I'm sure they're fine. They have a lot of smart people. I know a lot of people
that are like them very much. I enjoy talking with them. I've never visited the place. Okay.
But as an institution, I don't think of them as changing anyone's mind on anything.
And I don't mind. No, but that's part of what I think about like the National Academy of Sciences.
I went for a meeting at the National Academy and it's very clear that they weren't used to really
heterodox ideas of a certain level in anything like the volume that we had them. And the problem
that I, so I have this thing I call the disc, the distributed ideas suppression complex.
And it has to do, and this has to do with our mutual friend, Peter Thiel,
who has a related bizarre version of a common idea that we've talked a lot about.
His version is that the stagnation that he and I and you, I think, have all discussed
is actually functional, that it's really important to retard the spread of great ideas,
because in some sense, they may be so destabilizing to a fragile world.
Fascinating idea. It's a fascinating idea. Peter, I would say, would be one of the smartest
people of our age. Absolutely. And again, too often, he's referred to as something.
Maybe the smartest. Yeah, he's really, he's really quite good.
As an original, creative, generative thinker, and as a judge of talent, which are two related,
but separate things. Like Peter could be the smartest person that I know.
Well, in part, to make that argument, what I would say is that Peter does a better job
figuring out who the generative heterodox thinkers are, your objection, notwithstanding,
to the term heterodox. And then what he realizes very often is that they don't know the best way
of putting forward their ideas. And he's also got another idea that academicians don't understand,
which I call maximally compressed, minimally distorted, where he takes some idea and he's
willing to give up a tiny amount of accuracy to make it extremely compact so that when unpacked,
it tells you a ton. And because academicians over focus on special cases, he very often runs the
table where somebody will object to the idea that his principle isn't exactly accurate, but it's
thematically so accurate that the heuristic is just of overwhelming power. And of course,
he's used that to enrich himself quite considerably. Patrick Collison may be the quickest learner,
but I would say this, Eric, enjoy your triumph. So we live in this funny in-between world where
the old structures are all still there. And we both have had the first half or so of our lives
in only the old structures, the second half of our lives in the world of the internet.
We're the only generation that will be able to say. I think it's a beautiful point.
It's beautiful. But when the old structures fade away and you have more and more people who just
grew up with the internet, like you are the mainstream and the council on foreign relations
is like the heterodox thinkers who don't have much influence. And I'm half teasing you. But in fact,
I'm mostly correct. And you just don't see it yet because these kind of status hangover
is still there. And they have like the thick oak desks, whatever in their offices.
It's not that we want that. It's not that at all. It has to do with the fact that I've been in both
worlds. I've been at Harvard and MIT and Oxford and I've also been shit out of luck.
And the oscillation between being in the good graces and outside of the good graces
has impressed me a great deal, I think, more than it has with you because you've just
charted a heterodox path. I've never been out of the good graces. I've just been ignored at times.
I've never felt like the stress or the failure. Well, okay. I guess in terms of opportunity
costs, a lot of us view you as one of the most insightful and encyclopedic minds out there.
You do an unbelievable job of sifting for us. And you're an unbelievable exposer. And we would
naturally see you as at the very highest echelons. And I think that view is now
much more widespread than it was 15 years ago. Time has treated you pretty well.
It's gone well for me. If I'm just out in the world and I don't go out to a place as much,
at least once a week, someone will recognize me. Or more than once a day, someone will write me
and express their thanks. Let's go clubbing on the Sunset Strip. People are going to recognize
you all. I'm not sure that's the place, but I've had a lot of good fortune, I would say.
So let's talk about something you're talking about being 17 at choosing to go to a commuter
school. You were playing guitar back then. I think I started when I was 11 or 12. Yeah.
And I quit like around the time I was 17 because I went to college. And your musicianship
informed you in terms of what the structure of music really is at its deepest level. You have
strong opinions about music and culture. I was always terrible on guitar. I wanted to learn
different fields of music. And I thought to do that, you needed to play something to understand
basics of music, music theory, chords, whatever. So I did a bit like classical jazz blues, every
different kind of guitar, just a bit to have an entry point into the world of music. It was never
to play or impress people. I never played for people and was never good. But I could play
the notes of a song to see how it fit together. Okay. There is a kind of relativism that is
descended over musical taste, where every time I say something is better than something else,
I run into somebody instantaneously telling me I've committed like I get a traffic citation
that you can't say that Bach is much more important or better than Scarlatti.
And I just don't understand this complete abdication of any role in which informed judgment
plays a role, that we have to have issues of taste that say this is better than that. And then
you're allowed to take a heterodox position on that, but we should be passing along our taste
and our prejudice and exposing it to discussion with other people rather than just finding relativist
mush. I agree. And I think the relativists often don't mean it. What they're really saying is
on objective grounds, I challenge the status of the person making this proclamation.
And I will challenge the status by not accepting the judgment. But they're not actually claiming
that all that is more than they are relativistic. I don't think
the postmodern or relativism are these booking and the way Jordan Peterson says, I've never
bought that argument in Peterson's exchange with the second their debate. I thought Peterson lost
that part of the debate. Most people are objectivists, whether they admit it or not. Let's just
say what we think is correct and debate it. And David Hume in the mid 18th century wrote
some wonderful essays on standards of taste and the test of time. I think he was essentially
correct that matters of aesthetics are not objective in the same way that matters of fact
are that you can measure and confirm them. But nonetheless, there is something about the judgments
that informed people make that expresses an intersubjective validity, and it can be debated
and judged. And it's one of the things we're here on earth to do to take in wonderful music.
What moves your soul in music? Well, let's start with classical music. My tastes are
completely orthodox. So Bach, Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms. I'm quite fond of contemporary classical
music or mid 20th century. Anybody who isn't in the acknowledged highest highest echelon?
I don't think so. I think my tastes are so remarkably close to what you would call the canon
in these particular areas that they're boring. Do you think I find a lot of music before Bach
maybe somewhat overrated? So Palestrina is an important composer. When I listen to it,
I just don't enjoy it as much as I'm supposed to. Maybe my defect. Yom Demachau.
It's fine. I don't know.
I like it. I don't love it. Anything from that period is fine in a slightly underimpressed manner.
I think with Monteverdi and then Bach, things explode and become marvelous and amazing.
Do you think even temperament is really the central, is that ground zero for the specific
beauty of Western music? I think it's development of instruments through capitalism
and markets and growth of a middle class and having more people experiment at playing and
composing. Pianos become much better. String instruments become much better. You have the
modern orchestra. You have actual audiences and the interplay of those forces as opposed to music
being more in the church, maybe closer to pure vocal music. I just think it's much better and
almost everyone in their heart knows that. Yeah. Yeah. What's the bet? Tell me the bet. No,
no, no. I'm actually, I'm processing in real time. What excites you in classical music? I think
Haydn's somewhat underrated. Closer to Mozart than people want to admit. Yeah. It's quite durable.
Gosh. I mean, I guess. Mozart is amazing peaks, but a significant portion of what Mozart wrote
is boring. The younger works are mostly boring. I often feel that I must have a hole in my soul
because of the amount of Mozart that doesn't land, that I hear all of these people describing Mozart
as this, you know, exact, exactly perfect balance. And there's something about the language that I
find somewhat repellent so that I'm less likely to get along with people who are bananas over
over Mozart. If somebody's very clear about Bach, like Bach is like heroin. It's an addiction. You
can't, you just can't get enough of the stuff. I relate to that much more. I often say that there
are mathematicians who will claim that Bach isn't their favorite composer and I never believe them.
But, you know, take Mozart symphonies, which are obviously chronological.
29 is quite good. And then not until, you know, maybe 36, you could say 33, 34. But before 29,
they're just boring. If they were somehow well gone, I don't think there'd be any great loss.
So most of Mozart isn't that good. I don't think it detracts from him. But even with Bach,
there's extreme selection, which Bach you hear. You don't hear most of the cantatas very much.
Most of them are boring. Yeah. That was the main thing he created. So there's some of that in
Johann Sebastian as well. I don't exonerate him from the boredom charge altogether.
Christmas Oratorio, it's pretty good. It's not an incredible work. So even St. John's Passion,
it's quite good, not as good as B Minor Mass or St. Matthew's Passion. Right. So there's extreme
selection in the Bach you're hearing and thinking about. I mean, you know, the funny thing for me
is that I had to swim upstream from Segovia's translation of Spanish piano music onto guitar.
I didn't realize that there was an entire world of Spanish piano music where the guitar wasn't
originally thought of necessarily as a concert or art music instrument. It was more of a folk
instrument. And so that's been a huge well of interest for me. Like listening to Albanese on
piano is amazing. Alicia De La Rocha, right? She's a wonderful performer of that. But the
guitar music, I find it very interesting to take some more modern, like ambient music like Brian
Ena or the whole movement from the 1970s and listen and think through what was going on there.
And then go back to earlier guitar music, Baroque, but also the Spaniards and listen
to it through that lens. And it just comes alive in a completely new way.
That's why I had that with Robert Fripp. Fripp was evocative of earlier like Viguela music
or something like that. And I've never traced down why I felt that. So I'm a big fan of what is
misleadingly called world music, just listening to as many different musics as you can, kind of
figuring out their logics and then going back and applying it to what you already knew from
rock and roll or classical music or jazz and seeing it all, you know, quite anew. That's a
very high productivity activity. Are you interested in in Ud music? Sure, of course. So like when I
found Munir Bashir in Iraq, I just my jaw dropped. I thought this was such gorgeous stuff. And then
and I sort of made my way to Munir Bashir through Farid al-Atrash, who I think is unbelievable.
And eventually I was listening in this Middle Eastern idiom and I hear him start to play with
blues and rock and roll on the Ud. And it was fascinating watching somebody from Iraq who'd
studied in Europe, of course, watching you. There's, for example, in Stanford University,
