Hello. You've found the portal. I'm your host Eric Weinstein and today I get to sit
down with one of my favorite conversationalists, Tyler Cowan, who's here from George Mason
University where he's a professor of economics. Tyler, welcome to the portal.
Thank you, Eric.
Now, we're talking about what topics we could begin with. I didn't want to begin with economics
and you suggested the apocalypse is a great place to start. Now, the great benefit of
this is that if we get past it, the rest of the conversation will be post-apocalyptic.
The apocalypse itself is economics, of course, but I was just thinking that virtually any
good theory of politics needs some notion of the apocalypse. Let's say you thought the
time horizon for the universe or human civilization were potentially infinite. You would then
be so concerned with minimizing existential risk that nothing would get done. Whereas
if you think, well, mankind has another 800 years left on earth on average and by that
time probably we'll have blown ourselves up or an asteroid will come, then you think
what glorious things can we do with those 800 years? It's quite a difference in perspective.
An infinite time horizon might actually choke off rational thought about political decision-making.
Is there any possibility for keeping the apocalypse exactly 800 years away, like a donkey with
a carrot dangled in front of it at a fixed distance?
That would be the Straussian view, right? That you always think it's 800 years away,
but think of it as like a problem from finance. You're riding a naked put on a security. Well,
it's going to bankrupt you at some point, but any given month, any given day, the chance
of that happening is probably quite small. The apocalypse may be like the proverbial
naked put. It's out there. The chance is very small. The optimists always sound like they're
right in the sense they are right, as Stephen Pinker would claim. But at the end of the day,
if the clock ticks for long enough, it's boom and bye. But in the meantime, let's do something
grand and glorious. Now, Tyler, you have a portfolio of different ways of communicating with the
world. Have you ever dragged Stephen Pinker onto a podcast, which you do under conversations with
Tyler? Or have you discussed his bizarre notion of optimism on your famous economics blog,
Marginal Revolutions, which you do with your colleague, Alex?
My podcast, Conversations with Tyler, has an episode with Stephen Pinker, and I sat him down
in a chair the way you did with me. And I said, Stephen, the cost of destroying the world by
pressing a button is falling all of the time every year. At some point, it will only cost, say,
$20,000 to take out a major city. How long do you think the world is actually going to last? Given
that demand curve sloped downwards when prices fall, people do more of things. Destructive
weaponry is becoming cheaper. How can you be optimistic? I asked him, no good answer. I would
say evasion. He said, well, my theory is not predictive. It's just a way of thinking about,
da, da, da. So it instantly falls apart? It falls apart. I don't know if it falls apart
instantly, because weaponry has spread more slowly than we might have thought. So you read
nuclear theorists in the 50s and 60s, they think a third world war might be coming quite soon.
They were wrong. You read worries about proliferation from the 80s and 90s. They sound
horrible. I wouldn't say it's been great in North Korea. No one's happy about that. But at the same
time, the weapons have not been used. So there's something fundamental about the models we don't
understand. You can ask the question, why didn't Al Qaeda hire a bunch of Stooges to go into
a Tyson's Corner shopping mall with submachine guns and just cause some terror? That didn't happen.
So the logic of choice of wielding destructive power is one of the issues in social science we
understand least well, I would say. And there is perhaps some hope of salvation. So I'm not
sure Pinker falls apart instantly. But I didn't feel Pinker defended Pinker very well. And on my
blog, Marginal Revolution, I did review his book. And my worry is that there's an observational
equivalence with how you look at the data. So you could say, well, deaths in wars have been going
down, will continue to fall. That's possibly true. But another model is the more destructive the
weapons are, the less frequent the wars, things will seem great for quite a while. But the next
war when it comes will be quite a doozy. So in some sense, this is the great moderation, which
last time was about market volatility. And here it's about the volatility of human violence.
And great moderations maybe contain the seeds of their own destruction. But again, I would
want to be cautious there because we don't understand destructive decisions very well.
Like why did Hitler invade Russia? We know a lot about it in the documented sense,
but I don't feel it's understood very well. Agreed. And I agree that we don't know why
so few reservoirs have been poisoned with relatively low tech options. And the Las Vegas
shooting, for example, showed what a small level of innovation in mass killing can do
to really amp the body count if that's what somebody is trying to optimize.
So I think that there is a huge mystery, but I don't think that Pinker, from what I understand
of his basis for optimism, is really getting at that. People who listen to this podcast,
and have heard me elsewhere, have heard me complain that it's as if he's neglecting
a potential energy term, but for violence. And so the realized violence, as you were
pointing out, has gone down. But the potential for violence is enormous. And as the cost falls,
the access to violence of this particular nature seems to put it within reach of far too many
hands. One of our saving graces could be that the contagion effects for methods of violence
seem pretty strong. So we're in a time where, in the US, shooting up schools is a thing to do.
It happens more often by some metrics than it used to. In the 1970s, being a serial killer was
somehow like the thing to do. So if you're inspired by what people have done just before you, and
you're not very innovative, it could be that violence and lack of innovation are somehow
correlated. And contagion effects mean you'll kill a terrible number of innocent people,
but it still will quite limit how much damage you do to the world as a whole.
Well, I mean, in terms of R&D, thinking about terror innovation is quite interesting. It seems
to me that it's hard to remember that there is no known linkage between suicide bombing and Islam
before the Beirut barracks bombing, if I'm not mistaken.
It came from Sri Lanka in the proximate sense, the idea from the Tamil Tigers. They're not the
only ones who've done it. I think that they really perfected after the Beirut barracks bombing,
and then it sort of came back to the Middle East. Do I have that wrong? I'm not sure on the timing.
But there are very few groups that have been using suicide bombing in the modern era.
Yes. Maybe the Kurds, the Tamils in Sri Lanka, and various Muslim violent movements,
jihadi movements. The striking thing about 9-11 is how innovative it was. So that's what
really ought to scare us. But it does seem also such innovations are pretty scarce.
Well, in some sense, Afghanistan was like an R&D lab for al-Qaeda. And one of the things I believe
I remember was that there was a taped conversation within al-Qaeda that had leaked, in which
various groups were trying to decide whether this was the greatest thing they'd ever done,
or whether it was a terrible move because it was going to cause them the loss of their R&D lab.
You know, Carl Heinz Stockhausen, the German composer,
he said, well, it was such a wonderful work of art. And obviously, he got pilloried for that
comment. I'm not sure what he meant by it. It's a terrible thing to say. I wouldn't say it.
But it's still getting at some aspect of 9-11 that was quite different, that it was an attempt to
innovate. Well, I mean, could we go there? I've talked in this program about message violence,
which is violence that is made particularly theatrical for the purpose of underscoring a
message, for example, affecting a position of kindness, which clearly ends up torturing somebody,
drowning them in a tub of their favorite wine or something like this, that there's something
very perverse about certain kinds of violence, where the intention is to amplify the underlying
harm in a way that animates the imagination. In some sense, the Jordanian pilot video,
which was cinematically gorgeous and as sick as could possibly be imagined that was released
by ISIS, would be in this realm. Is there a sense in which we can look at 9-11 as deliberately
theatrical and artistic? Most likely it was, as I understand it. And if you look at the targets
chosen, the World Trade Center was not actually that economically important. It certainly was not
politically important, but they were the tallest structures. There was a theory they would collapse
in a certain way, and it seems they did. They did. So it does seem artistically motivated in some
sense. And there is this odd obsession of many dictators with the arts, which I think is also
poorly understood, but it also gets at the notion that the totalitarian and violent impulses in us
can be severed from innovation but don't necessarily have to be.
Yes. The passion inside of the passion play, anything that can truly excite the spirit,
can easily be weaponized. So there's a way in which I guess I would expect the dictators would
be very animated by the theater in particular. But I think mass opinion in general tends to
neuter some of that desire for artistic creativity. So if you look at passion plays around the world,
if you go see one, say during Easter in Mexico, they become something quite celebratory.
It's for family and for friends and people get together, people drink, people cook special
dishes. So it's drained of so much of the actual passion story, and it becomes, among other things,
less passionate. So it's hard to sustain the emotional violence behind the innovation of
violence. And that may be another one of our saving graces. And you see this with suicide
bombers, when they're removed from their environments where they've been indoctrinated,
it can be quite hard to get them to go through with what they've been told to do. And sometimes you
get them to go through with it by not even telling them they're going to die. I've read some accounts,
I'm not sure how validated this is, that a lot of the 9-11 terrorists, they didn't know they were
going to die. And maybe that ambiguity, I mean, presumably everybody signs up with an idea that
martyrdom is part of the package potentially, but they don't know that the play is going to be called
for any particular Tuesday. And the same was true for RAF fighters in World War II, where any other
very high-risk activity, where you're pretty sure you're one of the good guys, but you don't want to
die. So the fact that it's a lottery ticket of sorts, in some ways it piques your interest, it
motivates you, it gets your adrenaline up, it probably improves your performance, but at the
same time it's absolutely terrifying. And how much does that operate symmetrically on the good
and bad moral sides of this equation? It's probably more similar than we would feel comfortable
admitting. Now, Tyler, I ran into an idea that I hadn't heard codified in labeled with a phrase
before called strategic silence. And I read about this in writings or speeches of Dana Boyd,
who works with Data and Society Institute. The idea behind it is that if you have predictable,
reliable news coverage, it allows somebody who, let's say, wishes to undertake a terrorist action
to know that they can count on you to amplify their message because they have the ability to
create news. They are not just news takers, but news makers. In that realm, the news media has
been experimenting with the idea that they will not do the bidding of the attacker by broadcasting
things about motive, about name, or about certain circumstances of the crime, so at least ostensibly
as not to amplify the leverage of the attacker. Is that kind of a death knell for confidence
in reporting that if we report the facts straight, we give people too much leverage over our news?
And if we don't report the facts, then we quickly erode confidence in our system?
I favor the experiment of not reporting the names of, say, mass shooters. I'm not sure we're really
withholding facts, so the name of the person didn't mean anything to the audience in advance,
whether the person's name is John Smith or John Brown. It's a fact in some way,
but in another way, it's not a fact at all. Whereas if it's a person who is already known,
say, back then, Osama bin Laden, then you are withholding a fact. If you don't say Osama bin
Laden had a role in 9 11, my worry with the policy of strategic silence is that destroyers will
innovate in ways to recapture the attention. So if they don't report your name, maybe you kill
more people, or maybe you innovate with a new method of killing people. So you might be inducing
innovation over the medium term. And I don't think we know yet. As an experiment, it does seem to me
worth trying, but I wouldn't be all too optimistic about it. Because as I say on my blog, like solve
for the equilibrium. And what's the equilibrium here? We don't quite know. Although with somebody
like the unabomber who left us a manifesto or let's say the Christ Church shooter in the mosque,
we have a fairly detailed account of what was going through the person's mind while they were
committing their crimes. I don't know if that is what was going through their mind. It was what was
going through their mind at some point in time, but was it their actual set of motivations
I don't feel qualified to judge, but I wouldn't just take that for granted or take it quite
literally. But would you feel comfortable in suppressing the dissemination of such a document?
I don't think it's possible to suppress that at the way the internet and other institutions have
evolved. I wouldn't do it either. But in any case, it will get out there. So if we decide, oh, it's
not going to be on Facebook. As you well know, there are other parts of the internet where it
just can't be taken down. It's an interesting place where I think I disagree with you. I don't
disagree with you that we can't stop the document from being on the internet in a very determined
person in their ability to find it. I do believe that there is a frictional coefficient that the
search engines and the major platforms can control if they so choose to slow down the flow of
information and whether it gets reified and discussed inside of what I've termed the gated
institutional narrative is a big deal because those news organizations react chiefly to each
other and special trusted institutions. And so many of us still have the idea when we're listening
to that conversation that it's an open conversation when, if you're in a position like you or I maybe,
we're astounded by the number of things that simply can't be discussed in that echo chamber
and in those corridors. But I think the short term and the medium term are quite different here.
So if Facebook and YouTube and Google all of a sudden decide they won't cover
some awful video, that will have real impact. But I think say four or five years later,
there'll be some new set of tools. Maybe they're only used to find the really bad stuff.
But people will know there are sites or methods where you can go see, hear, experience all the
really bad things. And then it still gets out. So I'm not at all opposed to people say who run
Facebook deciding not to post something. I think it's fine. It's their website,
more power to them. But at the same time, we should not infer too much from the short run
reaction. Because again, solve for the equilibrium. Institutions and searchers will adjust.
So you and I have a slightly different orientation about that might be fun to play with it for a
second. I think I used to hold a position that these companies had the right to do what they
wanted. And I've started to change my opinion on that based on the idea that if I define
public space relative to private space, I can find only private space on the internet. I need to
hire a company to allow me to get an on ramp in the form of an ISP. And that in general,
unlike a city with parks and institutions of government, I really can't find any public
space on the internet. And so if the whole thing is private, I feel like it's absolutely essential
that we place much more restrictive rules about what can and cannot be prohibited on the internet
because there is no public space from the get go in my way in my way off.
The analogies of public and private space to the internet, I think are quite complex. I would
just start with a very simple question. Who is it you would trust in politics to make those decisions
better than what our current internet is giving us? And for me, the answer is no one, no party,
no institution. So I would like to keep things more or less the way they are now
and have no liability for the internet companies, let them decide. And the notion that Congress,
did you see the recent testimony of Mark Zuckerberg before Congress?
Got a little bit of it, not much.
It's remarkable how little people in Washington understand about tech at any level.
So what explains this? You and I spend a fair amount of time in Silicon Valley,
and it's not like the government couldn't get help from the world's smartest tech people.
And they can and they do, but the actual decisions are made by Congress and by a president.
But what explains the lousy level of questioning of tech people and both scientific people?
The quality of voters, right? So people get the leaders they deserve.
Voters are poorly informed. Representatives want to parade a certain display of toughness
or strength in front of those voters. So they're deliberately rude to Mark Zuckerberg.
They ask stupid questions, which voters will let them get away with.
