like being made. So there's the partisan criticism of people who disagree with you.
But to say criticize Chinese graduate students because they can't speak their mind about issues
related to China, because they fear for their own careers or for their family members back in China,
that's somehow not acceptable to raise even as an issue. So I do think there are big blind spots,
but just like attacking the other person is now pretty common, typically done in a not
very clever, sophisticated way. Okay, but let's talk about making it clever or more sophisticated.
If you were going to turn the lens of economics and particular the analysis of political economy
on the profession of economics, assuming that there's sort of a Pareto curve here,
for the first 10% of my effort, I should get something like 70% of the bang,
what would be the first thing to do in economic theory using economic theory against economists
themselves? Well, you use the subjunctive, but I have in fact written this. The biggest problem
is people over specialize and write narrow defensible papers to be published that are
invulnerable to peer criticism, but don't amount to very much. And there's a massive waste of human
labor. And people do not direct their energy energies toward actually solving problems and
answering questions. That to me is criticism. Number one, I think it's absolutely correct.
It concerns me greatly. A small number of people have voiced this.
That's sort of a, if I understood it correctly, and perhaps I didn't,
that's a little bit of an opportunity cost that we could have done a lot more and instead we
settled for something that wasn't. Or maybe those people should just not be doing economics.
They're talented people. They could just build bricks, whatever. True. But if I think about
what really moved the needle in medicine, let's say, the whole concept of iatrogenic harm,
which is harm done by healers, really focused us on the idea that certain hospitals kill more
people than others. What about econogenic harm? It depends at whom you point the finger. But
if you look at what is sometimes called the Washington consensus, which is not a view I
completely agree with by any means, but it's called the Washington consensus for a reason.
There's a recent paper by Bill Easterly that goes through and argues correctly,
I think, that on average the Washington consensus has done more good than harm.
So the idea that economics is some great scandal that we've gone around wrecking things.
Benjamin Applebaum argues this in his recent book. I like that book. I think it's smart,
but I think it is more wrong than right. And it's overlooking the many cases
where economic advice has done well. I mentioned Poland before, but Czech Republic, Slovakia,
you look at Chile, which has been democratic since 1990. Economic inequality in Chile has
been falling for some period of time. The country started from sky high rates and it has fallen
somewhat. It's in the middle of the Latin American distribution, but it's fallen and the country has
the highest real wages in Latin America by some amount. It's not a miracle. It's not perfect.
Economists gave some bad advice there, but overall they did much more good than harm.
See, this is the thing that I'm very confused by. I understand. Let me just say that I see
that even though economists may do a lot of harm,
prettified as doing pure good, that that's not the criticism that I would really
level first at the profession. It's really something closer to academic malpractice,
where the economists know the truth, the right way to set up the problem,
and choose not only not to do that in public, but to demonize, to exclude, to black ball,
anyone who would make the correct critique. In other words, they don't know the right way to
set up the problem. We don't. We're too stupid. We're not that advanced. I totally disagree with
this. What's the problem? We should be setting up the right way. Let me give the example that I
perhaps know. I know a small number. Are we going to get to gauge theory now? You want to?
Well, first make your point, but at some point we need to get to gauge theory because I need you
to. All right. Let me change one. I'll do the gauge. I'll do a gauge theory example.
But that's complicated. Do your other simpler point, then we'll do gauge theory.
Well, I could do the great moderation. I could do stem labor and I could do CPI.
These are the things I've engaged with. If I did the CPI one, that's very clear.
You have a small number of economists who in the mid-90s became directed by Bob Packwood
and Daniel Moynihan to find an overstatement of the CPI because tax brackets were indexed
and entitlement benefits, social security, Medicare were indexed. What they found is if
you could knock down the measurement of the CPI, you could raise taxes and slash benefits.
They backed out that 1.1% overstatement, if corrected, would lead to a trillion-dollar
savings over 10 years. They actually broke into two groups to come up with two separate
numbers that would add together to 1.1, which to me is academic malpractice. That is,
they started with the target. This is according to one of their own members of this Boskin
Commission, Professor Gordon, who talked about the fact that somehow the two groups came up with
the two numbers which were added together, gave Dale Jorgensen, a Harvard professor of economics,
his 1.1% overstatement. That's what they went with. To me, that's like saying we need to
find an error in all the temperature gauges so that we can come up with different targets because
global warming is a problem. You're not allowed to touch the temperature gauges, for God's sakes.
For sure, as in so many numbers, there's an error of exaggerated exactness. But if you look, say,
at Google's price index, it's not so different from how we calculate the CPI. If you look at how
central banks or other economic authorities around the world calculate their CPIs,
it's not that different than what we have done. You could say it's all one big overly
correlated system or a conspiracy, but I don't see that the current way of calculating the CPI
is off by very much. If it's off, it still may be overstating inflation a wee bit because there are
perhaps more free goods today through the internet than we had in times past.
That's not a legitimate counterargument. What I'm trying to say is that assume that, in fact,
there is a best CPI and assume that it was 1.1 percent overstated. It's still not legitimate
to go into a quiet room in a closed commission and say, here's the target boys. We have to find
this number. Let's break into groups and put together that number so that our finding will
raise taxes and slash benefits. You're not allowed to break the gauge to get the policy. The gauge
is the gauge. Politics is an ugly system, but it does seem they gave us a measure of the CPI
somewhat better than what we had had. If you think that inflation has actually been much higher,
you must think real rates of return today are astonishingly low. I mean, that will truly make
you a mega pessimist, which perhaps you are. But keep in mind, people compare our measurements
of rates of inflation to other economic variables and see if the whole picture makes sense.
If you think the true rate is very different from what we have, that implies some very radical
conclusions, which I don't want to dismiss out of hand, but I'll just say there are multiple
checks on this process. Do they fit in with our other judgments?
I think we're in two different layers of the discussion, which is fascinating to me.
One layer of the discussion is, did they point out some good things about the ways in which
the CPI could be done better? They did. Did they do some work? They absolutely did.
Did they commit academic malpractice? Absolutely motherfucking yes, they committed
academic malpractice. It's not in the same layer of the stack, Tyler, to me.
But is your objection just the process? So I don't doubt bad things went on in those rooms.
I don't know. I wasn't there.
Well, they destroyed my wife's career over it, is my opinion. They went into something called the
Harvard Jobs Market Meeting, which is a closed-door session during the time that the Boston
Commission was active. She was talking about two of the things that you can do to try to adjust
the CPI to make it more accurate. One is to replace what's called a mechanical index,
that is something that prices, let's say, a basket of goods in two different time periods,
famous examples being the Posh and Las Pérez index, that you can either replace that with a human
standard, which is like cost of living, what is the cost to make you equally happy between two
points in time, or you can do something called chaining. And chaining, given that your blog is
called Marginal Revolution, Marginal Revolution was originally the introduction of the differential
calculus into economic theory. And this is in the limit an application of differential calculus.
And the fact is that these two things have never played well together because you can't chain
tastes in economic theory. You have this doctrine that says that tastes have to be treated as if
they were unchanging. And what we did in collaborative work was to bring in gauge theory,
as you were stating, to make sure for the first time you had dynamic agents who were allowed
to change their tastes as humans do and still stay within the folds of what's known as ordinal
utility theory. I would say this, most people would admit and indeed emphasize that over a time
period of multiple decades, the comparisons just don't work and cannot work. There are various
impossibility theorems for aggregating price indices over time. So if you ask, well, would you rather
mean like the Ragnar Frisches? Right. Would you rather have $50,000 to spend in the Sears
Robot catalog of today or 1900? Most people would rather spend it in the catalog of today.
But that suggests there's actually been radical deflation. But I don't think that's exactly
the correct conclusion. I think the correct conclusion is over very long periods of time,
the comparability goes away, and transitivity enters into the calculation. And you just need
to be very careful and modest as to what you know and don't know. Actually, there's an entirely
different possibility. So what we're discussing for those of you at home who want to play along,
one of the things that's weird about this podcast is that I'm very willing to throw out pointers
rather than to dumb things down to the point that nothing ever happens on the podcast.
So there was a guy named Irving Fisher, who you can look up, who came up with lots of axioms
to find the perfect price index. And then Ragnar Frisches came up with an impossibility theorem
that said if you took on Fisher's axioms, there was provably no measure that could satisfy all
of the axioms. It was impossible. Correct. Now, let me ask you about gauge theory. Before you tell us
what it is, give us the bottom line, money shot. Let's say gauge theory is correct. Is the actual
rate of inflation higher or lower than what we're measuring? It's that you're measuring the wrong
object. There's something that you would create, which you might. So if we previously used these
mechanical posh and las pairs indices, those are replaced by something called a conus index. Now,
conus comes in two flavors, but it's a cost of living, which prices utility, the pleasure I get
from items, rather than the cost of the item. So if wine and beer are the same price per liter,
and I'm indifferent between them, and there's a frost that kills off a bunch of grapes, if you
pay me the money to rebuy my original basket, I'm going to take the money. I'm going to buy a mess
of beer because wine has become too expensive. I'm going to spend the extra money on something
else. So if you want to get rid of that effect, you move to this thing called the conus index.
And you adjust for quality better, but that's hard to do. There's a lot of people.
Well, there's a lot of labor statistics who try to do this. It's a highly imperfect endeavor.
The internet makes it harder. But that's not where gauge theory really comes in. The really
exciting thing about gauge theory and economics, and there's nobody I'd rather discuss it with
than Tyler, is that economics should be the most interesting of subjects analytically
and intellectually, because it is the only place that I'm familiar with men's two greatest ideas
coming into direct contact. The theory of selection, both sexual and natural, that governs us as apes.
Which we don't use very much, but continue. I agree it's a great idea.
I think if you allow a reinterpretation in which, let's say, utility maps to fitness and
indifference maps to drift, I think you'll find that you're using it everywhere. In fact,
what economics does is to give you a second layer using the fact that money uniformizes a lot of
things to allow an as if physics to arise as in the work of Paul Samuelson. And so the weird
thing is that you've got apes engaging in markets, which is really just selection by other means,
using an as if physics as the language of interaction.
So I would say the best idea of economics is that demand curves slope downwards, price goes up,
people do less of something. Selection is an incredibly important idea. We've done a bad
job of incorporating it. No slight meant to the idea. There's a lot of pieces on selection in
economics, but they tend to be big sprawling messes rather than useful. And most of the best
economics pieces are based on pretty simple applications of the law of demand or income
effects. But to get back to gauge theory, let's say everything you're saying is true is the actual
real rate of return higher or lower than I used to think it is. That's what I want to know. Should
I be more optimistic or more pessimistic? Well, my guess is you probably end up more pessimistic,
but the number of different things that would change, you see, there's a concept, let's say,
in computer programming about how something is cast. If I have the number three, I can either
treat three as a symbol, in which case it's a string, I can treat it as an integer, in which
case I'd call it an INT, or I could treat it as a float, 3.000, and however much accuracy
that the computer is willing to maintain. The question of what is, let's say, a representative
consumer is not properly understood, in my opinion. I agree. The problem is the representative
consumer should be a field, something like a temperature field or a field of wind measurements
on the space of all possible consumers. Now, you and I will explore hopefully on this podcast
something about our difference in taste and music. I don't even know what it is, but I'm
going to find out. We're going to find out. It is the case that if you were doing inflation
properly, you would be using gauge theory and you would be using field-theoretic concepts
for representative agents. You wouldn't be making these points. You would never say,
what's the temperature today in America, because you've cast temperature, which should be a field,
displayed on a map, as if it was a single number, like a float.
Okay, but again, let's say you're right. What's the actionable trade based on this information?
I mean, you probably are already rich, but you should be truly, truly rich,
because there'll be an actionable trade if we're miscalculating real rates of return.
Even if the variance of the proper estimate is higher than we realize,
there'll be some kind of options play on that. Over time, it will systematically make money.
I think that my reluctance is that it's not really a sharp question. You have all sorts
of questions like hedonic adjustments, which is the car that I call a Mustang today
isn't like the car that I call a Mustang from 30 years ago. I may have to look at
how much luxury, trunk space, fuel efficiency that series of different objects had as it changed
qualitatively. There's a question about why does economics focus so much on Pareto improvement
as a gold standard, where if you all get rich by an additional billion dollars and I get rich
by 35 cents, I'm supposed to say that I'm improved. Any sensible human being looking at things like
mate selection or scarce vacation property will know that I'm much worse off. I don't agree with
that, but that's a separate question. There's so many of those things that I don't know how to
answer your question. In other words, the field. You should be short intangible capital. If you
think true real rates of return are lower than other people realize, now maybe tangible capital
you can measure exactly how valuable the factory is, but intangible capital, which is hard to value,
you should be more pessimistic about. There's a bunch of firms with a lot of intangible capital.
You could short those. If you want to be hedged, the market is a whole. You could be long or
otherwise protect yourself against other developments by having some other long positions.
Well, except it's also the case that some of us who have attempted to form these kind of broad
theses, I can tell you that I didn't really appreciate what was going to happen between
the collapse of Bear Stearns and several months after AIG was about to...
Sure, basically no one did. Even people who saw some parts of the crash early on
did not have good day-by-day predictions of how it would all unfold.
Well, and the issue of the interceding in the markets with a very visible hand
to engage in pure acts of political economy to both stabilize the economic system, but also to
defend very vulnerable institutional players, I no longer know how to make those kinds of trades,
because I don't believe that I know what we can do artificially in the face of a crisis.
But if real rates of return are truly lower than is believed, the system cannot deny that
either forever or even for that long. Well, that's why I'm claiming that we're...
Just keep on buying puts on the appropriate stocks. Don't do it with leverage. Just toss
