there's this garden, which I think has master carvings from Polynesia or Indonesia. And there's
versions of Rodin's Gates of Hell in the Thinker in this Polynesian or Indonesian idiom. And it's
just fascinating to see oneself regarded by the other. Sometimes I think the more interesting
question is, which musics don't you like? And to think through those. So I'm going to ask you,
Eric, what in music do you really not like or caught into? And you think it's just bad or wrong
somehow? I have trouble with music that doesn't allow us to impart more emotion because it's
too highly produced. And I'm pretty sure that has to do with the emotion because I find Jimi
Hendrix very emotional. I found that Shares believe where she uses the autotune function as an
instrument rather than as a correcting of the human voice to be very emotional. But when I hear
very like computer oriented or can you name a name? Why do you reject? Point the finger.
Geez, do I have to? You have to. It's your podcast.
I must hope the person isn't listening. Well,
I guess there was a time when I didn't like Amy Stewart's version of Knock on Wood,
which was a great piano R&B song because I found that it was so highly overproduced
that I just couldn't cotton to it. That had to do with the disco influence. I'm choosing things
now that I really dislike, but I've sort of maybe come around because I find, no, look,
you find something in just about everything that you listen to. It's very hard to create music
that's completely devoid of interest. And so if I spend more time with something, even if it's
really bad, I'll usually be able to find something in it that, well, that's why it became famous.
And that's why it's being listened to. I've been down on EDM to be blunt. I don't think that I've,
at some point, we had a car ride with a friend and I said, let's put on songs we can sing along
with. The person puts on some EDM. There was nothing close to a campfire song inside of it. I
found that kind of sad. Do you buy into electronic dance music? Sorry, heavy metal, I meant to say.
Heavy metal. Such as. I mean, there's a lot of artistry in it. So I asked Ted Joy this when I
did my conversation with Tyler podcast with him. He's one of my favorite music critics,
a brilliant guy. You should have him on. But I asked him about heavy metal. I said, underrated
or overrated. And he said, well, it's underrated, but I couldn't get him to admit that he actually
listened to it. Okay. So you want to go there. I think it's underrated from technical musicianship.
And I think it's often overrated in terms of what it does to heart. Paul Gilbert.
That's exactly what he said in other words. Okay. So Paul Gilbert has a beautiful riff on this.
He's a, you know, obviously a fantastic guitarist, but he says you can take a great blues guitarist,
teach them a lot of scales and turn them into a shredder, a devoid of interest,
but with fantastic technical chops. I think that that's really sad. I think that
what one of the things I'm very concerned about is the fall off in interest in
musicianship, like in guitar at the moment, we have these fantastic guitar virtuosos who live
on YouTube and Instagram. And the guitar universe is paying attention to them, but the outside
universe is not. There's this guy, Guthrie Govan, who lots of people I know have never heard of this
guy, and he's an unbelievable gift to the guitar. Where is he? What group is he part of? What are
his main songs? You know, he can be anyone and then he can be his own thing. He's like the
grand of guitar. I guess. Yeah. But it's very odd to me that, or for example, percussive guitar.
There was a guy named Justin King who did a song, oddly enough, called Knock on Wood,
which just showcases how many ways you can now interact with your instrument through harmonics
and various patterns of drumming on the wood the way the flamenco guitarists used to
brought to a high level. I can't get a lot of people interested in all of the weird innovations
that are taking place. A little bit like Rodney Mullen and skateboarding, where originally you're
skateboarding on four wheels, and then his point is like, well, okay, what else can we do? You're
thinking, well, what do you mean? Well, maybe we could skateboard on the bottom side or on the
sides of the skateboard. And you're thinking, does that even make sense? And he says, well, here,
I'll show you. Well, that's what percussive guitar has been for me. It told me that I didn't understand
the instrument more or less at all. Something else I'm really enthusiastic about is Sugar Blue
on Harmonica. Do you know this guy? Not known to me at all. Do you know the song? Is it on YouTube?
Do you know the song Miss You by the Rolling Stones? Sure. Right. Well, that, that, that
Harmonica is Sugar Blue. And this is a guy who can thread that if you break the Harmonica into
three registers, he can thread the top register like nobody's business. And he and John Popper
of Blues Traveler were sort of locked in some artistic conversation. The rest of us can barely
understand. Like that excites the hell out of me because you're taking an instrument that's so
limited. And you're saying, well, it's only limited to you because you haven't figured out what you
could do with it. Other than Bach, maybe South Indian classical music is the closest we have in
music to mathematics. And at times I think we should only listen to that. Because I would have
said North. It's purer somehow. The North Indian? No, the South, the Carnatic. Yeah, I think that
the North Indian, I mean, look, this is just a world that I knew nothing about. And I chanced upon
this book of a musicologist named Neil Sorrell called something like Indian music and performance.
You can find it on the internet with lots of little sound files that he made for a cassette way
back in the day. And he took it an entire performance of Ram Narayan, the great Surangi
player, the Indian violinist. Man, this is just, how did I not know there was an entire universe
of Indian classical music? You may be partial to the South. I'm very partial to the North.
But South North, along with Bach and maybe the Beatles, it has the only other serious
claim to being the best music period. All right, the Beatles defend yourself. So what's your take on
three Beatles songs that are at least current in your thinking and that really show off how deep
that canon is? Was it 1966? You won't see me. It's basically a Paul song. But the melancholy have
the background vocals operate. What's done with the piano, the bass line that operates on so many
different levels at once just sounds like a simple ballad. But every time you listen to it, there's
something new in there, complex emotionally. And then it's just over. You never give me your money.
The last 10, 15 seconds are just phenomenal. Paul had been listening to John Cage and Stockhausen
and just sound. And what's the dividing line between sound and music? And he just sticks that
in the end of a Beatles song with a lovely melody. And the whole thing just dissolves. And then you
get back to marching through the Abbey Roadside to medley. Hey, Jude, this is so many Beatles songs
that I think are just phenomenally better than what other people were doing. And they synthesize
more different parts of music than anything Bach did. That's their claim to greatness
in terms of lyrics, vocals. So the Beatles, mostly Lenin McCartney, they're composing these songs
and they're playing them and they're singing them and they're producing them. And they're A plus
excellent in all of those dimensions on their best material. And Bach was a composer, probably an
excellent player. We don't really know, but he was reputed to be very good, easy enough to believe.
The Beatles take on and added three or four dimensions that are not in classical music
and master them. And then every album, they change their style. Every song they change their style.
They hardly repeat themselves. Yes, they have a lot of clunkers. They had the two best voices
in rock and roll, John and Paul, two best composers in rock and roll. So they were pretty
impressive. All right, let's have a small fight. We'll get back. Aretha Franklin won the Rolling
Stones, Paul. She's wonderful. What would you have said? She's less versatile than I would have done
with Freddie Mercury and Roy Orbison. Where am I wrong? Roy Orbison has eight or nine amazing
songs, which are incredible. And the Beatles themselves loved, right? But that's kind of it.
Then it's Freddie Mercury, sir. Freddie Mercury has one album, two albums you can listen to straight
through. His vocal affect is most of the time broadly the same. He's one of the top vocalists,
absolutely. And I know your partial maybe to Parsey culture and where he comes from.
You could drag that in. But in terms of versatility, I don't think he's close to the Beatles.
And I love Queen and I went to see them playing not with Freddie Mercury, but with Adam Lambert,
who did a fantastic job. I thought I still listen to Queen. I'm a big fan, but they're
actually trouble with their material way. I don't think that's true. I think that they've got
maybe two dimensions. There's like the shredder, early punk, semi-metal stuff. And then there's
the ballads. Oh, I just love my life. You hurt me. I feel like Brian May is so incredibly
tasteful. I agree. Doesn't have to play a note more or less than he wants. He's just not needy.
I agree. Roger Taylor, I'm in love with my car, I think, is one of the most comically brilliant
songs I've ever heard. And I don't even listen to that much, Queen. Are you familiar with the
voice of Eva Cassidy, given that you were in the Washington area for a long time?
Only marginally. But I've never heard it live, if that's what you're asking.
Just there's an album called Live at Blues Alley, where she does a version of Stormy Monday that
just tears my heart and shreds and barely puts it back together by the end. It's just unbelievable
performance on a song. I thought I've heard everybody's version of it and just said,
well, you haven't heard this one. Apparently, she was sick while the recording session was
happening. And so some magic happened to her voice because of the illness. It's really interesting.
Cecile McLauren Salvant is my favorite jazz popular song vocalist. And she's active now.
I've seen her three times. I think she's better than Ella Fitzgerald. She's in her prime. She's
maybe about 30, plays around in clubs very often, has plenty of CDs.
I love Ella Fitzgerald and never put her on. Why is that?
It's a little exaggerated and mannered. And she was trying too hard. Her technique is incredible.
But it's always excessively conscious of what the audience is thinking for me.
I enjoy it when I hear, but I also never put it on.
I use it as like the gold standard for lots of things like Cole Porter. And then at some point,
I don't think it is. Yeah, I think that there's something in my taste that have changed
with the time. And I now just never, I never reach for it. But you know, like Art Tatum,
I always enjoy when I'm listening to his piano work, but I never think, boy, am I in an Art Tatum
mood? Because how can you be in an Art Tatum mood? It's so exacting and demanding on the ear
that like that's not something that happens. He might have been the one of the two greatest
jazz pianists with Monk or Cecil Taylor. I don't hear new things when I hear Tatum.
It's just perfect, right? And it contains every style of its time and then some.
But I don't feel the need to go back to it. I'm okay with that. It hasn't gone down in my eyes,
but I feel like nobody was ever really able to work with it. There's a guy named Eric Lewis,
who I think I connect to Tatum and I start to see, well, maybe if I saw this as being part of a
lineage, but there's something about the fact that, you know, Hendrix didn't really leave
descendants on the guitar. And I feel like Tatum didn't really leave descendants on the piano.
Although Monk really surprises me. In some ways, he's a funny descendant of Tatum more than you
would think. Monk. Monk. He has very little technique, but the idea of integrating styles
and making jokes, he was, in my opinion, highly influenced by Art Tatum. He just didn't play the
piano very well. But as a composer, he's phenomenal. I don't know that he did or didn't.
It could be the best jazz piano album that there is. And I still listen to it.
Do you have a take on the weirdness of Miles Davis' generosity to us all in terms of leaving this
beautiful legacy and his being a complete dick? Well, a lot of wonderful creators have been
complete dicks. There's a long list of those. Picasso, some people have said John Lennon,
I don't know the full list, but he's not some unusual data point to be explained.
And partly there might be correlations between creativity and having unusual brains, right?
Right. And then once you're succeeding, you can get away with a lot more. And then drugs enter
the equation for Davis and Lennon. And bad things happen. So this is not a huge surprise.
All right. So getting back to the Beatles. When Lennon writes the song,
how do you sleep after the Beatles have broken up? He makes a reference to something about you
didn't see Sergeant Pepper. Sergeant Pepper took you by surprise. You'd better see right through
that mother's eyes. What do you mean, Paul McCartney? So he admits Sergeant Pepper was Paul's
album, which it kind of was. That's quite an admission. Well, is that... Paul was the workaholic
in the Beatles. That's the key point here. So what I hadn't understood, and this is only because
I happen to weirdly be friends with John's son, Sean, is Sean points very clearly to strawberry
fields forever as being the discontinuity in Lennon's ability as a composer.
I agree with that. Okay. How did I miss this? And how do you see that?
Well, I don't know that you missed it. I did miss it. I did not understand that. So early Beatles
is John's group. You look at Hard Day's Night album. There's hardly any Paul songs on there.
There's things you said today, which is amazing, but it's a John album. And it's pretty close to
perfect. Even John's like first real song, please, please me, one of the best Beatles songs.
Completely visceral hits you in the gut. Still sounds amazing. But I think after strawberry fields,
John stopped innovating. He had an amazing voice emotionally, which he still could use.
You have songs like I am the walrus, which have a kind of even melodic line and a bit of
pulsating. But when you start to hear John songs through the lens of if you applied machine
learning to them, there's a similar structure to a lot of the melodies. They don't move around that
much the way Paul melodies do. And Paul being the workaholic just gets better and better and better.
And Paul learns from George Martin and Paul learns orchestration. Paul even became a good
classical music composer. That's phenomenal. And by the time of Sergeant Pepper, it's Paul's group
and Paul is calling the shots. Abby road side to his, you know, basically Paul's work, Paul's
creation, even with the John songs, a piece like tomorrow never knows, which is John singing,
John composed a very flat melodic line. But the whole construction of the sound was mostly Paul
and Paul will take credit for that. So it becomes Paul's group. John feels more pushed out. It's
the start of the Beatles breaking up and so on. Yeah, so there are these dynamics within the group
that I'm not. I never actually studied the Beatles enough. But like songs like across the
universe don't really impress themselves upon you as being it's that same kind of even not much
varying melodic line carried by John's voice and mood and the fact that it's the Beatles. I like
the song. But Paul is experimenting much more by then. I see. Very interesting. But here's the
thing about how do you sleep by John? It was I learned recently, it was actually Paul who started
that feud. Yeah, Paul had a song too many people. You know, that was your lucky break. And he was
really mocking John like, Oh, it was lucky that you, you know, hung out with me. And John was
retaliating. People think John is the aggressor in that. But Paul was like super passive aggressive.
All right. So then I want to put together a data series and I want to get your reaction to it.
So I'm going to start with Gilbert and Sullivan. I'm going to have Jagger and Richards,
Lenin McCartney, Perry and Tyler and Aerosmith. What the hell's going on with these dyads that are
so combustible, both really benefit from the antagonized relationship. And we end up with
this incredible music, but it's it's so effing personal. Well, it's rivalry. It's what really
motivates people. Yes, it's the money also, of course, but wanting to do better than the other
and having the other as a mental audience. I think it was Peter Thiel who had this in one of his
talks once that he has these different images of people sitting on his shoulder. What would this
person think? What would that person think? I have an Eric Weinstein and a Peter Thiel sitting
on my shoulder, among others, right? We all have Tyler Cowan at ours. So I call it, you know, like
Phantom Eric Weinstein or Phantom Peter Thiel. Do you run me in emulation?
What do you mean by that? I try to run you in emulation sometimes. I think about Tyler,
like I start to get emotional about something. Tyler was not going to fall for that. He's going
to be even keeled. He's going to think about what's likely to be true. He's not going to think about
how to make the biggest splash. And like I have these rules that can't generate you and what I
consider to be your brilliance and contribution, but it can generate a kind of thumbnail sketch of
you without you needing to be present. Oh, sure. But it's harder to have a Phantom Eric Weinstein
because a Phantom Eric Weinstein is about being generative and that's harder to model than a Phantom
Tyler Cowan. So if you think of part of me as even keeled, even keeled might be hard to achieve,
but it's not that hard to model. It's just like, calm down. I can't, I have such,
I'm so driven by passion. Hard to achieve, but not hard to model. So you might reject your Phantom
Tyler Cowan. Well, that's true. One of the things I do is it has a very strong filter
which says if the emotional register has been exceeded by this much or that much in either
direction, Tyler wouldn't do that. Call up Phantom Tyler Cowan. He's right there. He'll answer the
