do have a fork between radically better than anything we've ever experienced or catastrophic.
So now my question is, we talk about all these different structures that we can create for humanity
to exist within. But there's also human nature and not just human nature, but the nature of
something being alive as essentially being a replicator machine. So we have some sort of
intrinsic tendencies that may be very difficult to hack. And no matter how you structure the system,
we're going to default to those tendencies. For example, that's probably one of the reasons
why communism didn't work. Just in some ways, it probably went against human nature or the
nature of just things that are alive. So how do we deal with that, in your opinion?
That's not why communism didn't work though. Yes, there were things about the way it was
structured that did not structure themselves well with humans. But it's important to get
that it wasn't like it wasn't a good structure and fucked up human nature was the problem. It's
that it actually wasn't a good structure. There were good parts of it. But in trying to keep us
from having economic inequality, because economic inequality would continue to inexorably widen,
it became a lowest common denominator system. And it became a system of lack of freedom in some
really key ways. So yes, it was against our nature, but it was actually against good parts of our
nature. So then the question is, are there shitty parts of our nature or inexorably problematic
parts of our nature? This will be the hardest part of the conversation so far. Because I'm going to
say that what we call human nature is mostly human conditioning that is actually quite changeable.
And I don't even mean genetic engineering or brain computer interface are necessary.
Let's unpack this. The question you asked is an essential question. When we look at Japan or
Denmark or I think there's a few Nordic countries that have had decreasing populations
after they reach a certain level of economics and education, it is not that the nature is to do
exponential population curves forever. That is the nature within a certain set of conditions.
When the conditions change, many of the deepest, like even procreation, behavioral dynamics and
drives start to shift without externally imposed things like birth caps like China had. It's really
important to see that. When you look at some of the indigenous cultures pre-capitalism, they didn't
have private ownership. They had shared structures and they had languages that expressed that concept
of sharing. They had radically de-emphasized words like mine and radically increased words like ours.
In any of those cultures, and we can see some of that in some of the Fujian Polynesian cultures,
the Maswa, a number of them, wherever the mine language was less emphasized in the nature of
the language, also words like selfish and greed and jealous were less emphasized because those are
the results of mimetic structures of scarcity-based value in a competitive framework structures.
So when we say what is human nature, it does a little bit that's definitely human nature,
like an impulse to right oneself when they start falling or to pull away from hot,
these autonomic functions, those are nature. But so when we get what is essentially human
nature, what was uniquely adaptive about us is that our genetics selected for mimetics,
our genetics selected for a creature that could continue evolving itself, developing itself
within the course of its life pretty radically, which is why a baby horse can be up and walking
in minutes and it takes us a year. Think about how many multiples of the 20 minutes it takes a
horse to get up go into a year for a human. How useless we are for so long, even a baby gorilla
can hold onto its mom's fur as she moves around to the trees in the first day. We can't even move
our head for three months, right? And that's because we're born neoteness, we're born basically still
embryos, where we're imprinting the world we're born into because as complex tool makers and
tool evolvers with our capacity for abstraction, we evolve the environment around us radically.
And so creatures, they evolve genetically to their environmental niche, but we're changing
our own environment. So we have to be able to adapt to new environments that we create. So we
have to come in not hardwired because it was super adaptive to be able to throw a spear at one point.
But today, like you and me don't throw spears that much, we text and we do other shit. So
we need to not just have really good genetic orientation for spear throw and we need to have
the capacity to come here with almost nothing, not even move our head and imprint the world that
we're in. And so that mimatics is mediated largely through neuroplasticity and the ability to have
a lot of our behavior, not just bottom up genetically controlled, but top down regulated and the top
down systems are highly influenceable. And so we can say humans genetics selected for plasticity
and plasticity has a pretty huge amount of variance and its capability. And so we can create
environments like in, you know, look at the child soldier situations in Sudan or places like that,
where we can take almost everyone through a process that makes various degrees of psychopathy.
We can also, you know, like look at Buddhist culture where you had millions of people
all care about insects enough to not harm them, right? Beyond the Dunbar number,
they had something that developed abstract empathy across the population. And so that
doesn't mean humans are naturally psychopaths or naturally highly empathetic. It means we are
naturally capable of being conditioned in either of those ways, or any of many different ways.
We do have an innate impulse towards agency, towards self actualization within a win-lose
game structure that will look like a competitive impulse, but within other structures within
win-win structures that will look like the desire to go beyond my own previous capacity,
but not to necessarily be better than or, you know, consume somebody or something else.
And so that's where there's an innate impulse, but that expresses itself through context.
Now let's take the next step. There's another really key step here.
Until very recently, humans didn't have any concept of what evolution was. And we only recently did,
and we're only right now beginning to have a deep sense of what it actually is, not just
biologic natural selection, but the process by which subatomic particles come into atoms,
come into molecules, come into more complex organic structures, the dust clouds turn into
stars and spiral galaxies. That evolution is this process of increasing orderly complexity
in a way that has more and more synergy, so more and more emergent property. And the emergent
properties define the era of evolution. And as we're starting to understand this,
you know, like very few people, but the beginning of us starting to understand this,
we can actually become conscious agents of evolution. We can like say, holy shit,
universe is actually doing something. It's actually moving in this direction of increasing
orderly complexity. We can consciously participate with that. And we move from just being a part of
the whole, where evolution is just kind of this unconscious algorithmic process to thinking about,
feeling about, identifying with, and being an agent for the whole. And so then evolution itself
becomes an agentically mediated process. Like we actually say, shit, the whole evolutionary
process resulted in me. I am the result of this whole evolutionary process. So in a way,
the evolutionary process is kind of awoke to itself in me as I'm contemplating it. And so then
we stop needing pushed by evolutionary pressure and pain to evolve. And we start being able to
evolve consciously by what Tere de Chardon called the lure of becoming, because we actually identify
as evolutionaries, right? As part of the evolutionary impulse. And in doing so, really
obsolete the need for pain as an evolutionary driver. So I know I said a number of things in
there, but human nature has the capacity to transcend much of what human behavior has been so far.
That is so well said.
It's like we're the tentacles of the universe or something.
Yeah, the sensors and the actuators, right?
Yeah, it's quite a spiritual proposition too, that we're becoming conscious of what we are
and acting based on that realization.
Yeah, and I actually don't think anything less than that is adequate for preventing existential
risk. And that's a big deal. That really frames up what we're here to talk about, which is as we
have increasingly distributed exponential ability for impact, we really have to have exponentially
increasing good choice making, omniconsiderate choice making everywhere. So as long as I,
when we talk about win-lose game theory at the deepest level, it starts with me having a sense
of self that's separate from everything else, even all the way down to the semiotics to the
language, right? And I was told when I was a little kid that I'm Daniel and you're Mike and
your UV and that's a chair and that's a house and that's a crow. But it's all this just separate
stuff in universe. And I can be a good boy or a bad boy independent of what's happening for
anybody or anything else. I can actually win at the expense of someone else losing in a baseball
game or whatever and get a whole lot of praise. And someone else winning can mean that I lost,
right? Like I am not only a separate self, but I am also a separate self in competition for the
scarce things, including scarce love, right, scarce attention. So that's imprinted. That's the
basis of the win-lose structures at the level of individual separate self identity. When the
reality is we go a little bit deeper if we weren't playing silly games, right? What the fuck am I
without all the plants that make all the oxygen? I don't exist. I can't breathe. My mother wouldn't
have been able to breathe. I wouldn't have been born, right? Without plants, I am not even a
concept. So how am I a separate self if I am required the plants? But the plants require the
pollinators and the micro-rysium, the soil and on and on. And what would I be without gravity?
I'm not fucking anything without gravity or without electromagnetism. What would I be without the
people that came before me that made the language within which I think all of my thoughts, that
has actually patterned the way in which I think and feel and structure the world, right? And I
start to say, well, shit, I'm actually, I wouldn't exist without all of it. So that South African
saying umbuntu, I am because we are, is actually profound, meaning me as a separate self, right?
It's okay. So take gravity away. Take electromagnetism away. Take the plants away. I'm floating in the
middle of a universe with no, I'm not even floating. There's nothing holding me together, right? Like
the concept of me as a separate self is nonsense. It's a misnomer. Really, it's just like when you
take the tree out of the rainforest and turn it into wood, it's worth a whole lot less. The context
had it was its value, right? Its value was the content within the context which co-evolved.
I am within a context. And without that context, I don't even exist. And so when I get that I am a
misnomer as a separate thing, that really, I am an emergent property of the whole. I'm an emergent
property of the biosphere, but not just a biosphere because without the sun, I wouldn't be very
interesting either. And without the laws of universe, I wouldn't, I'm an emergent property of
universe. And so are you. And we're interconnected in this. And that's waking up at a cognitive level,
existential at a spiritual level. And really, we need new macroeconomics. Economics is basically
what do we value? Don't value oxygen because we can't get any competitive advantage off it,
even though we'd all die without it, but value the gold because I'll get some competitive advantage,
even though I'm just going to stick it in a safe, not do anything with it. Value the whale dead
because I can do stuff with it. I don't value it live, right? Like what do we value? Our value
system is codified in a value equation that then determines what we confer power to. That's economics.
Totally spiritual thing. So we need new macroeconomics that aligns the incentive of every
agent with the well-being of every other agent and of the commons because any gap between your
incentive and my well-being or your incentive and the well-being of the commons, then you will do
what you're intended to do and you will externalize harm directly or indirectly, right? And with
exponential increasing technology, that harm will always become catastrophic eventually.
So we need new macroeconomics that fundamentally align our well-beings with each other. And in
doing so, we have no incentive for disinformation. We only have incentive for information, so now
science becomes science, actually, right? And journalism actually becomes journalism. We
can actually fucking make sense of stuff because I'm not trying to hide information from you or
lead you down the wrong track, so I get there first. And we need, you know, so like new macroeconomics,
new sensemaking, new systems of choicemaking, but all the way down to a new worldview,
where we actually identify with the evolutionary impulse, so we don't need pain to push us.
We're evolving, right? We're being and becoming and doing at the same time,
for ourselves and the whole at the same time. And all the way down to our personal identity
shifting from being a separate self, which is just nonsense, to being a unique emergent property
of reality. And when I get that you are a unique emergent property of reality and you
have had life experiences, you've sensed stuff that I haven't. You have a perspective on everything
that I couldn't possibly have. You have the ability to do stuff that I can't do. If you
self-actualize fully, you will create beauty in the world that I couldn't, right? Like no amount
of Michelangelo's self-actualization would have done MC Escher or Salvador Dali, like their own
fucking kinds of unique creation capacity. And so I can only compete with you when we reduce you and
me to very simple metrics, right? How much money do we have or how fast can you run or whatever,
right? But when we go back to the full metrics and it's basically an indefinite number of metrics
and the synergistic combinatoric of those, they're incomparable. So now the competition thing is gone
because I'm identified with this whole complex thing, not this little narrow thing that in that
narrow thing, we can compete with each other, right? When that's gone, then you self-actualizing
not only doesn't take away from me, you self-actualizing makes a more beautiful universe in a way that I
can't, but I want to live in that more beautiful universe. So I'm incented to help you self-actualize.
The gist of the story as I see it is that we awaken to that to everyone as a unique emergent
property of an interconnected whole who needs to simultaneously self-actualize, help everyone
else self-actualize with the attendant economic systems, governance systems, etc., where all
individual agentic activity is good for the individual and the whole simultaneously just
like cells in your body that are not competing against each other for scarce resource, even
though we've tried to retrofit that shitty capitalist idea on biology as a weird kind of
confirmation bias. When you think of it in almost mythic terms, and you have to think of it in
mythic terms, exponential technology is where does an exponent scale to as we're moving towards
having the power of gods? Like Barbara Marks Hubbard said this when she watched the bomb be
dropped by her godfathers who were the generals that were directing World War II, and she saw
that mushroom cloud from Hiroshima, and she's like none of the depictions I ever heard of of
Zeus's lightning bolt were as big as that. And so she went and asked him. She asked Eisenhower,
and the other generals, I think MacArthur, and she said, I see this new power that we have,
and I see the power of it that's bad. What is the power of it that's good? And they had no answer.
And so she set out on that life quest to answer that question. But this other part of it we can
ask is if we're scaling towards the power of gods, then you have to have the wisdom and the love of
gods or you self-destruct. And so when you think of it in those mythic terms, it's like that's
really the story right now. And so the other part of that mythic term is the coming of a
different age and an age that is not categorized or characterized by like fundamentally separate
interest and competition for scarce resources with separate interests, power over dynamics,
but is characterized by, and this will sound corny, but characterized fundamentally by
the metric we are optimizing is love, which requires all the complex metrics of everything
the tree is. It requires recontextualizing things and unabstracting them into their
instantiation, right? And why I say love is what brings the atoms together into molecules is these
attractive forces, right? What brings the molecules together? What brought the two of you together
to make this thing? What brought us together? There's these attractive forces that bring anything
together that leads to synergy, that leads to the emergent properties, that leads to evolution
and ultimately we become stewards of that bringing reality together into higher and higher order
synergies. It's funny how this is such a repeated lesson to go towards what attracts you instead
of avoiding what repels you. Like love is something I've never cared to define as well as you've
defined. I'm curious how you've actually arrived at that being the metric. Like maybe can you unpack
that a little more? It's not a metric because you can't put a number on it. So that was kind
of euphemistic language, but it is love is a very besides damaged word, unwell to find word in
English. But if we want to borrow from another language and take the Aeros Senegape model,
I think it's useful. So the Aeros model of love, erotic love, doesn't just mean sex. Sex is one
place that it expresses itself, but it is a passionate desire. It's energy. It's an attraction.
So we can think of things being attracted together, right? People being attracted together to
procreate to make new life as a special case example of people being attracted together to
create anything or anything being attracted together to create anything, right? Subatomic
