particles being attracted together to have this relationship that is atoms. And so we can think
of the evolutionary impulse, right? As kind of an Eros energy and the agape energy, that's a kind
of love. And so when we think about participating with the evolutionary impulse of universe consciously
participating with it, then we think about supporting things coming together in right
relationships that are synergistic, right? That's what's aiming at the, you know, there is no
destination. It's an eternal process of becoming and blossoming. The agape love is actually worth
mentioning here. It is often thought of as an unconditional caring for, I think, a decent
way of thinking about it is you can't love something or someone meaningfully if you don't
actually see them, understand them, right? Otherwise, it's just an abstract kind of concept.
But for me to really love you, I've got to understand you. I've got to know you, which means
for me to really love you. I have to seek to understand you and know you. And then as I
understand you and know you more, I'm able to love the unique being that you actually are.
And in seeing your uniqueness and your irreplaceability in universe, I want for you everything
that could help you enjoy life, self-actualize, contribute fully. And so the process of seeking
to see and know reality and wanting for it and wanting to add to it is that impulse of love.
And I think it's those two impulses, the becoming impulse and the being impulse, the evolving and
the nourishing impulses that become the deepest kind of drivers of both inner states and the
macro systems of the future. So here's a difficult question. The people who are creating the economic
systems are not very enlightened at the moment. So how can we and can we help people awaken to
this understanding so that we can create the kinds of systems that will support our evolution
because we're kind of running out of time? Well, if you think about, you know, within a current
economic system, moving up in the ladder of success in the economic system requires things
like justifying externality. The thing we're doing is really good. So it's worth all of that
mining damage or all of that waste damage or the, you know, poor condition or workers or whatever.
So someone whose empathy is really intact can't do that. And so if you don't have the ability to
shut your empathy off, which is kind of low-grade psychopathy, you're just not going to be able
to succeed. And as you start to succeed and get rewarded, it's actually a system that is
not just attracting but incenting and conditioning a kind of abstract psychopathy.
And as you get into financial services, even more so, because you are not providing real
goods or services, you're basically the more you can game the system, the better you can do
in that dynamic. So when you have a system that attracts, incents, and rewards pathological
behavior, so it's important to understand that success in the current system has required
being at minimum complicit with the capacity to unwillingness to be complicit with that system.
What we think of as power even, which is a power within a win-lose structure power over,
is psychopathologic, right? And so we're not creating new power structures. We're creating new
structures for shared activity, but they won't be power in the same sense of what we have thought
of as power anymore. There's a few aspects of how people who are in positions of influence currently
can start to tip. One is as they recognize near-term existential risks that are inexorable
within the current system, which means they will not win, right? Their attempt to win
where win-lose becomes lose-lose because of the power dynamics exceeding the playing field's
capacity. If they understand that, which more and more people in positions of influence are starting
to, then they realize that they actually need to learn a totally new kind of game.
And when they realize that the new kind of game that is possible isn't shitty communism, it's not
like a lowest common denominator. It's a world where we can create a commonwealth economics
that has a higher level of material resource abundance for everyone than anyone, including
them currently has. Because right now, we can't make the best phone or the best computer or the
best fucking anything because the science knows how to because the IP for how to make the best one
is held between 10 different companies that are competing against each other. So we don't get
information coherence. We don't even research the best things in medicine because some of them
aren't profitable. So the wealthiest people today don't have access to good healthcare because we're
not investing in it. The world that they have one in is ending. And that is unavoidable. That's
inexorable. So that game is not a game that gets to keep being played no matter what. The world
that we can create is better for even the people who are winning at the current system at the highest
level. The world that we can create can have a better system of medicine, a better system of
sense making a healthier environment, better technological stuff, better transportation
because of the coherence leading to better resource allocation and development of tech
and etc. So we can build a world that is better for everyone than building our quality of life today
in sustainable harmony with the biosphere for everybody. The only thing that they would lose
is the differential of how much better it is for them now than it is for everyone else. But they
can't hold on to that anyways. I've actually seen many people who have been in power positions
within the current system who have been coming to these awarenesses naturally. So that's an
in heartening thing. Daniel, do you have any book recommendations for our listeners if they
want to continue learning about these subjects? Yeah, well as we were just talking about a game
that's ending in the new game, the book Infinite and Finite Games by James Kars is a really great
introduction to thinking about what a world beyond game theory is. And it's short and it's
actually like it is both an interesting treatise on economics and governance and social systems and
a really profound spiritual book. So I recommend that one, Infinite and Finite Games. And you
books like the collapse of complex societies by Tainter that go through all of the civilizations
of the past that collapse and how and why they collapse is a very sobering insight for people
to realize that existential risk at a whole species, at a whole global level we've never
faced before, but we have at the level of civilizations and we almost always fail.
And to kind of understand why so that we can make sure we are not repeating that, that's actually
very valuable, very insightful. And if people want to read about existential risk itself,
going to the Future of Life Institute or the Cambridge Center for the Study of Existential
Risk, places like that and reading their reports, those things have a lot of value. Going even back
to like limits of growth and the World 3 model, it's surprising how many places the World 3 model
was accurate from when it was started. So there's still value and limits of growth. All of those
are good ones. If I had to pick one for people to start with from here, I'd say Infinite and
Finite Games is a good start. Cool. Thank you. I'm going to pick that up. Awesome. Any documentaries
or movies or anything multimedia-esque that you can recommend? For people who are not already
familiar with Jacques Fresco's work on the Venus Project, they should get familiar with it because
there are elements of what's necessary that weren't included. The world he was coming up through,
he didn't get very exposed to complex systems there. So the distinction between needing to
build a world that's complex and self-organizing rather than complicated was not a clear distinction
and how sense-making and how worldview happened. He was working from a pretty straight kind of
technotopian point of view and he doesn't speak much to the transition of how we get there. But
with all those critiques in place, there's a lot that he spoke to and demonstrated regarding how
you could have a system beyond scarcity-based capital that worked radically better than this.
And so I think the documentaries, one is called Paradise or Oblivion, one's called The Choices
Ours and also the second in the Zeitgeist series, Zeitgeist Addendum. The first half is about Fraction
Reserve Banking, the second half is about his work. I think for people who haven't got into
post-capitalism in much depth yet, looking at the resource-based economy that the Venus
Project proposed is a really good entry point to some of the thought.
Daniel, this has been a fantastic conversation, one of my favorites we've ever done. So thank you
again for coming on and sharing your insights and what you've studied. This has just been fantastic
for us. Yeah, very inspirational. I'm sure listeners will love it. These were fun and
important topics that we got to cover today. This was a blast and when you ask how can we
help people in positions of influence shift, I think what you all are doing is meaningful
towards that. So I thank you for that. Thank you. Thank you. All right, Daniel, take care. Bye.
That's all for this episode. Thank you for listening. For all the books,
movies, and other things that we mentioned in this episode, go to futurethinkers.org
slash 46. All right, we'll see you in the next episode. Bye. Bye.
Thanks for listening to the Future Thinkers podcast. To get notified of new podcasts and
videos, go to futurethinkers.org and subscribe to our mailing list. You can also find us on
iTunes, Stitcher, and YouTube. If you like what we do and you want to help us make more
podcasts and videos, give us a like or a review, share it with your friends, and consider becoming
a patron. Go to patreon.com slash futurethinkers. If you're looking to get serious about meditation,
check out the meditation app that we've created with Vinay Gupta called the cutting machinery.
Go to cuttingmachine.org slash app. Last but not least, if you want to get access to more
content, hidden episodes, or if you just want to chat with us and previous guests,
then check out our community at community.futurethinkers.org.
