special moment in your life, the first time in the yearly cycle that you eat a fruit or wear a
garment or any of those sorts of things. And it's an expression of what it thanks God for
sustaining you and allowing you to reach that moment. And I think expressions of gratitude
are something that religion does very well. Well, the reason I pick that is that we in our tradition
set a bit in our brain that says, if I'm doing something for the first time in the yearly cycle,
make a note of it. And what I find is that if I were to do that without thanking God at all
for this, that would be a tremendous service to remembering like beginner's mindset or I've
made it through another cycle or how sweet is a pomegranate. Can we export this stuff?
So, well, this goes back to the very beginning of the podcast, which is, can you sustain these
kinds of rituals and awarenesses without the belief with which they were created?
That is, can you say the shahekianu if you don't believe that you're thanking God?
I do.
Yeah. Okay. So, maybe that is possible. Maybe it is possible to create a ritual structure
that is not theistic. I suppose that people do that with things like yoga and meditation.
But in a Jewish way, is it possible to do that? Now, there have been secular humanist versions
of Judaism, but I don't think that they've caught on. Well, I don't think they work. I mean, my
family came a bit from this tradition of the workman circle, which was to try to take social
justice and labor and make that the replacement for God, which is kind of a weird idea.
Yes, it is. But I guess what the way I look at it is, I don't think there's anything weird about
going to a movie that is not literally true. Like people talk about Star Wars all the time.
Presumably, they know that there is no Yoda. Well, I don't remember what scholar of myth
gave this definition, but I think of some of the things in the Bible, like the story of Adam and
Eve, I think of them the way this scholar defined myth. He said, a myth is something that is not
factual, but is always true. And I think there's a lot in religion that is not factual, but is always
true. So let's talk about the belief part of this. Why does belief animate this?
Because the sense that you're doing something that is either commanded by or, if you want to
originate it below rather than above, or aligns you with the creator of the universe
is much more powerful than the belief that I'm doing this because it helps my self-awareness.
I'll tell you the part of it that I think we really get wrong. And this is a point of view
that maybe I'll be scolded for. We have this concept in Judaism of intergenerational
transfer. Yes. And we explicitly call it out and we say Lador Vador from generation to generation.
My belief is that it is irrational to be perfectly atheistic for the following reason.
It may be somatically rational. That is, most of the cells in our body are going to die. They
have no infinite future. In fact, if they start to think they have an infinite future, we call it
cancer. Right. The only exception to that is our germ line, our eggs and what creates our sperm.
And these things have an immortality plan. They can pass from generation to generation and carry
the information. My belief about religion is that it solves a very important problem, which is
in biology for every other species, soma and germ are tied together. That is, if I'm thirsty,
I know that I need to get water. But thirst is a proximate. The ultimate is
staving off of dehydration. The great danger in human beings is that hunger and starvation
or arousal and reproduction, you can disconnect all of these things. And then soma starts to take
over and it says, maybe the purpose of life is to be happy. And every time I hear somebody
say, the purpose of life is to be happy, something important in me struggles because I hate,
I just, it's like I'm dying inside. I really feel terrible about it. This idea of caring about
intergenerational transfer is the basis of a society. There's no way one generation could
build this. Right. And this is what religion stops us from doing. It stops us from thinking
that the purpose of life is to be happy. It connects us to intergenerational purpose.
And so rather than just thinking about myself somatically, I think about being part of a lineage
in a history that goes on after my death. There's nothing that stops me from waking up and saying,
wait, if the purpose of life is to be happy, you know, maybe I'm Jonas Salk, but maybe I'm
Jeffrey Dahmer. I could be anything that make, making me happy. This is a way of making sure
that that doesn't happen, that soma doesn't betray germ. Is that really the, like?
I think that's, well, I would say the idea that, that religion's obligation is intergenerational
to past generations and future generations is true and powerful. And the way you described it
is beautiful. The one, I don't want to say caveat, the one addition is that you also have
a vertical as well as a horizontal responsibility. That is to transcendence to, I would say your
soul beyond your cell line, that part of the purpose of life is to grow in soul, that there is
something that you as an individual, you have a responsibility to lead a certain kind of life
because your life is a gift. And that's a responsibility to other human beings, but it's
also just a responsibility by virtue of the fact that you've been given this life to live. So-
From whom?
Well, I would say from God.
But I would say you're cheating.
What if I'm right? Am I still cheating?
Well, no, I just, well, look, I'm happy to get into my own theories about God, but
my point is to be able to work with multiple assumptions.
Without, if you bracket that assumption, then yes, I would say what religion does,
I had talked also about creating community. That is creating community with, but it also
creates community with the past and with the future. You know, look, this is a wonderful
line of Chestertans. He said, tradition is the democracy of the dead, that if everybody who
ever lived got a vote, they would vote for tradition. And you're expressing that in a
different way. That is that we owe a responsibility to all the generations preceding us and also
to transmit to the generations following us as if we're taking and handing the baton because
we don't see ourselves as an isolated creation instead. As you said, we're part of a chain.
Well, so let me go a little bit further with this. My claim is that just as Chomsky has said
that we may have a pre-existing sort of capacity for grammar that allows language,
that this is a facility that we are given with birth as virtue of being human.
I would claim that there's something like a Chomsky and pre-grammar of religious belief
that no matter how atheistic we may claim to be, I mean, there was one time, two times I've prayed
to God, one I don't discuss, but the other, when my wife was pregnant with our first child,
I found myself praying to God that my child would inherit my learning disabilities because
I did not think I would be able to relate to my own child and because I actually believed that
all of those disabilities are the most profound genetic gift that I was given, but it was a gift
in disguise. And I said, why am I praying to something I don't believe in? And this is another
version of there are no atheists in the foxholes. Do I carry in your opinion a biological predisposition
towards religious thought? So I think that that is very likely. I think that's what, and by the
way, people have different gifts in the sense that there are Mozart's of religious predisposition.
They have never doubted God. They feel God constantly fully. And then there are others
who have less of a predisposition. So I would say yes. I also think, by the way,
that your idea that your disability is your gift is a profoundly religious idea. There's a beautiful
poem from, I think it's, oh, God, it talks about God answer sharp and sudden on some prayers. It's
a gauntlet with a gift in it. And I would want to say Elizabeth Barrett Browning, but I don't think
it's Barrett Browning. Somebody in your audience will Google it and know. And that notion that the
challenges that you have are things that are given to you in order to climb higher, I think that that
also is a, I don't know if it's an inbuilt religious notion, but I think in some ways it probably is
because people often recur to that when something bad happens, that I'm going to find a way. One of
my books was called Making Lost Matter, the same thing. So I wouldn't choose this, but having been
given this, now I have to figure out how to use it to climb higher than I would have had I not
been given this disability. So yes, I think that that, I think that it is, let me put it this way,
I think that your theory has a better chance of being right than Chomsky's. That is, it's more
likely that we have a religious, a natural religious inclination than that we have a
natural grammatical inclination. Yeah. My belief is that it would be irrational for me
to deny the fact that my brain is constantly trying to tell magical, supernatural,
non-materialistic stories. All of us. We do. Well, but I'm more disturbed by this than you
probably are. Well, I can. Another time, look, I mean, I'm an internal conflict.
Well, the English essay, as Thomas de Quincey said, not to be a little superstitious is to
lack generosity of mind. So I would say that you're just showing that you have generosity of mind,
but you have also, you have a supervening ability to recognize when your stories are not
rational stories. It's unclear. You know, I look at, well,
all right, let's get in, let's get into more weird stuff. You and I belong to a tradition with,
I think, one quarter, one percent of the world's population. Right. About 25 percent of the
Nobel Prizes in physics or maybe even science. In general, actually. All right. All of them.
Now, assuming that it's not because, and as I said on the Joe Rogan program, that Jews
cheat at physics, would you ask me why this was? Maybe there's a genetic component. Maybe there's
a cultural component. Maybe the fact that we are willing to take our, some of our best people and
not put them in finance and put them in dead end financial jobs in physics and in physiology and
medicine, whatever. It's crazy to me to abandon a completely, assume that we're totally about
superstition, magical thinking in nonsense. Somehow that superstitious magical thinking tradition
produced a complete surplus of reason, creative ability to work within the constraints of the
natural world. Wouldn't it be insane to walk away from that saying it's a bunch of mumbo jumbo
about God? That's why I said when I debate with the people who point to a verse and say, well,
that's stupid and dismiss the religion, that you have to look at the product of what a religion
gives you in the world. And I think that Judaism has a lot, has a pretty strong black ledger balance.
We've given the world an enormous, enormous amount and continue to. And I'm always astonished even
though I know it's true. When I turn to the obituary in the paper and I read about this
remarkable life in this creative life and sure enough, his parents were Jewish and they came
from some small town in Poland and I just think, how does this happen? And it's at least as
rational to say there is some special mission that the Jews have in this world as it is to say,
oh, it's because of the medieval training that they got, where some of the most literate priests
became celibate, but all the most capable rabbis had many children. I had this, by the way, I had
this conversation. I warn you, here comes a major name drop, but I literally had this conversation
with the Dalai Lama because when we went to see him in Dharam Sala, in the middle of the conversation,
he turns to me and points at me and says, what's this about the chosen people anyway?
So apropos of nothing we were talking about. So I said, I don't know. So I said to him,
well, it's true that Jews think they're chosen. I said, but that doesn't mean that other people
aren't chosen for other kinds of missions and things in the world. And he laughed and he said,
yes, the Tibetans think we're chosen too. And so the other part of this is, I think every people
has this sense that they're special, but that's a good thing. That's not a bad thing.
Well, I was just talking with a black acquaintance, comedian, over at the comedy store who sat
high to me in a bar in the bar and he was talking about struggling with being black and the crime
and some of the negative parts of the tradition. And I was able to say, do you realize that I've
always been in awe of your community? And then I went through with some detail, because I've
actually been fascinated by the idea, you know, partially because of our own tradition focuses
so much on slavery and blacks embrace the Jewish idea of Moses and the whole Exodus.
And so I started going into black intellectual achievement. And I think there's something
about being curated by somebody outside of yourself. It's why we value Detokeville as a
commentator on the American scene. We need to be seen by others and not just promoting ourselves.
I think that that's exactly right. So one of the things I wanted to talk about is the loss of
insularity and one of my most dangerous theories, which is the first Shiksa effect.
So I want to tell two jokes. One, the Jews. So these are internal Jewish jokes. One is
negative against the Jews. One is positive for the Jews. So one joke is why did God create the
goyim that is the non-Jews? Because somebody had to pay retail. Oh, come on, you know that you're
pretending that you don't. All right. The other joke is what's the only problem with Jewish cooking?
72 hours later, you're hungry again. Right. So in the first case, the idea is we're the smart
guys who always pay wholesale because we know somebody, we know how to get there. There's also
there's also an anti-Semitic trope about Jews and money buried in that joke. Yep. Yeah. Right.
And then the other, the other one, you know, points out that our food is too heavy because
we always were worried that we had nutritional issues and you might as well get as much fat in
people because you never know if your next meal is going to be interrupted. Now, the first Shiksa
effect has to do with the first time an insular group is visited by somebody bringing in somebody
from outside. And so all of the very potent knowledge, and this could be the Parsis in India,
it could be the Mafia, it could be the Freemasons, that the danger of internally held knowledge
suddenly having some sort of a periscope in starts to attenuate. And so for example, my
my wife's family were Jews of Calcutta. I think the first time there was an intermarriage,
the parent says, oh, I'm going to sit Shiva. That is, I'm going to treat this child as if
she's dead to me. But very quickly that erodes because it's the second person to come into a
family or the third doesn't have the same effect because all of that hyperinsular stuff gets lost
almost instantly. And I think that there's both something super positive about that because
the insularity causes a kind of danger towards jingoism. But there's also something sad about
that, which is that some of that was the most powerful knowledge that the community possessed.
Any thoughts? This is an eternal struggle, and I'm not sure that it is a reconcilable struggle
between the integrity and depth of a community that knows each other, relies on each other,
cares about each other and can transmit for generations and generations. And the community that
at the same time carries that virus of insularity, of superiority, of all that stuff. I mean,
I think sometimes when I talk to students about this exact thing, I don't use the first Shiksa
as an example, but I talk about when I tell them that it has to do all with crest toothpaste.
When I was a kid, I'll tell you, my mother told us that crest was the best toothpaste,
and when I used to go to other kids' houses and they would use like Colgate or one of the really
unserious toothpaste, like Pepsidens, I would think, what's the matter with these people?
Don't they know? Aquafresh, don't give a start. Aquafresh, oh my god, but with a little green
strip. But the day that I realized, and I almost remember it, that you could use
Tom's toothpaste or whatever and you could be as smart and as caring and as intelligent
and as learned as my parents, something changed about my world forever.
With crest toothpaste. With crest toothpaste. Because as soon as you know that actually
everything I do is not the only way to do it or the only right way to do it,
it opens up the possibility that everything you know is wrong. And all of modern culture
is this balance between, what do I know that's really right and worth preserving,
and what have I learned from all these other wonderful people and cultures and exposure
and so on that should change. And it's, for anybody who cares about tradition,
it is a constant daily dilemma that doesn't have any clear resolution.
I felt this way with, who is the Alan Sherman and Tom Lehrer?
Right. Alan Sherman, Tom Lehrer was really important to me. I mean,
those songs and the lyrics and the cleverness and the culture.
I loved Alan Sherman too, but okay. Oh, really?
Yeah, I did. I was with the on crest, anyway. Well, when I first went to India,
I think I was 19 or 20. And it was a profound experience. My first introduction actually
was going through Karachi. And I had to use the restroom and I got shown to a room
that had no resemblance to a restroom that I understood. There was no toilet, there was no paper.
And I progressively, and then went to Bombay and I realized I didn't know how to eat with
my fingers properly. I didn't know any of the customs. I realized I was being sent back to
