who's a poet about about this danger. He said, if you purify the pond, the water lilies die.
And I always thought there are, you know, this was Burke's insight, there are human institutions
grow for lots of reasons, and nobody has a comprehensive enough intellect to understand
if you radically change them with all the implications of that change will be. So you
have to change carefully, not and without, without contempt for everything that has come before you.
Did you know Rabbi Benzion Gold? I knew him a little bit in worship and study in Boston.
So I tried to get married with Shlomo Sternberg, the mathematician in the Harvard Math Department
officiating. But because he was very orthodox, he said, I don't think I can do this. Let me,
let me send you to a friend. Benzion Gold gave us the task of rewriting the marriage contract,
the Katuba. And we, we rewrote it the first time. And he said, what is this? He says,
this is like a poem to each other. This is a marriage contract taken seriously. So we went back
to the original text and we tried to make the minimal number of distortions. And he said,
what? Like you're, you're living thousands of years ago. This, this doesn't have any
of the modernity. So we tried then to do something that was contractual,
but honored modernity says, oh, now you've watered it down. I said,
Rabbi, this is the third time we've put a lot of work into this. And with all due respect,
you're really pissing me off by not appreciating how difficult this task is. And he looked at me
and he said, well, it took you long enough. And I said, what do you mean? And he said,
now you're coming to understand, you wanted to get married in the Orthodox version of the
religion because you as an atheist have no idea how this is done. And so you want to do it right.
What he said to me then was, he said, when you're part of a 5,000 year tradition,
you have to realize that there's no way of being Orthodox. You cannot stay true to the text because
times have changed too much. And that every single version of Judaism is a version of
make your own Judaism because that was the phrase I was using to make fun of the sort of reform
impulse. Do you, do you think he was onto something? Oh, I think there's no question about it. In my
mind, there was a beautiful essay many years ago by Gerson Cohen, who was a historian and was the
Chancellor of the Seminary called The Blessings of Assimilation. And he says, the Rabbi say,
why did the, there's a, there's a comment in rabbinic literature, why did the Jews
deserve to be liberated from Egypt because they didn't change their names, they didn't change
their dress, and they didn't change their language. And, and then Cohen starts to talk about
actually what Jews did throughout history. He said, in terms of names, the names in the
Bible like Moses and Aaron and Pinchas and Khophni, they're all Egyptian names. They're actually not
Jewish names or Hebrew names. He said, in terms of dress, Jews have dressed
in every way that around them, the cultures have dressed, Jews in Arab lands dressed like Arabs,
Jews in European lands dressed like Europeans. He said, and in terms of language, Jews have
written literature in every language, the Talmud, which is the foundational work after the Bible
in Judaism wasn't written in Hebrew, it was written in Aramaic because they lived in Babylonia.
And so, yes, I mean, there is no way to be, the only way to be true to the sources is to change.
The question is how much change, and that's where the real
nub of modern religion comes is how much can you change and still
not only- Flame of continuity. Yes, exactly. And, and also how much can you change and still
transmit it generation to generation? That's a question that the modern world has created.
Can liberal religion transmit itself? And I don't think we've answered that question.
Well, I think I'm very disappointed in the clergy and the Revenant.
I have a crazy theory, and I want to know what you think of it, whether it's-
I like crazy theory.
Well, it could be so commonly known that you think you think that's crazy. Everybody knows that.
At some point, I became convinced that Seinfeld, the show, was one of the greatest innovations
in modern Judaism. And my reasoning was that what it was actually was not Jewish humor played
with ethnically ambiguous people, but it was actually Talmudic humor. It was legal humor.
And each show, you know, there's this discussion of like re-gifting. Is it ethical to re-gift?
So I picked one show at random and I said, I bet I can find whatever this topic is in the Talmud.
And I picked the show where there's an argument about double dipping a chip into some salsa,
because after you take a bite, you've, you've touched it with your mouth and now you're dipping
it again. Sure enough, I go to the Talmud. There's two guys, two rabbis are eating hummus,
one with a leaf and the other with his hands. And the guy who's using the leaf as an implement says,
tell me, Rabbi, when are you going to stop feeding me your saliva? You know, like,
and the other guy says, oh, tell me, Rabbi, you know, Akiva, whatever his name was,
when are you going to stop feeding me your filth with the leaf? Yeah. And this interchange
proved to me that what was really going on was we were mining the more difficult parts of Judaism
and figuring out a way of making this commercially viable to get into mainstream distribution
channels. When the rabbis didn't pick up on how effective this is for exploring the ancient texts
that nobody has time for anymore. I thought it was an amazing missed opportunity. Where are you
guys? Why are you not making technology in these new distribution channels? Why are we not using the
media in particular? Or why aren't we giving more sermons about sign film? Why aren't you
figuring out how to use mass culture as the substrate for transmitting the stuff that is,
what's special about Judaism is lost when you don't have time for it. And I always get irritated
when I go to Shul and they say, like particularly reform synagogues, they say, we Jews do this
and for this reason. What they're really saying is you've forgotten what it means to be Jewish
because you don't have enough time. So let me remind you what we once did when this was a
focus in your life. You guys are not making effective use of mass media to do cutting.
You may well be right. That's why I'm on the podcast, trying to make effective use of mass media.
Come back when we're bigger. Right, exactly. As often as you want. It's very hard. Wait,
wait, are you serious about that? Because I would love to do a Seinfeld episode with you to get this
ball rolling. All right, we'll do it. I'm on board. It's really hard to
grab people's attention. I mean, some people in my congregation will do serious study.
Some of them will relate to Jewish events or whatever. But yes, it is difficult.
Once you've taken away the idea that all of this is a system that God insists that you do,
to bring a counter-cultural religious tradition to people and to have them invest in it,
it takes a lot of work. And I'm perfectly willing to say that part of it is rabbinic failure. But
I also think there's a huge social and cultural tie that we're trying to swim against.
Well, this gets into a very weird topic, but you'd be the right guy to talk about it with.
There are ways in which the absence of overt religious bigotry has, in my opinion,
attenuated at least our group, that somehow the concept of the tiger mom is now much more of an
Asian concept than it is a Jewish concept. But 50 years ago, you had parents pushing their kids
really hard to achieve. And under the surface was always this issue. If you're not 50% better,
at least, than your competition, because of your name, because of your background,
you're going to suffer. Now that we've gotten rid of that, I have the sense that we really don't
have that the same vitality. Well, it's partly a general cultural thing. I don't know how many
years ago Philip Reef wrote about the triumph of the therapeutic. Now parents, many parents don't
feel that they should push their kids. That idea of a parent, that ideal of a parent that somebody
who pushes their child, I think is frowned on in culture generally, that's one thing. The second
is that there are dangers to acceptance, as you point out, as there are dangers to non-acceptance.
And while I would never say, and I think people say this, but if they thought about it more carefully,
I think they wouldn't, I would never say that Judaism has survived because of persecution,
because they're forgetting all those other people that were persecuted and disappeared to history.
So it's not that we're here because we were persecuted, we would be many, many more had we
not been persecuted. There is something about feeling the pressure of you have to prove yourself
because you are a member of this or that group that does absolutely contribute to a drive to
excellence. I think there's no question about that. And Jews don't feel that the way they once did.
But I think that it's part of a larger complex of how much Jews feel themselves
part of an identifiable group that they take pride in and love. So this is in Hebrew, there's a
concept called avat Yisrael, which means love of your people. And that generally is in the world
that, for example, my daughter grows up in, that's frowned upon the idea that you should love your
people. That's thought of as negative. You should love all people and no people especially. And
that's to the detriment, I think, of any minority keeping its special identity.
I don't actually get this. And my sense is that you don't get this either. Maybe that would be
something we could explore. So let me give you my version of this and give me my grade on a report
card. If you love multiculturalism, you have to understand that multiculturalism is built on
culturalism. And culturalism is built on exclusion with some amount of permeability.
So what I always hear when somebody says multiculturalism is painting with a lot of
distinct pigments. And what has come to be the meaning of multiculturalism is let's mix all the
paint together and to get the most beautiful rainbow paint possible. And in fact, it doesn't
look anything like rainbow paint once you do this. And then in part, we are responsible for caring
about our own culture so that there is something special to bring to the potluck. And what concerns
me is when I see somebody who's going abroad, let's say as an American, and they're trying to
be infinitely open to everything, I always think of that as being very selfish, which is you're
not bringing what people want, which is your American background. I travel with a harmonica,
I play American music on it, and it's not because I'm not fascinated by the other cultures. I actually
do this because that's my legitimate introduction to say I came with something that you're interested
and I really want to find out about what's going on with Ganesh or whatever. Am I off?
No, I think that that's, I mean, I would put that on a banner. I think that that's so incredibly
important. What Jonathan Sacks, Rabbi Sacks, calls the dignity of difference, which was the title of
one of his books. I think that all these cultures rise or fall on that. If you don't believe that
your culture doesn't have to be better, that's why I always say when people ask me about Judaism,
I always tell them it's not my job to argue it's superiority, it's my job to argue it's
excellence. If you don't think that your culture is excellent and has things that everyone could
learn from, then I think, first of all, I think that that's sad, but also I think that then you're
left with this indistinguishable stew, as you said, that loses what is unique about all these
cultures. So yes, I believe, however, that what multiculturalism has also become is
only these cultures have the right to be heard and those cultures don't as much because historically
those cultures have been heard more than mine. And so there is that also to contend with because
it is true that some cultures have been heard far more than others.
We are a noisy culture.
Yes, and we are a noisy culture. There's no question about that.
As my friend Joseph Epstein says, Jews don't listen, they wait.
And I know that there is something.
That hurts.
Yes, we're very verbal as a culture, no question about it. But I also think we are part of the
constituent creators of Western civilization and we have something to say.
Well, this is one of the, I do feel that one of the ways we get into trouble as a culture
is that we are seen as an impurity. And going back to this question about what some cultures do well,
some cultures do poorly, like, for example, I would say that Jewish food, not our best.
Not our strongest.
Not our strongest.
We're not the French.
Right.
No, that's true.
We have this tradition in our family where we put two drops of water into the wine,
into the kiddish cup of wine for the Friday night Sabbath meal.
And there's always a question of why this ritual, what I always liked about it was
we have an impulse towards purity that is must be gotten rid of in my opinion,
because life is impure. And if you start to try to purify yourself overly much,
like in an OCD kind of a way, you end up tearing at your own flesh and you do real damage.
Learning that a certain amount of impurity has a strengthening effect
is something that I associate with that ritual.
And I was curious if you have feelings about
teachings like that that we need to export.
Is that an important teaching from our tradition?
I think that it is. I mean, you can make biological analogies to that too about diversity.
Hybrid vigor.
Right, exactly. I also understand that let's change the language of purity for a second.
I hope that this still captures what you mean.
Fanaticism of all varieties carries danger.
I don't want to say it's automatically dangerous.
No, you said it perfectly carries danger.
Because I remember there's a wonderful story about Isaac Stern, the violinist,
who after a concert, a woman came up to him and said,
I would do anything to play like you would.
And he said, really, would you practice 20 years, 12 hours a day to play like I would?
Because that's what I did.
The world does depend on certain kinds of fanaticism.
People who are exceptional athletes and exceptional scholars and exceptional musicians,
many of them have a single-minded devotion.
So I wouldn't want to say, let's wipe out all extremism.
But culturally, it's tremendously dangerous.
Yeah. So let me ask you, assume that I don't have the time budget,
and I don't have the belief budget needed to sustain an older version of my culture and my
tradition. Because one of the things that I want to talk about here is that I'm using religion in
part to stand in for the need to stand up for our traditions, to maintain them,
but not to become sort of jingoistic about it.
So assume that I don't have the same budget, and I'm also living in a very multicultural world.
Uh, what guidance can you give me for the maintenance of a complicated,
beautiful, intricate tradition that needs, that has historically needed more time and
belief than I can afford?
So I, what I, what I want to start off with, and I don't know how much time
this takes is that the indispensable quality to maintain any tradition is knowledge.
You have to know something about it. And, and honestly, knowledge is more easily available now
than it ever was about anything. So I think that if you care about a tradition, at least you
ought to be able to educate yourself to the basics of it. And, um, and having done that,
then you can, I think, like with everything else, you can give it a piece of your time and
attention that is serious and devoted because on like focused attention is our greatest resource.
And if you can give the tradition a little bit of that, so I tell people all the time,
you know, if you say a blessing before you eat, that's a very powerful thing. And if you make
sure you always do that, that becomes part of your life and part of your ability to stop and
think before you put something in your mouth about your place in the universe, your gratitude,
that it's there, all those kinds of things. So there are little things that you can do.
Well, an even more powerful version of that for me is the shahekianu.
Right. Do you want to say a little bit about how that functions in our tradition?
The shahekianu is a prayer that you say when something is new or unprecedented or it's a
