earth. They are excellent game players and they are a force to be reckoned with. And so there's
a certain kind of respect that one has to have for Iran as a major intellectual, cultural
and military powerhouse. And so part of the fear of Iran comes out of a reverence for
Persian culture. What I want to do is to try to get out of this black and white thinking,
so that we are actually able to talk about different problems of these communities and to
say, here's what's good, here's what's bad. For example, one of the things that I think you
and I both struggle with is how to talk about the need that you and I may feel to support Israel
in the context of being somewhat open about Israel's various failings and brutalisms
of a community that it should not and does not wish to be occupying.
Right. It's very hard to talk about Israel these days in any kind of sophisticated way because
the camps are so, as you said, they're so polarized and also the stakes for the sides
are so high. Yeah, it's that kind of political conversation gets overwhelmed by the loudest
voices on each side of the conversation. And it's just, it's very hard and invariably,
it doesn't take place in a vacuum. I mean, look, even the Israel-Palestinian issue doesn't take
place in a vacuum. It's part of a much larger picture of the Middle East in general. I always
want to talk about the Ottoman-Palestinian issue. Yeah, exactly. Jordanian-Palestinian issue.
That's right. I know, which is really important. And also because what people don't realize,
Mati Friedman, who is a journalist in Israel and an author of several really fine books,
talks about this a lot, is that half of Israel's population comes from the Middle East. We think
of it as sort of Europe sitting in the Middle East, but it's not. The culture is from the Middle
East, the music is from the Middle East, the food is from the Middle East. And so it's actually,
in some ways, he says this to be a little provocative, but it's somewhat true. It's partly
a creation of the Arab states who, after all, expelled their Jews who ran to Israel.
And so there's this larger mosaic of a struggle all through the Middle East about what kind of
culture will be created there that makes it not so easy to just talk about, these people are good
and these people are bad. It's, as you said, these conversations require more time and thought
and nuance than we generally give them. Well, but I guess one of the things that really concerns me,
and maybe I can do this first with the U.S. and then take the same lens and put it on Israel,
or let's start with the U.S., Britain, and then Israel. I am a huge fan of all three of these
countries. Part of being attached to these cultures is being able to talk about the actual,
you use the word Peskutsva, the dirty disgusting things that each of these cultures have done.
And including in the U.S. context, my family was not treated well by our country during the
McCarthy era. For the Jews, we're going for far-left stuff. Some of it dipped into communism
and the anti-communism, I'm weirdly against communism and against anti-communism. I view them as twin
scourges. With all my knowledge of this country and all of its crimes and all of its lapses and
its failure to live up to its own ideals and the transgressions of the Dulles brothers, all this
stuff, I love this country. And it's not the love of a child for a perfect idealized parent before
teenage years set that straight. It's a mature love saying, I know what a nation is and I know
that they have to lie and I know that they have terrible periods in their histories and all told,
this is really an important and fantastic place. That's how I feel about England. I mean,
God knows those people were brutal in the colonial eras to all sorts of people. But
you see these people in Hong Kong waving British flags with Chinese faces and you realize it's
a much more complicated situation. In Bombay, where my wife is from, you get into conversations with
people and it's very like, here's the good stuff we got from the British, here's the bad stuff.
This is the same for me with Israel. I don't want to have to say, hey, we're so moral, we're so
wonderful, we've done everything perfectly because we have it. But it doesn't negate the need to
support this state. I don't understand why it is that I'm in some situation where people say,
well, don't you realize that they've done this, that and the other horrible thing? So you should
be against it. Right. Yes. Well, I mean, I would say if there's one underlying theme that has run
through the, I don't know how long we've been podcasting, but it seems like it is. But just
like in the desert, every single day has been meaningful. But if there's one theme, it is the
rejection of absolutism and simplicity for complexity and the willingness to hold two sides
and say they're both valid. And that's what I think we have lost increasingly in this
culture is that everybody is a crusader for the black and the white and not for all the shades
in between, which is really where all of us live for most of our lives. We just don't apply it to
the great issues, but we need to. All right, I've got two more topics and then I'll let you out.
Okay. Okay. First one is kind of a dangerous one, which is that I'm watching the Holocaust
survivors in my life dwindle to a handful and mostly they were child children during the period.
I am increasingly convinced that we are wasting the twilight of living memory of the Holocaust
by not approaching Germany and offering a much deeper reconciliation than we have to date.
That in some sense, we got bound up, we Jews got bound up in German culture. Obviously,
Yiddish language is middle-high German of some infused with. Yes. We benefited a great deal
from Germanic and Teutonic things and they benefited a great deal from having us as a
community attached to them. No question. We were in some sense may have been too similar
and caused some problem because if you think about the German contribution, 1700s, 1800s,
yeah, incomparable. Yes. Should we be using this time before the last
who remember this period to come up with a deeper reconciliation between the two cultures?
I'm not sure what that would look like if you would.
Well, for example, you know, Klezmer, the Jewish jazz, died out pretty much has a tiny canon on
recorded material and it got revitalized because Germans were willing to pay for
modern. Right. But what would it mean? I mean, what are we not doing that we should do? We should
encourage Jews to travel to Germany. We should, I mean, there's a pretty
close relationship of Germany and Israel, for example. Yeah, I'm talking a more personal
relationship. I feel very weird about the connection. I still don't feel, I drive a
Volkswagen. I don't feel really comfortable with it. I mean, there's some sort of ceremonial
ritualistic thing of letting young German, I worried about the German guilt and the whole
migration crisis where Germans are still saying we are not Nazis. And I'm looking at these people
and saying, you know, you're maybe something problematic in the cultural lineage, but don't
overdo the guilt because that's going to snap back on. I do remember years ago, I went to Germany
as part of a delegation of Jewish leaders from the Conrad Adenauer Foundation. And it was an
amazing trip. And I don't know if they still do that. But I just, I think that you're up against
a deeper problem, which is that Americans in general and American Jews also don't
connect to any foreign country, particularly. We are so, I had a group of this past about,
I don't know, three, four months ago, Frank Luntz brought a group from NYU Abu Dhabi. So if there
were students from all over the world, and most of them from the Middle East, they brought them
to the synagogue and I spoke to them about a range of issues. And one of them said to me,
what makes America, what's America's greatest blessing or its greatest gift? And I said,
that's easy. Canada, Mexico, ocean, ocean. I said, more than anything else, because think
of where you live and how you have all these different, you know, competing cultures around
you. I said, we have two really, I mean, yes, we once had a war with Mexico, but we have two
countries on our border that pose absolutely no threat to us. Immigration aside, I'm talking
about threat, threat, military threat, massed right on the border. And the oceans have never
attacked us, except once in JAWS. That was it. So the isolation, that's why Americans don't speak
foreign languages. That's why we don't generally know foreign countries very well. And that,
I think, is part of the reason why we haven't come to know Germany better. I think it's more to do
with that even than with a cultural reluctance to do it. I'm convinced that if we don't get to
know Germany better, as you say, we will not come to understand ourselves, because a lot of our
history was bound up. And I also believe that a guilty Germany is a danger to the planet. And that
we are, it is up to us to release modern Germans from some of the horror of the guilt, because
it wasn't them. No modern Germany is guilty. I mean, unless maybe they're in their 90s,
that's what I'm saying, the last of them. But anybody under, I guess, 80, I don't know that,
I have to do the exact... The reason it's on my mind is I just spoke... I had thought that I might
open the podcast with a cousin I had never met, Eva Kor, who was a Mengele twin who forgave Mengele.
And I just spoke to her and she said, yeah, I'll do it when I come back. And then she went to Auschwitz
for her annual pilgrimage and she died in Poland on the trip. So I'm, it's very much on my mind.
Right. I will be there actually this year. I'm doing the March of the Living in March or April
right after Passover. I'm going to do it this year. I've never done it. So, and what's the second
issue? The last question. The last, yes. Let me imagine that we were able to learn
our own source code in physics. So that after this, whatever this final theory
might be, there was no reason to keep searching mathematically for a more complete theory.
How would that affect potentially your relationship to Judaism? And can you conceive
of what the kind of shape and nature of such a theory would be scientifically so that
we stopped asking for further refinements and to push further?
So I think, first of all, for me to talk to you about what a final theory in physics would look
like is, is a presumption that all your listeners just must be cracking up at.
No, we're both in the transcendence business, sir.
But I mean, I like, I always liked the Robert Jastrow image, which you may know that he said,
when physicists, you know, climb that final mountain, they're going to find
God looking at them from the other side. I know you're rolling your eyes. I don't
know if people listening can see that. I always liked it. I liked the image.
Come on, a little poetry in your physics. I am sure you can. I have no doubt about that.
I think that the I have, I don't believe that it's possible. And I'll tell you why I say that.
I have a deep and abiding faith in the limitations of the human mind. And by that,
I don't mean that we can't do astonishing things. But part when I ask people sometimes,
this is how you can tell if you're religious. Is there a mystery at the heart of the world?
Not a puzzle, but a mystery, because a puzzle you can figure out, but a mystery is,
in principle, unfigureoutable. And I really believe that there is a mystery at the heart
of the universe, not a puzzle, so that we won't ever have the kind of final theory that you're
talking about, because the world is created by something infinitely greater than anything we
can imagine. When I have to talk about God to high school kids, for example, and I tell them,
look, I have no idea what God is. I have no idea. I said, think of it this way,
when you were two years old, could you have imagined what a 14-year-old is? Not only could
you not have imagined it, you couldn't have imagined what it is that you can't imagine.
So I assume that whatever is out there, that whatever is ultimate, is so far beyond anything
or any human being can conceive of, that I think our fate is to always search and be more and more
more comprehensive, but never to achieve the kind of finality that is suggested by your question.
See, that's really weird to me. I'll give you two examples of why it doesn't work.
For me, I'm not saying you're wrong. The first is the number of different phenomena
that were encompassed by Maxwell's equations. I can really write Maxwell's equations in a
modern context in one line. It doesn't require four different equations. And all of that stuff
about x-rays and UV and visible light and magnetism and electricity, it's all subsumed in this one
damn equation. So there are these condensations where you realize that it's much simpler than
you ever imagined. So one, I think you're discounting the amount of unification, the idea that every
living thing is predicated on 20 amino acids and four nucleotides so far as we know, or that everything
that you see out there is just up quarks, down quarks, electrons, and whatever we use to stick
them together. It looks very varied, but the set is very small. The other thing I might say is imagine
that you begin in a neighborhood and you're exploring the planet, and every time
you walk in a direction, you find new, wondrous, magical things you've never seen before.
You will incorrectly infer that if you keep walking, it will always be thus. And you won't see
the age of intercontinental exploration come to a close. I think you've discounted both of those
things. Well, and what I would say to you is 500 years ago, you were in the position of that
two-year-old. You couldn't imagine what you couldn't imagine the Maxwell's equations would answer or
that... I mean, look, I think about when I was a kid and we used to think we're going to travel
around on jetpacks. If I had said to you, no, you won't travel around on jetpacks, but you will hold
all of human knowledge in your pocket. I would have said, you're crazy. That couldn't be. And yet
now we do. I have a great deal of faith in the unfathomable. I think that you're making the opposite
mistake because we have figured out so much as compared to 1,000 years ago, we are therefore
close to the end. And what I think is with every discovery, you will discover vast realms of
ignorance that you haven't yet even begun to tap that will make the idea of a final theory
a comprehensive theory. You're mistaken what a final theory is. There's a question about going
down towards the foundations. There's a question about going up towards the consequences. I will
agree that if we go down towards the foundations, that tells us nothing about all the different
ways we might arrange what we learn at the foundations to create emergence. So what are you
asking me about how I envision a final theory? That it would be mathematical, that it would be
religious. Presumably you know we've been trying to come up with the theory of everything.
When you hear the words theory of everything, I mean, I always think that the physicists who
traffic in that have never thought through the question of, assume that you actually,
you know, that the dog caught the car. Do you have any idea of what that would even look like?
Because to say this is complete, does it have no beginning? You say unmoved mover,
like there's no boundary condition. I mean, you give me an idea of how crazy this is. Let me give
you my version of God since you've given me some indication of yours. Okay, go ahead.
I believe that God starts off being a boundary condition, being a design constraint, completely
inanimate, non-sentient. And the reason that I don't like the thing about get to the highest peak
and you reach the end and God is there is that it mistakes the magic that I think might happen,
which is we're worrying right now about artificial intelligence. We don't realize that we are the
artificial intelligence that arose in the system. And if Darwinian theory is true,
right, this bubbled up emergently, and that when we learn our own source code,
is that what effectively creates a meaningful version of God? Because it started out inanimate
and that we are that which will animate it because we are that which arose emergently within the
system. So I don't know. I mean, I'm tempted to repair to the Asimov story where the supreme
intelligence, you know, after it reaches its culmination, spits out a message and the message
says, let there be light. I don't remember the name of the story. I remember reading it as a kid.
But I think when the dog catches the car, it will discover that it doesn't entirely understand
what the car is. But I don't know. I mean, it's so far beyond what I am capable of understanding
about the shape of the theory, as it exists now, never mind what the final theory would be,
that I can only take refuge in theological speculations. I don't have physics or mathematical
speculation. And the theological speculation is, as in, to quote, one of the great churchfathers
Aquinas, that we're like that we're emptying the ocean with a teaspoon.
Well, you know, the part that I can agree with you is when people ask me, what's your best guess
is to the meaning of life? I always think it's a trap. But the sentence I come up with that makes
sure you don't spill out into any easy answer is the meaning of life for me is the struggle to impart
meaning to meaning. And that way, if you decide that life is meaningless, or you say that you
really know what the meaning of life absolutely is, you fail because you're no longer struggling.
Right. And so everything that you're talking about speaks of the struggle which animates us
and keeps us vital. That is a beautiful sentence on which to end. Well, Rabbi Wolpe, thank you for
joining us here. Thank you. And we return you now back through the portal. You've been enjoying it
with Rabbi Wolpe of Temple Sinai in Los Angeles. Be well.
