infant hood. Right. And that the experience that you could do everything differently
was a shock. Yeah, it is a shock. And that people are as happy as, you know, kind as everything
that this, I mean, that's one of the advantages of the modern world, the post imperialist world,
that is really important is that the automatic assumption of the superiority of a culture
can no longer be maintained the way that it was unthinkingly even 50 years ago,
you know, and that's a good thing. Well, it is a good thing, but it's also not a good,
but it's also a problematic. So can we talk about this from our perspective because
one of the things that's driving me crazy at the moment in 2019 is self-hating Jews have been
a thing. It's a very tough road to hoe if you're Jewish and there's always this
temptation to turn on the group. Yes. I am seeing that same thing become self-hating Christians,
self-hating Americans, self-hating Europe. No question about it. And no one can figure out
how to say, you know what, I'm not necessarily against anybody else, but this culture is my
responsibility and it would be a little bit weird if Italians didn't think Italian food was amazing.
Yes. I think that the, we have to learn how to use the but without invalidating everything
that came before it, by which I mean you have to be able to say Western civilization has done,
but Europe, America, so on, terrible things, cruel things, unspeakable things, violence in all sorts
of ways, but it also gave the world its greatest benefits, its greatest blessings. The end of
slavery happened in Western civilization, not in Eastern civilizations, on and on and on and on,
and you have to be able to mean both. The problem is that everybody seems to align on one side of
the butter on the other. That is, they're either entirely devoted to the critique or they're entirely
devoted to the boosterism and you have to be able to hold both ends of the pole. You have to be able
to say, look, America does terrible things sometimes and that's real, but on the other hand,
look at what America brings to the world and has brought to the world. But where did this
polarization come from? I mean, all we do is we struggle and we weigh things and then it's so
I'm about to swear and I'm going to stop myself from doing it. It's so simplistic.
Yes, we do not live in the age of nuance. We live in the age of Twitter debate.
I'm going to disagree with this. I think we do live in the age of nuance. It's not that,
it's that the structures that used to support nuance where you could trust that that structure
could hold a perimeter have broken down. For example, I used to read the economist for nuance.
Institutionally, it seems to be under fire. Now, humans that used to work for the economist
are sipping their cognac saying, wow, this has really gone to hell in a handbasket,
but it's the institutional, the pressures on institutions are different from the pressures
on the autonomous individual. If you're lucky enough to have your own source of income or to
have your own wealth and you don't have to primarily work through things that are incorporated in
some sense, you can have nuance. It's now the sense making channels and I'm going to specifically
single out like the news organs, the political parties, the universities that have seen this
unbelievable crashing and burning going from problematic institutions that probably had
bigotries and prejudices and biases to lost, I mean, just embarrassingly lost structures that
can't remember why they exist. They realize that they're unfair. I feel like they're monks wearing
hair shirts, flagellating themselves for their imperfections.
Well, I think that part of that, I just would be no surprise to you, is in the age of instant
response, people are gun shy about straying from the orthodoxy of their team because it's one thing
if you're going to write an article and you're going to get some letters and some people will
be upset. But it's another thing if you're going to get slammed on Twitter and in social media
and people are going to write Facebook posts about you, you get scared.
Okay, but let's-
And therefore people don't venture out of their circle. And so if you're on one side of the
divide, you don't say anything nice about the people on the other side of the divide.
Yeah, but let's talk about what's really one of our best features as a culture, which is the
courage to stand alone. Now, one of the weird things, I just came from San Francisco where I was
at the kitchen, which is a congregation of kind of experimental Judaism. And one of the things
that I love in Judaism is when you're in the standing prayer, you take your time to say your
standing prayer and you don't necessarily sit down all at once. So you've always got some people
who take longer than everybody else who are just literally standing alone. And I always thought,
what a great aspect to have this be normal to stand alone. Now, I bring that up because I was
thinking recently about the weird fact that I know all of the names of the senators who opposed
the Patriot Act in the wake of 9-11, right? Because they're all named Feingold.
Russ Feingold was the only guy to vote against the Patriot Act when it was passed because
the country was in a fever to do something to take away people's rights. And one guy said,
no, right? I don't remember anybody's name on the other side of that vote, right? There's something
about standing alone, which I think speaks to our best impulses.
Yes. I mean, I certainly understand that the indispensable quality to lead a good life is
courage and that courage is hard. And you'd see it on display every single day when in Twitter,
which is a universe that you and I both inhabit, and Facebook and other places.
I should warn you, apparently, I suck. I'm an idiot and I totally don't get it.
Exactly. There you go.
To say something that is against the orthodoxy of the side that you have up to then identified with
is, you know, probably like you, I get attacked from the left and the right. And I have people
all the time who tell me that I'm clearly a conservative and other people tell me that
I'm clearly a liberal because I actually, I vary in my reaction to different, right,
to different things, exactly, to different things. But it's very hard. It's really very hard.
And I remember after the same-sex marriage thing, I remember saying to my daughter,
something really wonderful that Churchill said after the Boer War, he said,
it's exhilarating to be shot at without result, which I thought was great. And I said,
you see, all these people were angry at me and all of them wrote bad things about me or said
bad things about me. Because you came out for- Because I came out for same-sex marriage. And
then I said I would start to do same-sex marriages. And a lot of members of my congregation and
elsewhere, it was such a big controversy. It was literally on the front page of the New York
and the LA Times. That's how big a deal it was. There were a lot of attacks and some of them were
very vicious, as you can imagine. But I wanted her to see that it was okay to say things that
people- I said the people who loved me still love me and the people who hated me still hate me.
And some of them maybe moved into one category or the other. But in the end, it's not-
How fast is this normalized? I mean, I remember that it was-
It took a while. It took a while.
I think, to be honest-
Oh, you're talking about gay marriage.
Well, I'm incredible.
I don't even call it gay marriage.
Yeah, whatever it is.
Whatever it is.
But like-
The fastest I've ever seen.
Six years ago, I heard the word- a man say the word husband for the first time about
his partner. And I thought, oh, I didn't know how that resolved. How would the words even be
assigned? Now it's the most normal thing in the world. And the other odd part about it,
the other one that went that fast was smoking. I was like, no progress, no progress, no progress.
Yes.
You can't smoke in a bar?
I know.
I mean, like people-
It's true.
Right. Okay.
Those are the two fastest social changes that I-
Well, but it makes me wonder how many of these things really just require one penguin
to jump into the water and find out that there's no leopard seal that can take it
before there's a mass exodus. I think right now, nobody believes in the New York Times
or Fox or CNN. We know that they're all compromised.
And we also know that, for example, the Democratic and Republican parties
are worthless. They are standing in the way of our future. And what we don't know is how to get
out of these- we're in a straight jacket imposed by people we didn't elect, didn't choose,
that are not functioning according to the best aspects of those traditions.
I mean, I haven't- I was a critic of the New York Times in the 80s.
It's something different now. And these things are not wholesome. They're not ours.
And we need to get rid of them. And part of what the portal is, is a search for a way out.
If I don't like either political party, if I don't like any of my sense-making
organs for journalism, how do I escape this?
I don't- look, I have been a registered independent most of my life.
Exactly the reason that you expressed was I didn't think that either one sufficiently
represented what I thought about the world for me to be one or the other. And that is
even truer today than it has ever been in my lifetime. And I would say that the amplification
of this kind of conversation and the kind of conversations that you have with the people in
your world and circle, that's hopefully that will start to spread out. It was in the late 1980s
that the first article was written by Andrew Sullivan about same-sex marriage.
So that's an incredibly fast social- that was the first time it was mentioned.
The very fast social change. This could- I mean, the structures are clearly under stress.
I don't know how fast things collapse. I mean, the night before the Soviet Union went away,
everybody thought it was going to last forever. So maybe there are structures inside of the
states that people think will be ever-enduring, that will transform before our eyes. As a result
of the portal, the portal will give them a new way- Insha'Allah. Exactly, will give them a new
way to be. Or Bezrat Hashem, as we say on our side of the religious, yeah.
Exactly, I think it's good. I like that. I look at half of my congregation, maybe more,
is from Iran. Right. And so Insha'Allah is a very common-
Well, can we talk about our weird similarity with Islam? Because I think both you and I have
commented on this. Aside from the part that is like crazy murderous, anti-feminist, etc., etc.
I just love it. Right? Like, I'm very Islamophilic. The strength of the community, the warmth,
the food, the generosity, the discomfort with direct depictions of the divine.
I mean, there's tremendous homology between Jews and Muslims. And in fact, I think
they opened up a kosher deli in Harvard Square, and all of my Muslim friends were eating at the
kosher because Halal was close enough to Kashrut. Exactly. What do we do with this? I mean,
it's- We're in such a weird place. It is agonizing. It's agonizing because, first of all,
Jews and Christians have reached a rapprochement that would have been unimaginable for previous
generations. And so one can hope that the same thing would happen with Islam and Judaism.
Right now, so much of the focus is political, which is also a problem in general.
You know, when people have nothing, no culture is in common.
All the talk turns to politics, and politics swallows everything. And because America doesn't
have a common culture anymore, nobody watches the same shows or reads the same books or
listens to the same music. Yeah, sort of. That Game of Thrones thing was pretty big.
It was pretty big. But my guess, it was pretty big in- Even there wasn't big like, you know-
Like Walter Cronkite. Exactly. So everything becomes politics. And when politics starts to
swallow everything, including relations between religions, it- I don't want to say it poisons it,
but it poisons it. Well, I've been looking to humor and music. And I don't know. I want you to
check out my favorite band. Okay. My favorite band is a band called the Cominas. All right.
And I think they're out of Boston. And I think the word Comina means like bastards,
like the momsers, you know? Yeah. And they are a bunch of, I think, Muslim graduate students who
formed something like this. And they started off doing Islamo punk. So they had a song called
Suicide Bomb, The Gap. And they had another song called Sharia Law in the USA. And their album
was Wild Nights in Guantanamo Bay. They were so funny and witty. And they were actually doing
super dangerous- It sounds like- Right? Like if you perform this stuff in Lahore or someplace,
you know, it's no joke. But because they were, you know, they were clearly like witty and introspective
and playing with the dangerous stuff and doing it in public, I felt this instant connection. I think
that they've told me that they're not happy with me. I'm sure it's because they don't know me or
because I hang around with Sam Harris. But I'm looking to boost the signal of all of these people
who are willing to struggle in public. Yes. Because that's what, that is what you need. And you,
as you said, you need those lone voices I still have in my head about 10 years ago. We had
a bunch of scholars from around the world, religion scholars. There were graduate students
and some professors who came to a service at the synagogue. And afterwards, a guy from Pakistan
said to me, you know, I've never been in a synagogue. I had no idea what yous were like.
You're completely different from everything I learned growing up. And the service is different
and everything is different. And I said, just do me one favor. When you go home, tell people.
And he said, no one will believe me. And I thought, no one will believe you.
And I mean, what do you do with that? We got to do something better with this. I used to travel in
the Islamic world openly as a Jew. And I can tell you, I was treated so incredibly well. Now,
I always was concerned that this was a stupid way of making a statement. And I would not do this
now. I don't think I would do it today. Only one place I ever encountered open antisemitism
was in Kargil on the border between India and Pakistan, where it said if every Muslim would
simply dump one bucket of water on the state of Israel, it would soon be washed to the sea or
something like this. So I did very often have the experience of somebody saying I'd never met a Jew
before. And I had a completely different idea of who you would be. There is the aspect in return,
which is I don't know what we do about the problem with some portion of Islam having become
cancerous and being spread through this internal network. And so much that is wonderful, wholesome
and decent, co-traveling with this sort of jihadist impulse. You know, look, we have our
own crazies. It's true, but it seems like in terms of a threat to the world, this is right now the
preeminent. Well, we got to be able to talk. Look, we have to be able to discuss this. And the thing
that I found, I would say my friend group has probably at its maximum was about 30% Muslim.
And the thing that changed my thinking about Islam and Judaism, it began with a lunch. And
there were three couples, one Jewish, which I was part of, one Muslim, where we had fixed them up,
and then one mixed where we had also fixed them up, one Jew, one Muslim. So the subject of Islam
and terror came up. And the table split straight down the middle with respect to whether there was
a connection between Islam and terror with Jews on one side and Muslims on the other. And the Jews
were all saying, this is a terrible blood libel that Muslims have been tarred with. And the Muslims
said, what the hell is your problem, Jews? This is a serious problem in our community. And you
better wake up to the fact that this is something you have to be able to talk about. And it was
very strange because we were each doing the work of the other community. Very interesting. Well,
I have not had, I haven't had that problem because as I said, given that so many of my members
grew up in Iran, they have no problem talking about what their perception is. And they consider
Iran in particular to be the great rogue state and the leadership of Iran to be as dangerous as
virtually anything in the world. Although many of them, not all, but many of them have a lot of
confidence in or at least a lot of affection for the people and think that they're very different
from their government. Well, that's certainly that is the case. But the other issue with Iran,
let's be honest, is that Persians are one of the most accomplished people in the face of the
