Welcome. You've found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and I'm here today with
my guest, David Walpe, who is the rabbi of Sinai Temple here in Los Angeles. David is
often thought to be one of the most influential rabbis currently in the United States. He's
been named so by Newsweek and finds himself in various lists of important rabbis. Welcome
to the portal, David. Thank you. Happy to be here.
You and I improbably met in Belgrade in Serbia, and we shared a bus ride, and that bus ride
has been on my mind in a way that it probably hasn't been playing through your mind. But
I wondered if we might begin this podcast by deciding that we would avoid certain well-worn
tropes. I don't want to get into, does God exist or doesn't He? And the question that I want to
begin with is, for our listeners who have been searching for some kind of spiritual outlet but
are also frustrated with being very analytic, intellectual, in fact oriented, what is that
God versus no God conversation crowding out that needs to be more present in the public
dialogue? That is a wonderful question. And I think that what the public dialogue really
needs very desperately is how do you create community and interdependence that people take
seriously and is lifelong in the absence of some particular kind of transcendent belief?
And I think that that is the most valuable thing that religion gives its adherence,
and it's even more valuable in some ways than personal meaning, because you and I both know
that religion used to think it had a monopoly on the possibility of personal meaning, but a lot of
people live their lives without a religious sense and would not say that their lives are meaningless,
but they do need community. And community, especially in such an atomized age and especially
in modern America, is very hard to create and to find. And this transcendent shared transcendent
idea gives you community, but in that absence, I don't know how you construct it, but that
doesn't mean there isn't a way. We need to learn how to do that, or at least to start talking about
it. And one of the things that I would hope is that people in religious communities and people
outside of religious communities could talk about that and how to do it without letting specific
beliefs wreck the conversation. So this is always tricky for me, because we have these various
concepts to try to keep our religion and our scientific beliefs separate. We have questions
about should I abstract what was previously concrete so that it remains relevant in my
current life. And there always feels to be a bit of a cheat in all of this, yet if we don't make
these kind of cheats or half measures or accommodations, we find a very uncomfortable
outcome, which is that most of these religions had their ancient texts written well before we
had as much detail as we currently do about the scientific world. And we're happiest where they
were abstract and we're most troubled where they were concrete. It's true. Look, there's a lot of
passages that, in my own tradition, that I explain exactly the way you do, which is this is the
creation of an ancient culture. And there are things about it that we have grown beyond. And I
don't have a problem saying that, although many of my co-religionists would hate the idea that a
rap I would say that, but I don't have a problem saying that. However, the result of adherence
to things that I find objectionable, I find admirable. In other words, there are communities
who believe things. Let's forget Judaism for a minute, forget my own community. There are other
communities that believe things that I think are objectively either untrue or just wild or even,
I can't imagine how someone could believe that. And yet they lead admirable lives and have admirable
communities and have values that I think most of us would share. There may be add-ons that we
wouldn't, but they managed to do that. And so the question is, is it possible to create responsible,
interdependent communities without those kinds of beliefs? I don't think we've answered that
question yet, but I think it's becoming more and more urgent. So I think we should just say something
a little bit about our own intellectual backgrounds. Now, I think the last time we were together in
Serbia, I let you know that I really identify as an atheist. And what's more, my family has somehow
been atheistic for four or five generations, yet always with Jews marrying other Jews and
keeping Jewish traditions going. And I shared with you a mystery in my life, which is that of all of
the five or six rabbis that I've gotten to know well enough to ask the question, do you believe
in the God of the Old Testament as is literally talked about? None of them,
reform, conservative, or even orthodox, believe that that character actually exists.
So there are at least two things to say, but I'll start with two. One is, for those of your
listeners who are Christian or who grew up with no belief, but in a Christian, not in a Jewish
context, this may be a mystery that I can unravel, how someone could be a fifth generation Jewish
atheist, because Judaism is not a religion. Christianity is a religion in the sense that
if tomorrow I believe in Jesus, I'm Christian. If the day after I don't, I'm not. But tomorrow,
if I say to you, you know, Eric, all those things I said on the podcast, I don't believe any of them
anymore. I'm still Jewish. And that's because Judaism is a category that doesn't exist in
modern America. I would use the word tribe, but tribe has negative connotations today. So let me
say, choose our podcast. Not on this podcast. No, adaptive tribal behavior is normal. So we
make a distinction between adaptive and maladaptive. I'm going to say nonetheless, to avoid any
misunderstanding that it's a religious family. You're born into a family in the same way that
you're born into Judaism. Unless you choose another family, you're part of that family.
And so Jews have forever, at least for a long time, without leaving and going to another religion,
at which point they're effectively written out of the Jewish, forget what Jewish law says,
they're effectively written out of the Jewish community. They've said, look, I don't believe
this, that or the other thing. And they're still Jewish. So that's why Jewish atheist is not,
in fact, I will tell you a story several years ago, I had to give through someone that I knew,
it doesn't matter how I got there, I was supposed to give a blessing at Carl Reiner's 90th birthday
party. So I get up and I start to give a blessing and somebody calls out from the audience,
why is there a rabbi here? Reiner's an atheist. So he- Is that Mel Brooks? No, it could have been,
but it wasn't actually. He runs up to the stage, stands next to me and says, I'm not an atheist.
I'm a Jewish atheist and that's different. And he's right, because there is a culture to adhere to.
Christianity doesn't have that kind of comprehensive culture, which makes,
and here are the advantages and disadvantages. It makes Christianity much more portable,
because you can keep your culture in every way. So you can go to the Congo, you can have a completely
different culture, but if you believe in Jesus, my work here is done. But Judaism, especially because
of Jewish law, it has many more cultural implications. And therefore, the advantage of Christianity
is that it's portable. The advantage of Judaism is that it's familial. So when the Soviet Union
was persecuting Jews back in the 70s and 80s, they were persecuting Christians too,
but there was no worldwide Christian movement to save Christians. But there was a worldwide
Jewish movement to save Jews, because there was that sense of familial connection.
I've always wondered why we put up with Christian persecution.
Well, I think that part of the reason is because there isn't that, oh my God,
that's my brother or sister being persecuted. On the part of Christians, it's, whereas for Jews,
there is this adaptive tribal behavior. So both systems have their strengths and weaknesses,
but they are different. Well, and then there's the very weird
aspect that I believe that in large measure, what we are as Jews, rides on a Christian substrate
that if you think about Christianity as one of our two main spinoffs,
then American Judaism really, in some sense, benefits by riding on the substrate that its
spinoff developed and being something of a counterweight, but also showing some sort of
relationship to that. I think that's perfectly fair. And I think that look what Christianity
gave to the world that Judaism and Islam could not, and I have an explanation for
why that is, is the invaluable gift among many other things. I mean, I don't mean to restrict
Christianity's cultural contributions to this, but among many other things, it gave the separation
of church and state. Yeah, that was huge. And Jews couldn't have done it, and Muslims couldn't
have done it. And the reason, I believe, this is my theory, but it sounds really sound, is
Christianity arose in the Roman Empire. So civil law. Literally. Yes.
Render under Caesar. Exactly. Civil law was taken care of. But if you're creating a religion,
as Muhammad and Moses did, in the desert, you need civil law and religious law alike.
So Islam and Judaism didn't make that distinction between civil and religious law. Christianity
had to because it grew up in Rome. And so that gift that has been given us has been given us by
Christians. Well, and so you immediately get to a very dangerous and also very interesting area,
which is the unbundling of a religion. So when you ask a question about what is a religion,
and you say, well, it's a certain amount of it is faith, certain amount of it has to do with
technical explanations for the world around you, certain amount of it has to do with law,
and you can break that up into civil and criminal. Another thing that we were dancing around is,
is the Judaism is effectively a breeding protocol. There's a very strange moment when you sign up
for 23andMe, and you spit into the tube, and you get a result that tells you how Jewish you are.
I know. I have Chinese friends who hold up their results and says, look, I'm 128th Jewish.
Likewise, for me, I was almost, I just didn't anticipate being told that I was plus 98%
Jewish as part of my genetic information. So you start to bundle all of these things together,
and then you have this very weird question. This goes back to a little bit of Sam Harris'
struggle where he says, not all religions are created equal. We have a very uncomfortable
treatment of religion where we pretend not to unbundle them because we don't want to be judgmental,
but you can qualitatively say this religion has a legal structure, this one doesn't,
this legal structure is attenuated. In Judaism, the way that we get out of this law,
let's be honest about some problems that we have. Deuteronomy says something like,
if somebody says worship ancestors that are not known to our fathers, set upon them with a stone.
Yeah, there are some harsh things in the Hebrew Bible.
Well, right, and it's been very important, and I struggle with how to say this, I always find a
biological analogy with regulated expression. There are certain portions of the Jewish code
that it's important that we not run in modern times. It's not clear that that ever ran,
so far as I know, the Jewish stonings of apostates. But the way we get out of it, as we say,
as long as the temple isn't built, we can't convene the religious courts that would meet
out the punishment, and therefore nobody's actually going to get prosecuted or something like that.
So yeah, well, when you say we, not you and I, that's the way a very traditional
understanding might get out of it. Some things, by the way, were already
effectively eliminated by the rabbis of the Talmud.
So having an oral Torah as well as a written Torah.
Right, an oral Torah as well as a written Torah.
Let's say what the oral Torah is, because that might not be true.
Right. So, Judy, you can be a Jewish literalist, but you can't be a Jewish fundamentalist,
because a fundamentalist, by definition, thinks all the answers are in a plain reading of the text.
And Judaism never believed in a plain reading of the text.
It always said the Torah means the Torah here being the Hebrew Bible.
The Torah means what the rabbis say the Torah means. And sometimes their readings sound to us
very forced, very creative, very open and expansive, sometimes restrictive, depending.
But no rabbi will ever say when you come to them, just go home, the answer is all in the Torah.
It's in the tradition. So Judaism is an exegetical tradition and therefore a lot of things over time
get interpreted out of the tradition and that's legitimate. That's not considered like,
how could you make that move? That's not okay. It's a legal tradition and therefore
things get changed along the way. Now, like any legal tradition, it has elastic boundaries,
but they snap. Unlike rabbis who would say call themselves on the right wing of Orthodoxy,
what I would say is modernity is a snap with the tradition. And so there are things that I don't
believe intellectually, honestly, I can say that the tradition endorses, but I nonetheless
endorse them. And the example, the best example that I can give is gay marriage.
I know that some of my colleagues have tried to read gay marriage into the sources. I think it's
forced beyond what you can actually legitimately try, no matter how acrobatic your exegetical
skills. My answer is that we see the world differently and we shouldn't deny that we see
the world differently. And the question is, how do you create a modern Judaism that is authentically
modern, not just that is in full fidelity to sources that, as you say, have to be unbundled?
So just because I've never actually uttered the word exegetical, do you want to talk about?
Exegetical is basically interpretive, interpretive. So to do exegesis is to interpret the text. So I
will give you, here's an example. The Torah says that you should not do melacha on Shabbat on the
Sabbath. And then it never tells you what melacha is. So the rabbis had to decide what it is you're
not allowed to do on the Sabbath. And they come up with all sorts of rules, doesn't matter how they
get there. But the point is, no text is self-explanatory. Well, so this is one of the,
geez, there's so many different ways to go from this point. One of the differences that I like
to point to between religions has to do with claims in another spin-off, which is Islam,
that the Quran is its own exegesis. And therefore, interpretation somehow pollutes the purity of
the text. Now, there are different schools within Islam, or I think four schools of,
main schools of jurisprudence, or maybe there are more, I don't know. But is that a major difference
between these two traditions? I would say, I don't want to pronounce on Islam. I would say to the
extent that any tradition says that a text does not have to be interpreted, Judaism would take
issue with that. That there is no way out. There is no way out of interpretation of any text. It
doesn't matter how elaborate, how long. And how literal. And how literal. No. Because even the
most literal text, I mean, the Ten Command, thou shalt not murder. What is murder? How can you
not? How can you say that self-explanatory? It's not. I murder is, you know.
Right. So I guess, for me, one of the problems that I have traditionally had with like the Sam
Harris School of Interpretation is that there is a hidden assumption, which is that the literal
interpretation of text, as if such a thing existed, holds pride of place. Because it is,
in some sense, the minimally distant from the text. Therefore, one should interpret
any organization by its texts with the minimal distortion from interpretation. Whereas my belief
is any structure, and in some ways the US plays this role with the Constitution being akin to our
written Torah and the rabbis being the Supreme Court and constantly having to interpret the
document, I find it very strange that we would be so caught up in the text of the document,
given that we have to have ways of living with things that age.
Well, my argument, among many others, with Sam was always that if you're going to judge a religion,
you have to judge it by how it's lived, not by the literal word in the text, because it's what a
religion produces as opposed to what it says that matters. And therefore, if you want to have an
argument about whether religion is good for the world based on what it produces, okay. If you
want to have an argument about whether this or that verse is objectionable, don't think that
you've actually scored any major points, at least to my way of thinking, against religion if you
find objectionable verses. I can think of a lot of things, for example, that my parents said over
the years that were objectionable, they were wonderful parents. So it depends whether you
want to take a tradition at its best or at its worst. And I understand why if you're arguing
against it, it's advantageous to take it at its worst, but that's not the best way to argue against
it. Yeah, I think that what I get out of it is that we have to look at ways of limiting the damage
that come from the explicit text that these religions have, in some sense, aged out of,
or I would like to think that they had aged out because the desire to return to something pure,
let's just call it the purification impulse where you say, you know, we have problems in the system
and the reason that we have problems is that we've strayed. So let us go back to the actual
literal words and try our best to implement them as literal computer code that it is our
obligation to compile. I always I could not agree with you more. Lots of things came to mind,
as you said, that which is, among other things, that the word revolution has both meanings.
It means to change everything. It also means to come around again in a circle. And what purists
almost always discover is that human structures are much harder to overhaul than they suspected
at the beginning. And also, I thought of a there's a beautiful quote from William Stafford,
