Hello everyone. The episode you're about to see has held up our YouTube channel for a while.
It was recorded remotely in New York City along with two other episodes and apparently it is a bit blurry.
We couldn't control for it. We tried correcting it digitally, but that met with only limited success.
There was a question about whether to release a still image over this audio,
but we decided instead to release the blurred product because in fact it is a visual episode with artist London Sy.
We hope we've made the right decision. We apologize for the blurriness and the fact that it has held up the sequence of releases.
But given that we've now decided to bite the bullet, we hope to return to releasing episodes on a regular basis on this channel.
We hope you like it. We think very highly of London Sy and we hope to have him back on the program hopefully with a little bit better focus.
Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host Eric Weinstein and I'm here in Manhattan with artist London Sy,
a person I've been looking to meet for quite some time and I just met him yesterday for the first time in London. Welcome.
Thank you.
So I have been eyeing your artwork for years on the internet. I've used it in talks and you are one of the most important people that we've had come on the portal,
even though very few people will know who you are or what you've been up to.
Can you say a little bit about your background as a mathematical artist?
Oh, my background. So my background as an artist, well, I studied mathematics and undergrad and maybe I should start over.
So actually, I went to college.
So you admit you went to college.
Yeah, I went to college.
Yeah, I did. And I wanted to actually study French literature and international relations.
Okay.
And my freshman year, I took the standard courses and I really delved into 20th century French literature.
And this was Duke?
This was at Tufts.
Oh, Tufts, okay.
So at Tufts, I took all these kind of liberal arts classes, humanities classes and I was actually disappointed.
I had all these ideas about like what I wanted to accomplish in literature and what I would learn.
And I would ultimately find some sort of meaning, some understanding of the world we live in.
And instead, I was frustrated and I didn't seem to be able to get answers to the questions I had.
And to my surprise, I was enjoying calculus much more than any of the classes I took.
Dear sweet child.
So what happened was that in my sophomore year, I declared my math major.
Okay, so you came out of the closet?
Came out of the closet, yeah.
Declare yourself as a proto-mathematician?
Yes.
And then?
Well, of course, I grew up in an artistic household and I always thought I would do some sort of artwork.
But once I discovered mathematics, I found that it was more artistic than anything that I'd ever seen before.
It's more creative, it's more ingenious, it's more abstract.
And with no author?
No author, yeah.
And it's just there and you could study it and it was infinitely deep.
You could pick up any part and you could just keep going and everything just fit together so nicely.
And I just wanted to see more and understand more and all the mathematical writing that was on the blackboards,
like from the graduate classes and things like that, I wanted to understand what they were about.
And they must be representatives of some sort of world that I didn't have access to at the time.
So I'm looking into your eyes and I'm seeing something that looks like a religious convert
or maybe like Ray Charles the first time he tried heroin or something.
You got the bug?
Absolutely.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, it's the only thing I thought about for about six years.
You're obsessed.
I just dived into it.
In fact, I don't think I had this really strong mathematical ability.
I was just fascinated by it.
And for me, it didn't come as naturally as it did for my brother.
And I really had to struggle.
I really had to.
I felt it was a real challenge to my self-worth.
I felt like if I couldn't do this, if I couldn't understand mathematics that life was just not worth living.
It was like that.
I just decided I would prove to myself that I could do it and to the exclusion of almost everything else.
I mean, I'm joking around a little bit about heroin, but it does behave like that.
Once you find out that there is a hidden world and that this hidden world is strangely meaningful
and that it's clearly too beautiful to be constructed by any human mind,
the most beautiful human minds can barely understand this world, but it's more like they're dusting off.
I guess in my understanding, I think about the ruins of Petra.
And imagine that Petra were buried in sand and you were just whisking away sand and uncovering ruins.
You'd be pretty convinced that you weren't authoring the ruins of Petra.
You would know that you didn't build this thing.
It's just such a privilege to be able to touch something this beautiful that's apparently unauthored by anything known to be human.
I mean, that's kind of my feeling of…
So like of reverence and transcendence.
Yeah, like there's this kind of eternal stillness in this world.
Recently, I've just picked up my old math texts and the ideas there are just as fresh as they were 30 years ago when I was studying them.
And they still have that pure beauty about them.
Let me let you in a little bit on why I'm having you on this program.
It's not just because I'm so devoted to your work.
It's also because my belief is that we have the most beautiful symphonies in the world locked inside of our journals and our math libraries, let's say, as text.
And, you know, you can ask, well, if you have a symphony of Brahms, is it a symphony if it only resides in the sheet music and is never performed?
That's a very disturbing question because the instructions for its performance are present.
And it may be that a tiny number of people can actually read a sheet of sheet music and say, oh my God, that's gorgeous because they can hear it in their head.
But the rest of us actually need the thing to be performed.
And yet there is no orchestra or analog of an orchestra that performs works of great mathematical or physical beauty.
Yeah, that's true.
I mean, part of my interest in mathematics initially was that I could take mathematics and the beautiful images that I saw in my mind during math class and bring them out as artistic things.
Well, so this is where I start to also get a little bit pissed off with you, which is...
No, I'm not kidding.
I'm angry about the fact that we have these papers and books that form the sheet music that's never performed.
And then I find out that you exist and that you have been performing and recording effectively these masterworks.
And then what do you do with like the vinyl?
You put it under bubble wrap in some loft in Soho in Manhattan and it doesn't come out for years or decades at a time.
So effectively you're sitting on some of the only known recordings, if you will, of some of the great masterworks of the mathematical universe.
WTF, London.
What are you doing, man?
Well, I think what's happened is that I'm always kind of interested in the next idea or the next theorem or the next project and all these things that are made by me.
Just sort of, you know, after I'm done with it, it doesn't seem that important anymore.
Well, I think that's great for the artist, but whoever's doing your PR and marketing, I'm firing them and taking over.
So like, here's the thing that I get.
As somebody who studied mathematics, I had the same feeling.
I wasn't necessarily made to do mathematics.
That wasn't how my brain...
It didn't find the symbolic layer very easy, but I was exposed to things of such beauty and depth that I couldn't find any other analog on planet Earth.
Once you understand how rich the mathematical universe actually is, you can't believe that it was somehow just created out of logical necessity.
And there's a tiny portion of it that is actually visualizable by our visual cortex.
And what's odd is that when we talk about things as being visual in mathematics, we're often talking about things that we can't actually see.
We have an intuition that comes from one, two, and three dimensions.
And then we have to take that intuition where we can actually visualize something, we can construct a model of it.
And we have a series of tricks by which we use our minds to visualize things that we can't actually see.
I mean, I don't even know what to call this process. I'm not sure if it has a description.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
It's definitely an intuition that you have, and it's some kind of vague mental image.
And what I have to do is I have to somehow, in my artwork, I have to take this vague mental image and try to make it concrete.
And it's not always...
Well, this is the thing.
Now, keep in mind that there are going to be people who are listening to this as audio, and then we will later release it as video.
And I don't know how much of it will be seeable on the channel.
But one of the things that's very interesting to me is that what happens in our minds when we really start to open the portal to the deepest secrets that the universe has to offer is that we use this mixture.
And the mixture is some amount of the world that we can construct as models so that we can actually directly visualize it as if we could use our eyes to make a claim model of, let's say, an algebraic variety or what have you.
And then there's this extra intuition that we have to build in from texts and from symbology to remind ourselves that usually we're not able to see the full totality of whatever it is we're discussing.
And your art, very often, has a geometric picture together with prose that is kind of fading in and out of perceptibility, together with a bunch of mathematical symbols that are describing what has been constructed.
And I thought that what's very interesting is that that actually mirrors what a mathematician's model is of one of these higher structures that can't be seen directly.
But it's basically intuition from a low dimensional thing that can be visualized together with prose and mathematical symbols that actually rigorously describe the object.
And so that in some sense, it is a faithful recreation by combining, you know, gorgeous form together with text and prose and symbology in order to recreate the mathematical state that we mean by saying, well, that's very, that mathematics is very visual.
So for example, behind you right now, there's an amazing painting that I've seen for years.
I think I've actually used in a talk at Columbia as the cover art for the first slide of what I assume is Heinz Hof's famous vibration from the early 1930s.
And so it's the series of interlocking partial torii, each of which is filled up by circles.
And it's a very impressionistic but also somewhat rigorous description of this object that on the Joe Rogan program, I said may be the most important object in the universe because when we talk about physics being ultimately a theory of waves,
we want to know, well, what are those waves waves in?
What is the analog of the ocean for an ocean wave inside of physics?
So those waves are waves in bundles and the bundles come in two basic types for most purposes.
One is called a principal bundle, which is what you have behind you.
And you've been so good as to put a depiction of another kind of bundle, which is sort of even closer to the wave concept, a vector bundle, which is what is behind me.
Now, I think it's very strange that we have all of these programs, let's say on public television or, you know, Brian Green talking about the elegant universe and all of these things.
And yet when I ask people, well, do you know you're interested in wave particle duality?
Do you know what the waves are waves in?
Nobody seems to know about bundles.
It's surprising.
Well, it's disturbing.
And the idea is that there are very few people depicting bundles artistically.
And essentially, the only person doing it is hiding their artwork away so that nobody even knows it's there.
Well, no, I mean, like this, this is an important link, I guess is what I'm trying to say is that you are somehow breaking the secrecy.
It's like, you know, Prometheus gave fire to man.
Okay.
Well, you are now bringing bundles to the masses.
And I think it's fantastic because it allows people to skip the symbolic step, which is usually what leaves them out.
Of participating, at least as observers of the amazing museum of mathematical finds.
Can you talk a little bit about what caused you to do these two works, the principal bundle behind you?
What do we call this hop vibration behind you?
Yeah, call it hop vibration.
And behind me?
I called it purple vector bundle.
Purple vector bundle.
All right.
So we've got a principal bundle, which is the hop vibration purple vector bundle.
Talk to me about what you were thinking when you created them.
Well, like, so I had the fortune and undergrad to be the first advisor of an algebraic geometry.
She was an assistant professor at the time.
Her name is Montserrat Tehidor.
And she's actually quite known in algebraic geometry.
And she had this kind of deep kind of quiet confidence about her.
And I would go to her office hours religiously.
And I would sit there and annoy her with my questions from undergrad math.
But she was always working with a little pencil sharpened all the way to the eraser almost.
And she would be always writing the word that led F been a fiber bundle.
And so I was a freshman and I was thinking to myself, what the heck is a fiber bundle?
No one's ever told me about that.
And so kind of one of the goals in studying math was to figure out just what it was that she was thinking about.
What were these fiber bundles that she was constantly writing about?
And so in my mind, I always had this idea that I needed to understand that.
And so that was kind of probably the germ of my interest in bundles.
And then later on in grad school, I encountered them.
And then later on when I started painting, I just, I don't know, we were talking about intuition earlier.
And I just feel like there's some sort of sieve in us when we see lots of mathematical things or anything in the world.
And for that matter, there's something that tells us, well, this, there's some content here and that this is worthy of our attention.
And somehow these bundles, vector bundles, fiber bundles, principal fiber bundles were just objects that to me were worthy of
sinking a lot of time and thought and making artwork of.
So I don't really know what it was that drew me to them, except that I was drawn to them.
Have you ever read CN Yang of Yang Mill's theory, fame talking about his discovery of the importance of fiber bundles?
I think I have.
Yeah.
It's a short essay, right?
He's written a few, I think.
But he talks about, and I wish I had the exact quote here, Einstein was questing for a structure to unify physics.
And in Yang's estimation, the fiber bundle was the answer to Einstein's quest.
Now, of course, this cropped up in something called Kaluza Klein theory.
Einstein used what we would now call, you know, the tangent bundle and cotangent bundle of spacetime.
So he would, let's just throw some jargon out there.
So a fiber bundle is sort of like the XY plane growing up and going off to graduate school.
And the analog of the X axis would be called the base space.
And the Y axis in all its translates, those vertical lines would be called the fibers and the XY plane would be called the total space.
And in that story, the X axis gets replaced by spacetime and the Y axis gets replaced by various things like a 16 dimensional vector bundle to give the particles their 16 dimensions worth of personalities.
There are these things called spinners that are attached to something that you can visualize as the Philippine wine glass dance.
Sometimes you call this the principle bundle that governs all of particle theory, the SU3 cross SU2 cross U1 bundle over spacetime and where each of those weird SU3, for example, is what we would call a collection of symmetries that form what mathematicians term a group.
Same thing with SU2 and U1 is just a fancy name for the circle.
So behind you, what you see is a simplified version of a principle bundle that we might use for doing physics research.
But this one lives on top of a two dimensional sphere like the surface of the earth and it adds an extra circle for every point in space and time.
And those are the lines, as I understand it, that are in these partial torii that are nested behind you.
So you're, it's pretty tough going, but you're almost able to visualize the structure on which electromagnetism, which is how you and I are looking at each other through photon exchange and the way in which, you know, the magnetic, like if these microphones have magnetic membranes that
