It means to expand ourselves.
We don't call, I mean, just to steal me on your point.
We don't call Salvador Dali a mathematical artist.
And yet, if he puts Jesus on a four-dimensional polytope in the case of a Tesseract or Hypercube,
we just accept that he's mining some amount of mathematics as an inspiration for his art.
The development of the use of linear perspective wasn't viewed as mathematical art.
I mean, if you think about Vasarely, I think that a lot of those patterned structures that
he depicted that appear to be showing curvature by using various optical tricks, we don't call
that mathematical art necessarily.
However, you are going beyond that.
And so I don't know whether it's exactly fair to avoid the label.
I'll try to come up with a better one, but I often look at my own soul for lack of a
better word and I realize that I may not be able to believe in angels or religious origin
stories, but I still have a place in my consciousness or my heart or whatever you want to call it that
wants to be connected with something larger than the human experience.
I don't want to just die on a random rock and having it all as Shakespeare said, signifying nothing.
And one of the things that I actually take spiritual solace from is that at a minimum,
there is this world of structures that would have passed by completely unknown, like the
Hopf vibration, which was only found in the 1930s.
People who are alive, who are older than the knowledge that the Hopf vibration exists.
And these things are like angels.
We know that they're there, not speculative, and we know that we didn't create them and
we know that they seem to be transcendent.
And I would just assume, fill my life with transcendent structures that are beyond any
kind of human authorship.
The art here, to me, is your decision to depict this and the way in which you chose to depict it,
but the source that you're mining has nothing to do with our humanity.
I see.
Right?
Yeah.
In essence, the thing that you have behind you right now is, to me, a modern picture
of an angel, where I can't believe in angels, but I can believe in principal fiber bundles
generating the world of electromagnetic activity, which then grew up and not only became Maxwell's
equations, became every kind of force other than gravity.
I mean, yeah, maybe math is not a product of humanity, but I feel that the kind of the
struggle to understand math and to create these mathematical texts, I mean, that in itself
has a very human aspect to it.
And that's one of the properties I'm trying to express in my art is just trying to express
that even, maybe even though math is not a human thing, it's a somehow much deeper, it's a universal
thing, but that its practice is human and that I want to show the humaneness by...
That's what you're doing for me.
Yeah, that's what I'm trying to do.
You just humanized an angel.
Right.
I'm trying to bring that out, that it's very important that the hand of the artist be present,
expressing the difficulty that as a human being I have to try to understand these things.
Hell yeah.
I mean, I see struggle that I look at all of the texts that's going in and around the color
or in the charcoal drawings and I struggle to read it.
I struggle to read it because it's not presented to be read in a typical fashion.
And I love the fact that it is slightly irregular and it shows in some sense a perfect structure
that cannot be depicted perfectly.
Yeah.
Do you ever feel like freaked out being in direct touch with these other worldly structures?
I feel inadequate.
Yeah.
That no matter how much time I spend with them, there's...
I can really never quite grasp it in its totality.
It's somehow beyond my reach.
And of course, you know, then sometimes I blame, oh well, maybe that's my ability.
I'm just not...
I just don't have...
No, I think that we have to back away from how creepy it is that these things are even
there to be found.
I typically give the example of exceptional lead groups or exotic seven spheres, which
are structures people can look up if they dare, as things that both make me feel not
alone and make me feel vaguely terrified.
It's like what if a cigar-shaped object just started hovering over the earth and it didn't
do anything like malignant, but we knew it wasn't from us and we didn't know what it
was, didn't show any signs of life other than the fact that it was there.
When I was a child, I used to have dreams like that, nightmares like that.
And this was long before I knew anything about math.
I would dream about these huge surfaces and I was so tiny like the size of an ant and
they would be so smooth, like infinitely smooth.
Even I had no idea what infinitely smooth meant, but they were so smooth and they were
terrifying.
And maybe that's kind of like my very first kind of mathematical experience, just these
things that appeared in my dreams.
Now, one of the weird things that we're doing on this podcast is we're picking on people
who don't necessarily know that we're coming and promoting what they do and we call this
reverse sponsorship.
And the hope is, is that if we have a successful business and we can pick on it, that as we
generate interest in that business from our audience, that maybe some of those businesses
will come and sponsor the portal and keep us on the air when we go into very difficult
topics.
I'm not going to ever ask that of you, but I would, I do want to say that in some sense
this episode is part of something akin to reverse sponsorship.
I think that the biggest problem, and tell me if this rings true or not, is that a lot
of us do work that never gets curated by a second person, that in general, I used to
think curation was a parasitic behavior.
If you couldn't create, you could point at things that were great.
And I later realized with my own stuff that until somebody else said, hey, this person
is saying something, that you don't actually get heard or processed because you can't actually
curate yourself.
Somebody else has to be the pointer and saying, hey, people pay attention.
And I think it's way past time that this be done for you.
And most mathematicians don't have large audiences.
This is not a feel, physics has a few tiny number of physicists who have large audiences.
But I really believe that it's essential for a curation process to happen with this kind
of work so that people can see more of what is out there.
Are you open for business?
Will you sell your work?
I found you on the internet.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Okay, so hopefully supporters of the program can look for London and his storefront on the
internet somewhere.
What about exhibiting with other artists and showing this kind of new wave of whatever we
want to call it other than mathematical art?
Oh, great.
Oh, I'm open to that.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah, absolutely.
So you would do like a group show?
Yeah, yeah, of course.
Are you up for suggestions?
I've been horrible to you.
I've told you a bunch of things that I've never seen depicted and asked you to look
in on it.
Is that an overbearing question?
No, that's a great...
Well, I did a series of talks when I lived in Seattle.
Yeah, so I went to the University of Washington where I knew a couple of mathematicians and
it was a series of works I called Demonstrations.
And it was kind of inspired by Da Vinci's kind of scientific drawings, Demostrazioni.
And so I invited you dub mathematicians to supply me with theorems of theirs.
And I would attempt to come up with my own interpretation.
And so that was a fun project.
Yeah.
I got to know a few mathematicians at the UW.
But yeah, that sort of collaboration was something I was very interested in about 10 years ago.
What are you thinking about now?
What am I thinking about now?
I'm always open to new ideas.
And your list of topics is a printer I carry with me every day.
Really?
So I'm always looking at it on the subway.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So A Tia Singer Index theorem.
Tia Singer Index theorem.
Yes.
I'm trying to grab my head around that.
I think you had something about Carvera.
Carvera.
Carvera in one problem?
Yes.
Yeah, that's gorgeous stuff.
So I look at it and I have my mathematician friends and I have a whole library of math textbooks that I try to consult.
So maybe if I'm correct, the vector bundle painting that is behind me is masking another work that's underneath it.
Maybe we could take the top painting off and take a look at what you have there.
Okay.
Sure.
Let's do it.
All right.
So London, you've just unveiled this other structure and I'm looking at it and it's on
its side from what I normally expect so that we can get into the shot.
That's right.
Yeah.
But what it looks to me like is that you've taken the light cone on which particles with
no rest mass or waves with no rest mass propagate inside of the special theory of relativity
and then you've sort of showed this algebraic, how do you say it, algebraic degeneration.
So it looks like I'm looking at some mass shells and this diagram that should be familiar
from Einstein's famous Anas Morivalis of 1905 when he figured out special relativity has
been sort of augmented with this extra structure of mass shells and hyperboids and what can
you say about what motivated you here?
Well, so I painted a painting of some of my favorite things from Calculus III Quadric
Surfaces and I showed it to Lauren too and he said, well, that's very interesting, but
can you tell me how they're related?
And so that was the direct challenge from Lauren and so I thought about, well, if I
vary a certain parameter, this was what happened, but as I went from one of these types of surfaces
to the other type from the hyperbole of two sheets to the hyperbole of one sheet, I had
to go through the cone and so I showed that relation and that was basically the idea behind
that piece.
It's gorgeous.
Do you find sort of any comparable source of rich imagery from any other area other than,
let's say, mathematics and physics?
I would say nature.
Are you as fascinated by it?
I'm not.
Maybe I'm not as fascinated by it, but you know, if I'm walking on the beach and I pick
up some shells.
No, no, no.
It's unbelievably gorgeous, but I have to admit that nature weirdly, though it completely
inspires me and I think no less than it inspires other people, I'm weirdly slightly less inspired
by physical nature than I am by what we might call mathematical.
I have to say I'm the same, although I am a scuba diver, I'm a downhill skier.
The downhill skiing is pretty close to differential geometry.
Yes, it is.
I'm constantly thinking about the curvature of the terrain I'm on.
What are you fascinated by in scuba diving?
Scuba diving, when I go down, I just see the strange sea creatures residing on the
ocean floor or on the coral reefs and the shapes of them.
Any particular ones you're obsessed with?
I can't say I'm obsessed about them, I just find them interesting.
I thought maybe cuttlefish.
Cuttlefish?
I mean, the skin of the cuttlefish is a nearly mathematical phenomenon.
