are turning our pressure waves into electrical impulses.
All of that is described in some sense by patterns attached to the circles on that painting upgraded to make it a story of space and time rather than just a story of circles over a two dimensional surface of the globe.
Yeah.
So it'd be pretty crazy if it wasn't like one of the coolest looking objects in the universe.
It is pretty cool.
Right.
I mean, the interesting thing about painting it or making it visual is that you actually have to cut away parts to reveal what's the actual structure.
Because it's too densely packed.
So I'm only picking, you know, select few of these torii and only showing like parts of them so I can, so I can actually reveal what's, what's, what's underneath because they're all nested.
Now, the odd thing is, is that before I knew about your work, I think, and before I knew about, I don't know if you've encountered drawerbar Natan, who came up with a picture of this, which he termed planet hop, which I used.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think you pointed me too.
I did a version of this in a, a Python release by a group called Enthought and I got them to help me out.
I had to use the transparency of some of the visual structures to allow me to see through so I didn't have the occlusion phenomenon.
You don't have that luxury with paint.
Right.
It is very tough to see, but the fact that it can be seen, and I think this is the really interesting thing,
means that a giant chunk of physics and mathematics is almost within reach of the person who can't trust her or his ability to negotiate the world of mathematical symbols.
And, you know, this is a huge problem that a lot of people think that they're bad at music in the West because our music is so dependent on notation.
However, in lots of cultures, notation isn't what carries music.
It's just personal instruction.
And a lot of those people who are bad at symbols would be good at music if it were in any other culture that wasn't symbolically so dependent.
And I view this as being, well, what if I was in a culture in which mathematics wasn't transmitted as much symbolically?
Fair?
Unfair?
It's an interesting approach.
I'm not totally sure, but yeah, maybe I can buy that because one of the things that drew me to math was the symbols, actually.
Well, I want to talk about this mathematical art movement that has never been named.
Okay.
Right.
And I'm going to try to figure out what name to give it later.
But tell me if any of the following have impacted you.
John Archibald Wheeler, who was Feynman's teacher, very famous physicist, he seemed to have an incredible passion for doing the kinds of things you're doing on blackboards to give these masterful lectures.
Have you ever encountered his blackboards?
No, I haven't.
Okay.
Let me try another one.
Roger Penrose, who wrote The Road to Reality, is of course a relatively famous person, drew the first copy of the hop vibration that I'd ever seen strikingly like your own.
Have you seen that?
I have.
I have that book, The Road to Reality.
And I have some of his more recent books as well.
But I think the first picture of hop vibration I ever saw was Bill Thurston's in his three-dimensional geometry and topology.
Oh, were these the Princeton lecture notes that were never released as a book or did they eventually become a book?
They eventually became a book.
Okay.
Yeah, this is the things that mathematicians would trade these mimeograph notes that weren't quite books, but we would all look at them and we felt like we were looking into secret tomes that only some people could have.
That's right.
I think later it became a book and that's when I first saw it.
So Bill Thurston, of course, was famous within mathematics as being a fields medalist who contributed to Grisha Perlman's program for solving the Poincare conjecture in dimension three, proving that any sphere that was sufficiently simple from its algebraic properties had to actually be the three-dimensional version of the sphere.
Did you know Bill Thurston at all?
I didn't.
I knew people who knew him.
I knew him a little bit.
He came through Harvard when I was a graduate student there.
And one of the odd comments he made, he said, you want to know what keeps this field great?
And I said, tell me.
He said, in any other field, if a fields medalist came through, that's like a Nobel Prize winner at the top of the field, it would be a big deal.
And he said, here I am sitting with a bunch of you guys at some salad bar after my talk because we're just not that pretentious.
And I thought that's interesting because he recognized that he would be a big shot and he really valued the fact that nothing was being made over his presence beyond the mathematics.
That's so great.
Yeah.
In fact, I was reading his book on my honeymoon.
I brought it along.
Oh, you really have it?
Yeah.
We were just, we were in Honolulu and we had this nice place with a beautiful lanai.
And here I was reading Thurston.
And that's when I saw.
Well, you had to be surrounded by beauty, of course.
Yes, I was.
What is it that you think you're supposed to be doing?
I mean, you have this ability to understand mathematics and you have the ability to look into your own mind and see, well, how is it registering?
And then you have the ability to externalize it.
That's a relatively unusual skill set.
I mean, there's, I should continue mentioning the remaining names like Fomenko is this crazy mathematical artist.
I like the fact that Beth Sheba Grossman is doing some beautiful mathematical sculpture.
A guy named Nico Meyers in, I guess, Temecula is doing hop-fibration sculpture right now.
Wow.
Okay.
Well, in part because, you know, we're now talking about this on these large programs and rather than people just turning off and saying, well, I don't know what that was.
Because it's visual, people are getting super intrigued and just going out and trying to learn the math for themselves, including artists.
Right.
So I think that what there needs to be is this, is a movement.
I mentioned an artist named Luke Jerome who did these beautiful glass sculpture of pathogens and viruses and like, he does malaria and HIV and it's just absolutely stunningly beautiful.
Who are, I mean, obviously M.C. Escher is probably the biggest mathematical artist of them all.
Right.
Why aren't there more people working in this movement?
Why isn't the movement named?
Why aren't you guys collected?
Why aren't there exhibitions of this stuff?
Why, why, why, why, why?
I don't really know.
It could be that, it could be that the people who feel that they can actually do this stuff don't really have, maybe it's just the mathematics is too attractive to them.
You know, it's like, you'd rather do math than, than make paintings about math or make representations of it.
You know, it's so much more beautiful to spend your time.
Like the analogy I have is of a mountaineer, you know, you'd rather be out climbing your mountains than.
Yeah, but all right.
I mean, the issue with you.
Okay.
Tell me, you don't feel cut off from people who you can't show this to.
Like you've gone someplace on a trek as a mountaineer, which is so spectacularly gorgeous.
You can't even believe that it exists.
Yeah.
And you have somebody you love who's not knowledgeable and you're trying to figure out, well, can I charter a helicopter?
Can I get this person to get into really good physical shape and make the long trek?
Is there any way I can bring back a picture that can communicate?
I guess I feel cut off from everyone on the planet who hasn't seen that this stuff exists and is real.
Don't you?
I do.
I mean, as an artist, as a contemporary artist, I'm often told not to mention the math behind my work.
Who told you that?
I mean, in general, people just say they're not interested in the math.
They're not.
All right.
Maybe you're not supposed to mention it, but I'm certainly supposed to.
I think people, when they see that there is mathematics behind it, I think it scares them off.
Yeah.
And most people have bad memories of their mathematical upbringing or education that they have this reflex to just turn away from it.
What's like the bad ex-boyfriend problem is that if you meet somebody who's had a bad relationship, they're always going to live through some of that trauma in every subsequent relationship.
And I think that we have to recognize, we talk about iatrogenic harm as the harm done by physicians to patients.
And we have to talk about mathogenic harm, where there is this destruction of the love and appreciation for the beauty of math that is mediated by math teachers and mathematicians and math professors.
Somehow, we're keeping the beauty for ourselves.
Yeah.
And a large number of people have no idea, they've just been like, I don't know, they've had their knuckles wrapped with a ruler and they're now in some damaged state.
Yeah.
And I guess when you look at this stuff, some percentage of people say, I don't get it, it's not that interesting, it leaves me cold.
Some other percentage of people are going to look at it and say, I've got to figure out what that was about.
I didn't know that that was there.
Yeah.
Are you connected with any of these people I mentioned?
You mean the people that are not?
Like Bathsheba Grossman.
Oh, no, I'm not.
Or Cliff Stoll.
No, I know who they are.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think you and Andrew had the Klein bottles during that interview.
Oh, Andrew Yang.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You guys are tricky for this.
Sorry, are you a Yang supporter?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Well, so he's got these math hats.
Yeah.
I would love to see a bath czar and a coming Yang.
I think I should get my hands on one.
Yeah.
Well, what do you, so to some extent, this is actually not the first generation of mathematical
or physical art in your family.
Am I right that your father somehow was mining this vein as well?
Yeah.
So my father trained as an engineer and worked as a mechanical engineer for 10 years, quite
successfully in New York City.
And the whole time he wanted to be an artist.
And he was painting at the Art Students League.
And he made all these paintings figurative and an abstract and so on.
Then he won a prize for painting.
And then the stipulation for the prize was that he had to quit his engineering career
and devote himself to art.
And upon quitting, he found he couldn't paint anymore.
Wow.
And he kind of did some soul searching, traveled around the world.
And that's when he realized that there was something that he could do with his engineering
background.
And how he could bring engineering and science into his artwork.
And that's when he started developing his cybernetic sculptures.
And he never turned back.
So he always made these kind of scientific engineering sculptures.
I just saw them for the first time at your studio.
They're gorgeous.
I mean, I love your stuff.
And I didn't know that I was going to love his.
He had these gorgeous standing waves.
And then by the clever use of stroboscopic light, he's able to freeze them and show this
very subtle motion that would otherwise be lost.
And I think that the wave equation, which is a particular class of equations well known
in mathematics, is one of the most beautiful things I've ever seen.
And to be able to visualize waves is precious to me.
Astounding that I wasn't aware of his work.
Yeah.
I think the lesson from my father, he never thought of himself as a scientist or as a technological
artist.
And he thought of himself just as an artist.
And I think what he was trying to say with that was that technology and science, they're
not really like tools or that you could just say, oh, that's a technological artist.
That these are just things that as artists that are part of our culture and part of our
society, that we have a right to use them just as much as professional scientists do.
And I think in that way, I think of myself as an artist, not as a mathematical artist,
but as an artist.
And it turns out that having seen mathematics and having been exposed to mathematics, it's
just like part of humanity that I've incorporated in myself.
And the artwork that I make has those features because that's kind of my life experience.
So I'm not sure that we can term this movement as mathematical art, but I think we're just
artists who are kind of expanding our understanding to those realms that are difficult for most
people to reach.
And I think, but that's part of what it means to be human.
