If you've ever watched them propagate these waves through the chromatophores on the skin
when they're mesmerizing their prey before they strike, the patterns, it's sort of like
Times Square with some giant neon sign that's moving through these pulses of light.
I guess I've never seen that diving.
In music, what do you find yourself most inspired by?
When I work in my studio, I'm often listening to jazz, usually Miles Davis or Dave Brubeck.
Dave Brubeck obviously famous for experimenting with funny time signatures, which is a somewhat
mathematical.
I also listen to a lot of classical music.
My favorite composer.
Oh, gosh.
Mozart, Rachmaninov.
Really?
I never trust a mathematician who doesn't say Bach first.
Oh, Bach is true.
Okay.
Well, no, maybe the idea is that you're jammed when it comes to the other.
No, I do love Brendan Berkentow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I rocked to that.
Are you at all familiar with any of these attempts to push math and reverence for math
out to the general public that are somewhat off of the direct depiction?
I don't know if you've ever seen my friend Edward Frankl's short film, Love and Math.
Then he wrote a book.
Oh.
No, I don't think I've seen that, but I didn't.
Slightly erotic art film.
Really?
Okay.
I guess one of the things that I'm very frustrated by is that it's just so difficult to communicate
it.
A counter example to this would be, have you ever been to the Exploratorium in San Francisco?
Yeah, I have.
A long time ago then, a couple decades ago.
Frank Oppenheimer, who was Robert Oppenheimer's brother, created this totally anomalous science
museum that was much more effective so far as I could tell in conveying the wonder of
science in a way that people actually got some kind of a take home.
It was viscerally engaging, and yet I didn't see that kind of science museum duplicated
anywhere else.
Yeah.
Does that, might that be a paradigm where someone somewhere could do something truly
unique with the visual depiction of geometry and topology, let's say, and completely crack
this open?
I mean, to take the Promethean analogy, all it really takes is one of us to steal fire
effectively.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, that might work.
Have you been to the Google Math Museum in Madison Square Park?
I've been to the Math Museum.
Is Google sponsoring it?
I did not have to sponsor it by Google.
Maybe I'm wrong.
I didn't think it was.
Okay.
I didn't know.
I just assumed it was.
Yeah, I thought it was somewhat inspiring.
Yeah.
But a lot of this stuff is sort of strangely slightly off.
There's this beautiful limestone wall in Stony Brook, Stony Brook, Long Island that
has some of the most beautiful formulas in all of mathematics and some pictures.
To me, even that has errors and flaws and it doesn't fully evoke what it is that it
was trying to depict.
I feel like we've failed.
What do you think?
Yeah, I feel that too.
That's partially why I don't think of my art as mathematical art because I don't want
it to be associated with this kind of like, oh, bring math to the people, that kind of
thing.
It has to be somehow something.
I mean, like the wonder of math that we experience that is not, I don't feel that when I
go and look at these kind of displays of mathematical art.
Oh, how interesting how these things fit together.
Right.
And you're just like, okay, let me just play with this a little bit and then move on to
this other exhibit.
What did you feel when you look at Escher?
I didn't, well, my initial reaction when people were, oh, you're a math major, you should
love Escher.
I was like, oh, that's great.
I viewed the art and the math as somehow strangely separate and it was a great way of getting
a certain amount of math out into the world.
And I found him quite artistic.
I just didn't feel that the art and the math were always kind of hand in glove.
Yeah, like, well, first of all, like, symmetry groups of the plane, I mean, that's cool.
But still, it doesn't capture the real depth of math.
There's so much more to math than just kind of pretty patterns or symmetrical patterns.
Are you obsessed with physics?
Not as much as I wish to be, yeah.
I think one of the great mysteries for me has been why is it that the physical universe
is such an amazing client of the best mathematics, right?
Like, you could have done this with substandard mathematics, maybe just a little bit of calculus
and cement linear algebra, but it just goes way above and beyond and actually uses our
best stuff and our most beautiful stuff.
And I've always thought that was quite odd that it didn't have to be the way the biological
world does not seem to use mathematics at a truly profound level.
There's some cute stuff with, like, Fibonacci sequences, but I would say that the biological
world mostly turned up its nose at the mathematical offerings that were possible.
Right, right, right.
I guess I see physics and math as so, like...
Intertwine.
Intertwine, yeah.
Well, you know, there's this expression, the map is not the territory.
And I think that the weird thing about physics is that physics may be the one place in the
real world in which the map, that is the math that describes it, may actually be the territory.
That is, it would not astound me if life really was about vector bundles, principal bundles,
and wave equations that take place upon.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, we're going to try to figure out how to get you as part of an exhibition so people
can come and see your work.
They can find you on the internet.
You have a site?
Yeah.
So, my site is just londonside.com.
It's T-S-A-I.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Okay.
And first name, improbably, is London.
Yes.
L-O-N-D-O-N.
Yeah.
And other than that, we're going to continue plugging your work, pointing people to your
Instagram page, and trying to drum up some interest so that you'll make more of this
gorgeous stuff for all of us.
Well, thank you very much, Eric.
London, it's been a pleasure having you.
You've been through the portal with London Psy.
Look for him on Instagram, on Twitter, and most importantly, at his website.
And consider making a bid to keep me from buying this art.
I think you'll find that it's just gorgeous stuff.
Look for us at the portal on Apple, on Spotify, on Stitcher, wherever you listen to podcasts.
Please subscribe and go over to YouTube and see if you can't subscribe to us there and
click the bell icon to make sure that you're notified when our next episode drops.
Hopefully, if you've listened to this on audio, you will go over there and watch it
on video so you get a little bit of a taste of the great stuff that London has been doing.
London, thanks very much.
Thank you, Eric.
All right, everybody.
Be well.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
