Hello listeners. While recording the next episode, David, Steven, and myself got to talking about the FTX collapse and its effect on the broader, effective altruism community.
Because it's talking about events that are still unfolding, we decided to break it out and release it early, so it can be available while this is still relevant.
The full episode will release on Wednesday as usual. Thanks.
The next thing is, I think that is happening actually right now. It is a story in development, so we are not up on whatever the latest thing is.
But have you heard about the whole FTX crypto crash that just happened?
Yes, the last I heard was that SPF was missing and possibly in hiding.
I believe he's actually still in the Bahamas. We should give people a quick rundown as to what we're talking about.
No, just let him go off that.
FTX is a cryptocurrency exchange, apparently one of the top three biggest cryptocurrency exchanges with Coinbase and Binance being the other two.
Sounds right.
Okay. SPF was the guy who founded it and ran it.
Sam Bankman Fried, for those of you who've been paying attention to the EA podcast circuit for the last year-ish.
Because his whole thing was he was worth, was it triple digit billions or double digit billions?
Double digit billions.
Anyway, in any case, this guy was an elite rich and he was like, oh, it's all going, almost all of it's going to go to effective charities.
Yes.
So that's all I knew about him.
Yeah.
All I heard about this crash or whatever is that there's a crash or whatever. That's the extent of my knowledge.
So the thing that happened is that he ran two companies FTX as the exchange and Alameda something.
I don't even know what Alameda did.
But a lot of people gave their money to FTX, like you would give your money to Robinhood or something to hold on to and do trading with it.
Then he took that money and gave it to Alameda, which is his other company.
When Alameda was in some huge financial trouble and he was like, oh, you know what, you just need to bail him out.
They can make that money back and then I'll reimburse FTX. No big deal.
This is grossly immoral, unethical, against a lot of laws, but just completely unethical to take other people's money and gamble with it.
And then if you win, you know, you reimburse them and no one ever knows.
And if you lose, oh, whoops, they're all fucked.
And what happened was he did lose all that money went away.
There are now thousands of people who have lost their life savings or a big chunk of their life savings.
I know that a lot of people that worked for FTX really drank the Kool-Aid and put their entire paycheck into FTX whenever they got it.
And they have no money now.
It was a huge financial fraud.
I believe the Toronto Teachers Union pension put almost a hundred million dollars in it and they don't have money now.
So FTX fucked a lot of people really hard to the tune of many billions of dollars have been stolen, Bernie Madoff off with.
The big thing about why we're talking about this is because this is strongly related to the EA and Rationalist community
because SBF was in the EA and Rationalist circles.
He was kind of a hero because he made all this money.
He right now is 30, so he's been making this money mainly in his late 20s.
He walked the walk.
He was quote unquote one of us.
He gave a fair chunk of money to effective altruism and had a future fund set up at FTX to give tens of billions more.
It was planned out.
There are a lot of charities whose funding is disappeared, including things for like a nuclear safety and pandemic preparedness.
And a lot of people who are in the charitable career tracks that suddenly have had their future financing disappeared on them,
which I mean, it's a risky take when you work in those sorts of industries, but it still sucks.
And I guess the big thing for us specifically why I brought this up.
I don't know if this was on the record, but people certainly got the impression that he believed things like it's okay to rob a bank if the cause is good enough.
It's possible.
Hey, he's a man of his word.
Yeah.
Okay, to commit wide scale fraud as long as the consequences outweigh it by a wide enough margin.
I was going to make a case.
I am sorry to keep interrupting.
Yeah, go ahead.
I think a case at the end of this, like, you know, this might not have been the worst move for him to make, even though it didn't work out.
Because like maybe it was only, you know, one in 10 that it wasn't going to work out.
And so if he did manage to double his impact, right?
If this went well, which I don't think it sounded like it was going to double his money or anything, but this could have had, you know, an expected positive outcome, right?
Remind me never to loan money to Steven, please.
Okay.
Thank you, Enya.
That wasn't how I work with my money.
My money just sits and checking, not doing fuck all.
Yeah.
A couple of my hot takes have been validated by this saga.
One is utilitarians are mostly just using utilitarianism to justify whatever they selfishly wanted to do.
And the other is don't trust people who are kind of weird looking.
I didn't think he was kind of weird looking.
He was kind of weird looking.
I think he looks charming.
He was also charming if you met him in person.
Okay.
All right.
So the thing you brought up is actually a thing a number of people have said, which is why I'm bringing this up.
That you shouldn't trust weird looking people.
No, the other thing about utilitarianism, it's mostly the same people that are always saying that the ones that like to shit on utilitarianism and like, oh, no, it's evil and bad and all effective altruists and long termists are actually evil people.
Because of the argument like Steven made that, oh, maybe it was a good idea.
After all, I mean, I think sometimes that might be the case.
I'm not going to, I'm not going to go into examples right now, but I think that's complete bullshit because everybody is saying basically this was awful and immoral and he's a horrible person.
Obviously it was not worth the risk of burning the commons and destroying, not destroying, but greatly marring both the name of VA and the social trust that people in EA had with each other.
Like this is, this is going to be a massive blow to people's ability to trust each other and coordinate because of this exploitation and will it, I'll let you finish.
I think it will. And the thing is, there is sociopaths who use naive utilitarianism to justify whatever they want, as you said, right? Oh, it'll have good enough effects in the future that I can do whatever I want right now.
And that's bullshit.
More than just sociopaths would go on.
But that's bullshit and everyone knows it's bullshit. And to the matter at hand, like Eliezer Yadkowski wrote in 2008, the ends do not justify the means among humans where he says, don't ever do this sort of thing.
You are not running on trusted hardware.
But Yadkowski and especially sequences area, Yadkowski, I don't know if he's changed this pretty clearly is not like a full blown utilitarianism.
No, no.
Utilitarian, especially if you read method of rationality, like that's the story of a naive utilitarian becoming not a utilitarian.
He specifically has said many times that humans should not be utilitarians.
It should be like maybe three quarters utilitarian.
The pithy joke version of that, which I love is all the cool kids are deontologists.
The rules say you should be a utilitarian by being a virtue ethicist has the best outcomes.
Cool.
Utilitarian is specifically a morality for gods.
It's for things who are omnipotent or at least omniscient and can see what all the results are.
And humans are not that.
So no human should be a complete utilitarian.
And I think it sucks that SBF, SBF, right?
Bankman fried fried.
Okay.
Yeah.
Did this.
And I think it's stupid that he's trying to justify it with utilitarianism, but also anyone who thinks that this is utilitarianism done right has not been reading or interacting with a factor of altruism or rationalism for any serious amount of time.
So I'm going to steelman the case that this was good utilitarianism in the interest of proving that even good utilitarianism is bad.
Oh, dear.
You should be one.
Okay.
So if I were bankman fried, the way I'd be defending myself is like good utilitarianism requires you to take positive expected value but uncertain bets.
And that's what he did.
He just happened to lose.
And if you hadn't had the recession and the credit crunch and so on, while crypto was still getting off the ground, then he would have been the Jeff Bezos for the next generation of the internet.
And all of that money would have gone into effective charities.
That's probably what he would say.
Yes.
But everybody disagrees with him.
Okay.
But are they agreeing with him for good reasons?
Or are they just trying to distance themselves from a loser?
They're agreeing with him for good reasons specifically because humans are running on corrupted hardware and cannot trust themselves.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Most people aren't making that argument though.
They're saying, no, he messed up the calculations.
No, no, they're not.
Everyone who's arguing against this is saying specifically that humans can't be complete utilitarians.
Everyone is an aggressive claim and I admit I'm kind of filtered with my internet bubble on bad EA takes a bit more so than good EA takes.
I mean, everyone who has any sort of reputation in the EA community is saying that it's a saying a combination of humans are corrupted hardware and can't make these sorts of calculations.
And also that he failed because partly because he's running on corrupted hardware of taking into effect the things like burning the commons and destroying trust.
And the only reason I think one of the favorite things I saw is the only reason we are such a rich society and we have the ability to have all this excess wealth that we can use for helping other people is because we do have high social trust and great cooperation.
And when you do something like this, you are damaging all that and do it enough times and you will destroy it entirely.
And you don't take that kind of risk, not with benefits this small benefits that can be measured in dollars, right?
Like you would do that for something like I will prevent a nuclear.
The benefits of having a commons can be measured in dollars.
Like the things you might think the benefits are like economic growth and advanced economies and stuff are correct.
Not having nuclear bomb go off can be measured in dollars as well.
But it's a little harder.
I'll grant you.
Yes, but certainly not something like how much crypto can I reap over the next few years to put into effective charities.
I feel like that's going to hurt the crypto enthusiasts more than it hurt the EA enthusiasts.
As an advocate for effective altruism, I don't find this the least bit disconcerting.
It's a drag that this guy did this and it does take money out of places that it would have been better off going.
But it's not like I learned that give well is gambling money away, right?
Right.
That's me actually trying to give charitable money and somebody lying about what they're doing with it.
This guy was like, yeah, I'll invest your money safely and smartly.
And then he did, which is different than an EA organization fucking you, right?
So that's true, but essentially, if that's where you're taking your comfort, then you've given up on doing anything other than preaching to the choir.
Because like the issue is not that more crypto bros will stop being crypto bros than EA's will stop being EA's.
It's that soccer moms will associate both crypto and EA with Ponzi schemes.
Maybe, maybe I'm missing the mark on how popular this guy was.
I mean, he was a billionaire quite a few times over.
Right.
But most I don't know if soccer moms know who Jeff Bezos is.
I'm sure that I'm well sure, but I'm sure there are some teachers in Toronto who know who he is.
I'm sure, you know, everyone who's met anyone that he fucked over will know who he is forever.
But like the thing is, I didn't know who he was until today either.
I knew there were several billionaires that got rich in part due to crypto that were financing EA stuff.
But I didn't know his name.
I didn't know the details of his company or whatever.
I don't give a fuck about crypto, but I know his name now and I know what he did and I know his justification.
And a lot of people who knew absolutely nothing about this are going to know about him and possibly likely even the connection, the connection to EA.
I heard about this on NPR news yesterday about FTX collapsing and wiping out tens of billions of dollars.
And did they talk about the angle?
No, but that's going to come out.
I guess I mean, I don't know how much that could possibly hurt the EA community.
You know, unless people are going to just, it's going to be like a Fox news, like holding up this one example of somebody did it wrong and be like, look, it sucks.
I mean, I kind of hope they focus on the polycule thing because that's a, you know, sexy, sex cult angle, like literally sex news.
And then that'll distract from the EA stuff.
But I think that has as much impact as anything else as, you know, nothing.
He was just a bad immoral person.
Yeah.
I hope that too, because I want poly to become more marginalized.
Hang on.
Hear me out.
Okay.
So that hopefully Kink also gets a bit more marginalized because it's becoming too vanilla.
And I want an injection of punk rock back into the scene.
Yeah, that's fair.
Once all the normies are doing it.
So you said that he's making these justifications that it was the right thing.
Are we, is he actually doing that?
Or is this the speculation that, so I was, I was jokingly defending like, well, there was an expected outcome.
That was great.
You know, but is that actually what he's saying?
Or is he, is he just keeping quiet in the Bahamas?
Like he should be for being this kind of financial criminal.
That's a good question.
I mean, there's a lot of things he said in the past that are being dredged up.
I don't know if that's what he's saying literally right now.
I think he's being quiet at the moment and declaring bankruptcy and all that.
But, and possibly stealing a lot of money.
But that's something we'll get into in the mind killers because that's like news stuff rather than rationalist talk.
One of the things he said a year ago in, on a podcast with Cowan was a Cowan asked him,
if there was a button you could push that had a 51% chance of creating a duplicate earth, you've heard of this.
I heard that because I listened to Tyler Cowan, Cowan yesterday.
I haven't heard of it.
