I want to both agree and disagree with you on the virtuousness thing because I do think everyone
should cultivate virtues in themselves as we talked about in our virtue ethics podcast.
But this was the thing that occurred to me while I was going to various cathedrals in London.
There's all these statues of people who did great things for their community.
And the thing is, when you're a peasant in England, oftentimes you don't have much opportunity to
do much of anything. Most people aren't in the best health, either physically or mentally.
They don't have all the resources. They're just trying to get by.
And that's what virtue ethics is trying to help you with.
But there's some people who are lucky that were born into wealth or born with extraordinarily
healthy bodies or extraordinarily good mental focus and got lucky with the interest lottery
and are interested in things like cell biology, which are going to help the human race.
And it is virtuous for them to use those extra gifts to advance humankind or advance their
community. And I think it's kind of right for them to be honored, even though that
they just got lucky by having good genes and access to resources, but they still did a good
thing that helped everyone out. And it's nice to commemorate them and to be thankful that
these people were around to make communities better. And I think if you're in that, if you're in
that part of your life, which more and more people can be nowadays because our society is so rich,
you should be cultivating the virtue of helping people if you can and as effectively as you can.
So I agree that we should celebrate people like that. But, and I'm not sure how much of this is
me generalizing from fictional evidence. I imagine the people who get statues made of them, like,
I don't know enough about saints and sainthood to say, but like the say soldiers who win the
Medal of Honor, they're not the ones who are in boot camp saying like, I'm going to go out there and
be a hero and win the Medal of Honor and be like super famous and everyone's going to talk about
me. They're the people who are like, I'm just going to do my job and do it as well as I can.
And just like try to make sure that me and my buddies get home safe and we complete our mission.
And next thing you know, you're like fighting off 200 German soldiers in a broken,
in a broken tank turret with nothing but a heavy machine gun, a bunch of grenades,
and two giant brass balls. Sure, that's the case sometimes. But you said that you like to donate
even a little more than you thought you should to things that you think are effective like AMF.
Like, why does AMF exist? It's because of people doing this, making it exist. Sure, but I don't
think I'm saving the world by doing that. I think it's a good thing for me to do for like,
because it helps me develop skills and mental habits that are good to have.
Do you think it's a good thing for AMF to exist? Because if they didn't, you'd have to give your
money to the local church, which is far less effective, right? Yes, I think it's a good thing
for it to exist. But I think if you are a worker for not AMF specifically, because they have like
a fairly narrow mandate, but like, give well, say for listeners, AMF is the against malaria
foundation. Yes. If you're a worker for give well, say, like your job is, I think you will
be a better give well researcher. If you show up to work saying, I want to be the best researcher,
I can be and do really good research, then you will, if you go into work daydreaming about
being a hero who's saving the world. Alright, so having met a bunch of EA people who got into EA
to help save the world personally, that's what you just described as approximately 100% of people.
It's just people who want to help and they're like, how can I help? I know how to do data science,
or I know how to do this and this. And so is there a company there is, there's a give well,
I will work for them. Like it's that is movement EA. It's people who just want to help the world
and who have some skills. And so they sign up to work for give well or AMF or some other place
like that. Yeah, maybe I guess movement EA might not be the best way to describe what I'm
getting at like maybe EA influencers would be better. Like there is a subset of people who
self describe as EA's and who talk about it a lot that are like self aggrandizing and not
particularly good at being people. Well, it sounds like SPF was one of those.
Yeah, and that's the point I'm making. Yeah. But people like SPF I think are the
distinct minority. Whatever label you want to attach to those people, like imagine I said that
instead of movement EA, if you think of something else when you think of movement.
Okay, so you think self aggrandizing sociopaths suck. Yes. And I agree with you that has nothing
to do with EA aside from they have as many of those as any other organization does.
I just wanted to say that like, you know, like you said with virtue ethics, you know,
the idea is that everyone tries to focus some of their their attention on being a virtuous person
and cultivating a virtuous life in the world we saved through that some portion of their time
will be spent talking to people who aren't yet virtue ethicists about why they might
think about considering it, right? Yeah, like, so that's what I think of community EA. That's
what I think of. And so I just wanted to get that out before you said specifically the celebrities.
And yet, you know, the influencers, like, I will be cast a lot to fuck up seriously bad for me to
be like, Oh, yeah, he turns out he did a net negative, right? And not like an utilitarian talk
of, you know, utilities and whatever, but like his actual impact was bad. Same like Peter Singer,
like the that guy might have single handedly led the charge that has reduced the suffering of animals
of billions of animals on the planet, right? And sure, it took like 40 years. But it's entirely
possible that without him, it's not take another 80, right? Like, so, you know, I think I think that
the Titans in different fields of whatever, I think they can have a lot of value, you run the
risk of them, you know, fumbling really hard, or having been an asshole secretly the whole time,
right? So, you know, be careful with it. And I was going to say, you know, if there was like a
virtue champion that was out there talking about how awesome that wasn't going on book tours on
their new virtue book, that'd be great. And then if they were secretly an asshole, that would suck.
And yet they wouldn't secretly be an asshole, because they're a virtue ethicist. So if they were
actually eating their own Kool-Aid, there's no way that they could that they could, you know,
end up being a bad person, like the way that a utilitarian might go a little too far into robot
territory and become a bad person, right? No, I think there's just as many sociopaths in virtue
ethicism as, and that our virtue ethicists believe in virtue ethics as any other system.
I'm prepared to, I'm prepared to guess that somebody's going to say, no, there aren't,
by definition, they can't really be, and they'll know true, they'll know true Scotsman that.
You know, sociopaths will neatly chameleon into any sort of moral system that they think
will get them ahead. I disagree with the hypothetical person you were suggesting exists.
I think it is possible to have sociopaths whose sociopathy manifests in them talking about virtue
ethics. I just think that, okay, sure, but. No, I didn't mean to interrupt, and I feel like we
are going to kind of fire a field, and I was more having fun with that example than like seriously
gearing up a hill to die on. Yeah, I think that, and I recognize the self criticism in this as
someone who talks about virtue ethics a lot. I think a good virtue ethicist should be suspicious
of anyone who talks too much about virtue ethics, specifically to avoid that dynamic.
And I think one of the big benefits of virtue ethics is that when the sociopathy comes to light,
there aren't as many easy defenses as like I made a positive expected value bet and having to lose.
Yeah, fair enough. I mean, because that's the thing is you can be a sociopath, like,
you know, the the absurdist argument of like, well, the doctor who sacrifices one homeless
person to save five people, like. It's not an absurdist argument. They're utilitarians who take
that example very seriously, but go on. There are people who take their religions so seriously to
blow themselves up. But I guess I would say like, what the thing is, is that just like the people
blow themselves up for God, there actually is a way to interpret the letter of the written word
that leads them to that conclusion. But it's not the way that they probably should.
David, you act like there's no virtue ethicist that would not sacrifice a homeless man to save
five other people. They would sacrifice only the right amount of homeless people, not too many,
not too little, right? They'll only they'll only spend the right amount of time advocating for
virtue ethics. Right. And for sacrificing homeless people. Right. There's certainly some way you
can be like, this is the most virtuous thing to do, given the virtues. I mean, sure. Okay, wow.
But like, that would be getting too far afield. And I, I'm tired. Listeners, I started recording
this after like an hour of downtime, after a nine hour drive across the most mind-numbing part of
America to drive across. So sorry, if I'm not quite firing on all cylinders right now,
I still want to get my psychedelic experience of driving across Kansas alone and sober.
Apparently this is just a crazy thing. Yeah, you were going to do without an hour of downtime,
total champion here. I don't have the, it's a 40 minute drive for me and I get tired,
so I'll never complain again. Two other quick things about it. A lot of EA people are going
through the thing right now where they're being very self-flagellating and saying,
how could we not have seen this? We should have seen this. How have we, let's examine how we failed
and as has been pointed out, at least a couple of times, there was a major capital company,
what was it? Solarium, Solaris, something like that, whose job is to do due diligence and see
if things are scams or not. And they invested millions of dollars in this. So if a major investment
firm is going to get scammed by this, you're probably not going to do a better job, stop
beating yourself up. And as was said from in this tweet, EA's have a God complex. And I think that
part is true because one of the things that we all, I guess, admit in EA, even though it's not
the healthiest thing, as we also all admit, is that, as Harry Potter James Everett Evans-Verriss
said, when you can't do the right thing unless you become God, the correct answer is to become God.
And so there is a bit of a God complex, but we're not God and we can't beat ourselves up for not
being God. So don't do that. And the other thing is a number of people are thinking like, should I
return all the money that I got from SBF and FTX's Future Fund to make hold that people have that
have been fucked by this. And in addition to it being only the tiniest drop in the bucket,
Eliezer posted an essay about, no, you shouldn't, especially not if you've already spent the money,
especially not if it's for something that you've already done. And most likely not if it's stuff
for something you're still going to do. Because more than anything else, you were being paid to do
a job. And that job is a philanthropic job, but you're already taking a more risky career in
philanthropy. You're already taking a wage cut to work in philanthropy. And there is no other
industry that is going to be returning some of the money FTX sent them. There's a stadium in
Florida who sold the rights to name their stadium to FTX. And they sure are not going to be returning
money, at least not a decent portion of that money. They're keeping it even though it was
gotten through this illegal bullshit. There's the electric utility that gave electricity to FTX.
And part of that was to cover costs. And part of that was profit. And they're not going to return
the profit for that electricity to, to the FTX account holders who have been robbed. Like,
it's just that that's not a thing you do. And everyone thinks that if you work in philanthropy,
you should be a complete martyr and destroy yourself. And you are not accountable for this
is basically the gist of the essay. I think I agree with him. And I'm going to link the essay as
well. I would encourage the utilitarians to keep beating themselves up, because watching
utilitarians beat themselves up for dumb reasons, give me gives me infinite utility. And I'm probably
lying about that. But do you really want to take that chance? I was hoping you'd say that. That's
awesome. The yes, I realized that Pascal's wager is dumb. And it's the first thing that all utilitarians
throw out the window. I make fun of you because I love you fist bump. I don't really love you.
You're fine. You're like, stop digging stuff. So the only the only person who I think should be
bringing their hands wondering do I do I burn everything to try and make this people whole
again is SPF himself. Oh, he's probably going to jail. Well, I know. But like, this, it doesn't
check me as impossible. And this actually is a sort of fun thing to consider. Let's say that after
all the the dust settles, he's left with a, you know, mere $25 billion. I don't know how much
let's say he robbed people of a total of $10 billion. If he could liquidate everything and pay them
back, he could, right? He could he could fix all the problem. You know, he could at least he could
he could make right that he could fill the bank accounts that he emptied, right?
No, I think right now all he has is the few hard assets like his house in the Bahamas,
some cars and shit. I was going to say hypothetically, then then the fun trade off would
be like, should he do that? Or should he give 10 million 10 billion in cash to effective effective
charities? I mean, obviously, he should not only obviously the law would compel him to first make
whole all the people that got stolen from with the Bahamas law compel him to if he stayed out of
offshore. Actually, yes. Oh, lame. He should go to a cooler place. Let's do whatever he wants.
If you're going to be if you're going to be a criminal, who your financial criminal get by
your summer house in a in a country that let you get away with whatever you want, right? I mean,
all the assets Iran has some lovely real estate. All the assets have already been frozen. But
yeah, there's there's no way people are making all the money back. It's just it's not there.
That's I appreciate the impulse of people who want to be like, well, what can I do to help the
people who got fucked over? Yeah. And yet, like, when insert giant bank, whatever gets, you know,
fucks up and whatever, everyone loses, you know, a bunch of money, like the employees work with
that bank aren't like, well, should I sacrifice my retirement to break those people whole again?
Like it's just not your problem. Like it sucks. And hopefully, you know, something will happen to
help make things right for these people. But like, it's not maybe not a bad effect of altruism or
bad utilitarian. But like, it's I'm totally hateful of saying it's not your problem, man.
You don't have nearly enough guilt, Stephen. I, you know, that's I don't have enough
anything. I don't have enough that could be like the subtitle of my autobiography. Nice.
So I guess that's all of that if we're done with that, which went on a lot longer than it was
supposed to for a pre show thing. This might just be the meat of the show, I guess at this point,
by the meat of the show, but it does transition neatly into a subject that can spend a little
time on because one of the things that you said that people are wondering is like, where did we go
wrong? What can we do?
