But the printing press kind of broke feudalism and said,
we don't need a privileged knowledge class who has access
to the knowledge to rule if we can all have the same newspaper
and all know what's going on and we can all have access
to textbooks and education, all know what's going on.
So the idea of a comprehensively educated public
and a comprehensively informed public,
which means education and the Fourth Estate or news, you know,
media were considered prerequisite institutions
for democracy to function.
And that started with a newspaper
and the newspaper ended up evolving into radio
and television, you know, news stations.
But there were the element of broadcast
that you had some small number of news stations
that could put something out and everybody could read
the same thing and they could agree or not agree,
they could react against it,
but they were at least getting some shared sense
of base reality to then be able
to make governance choices based on.
That was kind of critical to democracy.
Now, when the internet emerged and we went from a few publishers
to everyone can be publishers and there was such a flood
of information that nobody could possibly see
all of the relevant information
and you have a billion search results for any search topic,
then what I see isn't going to be me searching
through all of that, it's going to be some AI
that can go through those billion search results
and curate recommended videos for me
or curate a new suite of content.
And what is the basis of how it curates it?
So as we all know from, if we pay attention,
if we've ever looked at a friend's Facebook page,
if I have someone in the middle of the country
who's maybe politically right and someone on the coast
of the country who's politically left,
their Facebook news feeds probably have not a single piece
of content in common about the news of the world.
And so not only do they have no content in common,
how could you possibly run a democracy
if people don't have a shared sense
of what's going on in the world?
It's not only that they don't have it in common,
it's that they have things that are increasingly polarizing
because the algorithm is optimizing
for their attention and their engagement.
And it happens to be that the things that scare people
and outrage them and create tribal identity
and create certainty are the things
that make people spend more time on site
and make them engage more.
What's happening is not only that the sense
of shared base realities broken,
but that the realities are becoming increasingly polarized.
And as the population becomes increasingly polarized,
they elect and support representatives
that become increasingly polarized,
which means that the integrity of government itself
becomes increasingly gridlocked
and increasingly broken down.
So can you run a open society?
Can you run a democracy where the citizens have
as their greatest enemy each other,
where they have no shared sense of what is true
and they have no shared sense of what is good
and there's some kind of voting that has to happen
and anything that either side advances
makes the other side feel more threatened.
That's the process of the breakdown
of a democracy completely.
And so we can see that Facebook and YouTube
and basically the attention directing tools
broke the fourth estate, which means broke democracy.
It's really critical to understand that.
And when we think of an oil company
that maybe before we had an oil company,
we didn't have laws about oil spills
or about where we would do drilling.
And so we had to deal with that post facto.
The oil spill caused harm to the commons,
but it didn't directly make the government worse.
But the oil spill we're talking about here,
where the population is increasingly certain
about things that are increasingly wrong
and polarized against each other
and so are the representatives.
That's the oil spill of tech.
That they're externally,
instead of dumping toxic waste in a river,
they're dumping toxic polarization into society.
But the toxic waste in the river
didn't make governance not work in a democracy.
It didn't break the democracy.
You're saying that the toxic dump of polarization
from these specific tech companies, as they dump that,
it's breaking the very thing that we would need to regulate it
because the regulation of this,
we would think would come from the state,
but the state is fundamentally being broken
by the externality of these companies.
Yeah, exactly.
So what's happening is as these companies operate
and polarized the population,
so that the representatives who have to appeal
to their support base
can't possibly work together with each other
because if they work together with each other,
they lose the increasingly polarized support base,
not to mention that the polarization actually affects
the representatives
and even the military themselves directly.
As these infotech platforms continue to operate,
they directly decrease the coherence
of government's capacity to govern at all,
while increasing their own capacity
to influence the population
and obviously increasing the total intelligence
they have access to,
to know how to change popular opinion
to continue to support what they do.
And in addition to their financial capacity
to lobbying like that,
so they're becoming exponentially more capable
through the application of exponential technologies
while creating an exponential decrease
on capability and coherence of the government
that would govern them.
And you can't have a regulatory body
regulate something that is both more powerful than it
and growing faster than it.
And that's the key underlying thing
that we're trying to say here
is that big tech is directly decreasing the coherence
of the government's capacity to govern it.
And it is getting better faster
while making the government get less coherent faster.
