So your sound bite of freeze it works, right?
So biodegradation stops when you get really cold.
Of course, all kinds of bad things happen to you when you get really cold and that's
why it kills you.
So the idea is that you're cooled in such a way that it's non damaging into anything
that's really important.
It's still damaging.
The process of vitrification is absolutely still damaging the way that we do it, but
it's less damaging than sticking you into deep freeze.
Well, yes, it's certainly far less damaging than sticking you on the ground and letting
worms eat your brain.
That's very damaging or cremation.
Let's talk real quick about a few assumptions that cryo makes.
One of the first thing that assumes is that who you are is contained in your physical
body.
Right.
What matters is at least your physical body primarily what's between your ears.
Yes, that there is no such thing as a soul or a divine spark or whatever, which is separate
from your physical material flesh.
That said, you can find people who will conjoin the positions and say, well, I can find some
articles to link to.
We'll put them on the website as well.
But for example, you could say, if your cryo preserves, your soul never really leaves
and it stays and it sparks back up and your brain sparks back up again the same way that
if your heart stops during surgery.
Or it takes a vacation and then comes back.
That works too.
Interesting side note, when I was first signing up to the cryo preserve, I was still married
to my crazy, crazy fundamentalist Christian wife.
And there's a problem with cryo that your next of kin, your family can stop it.
They can say no and kick the doctors out of the room.
They have the legal right to do that and then you're fucked.
So one of the things you really want to do is make sure that the person has power of
attorney is on your side.
So it took some convincing to get her on my side.
But eventually I was like, you know what, God's this all powerful super being my puny
human technology is not going to interfere with his will.
If my soul goes on to heaven or whatever, then you can't stop that by freezing me.
Like one of her really big concerns seemed to be that if I got frozen, my soul would
be stuck to my body and it would be really cold and sad all the time.
Well, you're already dead by the time you get frozen that, you know, legally dead.
Yes.
And I'm not sure if that's good enough for God.
And I guess she wasn't either.
Guys, this is another reason why I might have to have a kid because the only the only
other people who are having kids he might have.
Our attorney over me are my husband's very Christian conservative family.
Well, no, if you are married, then your husband would have power of attorney.
Assuming he's still alive when you die.
I assume he's going to die before me.
Sorry, sweetie.
Well, that was a given in your line of reasoning there.
Why are you so sure?
In that case, wouldn't it be like your parents or your siblings?
Again, I'm assuming I'm going to be 95 years old when this is even an issue.
I'm going to be 95 years old.
The only surviving people are going to be my husband's siblings, great, great grandchildren
because they are going to have lots of kids and we're just grandchildren or great grandchildren.
And they're going to be the ones who have to make that decision.
Well, I mean, they're lovely people.
You don't have to infect your own kids with your memes.
You can infect your nieces and nephews.
It's going to be more difficult because they're conservatively homeschooled.
Or pay an attorney to enforce your will.
Oh, wait, but...
Even if they manage to delay it for a while, that your brain rots.
The time is of the essence of the situation.
Keep them on retainer when you're on your deathbed.
Just be like, hey, you're spending the week at the hospital.
But one of the important things to do when you sign up for cryo,
which I guess maybe we should wait until late in the episode to get into,
is get your friends and family to at least say they won't fight it.
Right.
They don't have to be all totally on board, but tell them not to stop things.
And that's where I was at.
And don't tell them, like, get them to agree to it.
Yeah, otherwise they could just lie and say that they're doing it for good reasons.
So, yeah, getting people on board, or at least on board enough to, yeah,
where they're not going to fight you and let you rot.
The key to successful preservation is getting you into treatment before too much time has passed
since legal death.
Because while people can be declared legally dead for some time,
some minutes usually before things start to go bad in their body,
that window is pretty narrow.
So, what's the best way to die if you want to be chronically preserved?
In the hospital, knowing when you're going to die ahead of time.
Not dying of anything that would especially damage your brain.
Oh, God, yes.
Volcanoes.
Volcanoes.
Damage your brain.
Thermite on the skull.
Well, and there was the...
I don't like to say patient.
What do you call someone who's signed up for chronics?
They actually are patients.
So, I guess that chronics patient who died in the September 11 attacks in New York City.
Oh, he's not a patient because the body was not recovered.
Well, that's my point.
So, before they were declared legally dead.
Before, I see.
A member.
Yeah.
That was kind of a bummer, but that counts as an incident that makes you not a good candidate
for successful preservation.
So, jumping back a bit, because we are going all over the place today.
Sorry.
I'm sorry, but that's partly my fault too.
I also got my own digression, which I apologize for.
I was apologizing to the audience.
Oh, okay.
Not sorry for you.
Yeah, no.
Fuck me.
No, that the assumption is that everything that makes you you is in your body and mostly
in your brain.
We have a lot of reason to believe that is probably the case.
And so, if the brain can be preserved, it is assumed that maybe someday it can be recreated
as well.
Or restored to working order.
Or restored to working order.
Yes.
So, there are lots of ways to, or lots of avenues by which successful reanimation or revival
might take place.
Nanobots?
Nanobots to repair damaged tissue, functionally isomorphic replication through just computer
networks.
Or biological parts.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Could be silicon, could be carbon.
Clone farms.
Yeah, possibly.
They could, you know, mold how the brain develops.
So, all the neurons get in the right place.
Sorry.
That was out of, that was out of left field.
Well, I mean, that's a possibility.
But I, like you said, I think it'd be more likely to be on a, yeah, on a silicon substrate.
I guess unless, unless you couldn't, for whatever reason, reanimate the rest of the body, but
you could fix the brain.
So, you just get a, you get a clone farm for whatever ethical constraints that you can
keep them alive enough to get their head big enough to put your brain into.
And then just, you know, but that sounds like a lot of work.
I think there are easier ways to do it.
Maybe you can use a positronic brain.
That's cryonics.
But what are some other methods of preservation that people are checking out?
Placidinization is actually one of them.
I hadn't heard of this.
Okay.
Yeah.
That way they can, don't have to keep your brain frozen.
They can just put it in a box, in a warehouse.
You know, those traveling sea inside your body things that come to museums sometimes?
Body, body works?
Body works?
That's right.
That's what they do.
They take a corpse and they, you know, soak it in these, these chemicals.
And then afterwards, the, what's left is basically just plastic, uh, sort of kind of rubbery,
right?
Yeah.
But it maintains the, it maintains the structure, although it's plastic now.
So theoretically you could look at that.
And then I think the only way that you could be cured at that point is.
Recreation.
Yeah.
Complete.
You can't fix that.
Gotcha.
So it sounds.
But if it's done well, it wouldn't theory be a complete map of your brain.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
So that sounds, depending on what avenue and how you want to hedge your bets, that sounds
like not the worst way to go.
Right.
Um, so we, there have been examples where small organisms have been crowd preserved and restored.
Was it three months ago?
A few months ago, they vitrified a rabbit liver and then put it into another rabbit.
And that rabbit had no ill effects.
The liver worked fine.
So reversal of cryopreservations already been demonstrated.
Is there any way to get a, what was it called?
Plastic.
Plasticization.
Plasticization.
Is there any way to reverse that whatsoever?
No.
No, no, no.
So that's, that's permanent.
So it would be for preserving the brain to take a really good MRI picture later and then
recreate it that way.
Yes.
And or, okay, cool.
Something to look into.
I don't know a lot about that.
But the way that cryo actually works, I called cryo for short, let's do a lot of people,
is that when you die, they pump your veins full of a cryo-protectant solution, which
