give you back all the money you've put into it so far.
So it costs me $60 a month for the same insurance.
I think I have about 120 for my life insurance cost me $60 a month.
So a little more than twice as much as Steven pays.
But at the end of 30 years, if the singularity hasn't come and if, you know, immortality
hasn't been found and if I'm still alive, I'll get that money back.
And so I can give it directly to CI, it'll only be about $60,000.
So I have to kick in another $40,000.
Hopefully by then I'll have another $40,000 saved up because I will have been planning
for this.
And then I can just give them the money directly and be like, here's the cash.
That's a pretty sweet deal.
Your agent will probably tell you about these different options.
Yes.
Yeah, Rudy definitely did.
And I, I didn't know I signed up for the term policy.
He must have explained it.
And I just said right now I'll do cheapest and never got around to reassessing it.
To do this.
And I wish we had an economist here because I think there are reasons to do the cheapest
and to not do what I did, not do any options.
I am not at all sure about that because I'm not an economist, but I have heard whispers.
Well, there's the fact that $60 right now is worth a lot more than $60 in 30 years.
That would be it.
Yes.
Yeah.
So, so there are things that you shouldn't do.
And one of them is by a full life life insurance.
Right.
So, I know that saying full life life insurance is a terrible idea.
Full life life insurance is a terrible idea.
Obviously what you're doing is different, but it's not as good, but you know, I kind
of like hedging my bets.
I've always been risk averse.
Maybe you should be investing the extra $30.
You know, maybe I should.
And then you would have better outcomes than, than paying it into this life insurance.
Calling all economists.
What should we all do?
No, I think actually you make a very good point.
And if I had it to do over, I'd probably do that.
I think I might be able to change it still.
I'm sure you can.
It's your policy.
Yeah.
All right.
You just stuck at homework now.
But in Steven's case, you're paying $37 a month, which is...
$27.
Well, plus the $10 a month.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In my case, I paid $1,000 upfront and I'm paying $60 a month.
And in both cases, that's less than you pay for cable if you have cable.
It's less than you pay for high speed internet if you have high speed internet.
Well, I'd rather die than not have high speed internet, but we'd be willing to do that.
Or a landline.
Die permanently.
Or like I said, that, I mean, you know, $20 a month is a lot of people's like Starbucks
budget, you know, or whatever your coffee provider...
$20 a week is a lot of people's Starbucks budget.
That's true.
Yeah.
So it's not a lot of money in the grand scheme of things, although, you know, if you're living
near the poverty level, you're probably not going to be able to afford it.
Because people that close to not having enough money can't swing an extra $40 a month.
That said, if you're going to be in poor taste to stay dying to look into this, get in touch
with somebody at CI.
They do have ways of working with people who can't necessarily afford everything right
away.
They're largely philanthropic.
They're not in this for the big bucks.
So if you're...
I obviously don't work for them.
I can't be sure.
In fact, this probably won't happen, but I think there's a non-zero chance that if you
can touch them and say, look, this is what I've got to work with.
I don't want to die.
How can I work with you people?
Someone there will talk to you.
So, you know, don't roll yourself out if you say, if you think that you just literally
can't afford it.
I want to touch base on this before I forget, as long as we're jumping around a little bit.
With the paperwork that they send you, one of the...
So I generally have an admonition against lying, but I signed a piece of paperwork that
was sent to me saying I have a religious objection to autopsy, even though I don't have a religious
objection to anything.
And now it's on tape.
Now it's on tape.
Steven, the liar.
I actually like to think of atheism as a form of religion, even though a lot of people say
it is the opposite of having a religion.
Yeah, you're going to piss off every atheist in the audience.
Yeah, I know.
But I still...
It is a belief about the afterlife and about supernatural things, and I honestly am of
the opinion that it should be as protected as any other belief about those things.
And I seriously think it should be protected by the Second Amendment.
It is a religious, quote-unquote, belief in those terms.
The First Amendment.
Oh, right.
The Second Amendment.
I can defend my own Second Amendment rights, thank you very much.
So yeah, that whole thing is that I see we're coming from, especially with perks like this,
right?
Right.
So if it just happened because I'm an atheist that I suddenly can't get this awesome perk
of not having the doctors cut my brain up after I die, thus killing me forever, you
know, if only my lack of belief counted as a religion, then that wouldn't happen.
So yeah, I let myself be a little dishonest on paper and say, yes, I have religious objection
to autopsy, and they highly recommend that you sign that.
They also send you a document which says under what circumstances do you want to be preserved?
And you can check a box that says only perfect preservation.
You know, I'm there, whatever, basically like euthanasia style preservation.
I checked the box that said use your best judgment.
You guys are the experts.
Don't waste your time and money.
Don't waste my money.
Whatever.
It's like some borderline case.
I get into a car accident and there's some braid hammering before I'm taken to the hospital
and I dive on the way there or something.
There might be some damage or whatever.
They'll use their own best judgment guess.
And usually they do preserve.
I think so.
It's only if there's extensive damage that's irreparable that they don't.
Right.
Okay.
So two things that make cryonics interesting to me personally, well, not that make cryonics
interesting.
Two things that are interesting about cryonists.
The first is that generally we don't consider ourselves dead, dead when we're preserved.
And so this came up a few times when I was with my crazy fundamentalist wife.
If someone were to yank my body out of the liquid nitrogen tank and let it rot, I consider
that murder.
I agree.
I don't.
The technology there, or excuse me, not the technology, the terminology there abused
you as well.
They, they don't say you're dead.
They say you're a patient.
Yes.
But not just because I'm a fan of wordplay, I'm not really, but because it's more accurate
in this case.
I understand why you, why you prefer that.
And I understand why you would think of it as murder.
But the way that I see it is I'm going to be dead and I'm probably going to stay dead
unless I totally luck out and, and it turns out that I don't have to stay dead.
The way I see it is I am on my way to a hospital in the future and I probably won't make it
there.
But if somebody stops the ambulance and makes sure that I die, even though I probably wouldn't
have made it there anyway, fuck them, they're a murderer.
And you paid for the trip.
And well, I'm that paid for the trip too, but I'm more concerned about the ethical,
you know, ramifications of being murdered is a lot like, it's not like, I don't care
about the money.
I care about not dying.
It's not like in your living will, you can say, do your best to keep me alive.
And somebody's like, no, we're not even going to try CPR.
Like that sounds like if pulling someone out of a crowd tank isn't, isn't murder, then
how is that?
How many people have been murdered thusly, or in other words, taken out of, of deep
freeze?
I think none.
I mean, don't think anybody's been thought because of the business failure.
They have been thought because of business failure.
I mean, that literally has happened, but that wasn't because someone was pulling them out
because I, I was personally threatened with this, like, Oh no, I love you too much.
I would have pulled you out of there.
And I was like, you will literally be murdering me.
Get your hands off.
I consider it different when a business fails, that would be like the ambulance getting a
flat tire or something.
That's not something that someone did to kill me.
But among things that you can expect are or expect reasonably expect to happen are the
business failing and you getting thought out or somebody, I don't know, showing up and
pulling you out of, out of deep freeze because they have a religious conviction or blowing
up the facility or something.
Yeah.
Exactly.
The first one I would not consider murder the second two I would.
Right.
It seems very subjective.
Well, just, just, just to torture your analogy of, of on an, on an ambulance ride, if the
ambulance had some, if the vehicle itself had some sort of a huge failure on the way
to the hospital, that's not, they didn't, they didn't mean to kill you.
Right.
We just died in the back.
They were doing their best.
That said, I think that the business failure is something that, you know, obviously you
need to put into your calculus of whether or not you want to do this, but it's, it's
less likely.
I think, well, actually, I'm not a future, I'm not a forecast economist, but there was
a CI business that or a chronic's business that went under.
And I think that current ones are taking steps to make that not happen.
Yes.
That's one of the reasons it's more expensive than it used to be.
Right.
