We should save this for a reproducing episode.
Fair enough.
Okay.
Gosh, it's so easy for us to get off topic.
But the best thing is we're not running out of things to talk about.
So back on topic, my family members, one of their main complaints was this is something
that's only available to rich people.
It depends on what you mean by rich.
I mean, the global poor certainly aren't going to be able to afford it.
And it's not even available in most countries outside of the US.
But in America, you don't actually have to be rich.
You can, like, I'm certainly not rich.
I'm middle class and I was making even less when I first signed up.
It's not that expensive, depending on who you go with.
I'm signed up with the Crayonix Institute and Steven.
Crayonix Institute.
And I was making less than $20,000 a year when I signed up.
I was full-time college, part-time worker.
But the other thing to mention is that I think just before we even talk about how cheap it
is, is that it's too expensive and it's only for rich people.
It's true of basically every new medical development.
And it costs to go down eventually.
But whether or not that's the case, that might be just an unfortunate, bummer reality about it.
That's not necessarily an argument against it.
It also scales not poorly anyway.
So if a lot more people signed up, it would be cheaper per person.
So we want more people of all sorts of different income levels to sign up.
But mainly because we don't want people to die.
That's really where it's at, yeah.
I feel like kind of like looking back now.
So we look back and I guess we can talk about this in our immortality episode, but it ties
in tangentially.
And we all miss our grandparents.
Well, they miss their grandparents.
And it's just a bummer that this has been happening the whole time and no one's really
been doing that much to work on it, dying and death.
I don't think there's really much people could have done before 10 years ago or so.
That's true.
I mean, they could have started looking.
Well, yeah.
All right, fair enough.
But the fact that people are still arguing that it's not worth working towards or you
can die at 90 and it's not a big deal, it is kind of annoying.
But don't we want people to die because overpopulation?
We can get into that in our immortality episode.
And no.
That's it.
No, it's the answer.
Okay.
Stephen, so how much are you paying for the cryo?
So cryonics, well actually, so you did the lifetime membership, which I think when you
signed up for that was $1,000.
It was $1,000.
Now it's like $1,200.
It's $1,250.
$1,250, okay.
But that said, $1,250 for a lifetime membership to CI or $1,200 or $120 a year.
And that's what I pay because I still haven't put down the lifetime payment yet.
We should tell people what this means.
To actually be preserved by the cryonics institute, you have to be a member.
And to become a member, first of all, you sign a lot of legal paperwork, but also you
pay a fee, which is either $1,200 at this point and you're a member for the rest of
your life or you can pay how much is it per year?
$120.
$120 per year, so $10 a month and that will also make you a member for that year.
Roughly the cost of your Netflix subscription, that was what put me over the board on my
financial analysis was like, so that's two Starbucks or one Netflix for an arbitrarily
calculated percentage of success that might bestow functional immortality.
But that is not the entire cost.
There is also the actual cost of preserving you, which is, I believe, about $12,000?
$28,000.
$28,000, okay, with CI.
And that's only if you die near their facilities.
And CI is short for cryonics institute, because that's a mouthful.
$28,000.
Wow.
So are they going to have that much from you?
There's more cost than this.
It's $28,000 if you die right there.
You're probably going to have to pay if you aren't in Michigan.
You're probably going to have to pay to have some professionals nearby to immediately get
you cryopreserved.
And that costs extra as well.
I can hear our listeners asking, why Michigan?
What the hell?
That's where CI is based out of.
Yes.
But altogether...
And who wants to live there when you're old?
It's cold.
Yeah.
Who wants to live there?
Yeah.
Period.
Sorry, everybody from Michigan.
Everyone I know from Michigan would agree with that statement.
Everyone I know from Michigan moved out of Michigan.
Yeah.
I know my in-laws are still there, and they also agree with the statement, except for
the older, retired ones who now it's cheap to live there.
So...
All right.
Anecdotally.
Anecdotally Michigan size.
Nobody likes to live in Michigan.
So you will also have to pay to get your body transported to Michigan.
Yes.
All together, it comes out to about $100,000.
Sometimes a little more, sometimes a little less.
So you pay Crack Institute $28,000 to freeze you, and then you pay Suspended Animation
Inc. to transport you.
And we talked about pumping you full of crowd protectant and keeping your heart going long
enough to get all that going through your system.
They're the group that'll do that unless you happen to die at the doors of the Crack Institute.
Right.
And the way most people pay for that is through life insurance.
Because life insurance has this amazing thing where as soon as you're declared legally dead,
it pays out.
I mean, not literally right that instant, but generally within a day.
Which is nice, because if you were to set up some kind of trust, it can take weeks for
that money to go through after you die.
And at that point, you are a big soggy mushy pile of goo and there's not much left to preserve.
So the life insurance option is really awesome.
And it is entirely legal.
And there are people who specialize just in life insurance for cryopreservation.
The life insurance agent that I worked with and that comes highly recommended for getting
you set up for Chronix is Rudy Hoffman, operating out of Florida.
He was great in my entire time working with him.
Back and forth emails.
We talked on the phone a few times and you know, he like every good insurance agent does.
But you know, sent me all the documents, little colored tabs saying this is what this part
says.
This is signed here.
This and that.
Anyway, 10 out of 10, Rudy Hoffman.
We'll link to him on the website if we don't if we don't feel like that's shelling too
much.
That being said, I just went through the company that was doing my car insurance at the time.
They also provided a life insurance state farm, Shani Sorensen.
And I mean, she needed to explain a little bit to her.
But afterwards, she was like, yeah, sure, you know, it's life insurance.
It's a business.
We got the legal work squared away and it didn't take very long.
Today I learned that state farm life insurance can go through CI.
I could have sworn that when I signed up, it was only Kansas City life that would let
CI be a beneficiary.
You can declare anyone as a beneficiary, even, you know, charitable institutions.
Why did I think that it was?
There was some sort of reason that I was maybe it was only because that's who Rudy Hoffman
works for.
But for some reason, I could have sworn that there was some stronger incentive to use Kansas
City life.
Yeah, I mean, if you're, you might get like an agent who's like really religious or some
crap in which case, which agents, but most people treat it as a business.
You want life insurance?
That's where you want the money to go?
Fine.
Right.
They'll get it done.
There are life insurance agents who will let your dog be a beneficiary, like you see
on this TV shows.
Hmm.
Okay, then.
Or at least on TV shows that talk about fake TV shows.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I'm pretty sure this actually happened.
I could have sworn.
It sounds like something that may have happened.
I haven't had cable in a while.
But what sort of life insurance did you get?
Because that also impacts how much it costs.
Right.
I got whatever the bare bones was when I was, like I said, I was not making that much, but
I thought I should just stop thinking about it and get it taken care of at the time.
How much do you pay per month?
27 bucks.
Okay.
So if you get the bare bones, which covers the cost, the 100,000, it's 27 a month if
you're fairly young.
And I was an elite candidate as far as health and stuff.
But I think my spot policy was for 150,000.
Nice.
So I had a tiny bit of wiggle room, but you know, enough to cover whatever legal fees.
The interesting thing about that, that's a term life insurance is after 30 years when
your life insurance expires.
If you haven't died yet, it goes away, which means that, you know, nobody gets the money.
It is literally insurance in case you die.
And since you haven't died, you don't need the insurance anymore.
I got the end for a lot of people that works because there was a lot of people who assume
that functional immortality will basically be discovered within the next 30 years.
And so if they make it through 30 years, they'll be okay.
They basically will stop aging or be at least in front of the curve enough that they don't
have to worry about dying of old age.
We'll talk about longevity, escape velocity in our immortality episode.
Yes.
So there's a lot of people that are just fine with that.
I, on the other hand, do not want to make estimates like that about timeframe, especially
when it comes to my, you know, immortal life on the line.
So I paid extra for the one that after the 30 years ends, if you're still alive, they
