All right, this is the Bayesian Conspiracy.
We are three people from the Leserong community who like to chat about rationality and chats
rationally about other things also.
Hi, I'm Stephen Zuber.
I'm Inyash Brodsky.
And I'm Katriona Stanton.
And today, because we try to stay somewhat current on things and there has been an article
making the rounds in the Rationalist Sphere, we are going to be talking about cryonics.
Hooray!
Yeah, there was an article on WaitButWhy.com that was called...
Why Cryonics Makes Sense.
So this is a fun rather long log post, but it's worth the read, especially if you're
anti-cryonics or think it's stupid or ridiculous or whatever.
Even if you're just vaguely interested in it.
Well, especially if you're vaguely interested, but if the point is that the author started
from a position where they were against it, they were like, oh, that's just some stupid
thing that rich people do or that's science fiction mumbo jumbo, right?
This is their journey from that perspective, inch by inch retreating into, well, I guess
this makes sense.
Spoiler.
Well, it's called Why Chronics Makes Sense.
That's true.
Anyway, we will have this article by Tim Urban available at our website.
TheBaysianConspiracy.com.
I want to say real quickly why this article is awesome and why it made all the rounds.
Because cryonics, it's been in the rational sphere for quite a while, but it's generally
pretty difficult to explain and you have to pull through a lot of different sources and
link people to a lot of things.
And this article, while it is pretty damn long, is long because there's a lot to cover
and it explains it in very easy to understand language.
It doesn't condescend to you, but it doesn't like hit you with crazy abstract things.
It explains everything step by step and it provides lots of links and it was just published
like a week or two ago, so it's very current right now, too.
It's just an amazing article.
It's everything you want all in one place.
Okay, but let's say that somebody doesn't have a few hours to sink into reading this.
Oh, it doesn't.
It takes an hour to read, maybe?
How many...
What's the word count?
I don't know.
How can I find out that?
The way I usually do it is select everything and then paste it into either Word or Google
Docs.
I'm not going to do that right now.
Okay.
It takes an hour to read, though.
But we're just going to talk about cryonics based on this fun article and if you're happy
with what we say, then you don't have to read it.
Congratulations.
Or you could also go check out links at the Cryonics Institute.
That's www.crayonics.org.
I will say that if you listen to this and you're happy with our covering of it, great.
Sign up.
That'd be awesome.
Listen to our...
If you listen to our episode and you're like, well, this still sounds stupid to me.
I don't feel like they covered it.
Check out this post.
This is what we would say if we had...
I don't know how long it takes to say an hour's worth of text, but if we had three hours,
we'd probably just read the whole thing.
Disclamer.
Disclamer.
Disclamer.
While we are not paid cryonics shills...
No.
We...
Oh, you guys aren't?
Oh.
We...
We do all...
We're all like pro cryonics.
Is that right?
With that VR...
Our stance?
Well, I'm already signed up.
Stephen signed up.
Stephen signed up for a few years.
And Katrina?
Is not yet signed up because I like to live dangerously.
Cryocrastinating.
That's a good idea.
That's the best word for it.
Cryocrastinating.
Awesome.
When I was first looking into it some years ago, I was messaging Enyaash about it because
he was one of the few people I knew who were signed up and going over some of my concerns
with him and a couple of other people I knew who were signed up were thinking about it.
And that still made it pretty easy to cryocrastinate.
I like that word.
That's my new word of the day.
You're young.
I'm just going to die anytime soon.
It's such a low probability of working out.
Well, so, all right, let me get you all those things in one second.
I mean, all that is true, but then there was the girl who got the brain cancer.
And she was like, what, 26 or so?
Right.
And she didn't have anything...
Well, a bunch of people stepped up and, you know, we donated a bunch of money and we
got her to, you know, the point where she could just pay for it outright.
But yeah, that's not going to happen to everyone.
She happened to be kind of lucky in that, I think this is the first person that happened
to in our community.
And she was young and she was pretty, which are all things that, you know, get people
to donate.
Oh, man.
If I get brain cancer, it has to be soon.
Yeah.
Well, you still...
I can't be a middle-aged woman with brain cancer.
Exactly.
No one's going to donate to my GoFundMe.
Exactly.
You got to be...
Like, at this point, I don't know if people donate to me.
They're like, hmm, I don't know, mid-thirties.
Just not worth it anymore.
And I suppose I'm not pretty enough, so, you know, we're all screwed is what we're all
paying for that apartment.
No, we aren't screwed.
We're signed up.
We're covered.
Katrina, she'd be screwed in a few years maybe.
I don't know.
I don't want to judge.
Oh, I'm getting the evil glare.
Katrina's like, I will still be pretty.
I don't know if I'll still be pretty, but you better freaking think I'm still pretty.
So what I was saying was that my method of asking people about it as questions occurred
to me thinking about it and coming back with another question made this this period where
I was interested and the time between when I got interested and when I signed up was
like a year.
If I had had this resource from that Wait But Why article, it might have been a couple
of weeks.
I think before we get to into other things, we should tell people what cryonics is.
Yes.
Oh, that's important.
Not everyone knows.
And it's an important definition because some people have preconceived ideas as to what
it is.
Just dump your body in liquid nitrogen, right?
Holla Han Solo.
It's not quite that.
So the point of cryonics is to, well, how do we want to put it?
Do we want to go off the definition or what we're going to say?
When I tell it to people casually in conversation, I just tell them I'm going to get my body
frozen when I die.
Yeah.
Because that's close enough for jazz.
That's all they need.
Yeah.
They're not, and then if they start to ask questions like, but won't your cells explode
as they, then you're like, well, they have a little bit of a different technique.
Yeah.
You're not actually just literally thrown in a freezer.
Right.
I guess, so I like to, I guess have it just a little bit of background to it because I
guess to, to stave off some of those questions or if they don't have time to ask them, but
then they would have, you know, whatever if there was.
So it's not just that I'm getting frozen when I die.
The point is, is that, or being preserved.
Well, exactly.
So being preserved in such a way that it's completely reasonable to suspect that future
scientists might be able to restore you to, to working condition.
Let's start with what the point of cryo is.
What is the point of cryonics?
The point of cryonics is to make it so that people who aren't informationally dead, which
is to say they can be declared legally dead, but they're still theoretically resurrectable
or re, or, or saveable.
Rebootable.
Rebootable.
So a good example is a hundred years ago, if your heart stopped, you were dead.
That's it.
There's no ifs ands or buts.
In the 1950s, CPR came around and now it turned out where if someone's heart stopped, you
can keep them alive long enough to, to work with them a little bit.
That definition of what is legally dead continues to, to be pushed back a little bit.
Now people can be dead for minutes in extreme cases, hours and be saveable in today's hospitals.
The point is, is that if, if someone is cryo preserved, you're basically getting them to
the hospital where they can be saved, but that hospital might be in the year 2200.
You want to get them to a hospital that can save them when that hospital doesn't currently
exist.
Exactly.
You want to say, flying them to the fanciest hospital in the country and getting them worked
on there.
You're just flying them to the, the, the hospital a hundred years from now or five years or
500 years, whatever your time, hopefully only five years, you know, if we're lucky, you
see the longer you're frozen, the less likely you are to be saved.
That's certainly the case with, I forget the guy's name, the first person to be crowd
preserved in the 1960s when technology was the worst it's, well, it was the worst human
crowd preservation that probably ever was because the technology sucked.
So there's a good chance that there's what people call the, the last in first out hypothesis
or idea, which is where if whatever it's 20, well, well, well arbitrarily say 2200 as the
year.
I'm sorry.
I'm just going to say we're, we're getting a bit of a tangent before, before I was wondering
how exactly we're supposed to get the body to the future without it decaying in the meantime.
Oh yeah.
