gets circulated through your body through one of those thumper machines that keeps your
heart going.
Well, it doesn't keep your heart going, but thumps on your chest so that your heart squirts
whatever is in it throughout your body.
Squirt is the technical term.
I'm a scientist.
And as they're doing that, they're also cooling you down so that you don't rot as fast.
But the point purpose is to get the cryo-preservative absorbed through all your cells, particularly
in the brain.
The brain's the important part.
So that this cryo-protectant, once you get to a cold enough point, it does, it replaces,
it replaces the water in your cells, most of them anyway, most of the water.
So when you get cold enough, there aren't water within your cells to crystallize, which
is what everyone mentions who doesn't know anything about cryo is like, well, when you
put your strawberry in the fridge and it freezes, when you want, when you want thought it's
mushy because the water inside it crystallized, destroyed all the cells, which, yes, water
does, but that's why the cryo-protectant is there to get rid of the water.
That's sorry, I didn't mean to interject here.
Oh, it's okay.
And once you get a cold enough, which is, I think, negative 250-something degrees, it
goes through a process called glasination, where it is no longer a liquid.
It is now a solid, but it doesn't expand like water does.
It stays solid.
And so all the molecules in your cells can no longer move, they can no longer degrade,
they are frozen in place.
And from that point, then they can put you in liquid nitrogen, which is even colder
than that.
It doesn't have to be any colder at that point, but the reason they use liquid nitrogen is
because it's really cold and it's really cheap.
So you can be cryopreserved for a long time, very cheaply.
What I was going to mention was, which great summary there, I didn't mean to just move
right past it.
The strawberry example is one of the things, I haven't actually heard people use strawberry
specifically, but they mention all the time how water expands when frozen, you die.
You know, this kills the person.
This is something that...
I guess if you see something being seriously talked about by people that you otherwise
trust to be smart, and in two seconds you can think of a way that instantly points out
how fatally flawed it is, at least ask them about it.
There's a chance that you found the fatal flaw that their community missed completely,
but this would be saying that everyone who's been on board this so far hadn't realized
that water expands when frozen.
And...
Excellent point, Stephen.
People know that.
So two major assumptions, one being that if you have the brain preserved, it can later
be recreated or revived.
And I, for one, think this is an assumption that as long as technology keeps progressing,
as it has been for the past several millennia, at least, can we say?
Centuries.
Okay, as long as technology keeps progressing, we will eventually...
Come on, spearheads.
We will eventually, at some point, get to the point where you can recreate a brain.
I think that's just a 100% given.
The only thing I could stop that is actual, you know, like collapse of civilization type
events.
And the other one being what makes you, you, is entirely in the brain, and that once that
is recreated, you would be you again.
Which I don't see how anyone who is a materialist could, materialist in the philosophical sense,
that there is no spiritual dualism.
There's just, you know, matter.
I don't know how anyone who is a materialist could argue that point.
Well, maybe as a materialist, you could say, but I'm not me tomorrow, and I'm not me in
five years, so why preserve this me in, you know, X number of years after death, because
it's yet another different person?
Everything is replaced, everybody changes, and yeah.
I would at that point probably look at their lifestyle, and if they do anything to prepare
for the next few days, I would call them a hypocrite.
Eat or drink water or keep a day job.
Sure.
Like if you, if you're just living on the street for the momentary pleasure that that
brings you, I commend you and you are, you know, you are living a consistent life.
But if you save money and, you know, worry about your health and things, then you probably
care about future.
You.
Yeah.
Okay.
You care about future you.
I certainly do.
That said, we'll try and make an effort to steelman the, the anti-crown exposition if
we get around to it.
Oh yeah.
Is there anything else we want to say about the physics of cryonics?
I will say the thing, the thing that makes cryonics most compelling to me is that there
is no reason why it shouldn't work.
Those were exactly the next words to come out of my mouth.
Oh, right.
Almost the same enunciation.
That was spooky.
Yeah.
Like there, there are reasons why ghosts shouldn't exist, like physical laws that are like if
some, if the ghosts do exist, our knowledge of the laws of physics is fundamentally fucked.
But there's nothing like that with cryo.
Like everything we know says that this is possible.
And that, that's where I'm at.
So if someone's saying, well, aren't you just trying to hedge your bets on, well, what are
they?
I guess that's the better way to praise it.
Edit.
I'm saying edit to myself.
Oh.
Yeah.
I think speaking of future selves, Steven, this weekend, you're going to be editing
this shit.
Jesus Christ.
I love the way Ali Eiser puts it.
He thinks of it in from the reverse side.
He says that sometimes you want to destroy information.
For example, let's say you want to delete a file off your hard drive.
If you just delete it and empty your recycle bin, that can still be undeleted.
There are ways, even if you overwrite your entire hard drive with zeros, it hasn't been
theorized.
I don't know if anyone's actually done this, that with an electron microscope, someone with
enough skill can see which, which bits used to be zero and which we used to be one and
recreate them.
So there are actually programs out there called bit shredders, which people who are really
paranoid use after they delete something, they'll run it and it'll scramble all the
bits like 27 times on their computer to just random noise.
Well, the ones that are, you know, marked to be deleted, so they cannot be recovered.
But his point is, given the rate of how technology has increased over the past several hundred
years, if that hard drive was still around a thousand years from now, it's theoretically
possible future people could come up with a way to even find that data after the 27
bit shreddings have gone through.
So if you really want to make sure information is destroyed, you should just cover the whole
hard drive with thermite and light it on fire, melt it down to slag.
And his point is that if you want to destroy the information that makes a person a person,
filling them with cryo protectants and putting them in liquid nitrogen is a terrible way
to do that.
It is not a secure way to delete a person.
So...
Succinctly put.
Yeah.
So, you know, they could be undeleted in the future with enough advancement in technology.
All right.
I have some questions.
Do it.
So how, why would future people decide to revive or decide to save cryonically preserved
people from the past?
Why do people right now try to save anybody?
Why do people give money to the anti-malaria foundation to save people in third world countries
from malaria?
So we might postulate a charity minded culture in the future.
Or even just a small subset of charity minded people in a culture like ours.
And I would assume that if anyone does, you know, bring a few people back out of charity,
then the people who are brought back would probably have a strong motivation to bring
other people back as well.
I would assume that'd be one of their main goals once they are recreated in the future.
Like their friends and family.
Yeah.
Even just other people that got cryo preserved.
Yeah, I just meant.
It could have been me.
We're in the same boat.
For sure.
Now, I just meant that like in general, if they're like, if you're the first person
brought back, you have a strong, and you have anyone else that you know in cryo preservation
by default, there's someone else you want to come out even just for your own reasons.
But I totally agree that especially while you're getting used to the future, well, I might
as well work on bringing other people into the future too.
I just think that people would do it because only a good society would want to do that
sort of thing.
And you don't want to be resurrected into an evil society anyway.
One of the postulates for successful cryo reanimation slash resurrection.
I don't like that word.
Is there another word that's typically used in the lingo?
Reanimation.
Reanimation is the most common one.
Yeah.
One of the prerequisite ideas slash givens is that the future society will have some
motivation or at least some of the members of that society will have some motivation
to work on reanimating cryo patients.
Yeah.
If they don't, then no, you'll just still be dead.
That's sort of...
That's kind of okay.
That was sort of...
Not any worse off.
That was exactly kind of the position that pushed me over the edge when I was still cryo
procrastinating that, you know, look, worst case scenario, I'm still dead.
Like that's going to be where I'm at if I don't do anything.
So why don't I try and do a little bit and get me there?
But what if there's an even worse case scenario?
Are you talking about the I have no mouth and I'm a scream scenario?
I mean, that's the worst possible case scenario.
Are we talking about...
I only said that second bleep it out later.
Thank you.
You are such a dick, dude.
I'll just delete it completely.
Okay.
No, what...
What...
Please go on.
What were you saying?
What's your worst case scenario?
What if you're brought back and it's not very nice?
It's not very nice and you don't like the people and you're like, I'd rather not be
here.
You can kill yourself.
What if you can't kill yourself?
