Geez.
I'm like, I don't know how many rabbits equal a person or how many rabbits we could sacrifice
for the good of other rabbits.
Well, the good news is you're not allowed to kill people by freezing them chronically
and then transplant their brains.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, so we don't.
So it's really just a thought experiment right now.
How many, how many people we should sacrifice to save for the greater good?
Wait, is anyone talking about sacrificing anybody?
No.
No, but we could.
Well, so I mean this, you know, like in the whole like movie genre of doing all this stuff
to death rowing mates, but I'm not really behind that because I'm not really a pro-death
rose.
No, of course not.
No.
Oh, we're all agreeing again.
Are we all pro, are we all anti-death penalty?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So just to bring us back to a position where we can disagree, are we all anti-killing anybody
altogether?
Yeah.
I'm kind of anti-killing people.
Yeah.
I'm generally anti-killing people, but I think there are circumstances in which it would
be dumb not to, but now we're getting way too far afield.
Well, I mean sometimes if you have to in order to prevent worse things, then sure.
If you have to, so that goes back to the bunnies question.
If you got to kill somebody to save a lot more people, maybe that's the right thing
to do.
Like if somebody's like, I'm going to push a button and extinguish all life on earth,
then the moral thing to do is to kill that person before they can push the button.
Right.
Yes.
I mean, if some bunny is going to do that, you have to, right?
Right.
Fucking evil bunnies.
You know how you can tell they're evil?
How?
With sharp pointy teeth.
And they glow in their eyes?
Do you?
Wait.
What?
You have a bunny with sharp pointy teeth?
Am I the only one who's seen Mighty Python?
Mighty Python?
Oh.
That's so old.
I thought we were...
Oh, no, I saw it too.
I thought you were talking about it, but I thought we were going to make a joke about
it.
Are you the only one who doesn't know what a rabbit looks like?
I was thinking Benicula.
I was thinking Benicula, but that's totally different.
Yes.
We've got to talk about that again someday.
Okay.
Never mind.
Never mind for right now.
Put that in your pocket for the future.
Rationalist children's book reading.
Okay.
So I know somebody who's very close to me and his response to me saying that I was going
to sign up for cryonics is, I'm comfortable to die when it's my time.
That was my position before I realized that cryonics was a viable option or was a viable
enough option to consider.
When I...
Between the period when I lost my vaguely religious upbringing and got more into my
like, anti-death position, oh, I wanted to talk about that before we...
Not necessarily before, but during this episode, about whether or not this is a good thing
in general to even try to do to extend, to radically extend the lifespan.
We should do that when we do an arm or two.
Oh yeah, we're doing it.
We're doing it in a mortality slash deathest episode later.
So we'll save it for that.
But I thought it was tangentially related, but I guess it is given for people who want
to sign up for cryonics that yes, living longer is a good thing.
Or just living long enough to see the future and see if it's neat or not neat.
I have this essay that I go to often about this topic.
It's on Less Wrong, of course.
And it's basically the TLDR is, life's a bitch, but at least you die.
Is how most people view life.
And the guy talks quite a bit about how when you go to most older people who've, you know,
gone through life, they've had their kids, they've had their career, they've retired.
And you ask them, did you enjoy your life?
They're like, yeah.
Like, you're happy with everything that you did?
Yeah, I got these kids.
Everything is very fulfilling.
You want to do it again?
Pfft.
Fuck no.
Are you kidding me?
Kind of a natural arc to the human life where you're excited about things when you're a
kid.
You're excited about learning.
And then you get, you know, or playing, playing and learning, same thing, basically.
Then you get tired of that.
Then you have a passion.
And then you get tired of that.
And then you have children.
And then you get tired of that.
And eventually the things that you, that we have evolved to find really interesting,
we lose interest in them.
And there's nothing we're really interested in anymore.
And then we just die.
Do you find that convincing?
Because my grandfather really, really did not want to die.
And was super bummed about it.
I don't think that's the case with everyone.
The whole point of the article, which is the reason I like the article, is that it says
you are the exception.
You are the sort of person who is really excited about things in life and wants to do them
more.
You want to learn.
You want to explore the cosmos.
And most people just don't have that.
And so your mission is to go out and twist people like you're twisted, make them sick
like you.
So they want to keep living.
They have the reason to keep living.
And so I think there is actually a lot of people who just don't want to live that long.
And I mean, some of it is just that getting tired of life things.
Some of it is probably depression.
Like there's a lot of people who don't want to be alive right now because they deal with
serious depression and just, you know, have a hard time killing themselves, which I think
is actually probably a good thing because I think a lot of depressions resolve over time.
But those are the kind of people that I, when I hear they don't want to live longer than
their natural lifespan, it makes me very sad.
But I can understand how some people wouldn't want that.
Also, natural lifespan is very subjective as we talked about earlier.
I wanted to touch on that.
I think another large part of people not wanting, you know, say if you asked an old person,
do you want to do this again?
Is that they've been old for the last 30 or 40 years and being physically old sucks.
Yeah.
You're constantly tired.
You hurt all the time.
Everything is exhausting and everything's a chore.
So I mean, the idea of saying, hey, you want to do that for another century sounds awful.
And that's not what longer lifespan advocates are all about.
I love your point about the natural lifespan definition.
One of my favorite lines from Dumbledore is when he's talking to Harry Potter, rationalist
Dumbledore, when he's talking to Harry Potter about immortality and he says, I would not
want to outlive my natural two and a half centuries.
And it's just such a contrast because we always think natural is 70, 80.
Right.
And then there's, Harry has that bite back where he's like, yeah, let's talk to like,
you know, died the right young age of say 80.
Yeah.
And he's thinking about his parents, his muggle parents.
Dude, what do we want to touch on next?
Did we want to go into the cost of cryo or is there other things first?
I guess as far as life expectancy, like I said, I think it's heavily tied to how old
you feel.
If being 60, 70, 80, 90 didn't get progressively worse, I think people will be less inclined
to say I'm ready to die.
Okay.
It looks like grandpa's a badass.
My grandpa was a badass, unfortunately was.
And unfortunately, he thought he was going to die very, very soon for a long time.
And so he was, would often kind of tell me that I needed to write my next novel in the
next two years, you know, tell this to a seven year old and then look sad.
He ended up dying when I was in college.
Wow.
He hung on for a while.
He was very healthy.
Very healthy.
That was a lot like my great grandfather, he, I mean, I think, well, I don't know, it's
hard for me to talk about.
We'll talk about that in my immortality episode.
Okay.
Or in the immortality.
Well, just in general, this is my dad's grandfather.
He died four or five years ago, but it was just, it's tough just because I guess we'll
get into all the reasons why death sucks next time or on a later episode.
But yeah.
Anyway, so it's not like it's-
I miss my grandpa.
Why did he think he was going to die for so long?
Because he's old.
Oh.
How old was he?
I don't remember how old he ended up being 90-ish, a little older than that.
I was very fortunate in that I knew, let's see, one, two, three, four, five of my great
grandparents, of my parents' grandparents.
So yeah, we live forever.
The Zubers are a healthy bunch.
Not for long.
Says that stare.
No, that stare was while I'm thinking about sperm donors.
Oh, he's got some longevity over there.
We do have a lot of good traits and the reason I bring that up because it's been told to
me by at least two people that after I've declared that I don't intend on having children,
that they say you should still at least donate sperm.
