That actually argument wasn't proposed to me until after I had signed up and I'd been
signed up for like two years and it hadn't really occurred to me that, you know, whatever
future you live in might be, you know, near utopian but just doesn't suit you.
And they're like, they're so anti-death that they're like, no, you can't check yourself
out.
Are you insane?
We physically can't anymore.
So...
We went through all this trouble and you just want to die again.
What if you're paralyzed and in pain at all times but you can't kill yourself because
you're paralyzed?
I feel like if they could successfully reanimate a frozen brain, they could fix paralysis.
Yeah.
Oh, you were reading...
Unless they're mean.
Right.
So if they're...
If they're mean, why would they resurrect you in the first place?
Science?
But there's plenty of alive people to pick on.
And yeah, I guess...
So what?
The science...
So I guess you're weighing the possible, the number of possible features that involve
scientists who will go through the trouble to resurrect crowd patients and keep them alive
just to see how much they can talk with them.
Well, to see how a chronically preserved brain does after X amount of time, Y amount
of time, da-da-da-da, in this situation.
They'll probably do that even if they really care about you and they want to see how you're
well-being because they want to make sure that things are going to go well, but they're
not going to keep you locked in a room tied to an MRI machine.
They're going to...
Hey, can you come back every couple weeks so we can scan your brain?
So there are...
Here's how I think about it.
There are a certain number of possible futures that would be nice or you can at least still
be dead or kill yourself again if you don't like it.
And then there is an even tinier chance of there being a possible future where it's terrible
and you can't check out even if you want to, but the allure of the larger possibility future
set of better outcomes makes it worthwhile.
So that's how I see it.
I think that's exactly right, is that as long as you're doing that kind of calculus, you
can look at and say, okay, what are the odds?
Well, you just laid it out, but that was my comeback when I first heard the counter-argument
from somebody about, well, what if you can't kill yourself or they won't let you?
It took me some time to think, well, you know what?
I think it's still worth it because I don't assign...
I assign a lower...
I obviously assign a lower probability to that than I assign to being resurrected at
all.
So...
Personally, I know not everyone thinks this, but personally, I find it incredibly difficult
to imagine a future where humanity has gotten to the point where they can bring people back
and are willing to expend the resources to do so just to torture people.
Well, maybe it is like the AI horror story that you mentioned, I have no mouth, but I'm
a scream and it is an AI that brings you back just to torture you.
Yeah, but that's ridiculous.
It's very...
It's highly unlikely.
But obviously, people have imagined it because it's a story that was written down.
People also imagine biblical heaven.
Right.
I'm just...
As long as you're weighing post-legal death scenarios...
But you have to try really fucking hard to build an AI.
He just said he couldn't imagine it.
To build an AI who is motivated to torture humans, it's so unbelievable, I can't.
It's difficult enough to build an AI that isn't going to wipe out all of humanity just
because they don't care, but one that specifically tries to preserve humanity just so they can
torture them.
Man, I'm going to do that just a spite.
Just kidding, don't kill me.
I was going to say, I think we have to kill you now.
No!
We were talking about this before.
I was joking.
It was totally a joke.
I'm a nice person.
For now.
You're so sure you're going to outlive your husband.
What does she know that her husband doesn't?
I'm having to go to thinking of wasting too many of the joke.
Alright, so now that we've had enough money at Katrina's expense, where were we?
Cryonics.
Yeah, so I think the shitty future is the least likely reason to reject cryonics.
There's other reasons that I can sympathize more with.
Okay, let's talk about those reasons.
Well, recently I've heard that some people think that the hormones and chemicals that
are in your brain is a very big part of what makes you you, and since the cryopreservation
doesn't preserve that, it only preserves the structure of your neurons that it wouldn't
be you, and I just disagree.
Well, then it would be a slightly different person, just like the previous example, how
you're a different person in five years.
You're a different person when you get off birth control.
You're a different person.
Exactly.
You still care about that person.
And they give you some pills and that stuff balances out, or whatever they don't.
Well, I mean, seriously, if it came back to where you were just full-on zombie for whatever
reason, if all the hormones wiped out, do you need to sneeze?
Go ahead.
No, I was doing that quietly for a reason.
I wasn't sure if that was a suppress sneeze or I'm getting ready to sneeze.
I was blowing out my ears.
I couldn't hear.
I am.
I heard an amazing podcast.
I think it was This American Life.
I don't listen to anymore because the pressing is hell, but they had an amazing episode
on a testosterone, and there's some people that occasionally have their testosterone
just kick out.
Their body stops making it, and the changes they go through personality-wise are drastic
and fascinating.
So, I mean, it is a big part of who you are, but, again, it's still you just in a different
mood, and I assume they would give you a standard cocktail for human, and you'd be close enough.
That's what I'm saying, right?
So, even today, we can correct hormone problems.
Yes.
I'm on antidepressants to correct some hormone problems.
And people are on testosterone to fix testosterone issues.
So, if that's doable today, when I think future scientists will look back and be amazed at
how little idea we had of what we were doing when we were doing medicine, I think there's
every reason to suspect that in the future, they'll have a perfect cocktail to put you
either right back how you were or better than where you were.
So that is why I dismiss that, but there are people that think that it is a big enough
deal that it's not preserving them.
I've also heard some people think that the actual electrical activity in your brain is
who you are, and, you know, it changes from moment to moment constantly, but that running
record of who you are is uninterruptible.
And if you were to be frozen, since that isn't, you know, kept when you're rebooted, again,
it's not you.
I guess I would ask why they have such high confidence in that belief that they would
be that they would be willing to not take a chance on that.
Well, like in, well, so first of all, I think that, so are they saying that when you're
brought back, you're not, you're not bringing back a bowl?
Some people say one, some people say the other, that you're literally not brought back.
You cannot be brought back without that information.
So if the answer is that you're just dead, if they can't bring, you know, if you're
electrical, your information theoretically dead, right?
So that happens.
Well, that brings you back to, you know, kind of caveat A, you're, you're no, you're no
worse off that if you didn't sign up in the first place, I guess you're out some $10 a
month.
We should get into that after this.
We'll jump into the costs.
But ultimately, I think that that could be something a lot like, you know, with a hormone
cocktail, you know, unless for whatever reason, it just, I guess I don't know enough about
how neurochemistry works to, or I guess neuro electrochemistry to, to know what would happen
if you ceased it completely and then started it up again.
But that happens once in a while with people who are alive today.
I assume so.
People go under brain surgery.
They turn off a lot of that stuff.
People get electrocuted.
I mean, not everyone survives electrocution, but I guess electro shocked.
I forget which one is, there's a different word for which one kills you electrocuted
versus, versus electro shock.
I think you survive electro shock because that's what they called electro shock therapy.
Yeah.
There are being quotes.
Not important.
Yes.
So important.
Come on.
How was they going to, how was they going to prove your nerd cred unless you don't correct
them when they use the word electrocute, when they make electro shock?
I'm writing.
I'm writing.
An hour and a half if we don't quibble over every little thing.
I am, I am writing on your nerd cred.
Is that cool?
I guess I'm nerdy enough right now.
Stephen will carry us through.
Well, I'll get a clue.
So yeah, there, there's, and the, the one I was talking previously about the chemical
balance.
Some people also think that once that is gone, you are information theoretically dead as well
and cannot be brought back.
Okay.
So there are those.
Well, could be, could be.
And if so, then you remain dead.
Right.
That's sort of what I meant.
Of course we will note, well I've answered to these questions in the next few years.
There's every reason to suspect that the next organ that they're going to freeze on a rabbit
and put into another rabbit is going to be a brain.
And it's, I have a very high bar for what I tolerate with animal experimentation in general.
We can dive into that later, but the sorts of things I'm sort of okay with.
Not does the shampoo make people's eyes burn so much that they won't use it.
But things like, will this save people who die forever or give them a much better chance
at living?
That sounds like worthwhile experimentation.
Or save rabbits.
How many rabbits do you sacrifice to save how many other rabbits?
We can email Peter Singer and ask him.
That's actually a good question.
I mean, it applies to humans too, but I'm using rabbits to be less offensive right now.
Oh, I didn't catch that.
Sorry.
