Charity cases.
I suppose that could be in some cases considered negligent homicide, depending on how the business
was run.
But I don't know how the business was run.
I haven't looked into it.
Unfortunately, the law hasn't expanded to adequately take cryonics into account.
Yeah.
That is something that I'll see you guys need to consider about signing up is that some,
I will go ahead and say bullshit law could make reviving you illegal or make not unplugging
you illegal.
Right.
There's, there's a number of ways that this could, there's a number of failure modes.
But then, then exactly.
So all the ways that you can think of is that might shut this down and make it not work.
Just think of what are the odds of that happening?
Again, put that all into your calculus and weigh that against what are the odds of my
surviving with all of those things?
And what are the odds of my surviving if I'm buried?
Well, right.
I think, I think that's the appropriate way to look at it.
I, I sort of agree.
But like anything that's a really truly miscalculated percentage I don't think is bought was worth
thinking about.
It's like, what are your odds of winning the lotto if you don't buy a lotto ticket?
Right.
I don't understand that far.
Yeah.
I completely, I should have caveat it.
I, I, I personally, there are a number of people I know who think the percentages are
in the single digits, sometimes even in the low double digits.
And that for me is totally worth the money.
So yeah, I think Robin Hansen single-digit percentage.
I think Robin Hansen said 5% is what I'm saying.
But what if, what if it's not five?
Well, what if you're a little bit more pessimistic and it is 0.5% it's probably still worth it.
Exactly.
So you're on best judgment on how low you're willing to go.
Hansen's calculus was pretty conservative and pretty pessimistic, I think.
I went through it and I would have given much higher values to a couple of the things that
he put really low probability on, but he's the, he's the, the literally professor in
this field.
So that said, is a one and 20 chance worth 10 bucks a month slash a life insurance policy
is a one and 200 chance worth it.
That's, that's your value call, but for a lot of people it is.
The other thing that I find interesting about this whole movement is that all of a sudden
euthanasia becomes a lot more important because my nightmare scenario is getting Alzheimer's
and then not being able to do anything about it while my brain slowly dies.
And I just, I want the ability to be able to choose when I die before there has been
a lot of damage so that I can be, you know, brought back in a society that has cured Alzheimer's.
Absolutely.
And that makes the right to die movement and the dying with dignity movement so much more
important.
I mean, I always was on those, the side of being able to choose when you die, but it
just became much more pressing after that.
So is there anything we want to cover?
Because it kind of feels like just dropping it at this point is not the best way.
We need some kind of ramp out.
Katrina's ready to go.
I have to go.
Okay.
We are about out of time and I just wanted to end with these, these quotes that came
that are actually on the wait, but why cryonic, why cryonics makes sense article.
These are quotes that he says cryonists never waste an opportunity to point them out.
But whenever people say things like cryonics is so way out there, it'll never happen.
You're ridiculous.
We will never have the sort of tech.
We like to quote this at them in return.
There is no hope for the fanciful idea of reaching the moon because of insurmountable
barriers to escaping the earth's gravity.
Dr. Forrest Ray Moulton, University of Chicago astronomer, 1932.
All this writing about space travel is utter bilge.
Sir Richard Woolley, astronomer royal of Britain, 1956.
We were well on our way in space.
To place a man in a multi-stage rocket and project him into the controlling gravitational
field of the moon, I am bold enough to say that such a man-made voyage will never occur
regardless of all future advances.
Dr. Lee DeForrest, famous engineer, 1957.
So that's something that I like about this sort of thing is that just in the, in the
face of all of the, well, it sounds like science fiction mumbo jumbo.
It's not science fiction, it's science fiction in the same way that a colony on Mars is science
fiction is that it's science fiction and not science fantasy.
Right.
That's our track.
It's, it's, there's zero reason why.
There's no reason it couldn't happen?
There's no reason why without enough effort and scientific progress, we couldn't colonize
Mars.
By that same vein, there's no reason why we shouldn't be able to go through and revive
cryonics patients.
Alrighty.
That was our cryonics episode.
The only thing I'll add is that do check out this weight or this why cryonics makes sense
on weightbutty.com.
It is an amazing resource.
It really is.
And even if, even if you listen to this and still feel like it's bullshit, then I kind
of more strongly encourage you to read it.
If this is enough and you're ready to sign up, go for it.
Call Rudy or call your life insurance agent and get set up.
I don't think this podcast is enough to make people want to sign up, but hopefully it's
enough to make them read the article and the article presents much better laid out case.
And if you're looking for more succinct version, just for a quick answer to a question that
we didn't give either message us on the subreddit email or the website or check out the link
in the episode description on the website, the link to the frequently asked questions
on the cryonics institutes website.
And that's TheBaseyAndConspiracy.com.
Yep.
Alright.
See you in two weeks.
Thanks.
