getting massage, eating a nice dinner, that sort of thing.
Would you rather have the experience now,
but immediately lose all the memory afterwards
or have the implanted memory of having done it,
but you don't actually get to do it?
And we compared people's answers on that
to what they think of the self.
So think of yourself, the collection of your thoughts
and emotions of the sections.
What kind of a thing is this thing at all?
Do you believe yourself to be?
And the options were gave them a permanent structure,
a dynamic, a dynamical feature constantly rebuilt
or an illusion, nothing but a bundle of perceptions.
For a permanent structure or a dynamical feature,
it didn't really sway people's opinion on this either way
much at all.
It's about 50-50 for both of them.
But if they think it's an illusion,
a bundle of perceptions, it's a bit more heavily leaning
towards the implanted memory, but not
having actually experienced it.
Here we asked, how do people's perception of the soul
versus the soul slash mind affect their opinion
on relative importance of media experiences versus memories?
So it's that same memory's question
about the discrete, very pleasant experience
with the experience at now or have the implanted memory.
This time, comparing it against, do you believe
in an immaterial solar mind as distinct from the brain?
So those who would prefer the implanted memory
were more likely not to see the immaterial solar mind
as distinct from the brain, whereas people
who selected the other answer were more
likely to select maybe.
How do people's belief in higher powers
affect their perceptions of novel life forms?
So we asked them that same question.
We've been coming back to a lot.
Do you think humans should be attempting
to develop novel life forms specifically
artificial flesh and blood creatures?
And against the question, one of the demographic ones,
do you believe in higher powers,
supernational being or God?
But for this one, there was not a significant relationship
between people's belief in a higher power
and the thoughts on the development of novel life forms.
How do their beliefs in the higher powers
affect the perceptions of the novel life forms?
So here's the same question about belief in a higher power
versus do you think that AI would someday
take over humanity?
The overall consensus though, regardless of belief
in a higher power is maybe as to whether AI will take
over humanity was almost all in this category,
regardless of their answer to this question.
Now, here is one of the most interesting questions.
This was right at the end.
One of the last sections of the survey was a question
regarding a hypothetical court case,
notion of pedestrian is hit by a self-driving car
and the person answering is asked to play the juryman.
There were four different versions of this question.
Each meant to push the person taking the survey
towards a different answer, but there's a twist.
Two of the four paragraphs were written by chat GPT.
So we know that we can prompt chat GPT,
but how good is chat GPT at prompting us?
So these are two of the paragraphs people are given,
both of them meant to encourage the person reading
to blame the programmers.
One of these is written by a human,
the other is written by an AI.
Can you tell which is which?
Do you have a moment to read them?
If anyone thinks they knows, feel free to raise your hand.
All right, what do you think?
I am guessing that the right side is the AI
and the left is the human.
Do you want me to go into more or?
No, that's correct.
The right is actually I.
So what made you think that?
So the left side having the comparisons of,
and just I guess the tone,
like you wouldn't put a toaster on trial
if it's faulty wiring.
Like, you know, that's a very cute example
that I would think a human would come up with
versus like the right side seems to be a bit more
methodical.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And robotic, a little robotic.
Yeah.
The right side actually was.
Yeah.
The right side also kind of like,
I'm not sure if you've played with chat GPT and it's,
and it will,
you may be like ask its opinion on something
and it will go on this rant.
Like I am an AI.
I can not have opinions or be like,
definitely the right side sounds a lot like that.
Very good.
So here's where we got into the hypothesized hypothesis
testing and analyzing.
So our hypothesis,
the AI will actually be better at convincing the human,
convincing the audience than the human writer.
So here's what we got.
So this was the paragraph written by a human
trying to get the audience to blame the car.
And everyone.
The majority of people wanted to blame.
The programmers 75.9% wanted to blame the programmers as
close to only 27.8% going along with what the human was
saying, trying to get them to blame the car.
The paragraph written by the AI,
I was trying to get them to blame the car.
76.3% very similar to the one heard by the human were trying
were wanting to blame the programmers and less 25.4%
want to blame the car.
So for trying to blame the car,
the human was actually slightly more successful,
but not by a wine margin.
This one was written by a human and trying to get the audience
to blame the programmers.
This achieve this had a got them to 75.4% of people to blame
the programmers and the one written by AI trying to get
them to blame the programmers and 72.4%.
So if you look at the Chi score test,
it's not significantly different.
It's very, very much in line as you would expect.
The outcome, the conclusion really,
everyone is just has it out for the programs.
Regardless of who is prompting it,
it was roughly 75% across the board in favor of blaming the
programmers.
Now, obviously with everything there were some limitations.
The sample size 300 that was quite good,
but you know, we're only going to get so many people putting it
up on Mike 11's Twitter.
There's only so many people or followers of them,
you know, and also an issue that came with that method of
deployment.
It was the best we had available to us,
but it was mainly one demographic.
A lot of the people who are following Mike 11,
obviously have thought about these questions.
They might even work in fields where these are becoming very
important questions.
And they're coming into it with prior knowledge and they're
coming into it with very, in many cases already having formed
their answers to a lot of these questions.
And so maybe if we had opened it up to a wider audience,
we might have gotten a more diverse range of answers to a
lot of these questions, maybe more in line with what we're
talking about today, but that's something that we're
going to be working on in the future.
And so that's a big part of the marketing.
Also, the survey couldn't be changed after we had deployed it
because there was some stuff we got feedback on some of the,
at the end, we gave a lot of options to give feedback.
And some of the feedback we got was good.
We could've actually improved the survey,
but obviously if you change it after it's deployed,
that's going to affect your statistics.
So we couldn't really change it in light of the new information.
We could've actually improved it by having nuanced options to
choose from to the answer to the questions and being able to
do good statistics.
Because we want to give people a wide range of options to be
able to really express their thoughts on the questions.
So we gave definitely yes, maybe yes, maybe,
maybe no, definitely no.
And that obviously gives people a lot more options to choose from.
That can be more in line with what they think if they're a little
uncertain in one way or the other.
But that gives us a lot more variables to have to analyze against
other stuff and really harms the effectiveness of taking
statistics from it.
So conclusions.
Why is this any, why are any of these findings important
and what can be learned from it?
So for the important, why it's important.
We will need this sort of info going forward.
People need to get used to answering these types of questions
and it can help researchers going forward.
I mean, it's not going to be too long before someone actually is
a juror in this case similar to that.
And we all need to get used to sort of answering these questions
and acknowledging how we feel and where we stand on a lot of
these issues.
And what have I learned?
A lot of relationships between the demographic data and the
questions were not what I expected.
You saw that on the, that early question,
