I'm Arthur Levin, and this is my presentation on new bodies,
new minds, probing people's attitudes
to unconventional intelligence.
A little bit of background about me.
I'm 15.
I'm living in the Northeast in US.
I attended a private school, my first year of high school,
when I'm changing track to homeschooling
to focus more on areas of my interest.
I enjoy reading, writing, science, that kind of thing,
video games.
So a little bit of background about the project itself.
I was doing a class with Mike Levin,
who's just introduced himself.
And we were thinking about natural bodies and minds,
all the standard bugs, small dogs, humans,
all those sorts of things that you typically think about
as living creatures.
But then beyond that sort of thing, beyond evolution even,
robots that were developing more events,
never as new biologics that are being made in labs,
hybrids of the two, and AIs, which
are very much on everyone's radar recently.
And so as we were thinking about these questions,
it also sort of led us to the thought of,
well, we're thinking about these,
and these come up in our lives a lot.
But what about other people?
What about the general public?
There are a lot of questions that are gonna need to be answered
in the coming times about AI, and new biologics a little,
and the roles that are going to play in our society.
And so we want to dig a little deeper
into what people's thoughts in these areas were,
in these areas.
So what we actually did,
we read an excellent book, Picturing the Mind.
I had in-person lessons with Dr. Michael Levin.
And then what we did is made a survey
that we deployed to as many people as we could,
try and see what their thoughts on this were.
So we planned the topics, we wrote up to the text
so we could actually get to the questions we want.
We created the survey, we tested on a few test subjects,
we improved it based on their feedback,
and then we deployed it online
to Dr. Michael Levin's Twitter followers,
and then we had to fix a few errors
that were exposed with the wider axis.
We got a lot of good data from it.
So what is this?
This is a survey created by myself and Dr. Levin
to probe people's thoughts and feelings about novel agents.
You can see the general structure of the survey right here.
It's mostly generally multiple choice,
and the survey was split into two main sections.
Demographic questions, like age,
sort of career, information, personal interests,
and so on, that sort of thing.
And then we compared it
against people's more specific questions,
about people's opinions regarding specific conundrums
that may start to be appearing in our lives
as they become more intertwined with these novel agents
that we've been discussing.
Here's an overview of the presentation.
We've already gone over some of the background on myself
and the survey, the process of making,
deploying, and analyzing what we got back
from the survey that we sent out there,
and how this applies to you, and us,
and everyone, the whole world, really, going forward.
So, first, we have to actually, you know, make the survey.
What we do is we use Qualtrics for this,
which some of you may be familiar with.
Here are some screenshots of how it looks.
It's a very helpful tool for developing surveys.
Founded to be the best tool for the job here.
It lets you, it's really easy.
It really helps you build surveys,
and it cuts out a lot of unnecessary work,
and lets you really focus on being able to ask the questions
in a helpful way, and also has lots of tools
for actually displaying the data for you
and helping you easily analyze it.
So, first, we made the survey.
Here's sort of the UI of what it looks like
when you're making the survey, the type of question,
how many answers they can give, the number of choices,
display logic, so if you answer one question,
will it, or won't it show another question,
that sort of thing.
Then, once the survey was made, we had to distribute it,
we had to get it out to people,
so we could actually get their responses.
All we did, we just, to distribute,
we got a single reusable link,
which is tweeted out on Mike11's Twitter,
and by doing this, we got over 300 responses
at the time of making this presentation.
So, we got quite a few.
Here is what some of the data looked like.
This is one of the first questions,
one of the first demographic questions
that we looked at compared to a lot of answers
we got later in the survey.
So age, as you can see, mostly 20 to 40
was the general range.
Only actually one person over 80, but there was someone.
Here's some of the types of questions we asked
and sort of the raw results.
Have you ever interacted with an AI,
such as Cleverbot, JPD3Chat, or Akinator?
Almost every had a very large percentage around
a little over four times as much.
And as you can see, that's a very valuable question
because we can say, okay,
you interacted with these sorts of AIs,
now we can say against,
how did this affect your perception of AI
and did interacting with one of these AIs
change your thoughts on whether or not
an AI might take over humanity, that kind of thing.
And we got a lot of helpful data this way.
Here are some other good questions.
So we asked, do you have,
have you ever thought that AI would take over humanity?
Most people were pretty undecided,
mostly in the maybe category.
And they said, okay, well,
what made you come up with that conclusion?
Most, and for most people,
it was a piece of scientific research.
Do you believe in higher power?
And then has that impacted your view of novel life forms?
There's a lot of, we came up with a lot
of very interesting questions that have given us
a lot of very informative answers
about the sort of things people are thinking about
on these subjects.
So here's one question we asked,
do you think humans should be attempting to develop
novel life forms, specifically,
artificial flesh and blood creatures?
And so with this question,
we want, we need to have a hypothesis.
So we thought, well, based on someone's age,
can we predict what their answer will be
in this question?
So as you can see, here's a table.
So we, I was thinking under 20, probably a yes answer,
over 80, probably a no answer.
But as you can see with this chart,
that's not exactly what we got.
So the only two predictions that were right,
the only two hypothesis outcomes that were correct
were for the 20 to 30 group and the 31 to 40 group.
The under 20 group, actually,
the majority did not think that we should be developing
these new flesh and blood creatures,
whereas almost everyone else did actually think
that it's not at all what the hypothesis does.
Some other interesting relationships that we found
while going through the results,
how do people's interaction with AI affect their view
on the future of humanity?
So have you ever deliberately interacted with an AI?
Such as quite a lot of people today,
an aconator, and do you think that,
do you or have you ever thought that AI
would someday take over human being?
The conclusion we found,
whether or not the person had interacted with AI
strongly influenced their opinion,
but not in one single direction for everyone.
So whether or not they had interacted with an AI
really did shift their opinion,
but it didn't shift in one single way for most people.
How does education background affect people's views
on novel life forms?
So do you think humans should be developing
these novel life forms,
specifically flesh and blood kind?
And do you have a computer science educational background
or active interest?
So people with computer science educational backgrounds
or active interests are much more in favor
of developing the novel life forms as opposed to not.
But the same question matched against
you have a philosophy background or active interest.
Actually, you're under this a different result,
because people with a philosophy educational background
are much more in favor of the development
of novel life forms.
How do people's perception of self
affect their opinions on relative importance
of immediate experiences versus memory?
So when the questions we asked on the survey,
think of a very discreet, very pleasant experience
that we do enjoy, you know, going golfing,
