it is called scientific realism, and we don't need it to ground a realistic scientific worldview.
We can, the naturalistic worldview derives from the basic idea that you can study the world as
something that derives from causal relation in nature. And this is totally compatible with
some kind of participative realism where the observer participates in shaping reality. You do
not need a solipsistic thing in itself existence to ground it. So there is no problem here.
So I would thank the active inference lab for the infrastructure, let's say, of this work.
Okay, what's research, which is a perspective laboratory for the study of cognitive and
self-considering systems that is meant to electivize research, which is to bring the plazaer to
pragmatic, embody the setting of social political dynamics. And the active inference lab,
straightforwardly, is a lab about active inference. And I'd like to thank people who gave feedback
for some patience, and I'm back for you to check the project in OSF. So thank you. I will be taking
questions now. Well, really, really, really cool stuff. I would like to come and, okay, I see that
Sergio is already on his way. There we go. Hi, very nice talk. I would like to be a little
to ask whether, in terms of Karl Popper, could we falsify the free energy principle?
No, it's not. You can falsify any model that is formulated on the basis of the future principle.
Because it's a model. You cannot falsify the model. This is not how this works.
All right. Okay.
Kevin?
Hello. Thank you, sir. All those are really neat talk. And this is a, actually, this actually
goes into the mathematical aspect things. So I'm curious as to which methodical formalisms are
being used to underpin, I guess, the free energy principle, and maybe active inference,
for instance, the extension. And maybe for context, because I'm coming from the idea of, okay, well,
you have a cleaning geometry and a pair of all non-cleaning geometries. So that's the thing,
right? But also, more fundamentally, you have different axiomatic structures. You have like
thermo-elephantal set three with the axiom choice. And without the axiom choice, within the mathematical
community, you have disagreements about which rules do you want to play with, so to speak.
And then more kind of, you know, in the computer science realm, there is a different set of axioms
that actually don't use the law of the excludable. Like, right? So there's this thing called like
the proof by constriction, where basically, you assume the offset of what you're trying to prove,
show that least some type of logical constriction, and then boom, right? Well, that can't be the case.
So the other proposition, I'm true. But intuitionist mathematics actually says, no, no, no, that's
actually not a rule we want to play with, because what if you have a situation where like, you know,
the algorithm just hasn't finished yet. It's not true or false. It's just like, there's this third
category of unknown. And so you actually have different kind of logical foundations for variations,
a different axiomatic, or different axiomotage, different ways to axiomatize mathematics. So I'm
kind of curious as to what the underlying framework is. I know that's a lot, so forgive me, that wasn't
clear. Okay, so the idea that you cannot, you have, in fact, several possible mathematical
grounding to things, which I agree to. I do not know if you want me to arbitrate between things.
I cannot do this right now, but I want to signal that I am not in the PNG program. I want to get
into it on the math or collective intelligence in the season spot. Right now, I won't know.
There can be links to category theory, for example, there is clear links to God's theory,
I cannot, I do not see how this relates to the foundation of mathematics. So this is
something to develop on. Okay, gotcha. I appreciate that. Thank you.
Hiya, and good morning. Thanks for the great talk. It definitely means I could wake up jolt
in this hour. So, first of all, I really resonate with the point you emphasized. I also agree that
creativity is something that's, I wouldn't say incompatible with PNG principle, but something
that's extremely underlipped and under-emphasized. And it's actually Maxwell, who really reminded me
of this in a conversation that Carl Jesus is more inclined to emphasize the conservative nature of
the FEP. And so I think it's really good that people like you in this talk are kind of doing
the complementary direction, right? What is the creative power that also follows from the FEP,
in my opinion. So I was kind of surprised that you, because I was confused, first for clarification,
when you say creativity, were you just more referring to the creative aspect of auto-polysis
or the the creation of the generation of different trajectories, or are you also including
the more psychological phenomena of creativity? Because you didn't go into that, both, yeah.
As I said, creativity, as I put it here, as I formalize it, is any kind of symmetry breaking
that is not entailed by the system macroscopic and starting conditions. So it's basically
unfolding set spaces, unfolding asymmetries. The fact that they are biological or cognitive,
is not really even because those are organizational features.
Oh, okay. So you're actually looking for just the most general notion of creativity, right?
Yeah. So I think one thing that was of an interesting, so at some point in the slide of
intrinsic to extrinsic and extrinsic to intrinsic, and with a bit of a, well, I'm going to just
flatter Maxwell here, a bit of a Maxwellian point about, you know, beyond internal and external.
I think it's important to acknowledge that if we just take the internal relative to the agents,
that in there that you have a lot of the intrinsic extrinsic dynamics and therefore also
the phenomenon of dealing with hidden states.
And so in a way, when you have within the agents, the processes of mutual active inference,
or mutualistic inference across different scales, you still have to contend with that,
that those subsystems don't know about much of the rest of the system. And more importantly,
the whole ecosystem has like, you kind of regions that are unmodeled, I would say.
And I think it's in these, I'm sorry?
That I did not make a distinction between internal and external. I made a distinction
between intrinsic and extrinsic. The intrinsic part is basically what the agents can understand.
So I can understand that if I chair, get into my head, I'm hurt. I cannot understand how
lesion will affect how I move. So there are facts that
surviennes that invite themselves into the subjective perspective of the agent,
regardless of whether they have a priori epistemic values, whether they're priors.
So what's intrinsic is all that the agent can understand. And what's extrinsic is everything
else. So that's sure that you have an interesting and important play between
intrinsic and extrinsic architecture between scales, because what's intrinsic at my scale,
for example, there is a bike there, there is a computer there, I get it. It's not something that
they sell in my ear, that's another else. As you're processing, understand. There are some other
things that I do not, that I do because I did physics of addition, but I'm not supposed to.
So does this, I think this, I don't think this, I'm sorry, but I think it disintegrates an important
point. I'm a bit lost because I think this is a bit complicated for me to follow, but I think what
I'm getting at is that it's in these interplays that maybe creativity is most interesting to think
about. So yeah, thanks for clarifying. You're talking about interesting extrinsic. I think what
I'm trying to explore is the way that within the agents, there are basically extrinsic geometries
that are acted upon by the agents without being actually internalized. And it's not accessible to
the same degree of systematic instrumentalization, rather there's like an extrinsic geometries that
are attuned to the agents, but not as equipped. How do I say this? It doesn't have the same kind
of agency as if there is like a generative power to a lot of Markleblankens that are not really
the Markleblankens involved in what we would refer to as our kind of conscious executive
attention. So basically, you know, when you folks psychologically talk about creativity and the
artists of, oh, there's something welling up in me. And basically, I'm asking or wondering about
what the source of that is and kind of implying that I think that FEP might still be very
compatible with explaining that, for example, not just exploring state spaces,
but configuration, like how do you connect different Markleblankens or subsystems together
to certain dynamics? And I think the connection is the critical issue.
Exactly, right? So the infrastructures that connect or interweave the different subsystems.
So yeah, I don't know, I'm just rambling a bit, but I definitely get more where you're
getting at. So thank you. Yeah, I think we agree on the coverage of the FEP.
So if there is no line of the question, I'd like to
take more time to answer this of Sergio Rubin. Maxwell, do you want to do it now or can you
wait two minutes? Oh, I mean, it was related to Sergio's point. I just wanted to explain
the whole falsifiability thing. So I mean, on the one hand, I think the idea of falsification
in science is a philosophical gloss on the actual practice of science that doesn't actually add
anything. Scientists aren't trying to falsify their hypotheses. Always model comparison or
hypothesis testing. Even in the minimal case, you're comparing your hypothesis against the
null hypothesis. We never, I mean, except in very gerrymandered circumstances, we don't falsify
in critical experiments or really just fabrication of philosophers, in my view. So that leads me
to say also, when people say the free energy principle can't be falsified, it's because the
free energy principle, of course, is a piece of math. And you don't falsify math, you provide
a counter example, you show that the assumptions lead to a contradiction, but you don't falsify
math. And you wouldn't falsify the FEP itself any more than you would try to falsify calculus.
It's just a category mistake. What can be falsified, as with other applications of the
principle of stationary action, is whether the framework applies to a given empirical system.
That's subject to falsification. You can say, oh, I can use the FEP and active inference to model
this or that, and you can be wrong about that. But the FEP itself is just math. And now, especially
in this new Bayesian mechanics for stationary processes paper, the math has been fully worked
out. There's the existence, there's an existence proof, there's a construction. I mean, everything
is there effectively. The FEP just follows from non-equilibrium. Exactly. It just flows from
the thermodynamics. Okay. So I think it's a pretty critical issue for at least the
development of the FEP because somehow you have, I agree with you that falsification is a very
flawed criterion. If you take falsification seriously, you won't throw away evolution theory
because you saw a butterfly that is, this is not just a consistent thing that you do.
So what you have is a softer, more inductive kind of reasoning that exists, even by poppers
of all these accounts. And you have, basically, ways when you criticize a theory, you cannot,
you will not, you cannot, restate it, just leave it away. You basically look at the
somehow people in the Bayesian science got the idea that falsification
is empiricism, which is specifically what falsification was related against. So they think
that everything that cannot be made into a difficult test is false and wrong. This is
a big problem. I don't know how we got there, but we are there. And people get angry, basically,
when there are bits of theory that cease. Okay, okay, next one. So when people ask whether the FEP
is false or not, they are angry about it. And yes, Marko, it is fair.
Oh, I'll use. Okay, I'm sorry. I will close the chat because I'm just answering people on this
chat and this is inconsistent. So falsification is inconsistent. People believe it is the opposite
empiricism. And so when you have bits of theory that show they are basically angry, but you cannot
say things without a language that is very basic thing that all people that do that all people
know what's on the level. And that is precisely what Popper wanted to emphasize
by the mainstream. So I don't know how to circumvent this because people are just not
willing to engage with theory. And you cannot build empirical predictions that are as if I
am all not serious, a prediction or fast variable without agreeing on why to speak. So
I do not know how to do it, how to make this bridge between the empirical level and the
empirical communities and the more thorough rented communities. But it's critical to do this if you
don't want to keep a behavioral sense that has literally the same standards as 30s rate sense
which is not good standards for this reasons.
The free energy. Can you use the free energy principle to verify things? Let's say if we go
to Mars and we want to know if there is light there we can use the free energy principle as a
test of verification. I'm not sure what the crescendents were. I'm sorry. Can you
rephrase if you were expecting? Right. So there is this confrontation between
falsification and verification. So what stands at the end? It's the verification
rather than falsification. So you verify things. Let's say if a living system is alive or not,
you verify by checking whether it's autopoys, is this still going on or it stops?
So in the realm of mechanical modeling, so what corresponds in my table to mechanical and
functional explanation, you do basically what a good basing agent will do which is that you
provide mechanism, you check consistency with structure, you check consistency with terminology,
you check consistency with system. And in that domain you can validate and you can falsify
this due to a prediction. But in pure formalism I don't know in the way you develop not the models
themselves. But the language with which you develop the model, I do not know if you are
strong at theory ways to ensure you are not wrong. So the position I hold is that you do not have
truth, at least in the sense of resonance. So I'm not worried about this because I don't think we
can solve the issue. But you will not do things in the world without taking some kind of hypothesis
of some kind of speculation of some kind of quantum leap between hypothesis. And actually this is
part of what proper Franciscanism is about. So you will have theories, you will have formalisms
that will compete for cognitive space in the head of scientists. That's it. And I don't know if
trying to formulate a grant encompassing demarcation material for what math is useful is constructive.
Okay, thank you. Thank you.
All right, so we have time for another very quick question if there's anybody.
Stephen.
One question. When you talk about intrinsic and extrinsic, I'm wondering because often we talk
about motivations or teleology. I what's the intrinsic or extrinsic like purpose or aim of a
situation. Now, I don't know how that often extrinsic is then thought to be brought in from an
external source, but it could be extrinsic in terms of what the action policy of that particular
regime of attention is about, if that makes sense, like what's, so how does that fit in,
so it's not necessarily, so it brings in the question of what it means to know, you know,
if you talk about extrinsic or intrinsic knowing, you may fall into the trap of kind of
representationalism, but if it's maybe linked to the teleology of the moment,
then you've got the idea of what it is, what's adjacent to what it is and plausible,
and then something acting bigger than that. Well, at the time, so I'll answer quickly.
We have three kind of distinctions between intrinsic and extrinsic at play. You have the
motivational where it's basically reward versus informational again, what we're seeing. You have
the freestyle definition, which is basically the structural versus what I say, which is
pretty close, but not quite the same because it's basically what is entailed by an agent model
and what is not. So, formally, I don't know how those two fit. I know that not fit will be
motivational. So, I think you will look at me after, so I want to say again that I'd like to
get into a PhD on the math, collect intelligence, please, send my way,
and in event offer, you see, I'm going to be grateful. Thank you. Thank you. Take care.
All right. So, we're going to take a 10-minute break. We will get back at 10.
Thanks so much, Serpa, for your wonderful talk and really cool discussion. Thank you.
