it's never going to work. And people aren't that stupid, and they will eventually figure it out.
And so that's sort of why I'm under motivated to play that game.
Yeah. And I have to say that one of the things that I've learned from you
is that it's one thing to have a contrarian position. It's another thing to hold it when
the whole world starts hating on you. For example, I watched the world go from viewing
removing Gawker as removing a nuisance or worse that was threatening people selectively
to a concern about like First Amendment rights and silencing free speech. And
you know, I do have the strong sense that people are willfully misinterpreting
these actions that are necessary to sort of self-correct in our society
and are not being terribly honest. There's a lot of bad faith acting in our system at the moment.
Yeah. But, you know, again, I'm always, I'm always, this is again where I'm always quite
hopeful that people realize there's a lot of bad faith acting and they, you know, they just
countless grow out of it accordingly. And I, you know, I don't know how many of the people
disagree with me on the support for Trump will be more open to it in five years or 10 years.
And, you know, we'll see. On the Gawker matter, I'm going to win that one. And I think that,
you know, I think people understand that when it gets criticized by people in the media who have
themselves are up against super challenged business models where they have to act in
sociopathic ways to get clicks by their readers, that this is just the game they have to play.
I think people, there's more understanding of that than you think. And therefore, you know,
it's not quite what it looks. Well, but there's also a way in which both in both of these cases,
there's I think I think I was I was extremely disturbed by Gawker a decade, decade and a
half ago, because I think it was a really powerful thing at the time where it worked
because people didn't understand how it worked. It was this hate factory, this scapegoating machine,
but people didn't see it as such. And because of that, it was, it was super powerful. Once you,
you know, once you see how it works, once you understand it, it is less powerful. So, you know,
even had I not succeeded in the litigation against Gawker, I think it would be a weaker
version of that today because, you know, there are of course equally nasty things on the internet,
but they're not as powerful because it's well organized. People can sort of,
there's more transparency into the bad motives and people get it. And the hate factory only works
when it's not perceived as such. Well, I think that there is a way in which some of this stuff is
slowing down because people are getting tired of the constant state of beheading figuratively
of people via their reputation that we've moved from honest physical violence into
reputational and economic violence against people that are considered undesirable. But I think that,
like there's a story with both Gawker and Trump, which the rest of the world will never see. And
I wouldn't have seen it if I hadn't been working with you. In the case of Gawker, I don't think
anybody even knows the story about how much you sweated the ethics internally of how do I do this
right? How do I make sure that I don't hurt anybody that I shouldn't be hurting? How do I make sure
that this represents something narrow and not something broad, which is a story so far as I
know that hasn't been told. And then there's the story with Trump, where I don't know if you remember
this. When Trump won, you had a gathering at your house, and you did not invite me. And I was so
pissed at you that even though I was tooth and nail against Trump, and I remained really pretty
close to a never-trumper, I knew why you did what you did. I knew that you felt that it was a
reduction in violence. And I think that you had theories that nobody believed at the time. If
I look out at this world out through these windows, Trump has not changed mostly day-to-day life,
except for the phenomena of Trump. But there's a policeman on every street corner with an
automatic rifle. We're not in some sort of siege from the White House. And you said,
I think much less is going to happen than people imagine, and I think we're going to be in a much
less interventionist mode than we were previously. And whether or not you were right or you were
wrong. And so far, I think you've been born out to be right on both of those points. I knew that
you had an idea that we had to shake things up or we were going to be in some very dangerous
situation. I had two speeches in 2016. One was at the Republican Convention. One was at the
Washington Press Club about a month before the election. And in both speeches, I underscored
the ways in which I think Trump would represent a break from the interventionist,
neoconservative, neoliberal foreign policies that Bush 43, that Obama still continued and that
Hillary would have been likely to continue. And I still think that that's roughly what's happened.
It's not been as far away from interventionism as I would like, but it's directionally that's
happened. And I think that I do think we're not going to go back to that on the Republican side,
which is a very important thing. We're not going to go back to the Bush foreign policy ever.
That was an important thing. In the public primaries when Trump spoke out against the Iraq
War, that was a very important moment from my point of view. One way to think of the
President of the United States is that you're the mayor of this country, but you're the dictator of
the world. Because within the US, your power is very limited. Outside the US, you can do a great
number of things. And that's why I think these foreign policy questions are very important
ones in assessing a President. Well, I guess my take on the great danger of Trump was that
there were certain sorts of standards and agreed upon cultural aspects, which I've likened to the
oral Torah of the United States, where the Constitution is our written Torah. And my concern
is that Trump has had an effect on degrading certain expectations where it does matter how one
comports oneself as a President, maybe not as much as some of my friends would like to think.
And I do think that we needed some dynamism. But my concern is that it's going to be very
difficult to recover from the kind of damage to our sense of what can and cannot be said and done.
I did think that we needed to break out of our overton window, if you will,
on many topics. The way that Trump touched those was not comfortable for me.
Well, look, I agree there are certain ways in which President Trump does not act presidential
in the way in which the previous Presidents acted presidential and then maybe there's some
point where it was too much acting and the acting was counterproductive. I think there is
something extraordinary about how it was possible for someone like Donald Trump to get elected
and probably a useful question for people on both the left and the right would be to try
to think about what the underlying problems were, what some of the solutions to that are.
And I think the left or the Democrats, they can win. They can win in 2020,
but they have to have more of an agenda than just telling the Republicans to hurry up and die.
It has to be more than that. This is the thing that convinced me that I didn't get the Trump
thing, which was I was convinced that Trump was going to be such a wake-up call that the Democratic
Party was going to go behind a closed door and say, we cannot let this happen again. We have to
look honestly at how we got beat, what this represents, what it means, and what we're going
to do next time. And the idea that we were going to double or triple down on some of the stuff that
didn't work never even occurred to me. I had no idea that that party was so far gone that it
couldn't actually, if you imagine that he's Orange Hitler, you would think Orange Hitler would be
the occasion to think deeply in question hypotheses. And I really have been shocked at the extent to
which that didn't happen. So maybe I got my own party wrong on that front. I didn't know that we
were this far gone. I think there's still a lot of time to do that. And I keep thinking that
we are at some point where the distractions aren't going to work as well. I think the
big distraction on the left over the last 40, 50 years have been forms of identity politics,
where we don't look at the country as a whole. We look at parts of it. And it's been a way of
I think obscuring these questions of stagnation. Fair enough with the right.
I would say the right wing distraction technique has been, I would say, something like American
exceptionalism, which is this doctrine that the US is this singular, exceptional country.
It's so terrific, so wonderful. It does everything so incredibly well that you shouldn't ask any
difficult questions, any questions at all. I think in theological or epistemological terms,
you can compare it to the radical monotheism of the God of the Old Testament, where it means that
God is so radically unique that you can't know anything about him. You can't talk about God's
attributes. You can't say anything about him whatsoever. And if the United States is radically
exceptional, then in a similar way, you can say nothing about it whatsoever. And there may be
all these things on the ground that seem crazy, where we have people who are exceptionally
overweight. We have subway systems that are exceptionally expensive to build. We have universities
that are exceptionally sociopathic. I mean, you don't have the student debt problem in any other
country. We have a trade regime that's exceptionally bad for our country, like no other country
is self-destructive. There are all these things that we somehow don't ask. I think exceptionalism
somehow led to this country that was exceptionally unself-aware.
Greatness is adjacent to exceptionalism, but it's actually still quite different because
many countries can be great. And great is more a scale, and there's something you measure it
against. It's multi-period. Whereas exceptional, it's just completely incommensurate with anything
else. And I think that's gotten us into a very, very bad, cool to sack. And I think
that there's a way in which that sort of exceptionalism has ended on the right,
and we've moved beyond that. And I'm hopeful that in a similar way, the left will move beyond
identity politics, even though right now it feels like the monster is flopping about more violently
than ever. And even though I think it might be its death throes, but maybe not.
Yeah, it could be that it's gotten very strong, or it could be on its last legs, and it might as
well go for broke. So let me return back to the line of inquiry. I'm sorry, I'm just enjoying
so much hearing what you have to say. Some of it's new to me. The theories that might be portals
into a different way of looking at the world, one of them that you brought into my, I've never heard
of before, was Gerard's various theories. And I wonder if you might say you've often credited
your success in business to how you understood and you applied Gerard. I mean, obviously,
he didn't have this kind of level of business success. So can you talk a little bit about
your personal relationship to René Girard's theories as a portal into a different way of
seeing the world? Well, let's say a little bit about the theory. So it's a, it was sort of this
theory of human psychology as deeply mimetic, where you sort of, you copy other people.
So just for the folks at home, mimetic as in mime, rather than mimetic as in meme.
Yes. Well, they're probably closely related. But you imitate people, but you imitate,
that's how you learn to speak as a child. You copy your parents' language. That's how,
but then you also imitate desire. And then there are sort of all sorts of aspects of
mimesis that can lead to sort of mass violence, mass insanity. So it has, it's both what enables
human culture to function, but it also, it also is quite dangerous. And when I came across the
sort of constellation of ideas as an undergraduate at Stanford, my biases were sort of libertarian,
classic liberal, only individuals exist. Individuals are radically autonomous,
can think for themselves. And so this was a, it was both, it was sort of a powerful
corrective to that intellectually, but then it also worked on an existential level where
you sort of realized, wow, they're all these ways that I've been hyper-mimetic. I've been
hyper-tracked. Why am I at Stanford? Why does this matter so much? Why am I doing all the things
I'm doing? And that's, it's a prism through which one looks at a lot of things that I found to be
quite helpful over recent decades. I think the preference falsification, you can think of in
mimetic terms where, you know, everybody goes along with what everybody else thinks. And then
you can get these sort of chaotic points where all of a sudden things can shift much faster than
you would think possible, because they're all these dynamics that are not, you know, not simply
rational. It's not quite correct to model people as these sort of classical atoms or something like
that, much more entangled. Do you, what would be a good way for people listening at home to
start to get into Gerard's philosophy if they were interested?
Well, there are, you know, it's, there's sort of a number of different books that Gerard wrote. I
think the, the magisterial one is probably things hidden since the foundation of the world. So it's
this truth of mimesis and violence and the ways, so it's sort of part psychology, part anthropology,
part, part history. You know, all portal, I should point out, because it's, they're all hidden.
It's, you know, it's a portal onto the past, onto human origins. It's a, it's an, our history. It's
a portal onto the present, onto, you know, the interpersonal dynamics of psychology. It's, it's,
you know, it's a portal onto the future in terms of, you know, you know, are we going to let these
memetic desires run amok and head towards apocalyptic violence for, you know, even the entire planet
come no longer absorb the violence that we can unleash, or are we going to learn from this and,
and transcend this in a way where we, we get to some, some very different place. And so it has,
it has a sense that, you know, of both danger and hope for the future as well. So it's a,
it is sort of this, you know, panoramic theory on a lot of ways, super powerful and, and just
extraordinarily different from, from what one, one would normally hear. There was, you know,
there was, there was sort of like almost a cult-like element where you had, you know, these
people who are followers of Gerard, and there was sort of a sense that, you know, we had, we had
figured out the truth about the world in a way that nobody else did. And that, you know, that,
that was generative and, and very powerful. You know, it's always, there's parts of it that are
unhealthy, but, but it was, you know, it was, it has sort of an incredible dynamism. And then
just, you are aware that, you know, maybe things are so different from how, how they appear to be
that, you know, it's, you know, there may be a portal out there. There may be, you know.
What was shocking to me, I mean, the first time I heard about it, you invited me to a conference
that you were keeping quiet. And I was in the news and there was quite a lot of
anger and fury that I had done something wrong. And you waited a few days to give a talk and
you talked about scapegoating and the mechanism by which violence that might be visited upon
the many is visited upon the one. And then you also started talking about the king as if he is
sort of scapegoating, waiting so that the king is not necessarily something that one would want
to be. And I found it absolutely fascinating because it turned so many ideas on their heads
that I got angry at you. Why hadn't you told me this earlier when I'd been
through three sleep nights before I'd heard the theory? So I found it instantly applicable,
particularly if you're the sort of person who's likely to get scapegoated by not taking
refuge in the herd. Do you think it has more relevance to people who are struggling to
like break out as individuals because of the possibility of being picked off?
You know, I think, well, I think it has universal, I think it is broadly true. It has some sort of
universal relevance. I think the problems of violence and scapegoating are universal problems.
It's probably the case that there are certain types of people who are more likely to become
scapegoats, but it's not an absolute thing. And so there is, you know, there's always,
you could say there's an arbitrariness about scapegoating because the scapegoat is supposed to
represent, to stand in for everybody. And so the scapegoat has to be perceived as someone who's
radically other, but then also has to somehow emerge from within the group. And so there are
times when the scapegoat is the sort of outlier, extreme insider, extreme outsider,
king slash criminal or whatever personality. And that's probably a dangerous sort of thing.
It's like Abraham Lincoln, the incredible orator who's also grows up in a log cabin. So these
sort of extreme contrasts are often people who are at risk of this maybe more than others.
And then at the same time, you know, because these are sort of mob-like dynamics,
there is sort of a way in which, you know, it's not like anyone's really safe from the violence
ever. No one's completely safe. I think that's quite true.
But yeah, it's a thought that one of the sort of history ideas that Gerard had that
is that there's a dynamic to this process where scapegoating, it only works when people don't
understand it. And so there's sort of, as you understand it better, it works less well or it
has to get displaced into other dimensions. And so, you know, if you have a witch hunt, say,
you know, we need to find a witch to bring back peace to the community. That's sort of a psychosocial
understanding of what you're doing is actually counterproductive of the witch hunt itself.
You know, the witch hunt is supposed to be supposed to be a theological epiphany,
that God's telling you who the witch is. If you think of it as some sort of
