in 1800 or even in 1900. In 1800, Goethe could still understand just about everything. In 1900,
Hilbert could still understand just about all of mathematics. So the specialization,
I think, has made it a much harder question to get a handle on. The political cut I have on
the specialization is always that if you analyze the politics of science, the specialization should
make you suspicious because if it's gotten harder to evaluate what's going on, then it's
presumably gotten easier for people to lie and to exaggerate. Then one should be a little bit
suspicious and that's my starting bias. Well, and mine as well. I think
perhaps the craziest idea to come out of all of this. Again, you met your version of this in
a law firm which is predicated upon the idea that a partner would hire associates and
associates would hope to become partners who could then hire associates. That has that
pyramidal structure. In the university system, every professor is trying to train graduate
students to become research professors to train graduate students. I think that the
universities were probably the most aggressive of these things I've called embedded growth
obligations. But the implication of this idea that we structured almost everything on an expectation
of growth and then this growth that was expected ran out, it wasn't as high and as stable and as
technologically led as before, has a pretty surprising implication which is, I mean,
let's not dance around it. It feels like almost universally all of our institutions are now
pathological. Or sociopathic or whatever you want to call them. Yes. I suppose there are two
ways one could imagine going. You had these expectations of great growth, great expectations,
he's the Charles Dickens novel from the 19th century, great expectations. Then you can try to
be honest and say the expectations are dialed down or you can continue to say everything's great
and it just happens not to be working out for you, but it's working out for people in general.
And somehow it's been very hard to have the honest reset and the incentives have been
for the institutions to derange and to lie. So there's probably a way the universities
could function if they did not grow. You'd be honest, most people in PhD programs don't become
professors, maybe you'd make the PhD programs much shorter, maybe you'd be much more selective,
you'd let fewer people in. There would be some way you could adjust it and the institutions
could still be much healthier than they are today. But that's not the path that seemingly was taken.
Something like this could have been done in a law firm context where maybe you still let the same
percentage of people become partner, but the partners don't make quite as much money as before
or something like that. So there would have been ways when one could have gone, but those are
generally not the choices that were made. Yeah. I wonder if that's even possible because if you
had a law firm that was honest or a university that was fairly honest and you had one that was
dishonest, it seems to me that the dishonest one could attempt to use its prestige to outcompete
the honest one. And so that would become a self-extinguishing strategy unless you somehow
had a truth in advertising program. Yeah. I don't know. I do think the truth,
when it breaks through, you're better off having told it than not having.
As long as everybody was dishonest, it could work. But yeah, no, it's like, it's mysterious to me
how long it worked. We had these crazy bubble economies. We had the tech bubble in the 90s,
the housing bubble in the 2000s, what I think is a government debt bubble this last decade.
And so if you've had this sort of up-down bubble, that's harder to see than if things were just
flat. So if the growth in 1970, things just flatlined and you had 40 years of no growth,
that would have been problematic. And you might have noticed that very quickly. But in a sense,
simplifying a lot, you could say we had the 70s were down, the 80s were up, the 90s were up,
the 2000s were down. So two down, two up, not flat, but it didn't feel that way internally. There
was a lot of excitement, a lot of stuff happened. And California was like an even more extreme
version of this. The last three recessions in California were much more severe than in the
country as a whole. The recoveries were steeper. And so California's felt incredibly volatile.
The volatility gets interpreted as dynamism and then before you know it, 30 or 40 years have passed.
One thing that I'm very curious about is how this discipline seems to have arisen,
where almost everyone representing the institutions tells some version of this universal
story, which I'll be honest, to my way of thinking can be instantly invalidated
by anyone who chooses to do so. It's just that the cost of invalidating it is quite high.
Paul Krugman wrote this column called A Protectionist Moment, where he said,
let's be honest, the financial elite's case forever for your trade has always been something
of a scam. And so you had people who were participating in this who seem to have known all
along that there's no way of justifying this on paper. But yet we're willing and able to
participate with seemingly very few consequences to their careers. It didn't give opportunities to
people who were heterodox and saying, hey, aside from a few bright spots, more or less,
we've actually entered a period of relative stagnation. How did this happen? How was it that
you feel so... Well, I think the individual incentives were very different from the
collective incentives. The collective incentives, we should have an honest conversation and
level set things and get back to a better place. I think the individual incentives were often,
you pretend that it's working great for you. It's like if you're the 20,000 people a year who
moved to Los Angeles to become movie stars, about 20 of them make it. And so you could say, well,
it's been really hard. Nobody wants to hire me. This is a terrible city. Or you could say,
this has been wonderful. All the doors are being opened to me. And the second one is more fictional,
but that's the thing you're supposed to say if you're succeeding. And I think there's a way...
This is how we've been talking about globalization, where it's a glib globalization. It's working
great for me. And I'd like to have more talented people come to the US. I'm not scared of competing
with them and on and on. Or academia, if you're a professor in academia. So the tenure system
is great. It's just picking the most talented people. I don't think it's that hard at all. It's
completely meritocratic. And if you don't say those things, well, we know you're not the person to
get tenure. So I think there is this individual incentive where you're supposed... If you pretend
the system is working, you're simultaneously signaling that you're one of the few people
who should succeed in it. So one image that I have, and you and I have talked... I use the word
kayfabe for the system of nonsense that undergirds professional wrestling. And you've taken to using
LARPing, live action role playing. It strikes me that we have two separate parallel systems.
Now this podcasting experiment that you and I are now part of
provides for a very unscripted out of control narrative. And then there's this parallel
institutional narrative that seems to exist in a gated form where the institutions keep
talking to each other and ignore this thing that's happening that has reached more and more people.
So that you effectively have multiple narratives, one of which I think almost no one needs to
believe. It's just that the institutions need to trade lies and deceptions back and forth
amongst themselves. How is it that these two things can be kept separate? It's like a real
wrestling league and a professional wrestling league side by side, where somehow they just
don't come into contact with each other. Well, I think if they came into contact something,
then they wouldn't both be able to exist. So I think that's not surprising that they can't come
to contact. I don't think it's a terribly... I don't think it's ultimately stable. So I think
ultimately our account is going to prevail. The institutional account is so incorrect that
it will ultimately fail. I've probably been more hopeful about how quickly
truth prevails than it has, but I would still be very hopeful that our account is really going
to break through in the next few years. I've been talking about the text stagnation problem
for the better part of a decade. And I think when I was talking about this in 2008, 2009,
2010, this was still a fringy view. It was very fringy within Silicon Valley. And I think even
within Silicon Valley, there's a lot of people who've come around to it, who've partially come
around to it. There's a sense that tech has a bad conscience. It feels like it's not delivering
the promises. Google had this propaganda about the future and it's now seen as the
self-driving cars are further away than people expected. So I think there is a sense that
things have shifted a lot over the last decade. But even like five years ago,
I mean, it feels to me, I moved out to work with you in 2013. And I'd never seen a boom before.
I mean, this was one of the things that was really important to me is that being in academics,
the Academy had been in a depression since this change around 1972-73. And seeing a boom and seeing
people with like flowers and dollar signs in their eyes, talking about a world of abundance and how
everything was going to be great. It seemed like everybody was the CEO or CTO of some tiny company.
And then very, very quickly, it all started to change. I felt like a lot of people moved back
into the behemoths from their little startup having failed. A lot of the ideology felt poisonous,
like don't be evil was not even something you could utter without somebody snickering behind
your back. There's like a self-hating component where the engineers have been recruited ideologically
and are like not actually there to do business. How did this happen so quickly?
Am I wrong about this?
No, it's striking how fast it's happened. It's striking how much it's happened
in the context of a bull market. So if you describe this in terms of psychology,
you'd think that people would be as angry in Silicon Valley as they are today.
The stock market must be down 40 or 50%. It's like people in New York City were angry in 2009.
They were angry at the banks. They hated themselves, but the stock market was down 50,
60%. The banks had gotten obliterated. And that sort of makes sense psychologically.
And the strange thing is that in terms of the survival of the macroeconomic indicators,
the stock markets, the valuations of the larger companies, it's like way beyond the dot-com
peaks of 2000 in all sorts of ways. But the mood is not like late 99, early 2000.
It has this very different mood. And the way I would explain this is that for the people involved,
it is sort of a lookahead function. So it is, yes, this is where things are,
but are they going to be worth a lot more in five years, 10 years? And that's gotten a lot
harder to tell. And so there's been growth, but people are unhappy and frustrated because they
don't see that much growth going forward, even within tech, even within this world of bits,
which had been very, very decoupled for such a long time.
Now, one of the things that's interesting to me is that when we talk like this,
a lot of people are going to say, wow, that's a lot of gloom and doom,
so much is changing, so much is better. And yet what I sense is that both you and I
have an idea that we've lived our entire life in some sort of intellectual Truman show where
everything is kind of fake and something super exciting is about to happen. Do you share,
is that a fair telling? Well, I think there's been the potential
to get back to the future for a long time. And there have been breaks in this Truman show
at various points. There was a big break with 9-11. There was a big break with the 2008 crash.
You could say there's some sort of break with Brexit and Trump. And in the last few years,
it's still a little bit undecided what that all means. But I think there were a lot of reasons
to question this and reassess this for some time. The reassessments never quite happened,
but I would say I think we're now at the point where this is really going to happen in the next
two years to five years to a decade. I don't think the Truman show can keep going that much
longer. And again, I've been wrong about this. Me too. I've been very wrong. I've called it.
We had an offsite when I was running PayPal in spring of 2001. NASDAQ had gone from 2000 to
5,000 back to 2000. .com bubble was over. And I was explaining, we're just batting down the
hatches. At least one little company has survived and we're going to survive. But the sort of
insanity that we saw in the .com years will never come back in the lifetimes of the people here.
Because psychologically, you can't go that crazy again while you're still alive. The 1920s didn't
come back till maybe the 1980s or something. Generationally, it was over. And yet already
in 2001, we had the incipient housing bubble and somehow the show has kept going for 20 years.
Well, with the crazy narrative, the whole narrative behind the great moderation,
I remember just clutching my head, how can you tell a story that we've banished volatility?
Yes. I always think of the 1990s narrative was the new economy and you lied about growth. And
then the 2000s narrative was the great moderation and you lied about volatility.
And maybe the 2010s one is a secular stagnation where you lie about the real interest rates
because the other two don't work anymore. And sort of a complicated way these things connect.
But yes, new economy sounded very bullish in the 90s. Great moderation was still a reason
to be long stocks, but it sounds less bullish. And then secular stagnation in the Larry Summers
form, just to be specific what we're talking about, means again that you should be long the
stock market. The stock market is going to keep going up because things are so stagnant,
the real rates will stay low forever. So they are equally bullish narratives,
although they sound less bullish over time. So that effectively we need,
what happened with the Roaring 20s followed by the Depression,
was that there was a general skepticism. And here the skepticism seems to be
specific to something different in each incarnation. You keep having bubbles with
some lie you have yet to tell. Yes, but I think, of course, I think the crazy cut on the 20s and
30s was that we didn't need to have as big of a crash. You could have probably done all sorts
intervention because the 1930s was still a period that was very healthy in terms of background
scientific technological innovation. If we just rattle off what was discovered in the 1930s that
had real-world practical things, it was the aviation industry got off the ground, the
talkies and the movies got going. You had the plastics industry, you had secondary oil recovery,
you had household appliances got developed. And by 1939, there were three times as many people
who had cars in the U.S. as in 1929. And so there was this crazy tailwind of scientific
and technological progress that then somehow got badly mismanaged financially by whoever you blame
the crash on. And so I think that's what actually happened in the 30s. And then we tried to manage
all these financial indicators much more precisely in recent decades, even though the tailwind wasn't
there at all. So let me focus you on two subjects that are important for trying to figure out the
economy going forward. I'm very fond of perhaps over-claiming, but making a strong claim for
physics that physics gave us atomic devices and nuclear power and ended World War II definitively.
It gave us the semiconductor, the worldwide web, theoretical physicists invented molecular biology,
the communications revolution. All of these things came out of physics. And you could make the argument
that physics has been really underrated as powering the world economy. On the other hand,
it's very strange to me that we had the three-dimensional structure of DNA in 1953. We had
the genetic code 10 years later. And we've had very little in the way of, let's say, gene therapy
to show for all of our new found knowledge. Now, I have no doubt that we are learning all sorts of
new things to your point about specialization in biology. But the translation hasn't been anything
like what I would have imagined for physics. So it feels like somehow we're in a new orchard
and we're spending a lot of time exploring it, but we haven't found the low-hanging fruit
in biology. And we've kind of exhausted the physics orchard because what we found is so exotic
that whether it's two black holes colliding or a third generation of matter or quark substructure,
we haven't been able to use these things. Are we somehow between revolutions?
Well, I would say the question of what's going on. I'd be pessimistic on physics generally. So
that would be my bias on that one. Biology, I continue to think we could be doing a lot more.
We could be making a lot more progress. And the pessimistic version is that biology is just
somehow much harder than physics. And therefore, it's been slower going. The more optimistic one
is that the culture is just broken. We've had very talented people go into physics,
you go into biology, if you're less talented, you can sort of think of it in Darwinian terms.
You can think of biology as a selection for people with bad math genes. If you're good at math,
you go into physics, you go to math or physics, or at least chemistry. And biology is sort of
selected for all of these people who are somewhat less talented. So that might be a cultural
explanation for why it's been slower progress. But we had people from physics. We had Teller
and Feynman and Crick. To my earlier point, molecular biology anyway was really founded by
physicists more than any other thing, I think. Why is it that in an era where physics is
