ideas, you're not going to experiment with different ways about thinking about things,
you're going to be super conventional, super curated. And so it's not like we get
all the benefits of transparency with none of the costs, they come with a very high cost.
And I do wonder if one of the strange dynamics with the younger generations in the US is that
there's a sense that you're just constantly watched. There's this great eye of Sauron to use
the Tolkien metaphor that's looking at you at all times. And that would be good if you could act
the same way and if something bad happened, it could take care of you. But if you're always
being watched, I suspect it really changes your behavior. It's interesting. In a moment where
I wanted to make sure that my son didn't misbehave, I toured him around our neighborhood and pointed
out all of the cameras that would track anybody on the street where we live. And I'd never noticed
them before, but sure enough, there they were in every nook and cranny, that we don't realize that
if it has to be stitched together, there's an incredible web of surveillance tools that are
surrounding us at all times. Let me ask you about one more theory before we break for this
session. We can have you on at another point. It's been great talking. Are you familiar with the
theory of Jennifer Fried's called institutional betrayal? I know you've mentioned it to me,
but I don't know all the details. So tell me a little bit about it. Well, I don't know all the
details either. But I think what she isolated was that people who have been betrayed by institutions
that have a responsibility of care, like a hospital, for example, or if you trust a sense-making
organ like your newspaper, and then you find that you've been betrayed by that institution that had
something of a principal agent problem where you had to trust your agent in order to take care of
you, that the quality of trauma is in fact different and that it leads to a universal fear of the
infrastructure of your society. That's sort of what I picked up. What I was going to ask you about
is, given our central belief that there was something about growth that led to universal
betrayal by institutions, which is compromised experts in the minds of most people,
do you think there's a preferred way of waking up as a society out of a kind of universal
institutional betrayal? If we're excited about the next chapter, what I'd love to talk to you about
in a future episode is what we're excited about, about what comes next. Is there a way of waking up
from this most gracefully?
Don't know about that. It strikes me that there are ways we don't want to wake up,
and we don't want to wake up in a way where it deenergizes us and demotivates. I think one of
the ways I think these institutions worked was they took care of people, but it was also motivational,
and you study, you get good grades, you'll succeed in our system. One way, when you deconstruct
these institutions, there's one direction that I think is always very dangerous, that it just
shifts people into a much more nihilistic, very low-energy mode where it's just, well,
there's no point, nothing can be done. That's the way that I definitively do not want to
wake people up. I think it has to always be coupled a little bit too. There are these paths
that aren't really going anywhere, and you shouldn't go down these paths, but then there's some other
paths here that you need to take. There's a portal here that you need to look at. If we are just
saying all the paths are blocked, I think probably the risk is people just sit down where they are
and stop moving altogether. That feels like the very wrong way to wake people up.
That sounds very wise. Let me just ask, since you've been attached to some of the highest energy
ideas, whether it's crazy-sounding stuff like seasteading or radical longevity,
or some other ideas from your background in venture capital and as a technologist yourself,
what are the things that you're most excited if we could move them back into the institutions,
where they probably have belonged all this time? What are the first subjects and people
that you would move back into institutional support to re-energize our society?
People or programs?
Well, I do think there is something about basic science that doesn't all have this sort of
for-profit character. Some of it has this non-profit character. We're building up this
knowledge base for all of humanity. I don't yet know how we do basic science without
some kind of institutional context. That's one that would seem absolutely critical.
I'm super interested in the problem of longevity, radical life extension,
and my disappointment in the non-profit institutions and non-profit world
has directed me more and more over the years to just invest in biotech companies and try to
find these better functioning corporate solutions. Then I always have this worry in the back of my
head that maybe there are these basic research problems that are being sidestepped because
they're too hard. I think basic science is one that you'd have to do, but you have to somehow
also reform the institutions so you don't have this Gresham's law where the politicians
replace the scientists. That sounds like a great one. I was very surprised to see that your friend
Aubrey de Grey, who you funded to get the radical longevity thing, was in the news for having solved
a hard math problem in his spare time that nobody even knew he was working on. It seems like even
though people would treat him as crazy, he certainly has a lot on the ball and probably
is exactly the kind of a person who might energize the department, even if he might infuriate it.
If you were able to get him back in, I think you'd be able to solve a lot of problems.
Well, Peter, it's been absolutely fantastic having you. Thank you for a very generous gift
of your time, and I hope that you will consider coming back on the portal to talk about some
of the specifics about the things that you and I are most excited about doing next.
We'll do. Thank you so much.
All right, Peter. You've been watching The Portal with Peter Thiel,
and I'm your host, Eric Weinstein. Thanks for tuning in, and please subscribe to the podcast,
and let us know your thoughts in the comments section below on YouTube. Thanks.
