Yiddish for fork, and it was close enough and somebody brought me a fork. And by uttering a
word that I got, by going through that exercise, I found that when this fork was brought to me,
I realized that there was some part of my experience, in fact, that was missing,
that this uncomfortable relationship, which my grandfather, when we went through Israel driving
north to south, was singing a leader. I mean, German was the language of the culture,
it was the language of the intellectual, and that never left him. And so I think that weirdly,
this is the first time, because I think it'll be too late if we wait for 20 more years,
because there will be no one to remember, but that there is some opportunity to recognize a dual wound.
Yeah. I think the challenge on the Germany side is that it's sort of, I had somewhat of an
idiosyncratic background here where I was born in Germany, but we emigrated when I was about a
year old. And we spoke German at home and lived in Africa in Namibia, where it went to a German
speaking school. But it was very different, I think, from the general post-World War II
German experience. And so there are, yeah, there are all these things that I can see from the
outside, looking into Germany that I think are, it's still like, I still have a connection to
it in all these ways. Visited it as a child many times, and there's something that I connect with,
and then it's obviously super different. And the contrast of Germany and California,
I always like to give, is that California is optimistic, but desperate, and Germany is
pessimistic, but comfortable. But from a California perspective, the incredibly deep
pessimism is really, really striking. And even on that one dimension, I think
Jewish culture is super different. Well, and I feel like Jewish culture is in part
starting to attenuate that we don't feel, I mean, this is crazy talk, but we never thought that
there was anything positive about antisemitism. And obviously, it's not a positive thing,
but there were positive externalities in that it allowed us to push ourselves very,
very hard, because we always knew that we weren't going to get a fair shake, and that
at any moment you might need to flee to someplace that was less dangerous. And I feel that as we
become comfortable, we've lost some of the dynamism, which is a hard thing to admit,
but I do think that that is in part true, just as I see, and I see this in Germany.
Germany's intellectual contribution was so profound that nothing post-World War II seems
to suggest the same nation. And I think that that loss is a profound loss not to Germany,
but to the entire world. Yes, it's, you know, and of course, one of the challenges is,
you know, we can sort of describe these things, we can speculate on, you know,
some of the causal things. I think it's somehow, we don't want to go back, we can't go back.
Can't, and don't want to, I agree. And so, yeah, there is a history, and I think
something's been lost in both Germany and in Jewish culture. And how one reconstitutes this is
is even if we can convince people of, you know, the causes and the losses,
what you actually do about it is super hard to say. And that's sort of always the
strange dynamic in this. Something I'd be open to us working on at some future point if we can
find the time. But let me switch gears slightly and come back a little bit to the violence point.
But one of the things that I think has become kind of interesting in our relationship
is that a certain class of theories that are not popular in the general population
are traded back and forth between us partially around the idea of how do we restart growth,
how do we avoid violence. And I wanted to sort of alert people who are interested in the portal
concept to this idea of orphaned or unpopular theories that are traded among a few, but maybe
not among the many. So if we could go through a few of these, one of them has to do with how you
and I both were much more, I think we believe that Trump was much more likely to get elected
than the general population did. And this has to do with the theory of preference falsification,
that people will broadly lie about what their true preferences are. So they'll keep one set of
public preferences, but a hidden set of private preferences. And then in our culture, it gets
revealed every four years where you kind of have a Schrodinger's cat experiment, you find out where
the country actually is. Yes. I felt this was a dynamic that was going on in all these strange
ways in 2016. There was a dinner I had in San Francisco about a week before the election with
a group of center-right people. One of them was a very prominent angel investor in Silicon Valley,
and he said, you know, I'm voting for Trump in a week, but because I'm in Silicon Valley,
I have to lie. And so he was unusually honest about lying. And the way I lie is that I tell people
I'm voting for Gary Johnson. So he couldn't say that he was going to vote for Hillary Clinton,
like the facial muscles wouldn't work or something would go wrong. But Gary Johnson was sort of the
lie that you could tell. And then if you actually look at what happened in the month before the
election, the Gary Johnson support collapsed from, I don't know, some like 6% to 2% or whatever.
And as far as I can tell, all of that went to Trump. And the question one has to ask is,
were these people lying all along? Were they lying to themselves? Did they sincerely change
their mind in the last month or some combination of that? But yeah, one sort of vehicle for this
preference falsification was that you had a third-party candidate who was sort of a gateway
to the transitions. This is what happened with Ross Perot, where the people eventually went to
Clinton in 1992 or John Anderson in 1980. So that's been a sort of repeated pattern.
And I think that was one element of what was going on. But then I think there were also
all these aspects of the Trump candidacy that people were super uncomfortable about
polite society. And so one would, the preference falsification was somehow
perhaps much greater than in many other past contexts. And so even the day of the election,
the exit polls, suggested that Trump was going to lose. And so there was still a 2% to 3%
effect like this, literally the day of the voting. Well, look, I voted for Bernie in the primaries.
And I felt that both you and I had realized that the Clinton neoliberal story was a slow motion,
one-way ticket to disaster if it kept going on election after election. So that both of us
recognized that we had to get off that trip. Of course, one of the complicated questions
in all this is, did people actually already sense this and were they lying about this?
So like everybody was saying, all the way throughout 2016, most of the people were saying,
well, there's no chance that Trump's going to win. This is absolutely impossible.
And I didn't really connect this before the election. But with the 2020 hindsight, I wonder,
was the fact that everyone was clicking on the Nate Silver 538 statistical polling model site
a few times a day to reassure themselves that Hillary Clinton was still ahead and
was going to win. Was that some sort of acknowledgement that on some maybe subconscious
or barely conscious level, people sensed that it wasn't really as done a deal as they were
constantly saying. So there's even a version of that question that I wonder about because
there was something about the polling that took on this unusually iconic role in 2016.
It was so important. And there was no truth outside the polls. I remember there was one of
the Democrat talking heads saying something like, publicans don't believe in climate change,
they also don't believe in polls. That's why they're going to lose. And generally,
polls are right. But there was something about how all important they were in 2016 that might have
been a tell that something was a little bit amiss. I think people knew, to my way of thinking,
I think people knew that there was something very bizarre about this election. I think that the
Bernie scare that if the Democratic Party hadn't been so skillful in sidelining Bernie and where
the party regulars were clearly backing Clinton, my sense is that it could well have been Bernie
versus Trump. And that would have been enough to say the neoliberal story is over. So I think
there was that fear that this was coming to an end. My sense of it was that the major reaction to
Trump was a class reaction, that it was you are rejecting the entire concept of an educated group
that knows the right things to say. And you're clearly not the kind of person who should be in
the Oval Office, much more than the issue of whether or not Trump was going to be a warmonger
or turn the US into a police state, which of course doesn't seem to have happened as of this
moment in 2019. But I guess what my sense of it was is that people really were shocked because I
live in a left of center universe the day after. They certainly pretended to be shocked. Look,
I'll concede your point. They were pretty shocked. But I still have my question. Why were they clicking
on the Nate Silver side just a few times a day? One version of it was, let's say even if Hillary
trounced Trump, but it wasn't enough, that would be a scary thing given what Trump had been built
up to, which is an orange Hitler. If you imagine that your country is supporting somebody who thinks
all Mexicans are rapists and is going to take the country back to the Middle Ages,
it would be very disconcerting if such a person could get 20% of the vote.
I think that the poll had its own significance. However, I think that one of the things about
preference falsification is that when you start to believe that this is a robust phenomenon,
that all of the economic models that assume that your private preferences and public preferences
are the same, you start to see the world very differently. This is one of the portals into
an alternate way of seeing the universe, so as not to get surprised by revolutions.
Well, it's always this question. In my mind, this question of preference falsification,
the Timur-Qurran theories tightly coupled to this question of how intense is the problem
of political correctness? How much pressure is there on people to say things they don't actually
believe? I always come back to thinking that the problem of political correctness in some sense
is our biggest political problem, that we live in a world where people are super uncomfortable
saying what they think, that it's sort of dangerous to use the Silicon Valley context.
It's a problem that Silicon Valley has become a one-party state, but there are two different
senses in which you can be a one-party state. One sense is that everybody just happens to believe
this one thing, which is one thing, and then the other one is in which 85% of people believe
one thing and the other 15% pretend to. It's a dynamic with super majorities where
in a democracy, we think 51% of people believe something, they're probably right.
If 70% to 80% believe something, it's almost more certainly right, but if you have 99.99% of the
people believe something, at some point you shifted from democratic truth to North Korean insanity.
And so there is a subtle tipping point where the wisdom of crowds
shifts into something that's sort of softly totalitarian or something like that.
And so in my mind, it maps very much onto this question of the problem of political
correctness, and it's always hard to measure how big it is in a politically correct society.
Of course, we're just saying what we think, we all love Stalin, we all love Chairman Mao,
and maybe we're just singing these songs because we're all enthusiastic about it.
And I think my read on it is that that problem has gotten more acute in a lot of parts of our
society over the last few decades. Yeah, I think that's gotten, well, as you know,
I started this whole intellectual dark web concept in part to create kind of a broad-based
and bipartisan coalition of people who are willing to speak out in public and take some risk
speaking for a large number of people. I would never have understood how many people
feel terrified to speak out if I hadn't done that because people come up to me all the time and say,
thank you for saying what I can't say at work. And then when I ask them, well, what is it that
you can't say at work, it's absolutely shocking. Completely commonplace things, things that are
not at all dangerous, not scary or frightening. One of the things I believe, and I don't know
whether you're going to agree with this, is that you start to understand that a lot of
the people who are enforcing the political correctness suspect that they are covering
up dangerous truths. So for example, if you believe that IQ equals intelligence, which
I do not, I mean, we'll just be honest about it, you're going to fear anything that shows
variation in IQ between groups. If you don't believe IQ equals intelligence, if you believe
that intelligence is a much richer story and that no group is that far out of the running,
you're not terribly frightened of the data because you have lots of different ways of
understanding what's happening. And also, you generally find that the truth
is the best way of lifting people out of their situation. So I secretly suspect to be blunt
about it, and this is kind of horrible, that a lot of Silicon Valley is extremely bigoted and
misogynistic. And it can't actually make eye contact with the fact that it secretly thinks
women aren't as good programmers, where I happen to think, you know, Fischerian equivalents
suggests that males and females, one protein apart, SRY protein, are not likely to be,
I mean, they might have different forms of intelligence and different forms of cognitive
strengths. But if you don't actually worry too much about an intellectual difference,
you'd be willing to have an intellectual conversation that was quite open about it.
So maybe I can turn that around. Yeah, let me see. There's sort of a
lot of different things that want to react to there. I suspect that it's a distraction of sorts.
You know, I think, I mean, on this very superficial layer, you know, we want to have,
we want to have debates, we want to have debates in a lot of areas, a lot of, you know,
hard questions, and there are questions in science and technology and philosophy and religion,
there are all these questions that I think it would be healthy to debate. And there's a way in
which political debates are sort of a low form of these questions. And there's one sense in which
I think of these political questions as less important or less elevated than some of these others.
But there's also a sense in which these questions about politics are ones that everyone can have
access to. And so if you can't even have a debate about politics, you can't say, you know,
I like the man with the strange orange hairdo, or I like the mean grandmother.
Yeah. If you can't even say that, then we've sort of frozen out discussion on a lot of other
areas. And that's always one of the reasons I think that political correctness starts with
correctness about politics. And then when you aren't allowed to talk about that area,
you've implicitly frozen out a lot of others that are maybe more important and, you know,
and where, you know, we're certainly not going to have a debate about string theory if we can't
even have a common sense debate about politics or something like that.
You know, it's, I'm very sympathetic to the sort of distraction theory that, you know,
a lot of these sort of, what's going on in our society is like a psychosocial
magic, hypnotic magic trick where, you know, we're being distracted from something very
important and political correctness, identity politics, you know, maybe American exceptionalism,
sort of these various ideological systems, you know, are distracting us from things. The,
you know, the thing I keep thinking is the main thing it's distracting us from is the stagnation
and is that, you know, that there are these problems that we don't want to talk about
in our society. It's possible it's also a way to distract us from bad thoughts that we have
about people or the sort of use you said, but the one I would go back to first is just that
it's distracting us from dealing with, dealing with problems. You know, the reason, the reason
we have a new speak, the sort of Orwellian new speak in politics with these zombie politicians and,
you know, you know, Hillary Clinton or Jeb Bush or whoever it might be is that we're not supposed
to talk about the real issues and maybe they have a bad conscience and they think they're bad people,
but it's just, I think the primary thing is just too dangerous to talk about
what's actually going on. They don't know what to do about it and better not talk about that.
Yeah, I think there's another take on it, which, you know, if I'm honest about it,
probably originates from my side of the aisle, which is that I have a sense that if you believe
that productivity and growth is over, you don't want to emphasize issues of merit because you
don't really think that the merit is going to translate. And so therefore, all you can focus
on, like, you know, a board of a company is just a bunch of slots at a trough. And so you have to
make sure that every group has its slots at the trough because it doesn't actually matter. The
board isn't doing anything to begin with. And so it's only a question of receiving the wealth that
is already there. And so I worry that that is, you know, I guess where I break with a lot of
progressives is that I believe that most progress comes from progress, which is technologically
informationally led, that the more we know and the more we can do, the more we can take care of
people. Yeah. So I mean, again, this is always maybe naive hope on my part or something like this.
But I always think that when we can't talk about things, we can't solve them. And that this is
exactly. And so maybe these are the calculations you make. And this is the way we pat people on the
head, even though they're never going to get ahead or something like that. But, you know,
