stagnating, we don't see these kinds of minds? I'm a little skeptical of that theory.
Well, I'm not so sure. If you're a string theory person or even an applied experimental
physicist, I don't think you can that easily reboot into biology. These disciplines have
gotten sort of more rigid. It's pretty hard to transfer from one area to another. When I was
an undergraduate, you still had some older professors who were polymaths who knew a lot
about a lot of different things. This is, I think, the way one should really think of Watson and
Crick or Feynman or Teller. They were certainly world-class in their field, but also incredible
and highly transgressive. The cultural or institutional rule is no polymaths allowed.
You can be narrowly specialized, and if you're interested in other things,
you better keep it to yourself and not tell people because if you say that you're interested in
computer science and also music or studying the Hebrew Bible, that must mean you're just
not very serious about computer science. I totally want to riff on this point because
I think you've hit the nail on the head. To my way of thinking, the key problem is if you go back
to our original contention, which is that there is something universally pathological about the
stories that every institution predicated on growth has to tell about itself when things are not
growing, the biggest danger is that somebody smart inside of the institution will start
questioning things and speaking openly. The polymaths would be the people who could
connect the dots and say, there's not that much going on in my department. There's not much going
on in this department over here and not that much going on in this department over there,
and those people are very, very dangerous. One of my friends studied physics at Stanford in
the late 90s. His advisor was this professor at Stanford, Bob Laughlin, who in the late 90s is a
brilliant physics guy. Late 90s, he gets a Nobel Prize in physics and he suffers from the supreme
delusion that now that he has a Nobel Prize, he has total academic freedom and he can do anything
he wants to. He decided to direct it at all these areas you probably shouldn't go into,
question climate science. There are all these things one should be careful about,
but he went into an area far more dangerous than all of those. He was convinced that there were all
these people in the university who were doing fake science, who were wasting government money
on fake research that was not really going anywhere, and he started by
investigating other departments. He started with the biology department at Stanford University,
and you can imagine this ended catastrophically for Professor Laughlin. His graduate students
couldn't get PhDs, he no longer got funding, Nobel Peace Prize, a Nobel Prize in physics,
no protection whatsoever. Julian Schwinger fell out of favor with the physics community,
despite being held in its highest regard and having a Nobel Prize. He used the epigram
in a book where he wanted to redo quantum field theory around something he called source theory.
He said, if you can't join them, beat them. I think it comes as a shock to all of these people
that there is no level you can rise to in the field that allows you to question the assumptions
of that field. You're sort of proving yourself, you're getting your PhD,
you're getting your tenured position, and then at some point you think that you've proven yourself
and you can talk about the whole and not just the parts, but you're never allowed to talk about
more than the parts. The person in the university context or the class of people
who are supposed to talk about the whole, I would say our university presidents,
because they are presiding over the whole of the university, and they should be able to speak to
what the nature of the whole is, what sort of progress the whole is making,
is what is the health of the progress of the whole. We certainly do not pick university
presidents who think critically about these questions at all.
Well, I remember discussing with a president of a very highly regarded university. He came
to me and said, can you explain how your friend Peter Thiel thinks? Because I just had a conversation
with him and I could not convince him that the universities were doing fantastically in this
university in particular. How does he come to this conclusion? I said, well, look, Peter doesn't come
with a PhD, but let me speak to you in your own language. I started going department by department,
talking about the problems of stagnation. It was very clear that there was no previous experience
with any kind of informed person making such an argument. This was a zero-day exploit.
In some sense, if you're a president of a university, you probably don't want to talk
to people that dangerous. You want to avoid them and you don't want to have such disruptive thoughts,
because you have to convince the government or alumni or whoever to keep donating money,
that everything is wonderful and great. I think one has to go back quite a long time
to even identify any university presidents in the United States who said things that were
distinctive or interesting or powerful. There was Larry Summers at Harvard a decade and a half ago
and tried to do the most minuscule critiques imaginable and got crucified. I don't think
of Summers as a particularly revolutionary thinker. Well, he was possessed of an idea that
the intellectual elite, which he undoubtedly saw himself a part of, had the right to transgress
boundaries. I think what's stunning about this is the extent to which this breed of outspoken,
disruptive intellectual has no place left inside of this system from which to speak.
It's not that surprising. In a healthy system, you can have wild descent and it's not threatening,
because everyone knows the system is healthy. In an unhealthy system, the descent becomes
much more dangerous. I think it's not that surprising. One riff I have on this is always,
if you think of a left-wing person as someone who's critical of the structures of our society,
there's a sense in which we have almost no left-wing professors left.
That's right. The Noam Chomsky is still there as a last remnant of some
clade that no longer exists. Left-wing in the sense of just being critical of the institutions
they're a part of. There may be some that are much older. If you're maybe in your 80s,
we can pretend to ignore you or this is just what happens to people in their 80s.
But I don't see younger professors in their, let's say, 40s who are deeply critical of the
university structure. I think it's just not... You can't have that. Again, if you come back
to something as reductionist as the ever-escalating student debt, the bigger the debt gets,
you can think, what does the $1.6 trillion, what does it pay for? In a sense, it pays for $1.6
trillion worth of lies about how great the system is. The more the debt goes, the crazier the system
gets, but also the more you have to tell the lies. These things go together. It's not a
stable sequence. At some point, this breaks. Again, I would bet on a decade, not a century.
Well, this is the fascinating thing. You, of course, famously started the Teal Fellowship
as a program, which... Correct me if I'm wrong on this. 2005 is when student
debt became non-dischargeable even in bankruptcy. The Bush 43 bankruptcy revision.
Right. Now, that is... Yes. And so if you don't pay off your student loans,
when you're 65, the government will garnish your social security wages to pay off your student debt.
Right. This is amazing that this exists in a modern society. And of course,
well, so let me ask, am I right that you were attacking what was necessary to keep the college
mythology going and you were frightened that college might be innervating some of our
most dynamic minds?
Well, I think there are a lot of different critiques one can have of the universities.
I think the debt one is a very simple one. It's always dangerous to be burdened with too much
debt. It does limit your freedom of action. And it seems especially pernicious to do this
super early in your career. And so if out of the gate, you owe $100,000 and
it's never clear you can get out of that hole, that's going to either demotivate you or it's
going to push you into maybe slightly higher paying, very uncreative professions of the
sort that are probably less good at moving our whole society forwards. And so I think...
Yes, I think the whole thing is extraordinarily pernicious.
So it was one of these things where... And I started talking about this back in
2010. It was already like it was controversial, but it was not like younger people all agreed with
me. The younger people did. And it's a decade later. It's a lot crazier. We haven't yet completely
won, but I think there are sort of more and more people who agree with this. I think at this point,
the Gen X parents of college students tend to agree, whereas I would say the baby boomer parents
15 years ago would not have agreed. The 2008 crisis was a big watershed in this too, where
you could say the tracking debt roughly made sense as long as everything, all the tracked
careers worked in 2008 really blew up. Consulting, banking, a number of the more
tracked professions got blown up. And so that was kind of a watershed.
Now, something that is... I mean, this is incredibly dangerous, but also therefore quite
interesting. If you imagine that the baby boomers have in some sense, in order to keep
the structure of the university going, have loaded it up with administrators, have hiked the
tuition much faster than even medical inflation, let alone general inflation.
This becomes a crushing debt problem for people who are entering the system.
I saw a recent article that said that the company that... I think it's called Seeking Arrangements,
which introduces older men and women with money to younger men and women with a need for money
for some sort of ambiguous hybridized dating companionship financial transfer.
And the claim was that lots of students were using this supposed sugar daddying and sugar
mommy, I don't know what the terminology is, in order to alleviate their debt burden.
It's almost as if the baby boomers, in so creating a system, are subjecting their own
children to things that are pushing them towards a gray area a few clicks before you get to honest
prostitution. No, I... Look, I don't want to impute too much intentionality. I don't know how this
happened. It's somewhat emergent. A lot of these... It was mostly emergent, mostly these things people
that we had somewhat cancerous... We don't distinguish real growth from cancerous growth.
And then once the cancer metastasizes at a certain size, you somehow try to keep the
whole thing going and it doesn't make that much sense. But yes, I... Look, I think one of the
reasons, one of the challenges on our side, let's be a little bit more self-critical here,
on this is that the question we always are confronted with, well, what is the alternative?
How do you actually do something? And it is... It's not obvious what the individual alternatives
are. On an individual level, if you get into an elite university, it probably still makes
sense to go. It probably doesn't make sense to go to number 100 or something like this.
But so there is a way it can still work individually, even if it does not work
for our country as a whole. And so there are all these challenges in coming up with alternate
tracks. I think in software, there's some degree to which people can be hired if they're just good
at coding and it's not quite as critical that they have a computer science degree. Can we do this
in other careers, other fields? I would tend to think one could. It's been slow to happen.
Well, so you and I have been excited about a great number of things that have been taking
place outside of the institutional system. But one of the things that I continue to be
mystified by is that we are somewhat politically divided, where you are well known as a conservative
and I really come from a fairly radical, progressive streak. So we have this common
view of a lot of the problems. But sometimes we come to very different ideas about how those
problems should be solved. Do you want to maybe just try riffing, figuring out, like assume that we
somehow found ourselves in a position of some degree of power with an ability to direct
a little bit more than we have currently? What would you do to create the preconditions
so not necessarily picking particular projects? But what would you try to do to create the
preconditions where people are really dreaming about futures both at a technological level,
family formation, making our civil society healthier? Where would you start to work first?
Well, I'm always a little bit uncomfortable with this sort of question because
you can turn it on me too. Because I feel like we're not going to be dictators of the United
States and then there are all sorts of things we could do if we were dictators. But certainly,
look, I would look at the college debt thing very seriously. I would say that it's just
chargeable and bankruptcy. And if people go bankrupt, then part of the debt has to be paid
for by the university that did it. There has to be some sort of local accountability. So that would
be sort of a more right-wing answer. The left-wing answer is we should socialize the debt in some
ways and the universities should never pay for it, which would be more the Sanders warrant
approach. But that would be one version. I think one of the main ways inequality
has manifested in our society in the last 20, 30 years. I think it's more stagnation than
inequality. But just on the inequality side, it's the runaway housing costs. And there's
a baby boomer version where you have super strict zoning laws so that the house prices go up and the
house is your nest egg. It's not a place to live. It's your nest egg for retirement. I would try
to figure out some ways to dial that stuff back massively. And that's probably an intergenerational
transfer where it's bad for the asset prices of baby boomer homeowners, but better for younger
people to get started in sort of family formation or starting households.
What do you think about the idea of a CED, a college equivalency degree,
where you can prove that you have a level of knowledge that would be equivalent, let's say,
to a graduating Harvard chemistry major or fraction thereof, where you have the ability
to prove that through some sort of online delivery mechanism, you can...
Great idea. I love it. I think it's very hard to implement. Again, I think these things are
hard to do, but great idea. There's a possibility of...
But look, we have all these people who have something like Stockholm syndrome where
if you've got a Harvard chemistry degree, and if you suspect that actually the knowledge
could be had by a lot of people, and if it's just a set of tests you have to pass,
that your degree would be a lot less special, you will resist this very, very hard. If you're
in an HR department or in a company hiring people, you will want to hire people who went
to a good college because you went to a good college. And if we broaden the hiring and said,
we're going to hire all sorts of people, maybe that's self-defeating for your own position.
So I think one should not underestimate how many people have a form of Stockholm syndrome here.
So some other ideas. At some point when we were talking about... And I should have said earlier
that the Teal Fellowship, for those who don't know, is a program that has historically at least
began paying very young people who'd been admitted to colleges to drop out of those
colleges. So they got to keep the idea that they'd been admitted to some fairly prestigious place,
but then they were given money to actually live their dreams and not put them on hold.
Yes, it has been an extremely successful and effective program. It's not scalable.
So we had to hack the prestige status thing where it was as hard or harder to get a Teal
Fellowship than to get into a top university. And so that's part that's very hard to scale.
Well, so when I was looking at that program for you, one of the things that I floated
was the idea that if you look at every advanced degree, like a JD or an MD, a PhD,
none of them seem to carry the requirement of having a BA, which is quite mysterious.
And if you fail to get a PhD, let's say, there's usually an embedded master's degree that you get
as a going away present. And therefore, if you could get people to skip college, you could give
them perhaps four years of their lives back, and you could use the first year of graduate school,
which is very often kind of a rapid recapitulation of what undergraduate was,
so everybody's on a level playing field. And then the worst comes to worst,
people would leave as a master with a master's. They would in general get a stipend because a
lot of the tuition is remitted to them in graduate programs. Is that a viable program to get some
group of people who are highly motivated to avoid the BA entirely as sort of the administrator's
degree rather than the professor's degree? Let me see. I mean, they're all the different
subtle critiques I can have or disagreements, but yeah, I think, look, I think the BA is not as
valuable as it looks. I also think the PhD is not as valuable as it looks. I sort of feel it's
a problem across the board. It strikes me that what you're proposing is a bit of an uphill struggle
because at the top universities, the BA is the far more prestigious degree than the PhD
at this point. So if you're at Stanford or Harvard, it's pretty hard to get in
to the undergraduate, and then you have more PhD students than you have undergraduates.
They're all these people who are on a very questionable track. They've made questionable
