Hello, and welcome to the portal's first episode.
Today I'll be sitting down with Peter Thiel.
Now, if you've been following me on Twitter, or perhaps as a podcast guest on other podcasts,
you may know that I work for Thiel Capital.
But one of the things that people ask me most frequently is, given that you are so different
than your boss and friend Peter Thiel, how is it the two of you get along?
What is it that you talk about?
Where do you agree and disagree?
Now, oddly, Peter and I both do a fair amount of public speaking, but I don't believe that
we've ever appeared in public together, and very few people have heard our conversations.
What's more, he almost never mentions me, and I almost never mention him in our public
lives.
So, hopefully, this podcast will give some indication of what a conversation is like with
somebody who I find one of the most interesting and influential teachers of our time, somebody
who has influenced all sorts of people in Silicon Valley involved with technology and
inventing tomorrow, and who is often not seen accurately, in my opinion, by the commentariat
and the regular people who opine as pundits in the world of science and technology.
I hope you'll find Peter as fascinating as I do.
Without further ado, this is the first episode of the portal.
Thanks for joining us.
Hello, and welcome.
You found the portal.
I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and I think this is our first interview show to debut,
and I'm here with my good friend and employer, Mr. Peter Thiel.
Peter, welcome to the portal.
Well, Eric, thanks for having me on your program.
No, this is a great honor.
One of the things I think is kind of odd is that lots of people know that I work for
you and many people know that we're friends, but even though we both do a fair amount of
public speaking, I don't think we've ever appeared any place in public together.
Is that your recollection as well?
I can't think of a single occasion, so this proves we're not the same person.
We're not the same person.
You are not my alter ego.
But on that front, I think it is kind of an odd thing for me.
I mean, we met each other, I think, when I was in my late 40s.
And if you'd ever told me that the person who would be most likely to complete my thoughts
accurately would be you, I never would have believed it, never having met you.
We have somewhat opposite politics.
We have very different life histories.
How do you think it is that we've come to share such a lot of thinking?
I mean, I have to say that a lot of my ideas are cross-pollinated with yours.
So you occur in a lot of my standard riffs.
How do you think it is that we came to different conclusions but share so much of a body of thought?
It's I'm always hard pressed to answer that since the conclusions all seem correct to me.
So, you know, it's and it's always mysterious why it feels like we're the outliers and we're the only
or among the very few people that reached some of these conclusions about sort of the relative
stagnation in science and technology, the ways in which this is deranging our culture, our politics,
our society, and then how we need to try to find some bold ways out, some bold ways to find a new
portal to a different to a different world.
And and I think there were sort of different ways the two of us came at this.
I feel like you got you got to some of these perspectives at a very early point, sort of the
mid 1980s, that something was incredibly off.
I probably got there in the early mid 90s when I was on this tracked law firm job in New York City.
And somehow everything felt like it was more like a Ponzi scheme.
It wasn't really going towards the future.
Everyone had promised you in the sort of elite, you know, undergraduate and law school education
I'd gone through.
And so, yes, I think I think we're sort of a point we we got to these insights.
But it's still striking how, you know, how out of sync they feel with with so much of our society,
even even in 2019.
Yeah, I mean, that's a very striking thing for me.
And it's also something that's frustrated me sometimes when I look forward to you being
interviewed is that it often feels to me that so much time is spent on the initial question,
like, are we somewhat stagnating in science and technology that rather than assuming that
as a conclusion, which I think we can make a pretty convincing argument that there has
been a lot of stagnation, it seems to me that a lot of these conversations hang at an earlier level.
And so one of the things that I was hoping to do in this, which is I think your second
long form podcast, you did Dave Rubin show some time ago, is to sort of presuppose some of the
basics that people will be familiar with who've been following either one of us or both of us.
And to get to the part of the conversation that I think never gets explained and discussed
because people are always so hung up at the initial frame issue.
So with your indulgence, let's talk a little bit about what you and I see and any differences that
we might have about this period of time that we find ourselves in 2019. What would you say
is the dominant narrative before we get to what might be our shared kind of counter narrative?
Well, the dominant narrative is probably fraying and has been fraying for some time, but it is
something like we are in a world of generally fast scientific and technological progress.
Things are getting better all the time. There's some imbalances that maybe need to be
smoothed out. There's some corner case problems. Maybe there's some dystopian risks because the
technology is so fast and so scary that it might be destructive. But it's a generally accelerationist
story. And then there's some sort of micro adjustments within that one would have to make.
There are all sorts of ways that I think it's fraying. I think 2008 was a big watershed moment.
But that's still what's largely been holding together.
And then there are different institutions. You can look at the universities where there's a
tract thing. It's costing more every year, but it's still worth it. It's still an investment in the
future. And this was probably already questionable in the 1980s, 1990s. College debt in the United
States in 2000 was $300 billion. Now it's around 1.6, 1.7 trillion. And so there's a way in which
the story was shaky 20 years ago and today is much shakier. It's still sort of holding together
somehow. So in this story, in essence, the great dream is that your children will become educated,
they will receive a college education, they will find careers in this bright and dynamic society.
They can look forward to a future that is brighter than the future that previous generations look
forward to. Now again, I think people are hesitant to actually articulate it quite that way because
that already sounds not quite true to people. Well, to your point, they've been adding epicycles
for some time. So maybe it's a bright future, but it's really different from the parents. We can't
quite know. And they have all these new devices. They have an iPhone and they can text really fast
on the iPhone. We can't even understand what the younger generation is doing. So maybe it's
better has sort of an objective scale. Maybe it's just different and unmeasurable, but better
in sort of an unmeasurable way. So there's sort of our ways it's gotten modified, but that would
still be very powerfully intact narrative. And then that there are sort of straightforward
things we can be doing. The system's basically working and it's basically going to continue to
work. And there's sort of a global version of this. There's a US version. There's an upper middle
class US version. There are a lot of different variations on this. So it always strikes me
that one of the things that you do very well is that you're willing and you're famously a chess
player, you're willing to make certain sacrifices in order to advance a point. And in this case,
I think you and I would both agree that there are certain areas that have continued to follow the
growth story more than the general economy. And that you have to kind of give those stories
there due before you get to see this new picture. Where do you think the future has been relatively
more bright in recent years? Well, again, I sort of date the this era of stagnate relative stagnation
and slowed progress all the way back to the 1970s. So I think it's been close to half a century that
we've been in this era of seriously slowed progress. Obviously, a very big exception to this has been
the world of bits, computers, internet, mobile internet, software. And so Silicon Valley has
somehow been this dramatic exception. Whereas the world of atoms has been much slower for
something like 50 years. And when I was an undergraduate at Stanford in the late 1980s,
almost all engineering disciplines in retrospect were really bad fields to go into. People already
knew at the time you shouldn't go into nuclear engineering. Heroastra was a bad idea. But
chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, all these things were bad fields. Computer science
would have been a very good field to go into. And that's been sort of an area where there's been
tremendous growth. So that's sort of the signature one that I would cite. There are questions about
how healthy it is at this point, even within that field. So the iPhone is now looking the
same as it did seven, eight years ago. So that's the iconic invention, not quite so sure. And so
there's been sort of a definitely a change in the tone even within Silicon Valley in the last five,
six years on this. But that had been one that was very, very decoupled. The decoupling itself had
some odd effects where if you have sort of a narrow cone of progress around this world of bits,
then the people who are in those parts of the economy that have more to do with atoms will
feel like they're being left behind. So there was something about the tech narrative that had
this very didn't necessarily feel inclusive, didn't feel like everybody was getting ahead.
And one of the ways I've described it is that we live in a world where we've been working on
the Star Trek computer in Silicon Valley, but we don't have anything else from Star Trek. We don't
have the warp drive. We don't have the transporter. We can't re-engineer matter in sort of this
cornucopian world where there's no scarcity. And then how good is a society where you have
a well-functioning Star Trek computer, but nothing else from Star Trek?
Yeah, that's incredibly juicy. I mean, one of the ways that I attempted to encode something,
which in part I got from you, was to say, of course, your iPhone is amazing. It's all that's
left of your once limitless future because it's the collision of the communications and the
semiconductor revolutions that did seem to continue. And I date the sort of break in the
economy to something like 1972, 73, 74. It's really quite sharp in my mind. Is it that way in yours?
Yes, it was probably, I'd say 1968, people still, the narrative progress seemed intact.
By 1973, it was somehow over. So somewhere in that five-year period,
I mean, I've sort of had the 1969 version was we landed on the moon in July of 1969. And
Woodstock starts three weeks later, and maybe that's one way you could describe the cultural shift.
You can describe it in terms of the oil shocks of 1973 at the back end.
With the benefit of hindsight, there were things that were already fraying by the late 1960s. So
the environment was getting dramatically worse. You have the graduate movies, you should go into
plastics. I think that was 1968 or 69. And that would have, so there were sort of things where
the story was fraying, but I think it was still broadly intact in 1968, and somehow seemed very
off by 73. Now, something that actually I'm scanning my memory, and I don't know that we've had this
conversation, so I'm curious to hear your answer. One of the things that I found surprising is that
I think I can tell a reasonably decent story about how this is a result of a scientific problem
rather than the mismanagement of our future. Do you believe that if we assume that there was this
early 1970s structural change in the economy, that it was largely a sort of manmade problem,
which is what we seemingly implicitly always assume, or might it be a scientific one? And
let me give you the one iconic example that really kind of drives it home for me.
I think quarks were discovered in 1968, and to find out that the proton and neutron are comprised
of up and down quarks is an incredible change in our picture of the world, yet it has no seeming
implications for industry. And I started thinking about this question, are we somehow fenced out of
whatever technologies are to come that we've sort of exhausted one orchard of low-hanging fruit and
haven't gotten to the next? I think one way to parse this question of scientific technological
stagnation is sort of nature versus culture. Did the ideas in nature run out, or at least the
useful ideas? Maybe we might make some more discoveries, but they're not useful. Or the
easily useful. Easily useful. So there's sort of nature, so it's a problem with nature. And then
the cultural problem is that there was actually a lot to be discovered or a lot that could be
made useful, but somehow the culture had gotten deranged. And I sort of go back and forth on
those two explanations. I think it's very complicated. Obviously, we had, I think in physics,
you'd say, even though, I mean, probably even the fundamental discovery stopped after the mid-1970s,
but certainly, the translation didn't happen. Quarks don't matter for chemistry, and chemistry
is what matters on a human level. I would say there was a lot that happened in biochemistry,
sort of the, not chemistry down, but sort of chemistry up the interface between chemistry
and biology. And that's where I would be inclined to say there's a lot more that could happen
and has not quite happened, because maybe the problems are hard, maybe, but maybe also the
cultural institutions for researching them are restrictive. It's too heavily regulated in certain
ways, and it's been just somewhat slower than one would have expected in the 1970s.
Maybe it's really just a constant dialogue between nature and culture.
Yes, obviously, because obviously, if nature has stopped, then the culture is going to derange.
So there's a way in which culture is linked to nature, and then if the culture deranges,
it also will look like nature stopped. So I think these things are,
there's probably elements of both. But I am always optimistic in the sense that I think
we could have done better. I think we could do better. I think there are, it's not necessarily
the case that we can advance on all fronts in every direction, but I think there's more space
on the frontier than just in this world of bits. So I think there are various dimensions on atoms
where we could be advancing, and we just have chosen not to.
Why do you think it's so hard to convince people that, because both of us have had this
experience where we sit down, let's say to an interview, and somebody talks about the dizzying
pace of change, and both you and I see almost, I mean, it's almost objectively true. I have this
test which is going to a room and subtract off all of the screens. How do you know you're not in
1973, but for issues of design? There aren't that many clues.
Yes, there are. There are all sorts of things one can point to. I always point to the productivity
data and economics, which aren't great. Then you get into debates on how accurately are those
being measured. You have the sort of intergenerational thing where our generation, Gen X, has had a
tougher time than the boomers. The millennials seem to be having a much tougher time than
either us or the boomers had. So there seems to be this generational thing. So there are
some of these macroeconomic variables that seem pretty off. The direct scientific questions,
I think, are very hard to get a handle on. The reason for this is that in late modernity,
which we're living in, there's simply too much knowledge for any individual human to understand
all of it. In this world of extreme hyper-specialization where it's narrower and narrower
for subsets of experts policing themselves and talking about how great they are, the string
theorists talking about how great string theory is, the cancer researchers talking about
how they're just about to cure cancer, the quantum computer researchers are just about
to build a quantum computer that will be a massive breakthrough. Then if you were to
say that all these fields, not much is happening, people just don't have the authority for this.
This is somehow a very different feel for science or knowledge than you would have had
