so psychosocial control mechanism, then it won't work anymore. And so that, you know,
the metaphor that Gerard uses is that, you know, the sacred is like flogiston and
violence is like oxygen. And so, you know, but it only works in a world where it's misunderstood.
And so if you understand scapegoating, you end up in a world where it works less and less well,
and the kind of political and cultural institutions that are linked to it will tend to unravel.
You know, I think one of the sort of ways in which this has happened,
a great deal in, you know, in modernity is that we scapegoat the scapegoaters,
sort of go up one level of abstraction. And that sort of always makes it a little bit
more complicated. And so if we go after the people who were the historical oppressors,
the historical victimizers, that's often, you know, that's often a super powerful
way. And it's like slightly too complicated. There was a Bill Clinton formulation of this,
you know, we must unite against those who seek to divide us. And which is on some level self
contradictory. But then it's just a little bit too hard for people to fully disentangle. And that's
sort of one way that I think it still sort of works, even though, you know, it's again,
when everyone sees these moves, when everyone understands them, it just doesn't work that
well anymore. So it's like saying, well, like, would you like me to prescribe you a placebo?
Yes, that probably does not work very well. It doesn't work very well.
That probably does not work very well. And
But then the other part of it that I find terrifying, which is but also interesting,
is that implicit in this framework is that there is a minimal level of violence needed to
accomplish an end. And that the scapegoating mechanism, well, entirely unjust, has the virtue
of being minimal in this that the horror is visited upon the individual.
Yes. Yes. Or the theological terminology Gerard would use would be the scapegoating is satanic,
and that archaic cultures were a little bit satanic, but not very. And they were sort of
satanic in an innocent way, because the violence was actually, you know, a way to limit violence
that that, you know, we violence is both, you know, it's both the disease and a cure for the
disease, we need violence to drive out violence. And this is this is how this is how our societies,
how our societies work. And then it's not quite clear how how things will will continue to work.
So there's, yeah, so you could always say that there's a sense in which, and this is super
broad brushstroke type argument, there's a way in which you can say that
the left is more focused on unjust, on the unjustified nature of violence. And the right is
more focused on how a certain amount of violence is needed for society. And, and there and there
are ways in which they're both right. And then there are ways in which they're both deconstructing
each other. I suppose you can say the nation state, a nation state
contains violence in both senses of the word contain, because it contains it as it limits it,
it channels it in certain ways. But then it's also part of part of its very being. And,
and you get into, yeah, all these questions when, you know, when it's appropriate, when it's when
it's not. And that's why, you know, I don't like violence. I think, you know, it's a very serious
problem. But you also recognize it's instrumental nature. If you said we're going to get rid of
all violence tomorrow, it's going to stop. You'd be talking about nothing. Or I think so.
There's no way in which that can. Well, that might require a tremendous amount of violence to enact
or, or if we're going to have no more violence at all, you'll, you know, maybe you'll have just
total chaos and a lot of violence in that form. So it's a, it's a, it's an interesting problem to
add. Yeah. There's sort of all these interesting descriptors, but then how to, how to practically
translate into action. Very, very tricky. Yeah. I think that one of the things on the left that
people don't get, right? I don't know whether you'll agree with me or not, is that I think we on the
left are somewhat divided between two camps. One camp is quite open about wanting to end depression
and the other camp is cryptic about wanting to reverse it. In other words, you've oppressed for
long enough. It is your turn to be oppressed by us. And we are actually envious of oppression.
And there is something of a civil war. I mean, I would say this is the way in which the IDW's
left wing or left flank is misunderstood, which is that almost none of the, of the left wing
members of the IDW are interested in oppressing anybody. So there's no, there can be no payback
period that sounds like fun to us. And one of the things I hadn't understood until it was said to
me quite starkly, progress is messy and you got to break a few eggs to make an omelet. There is this
just tolerance bordering on excitement about the opportunity to stick it to those who have stuck
it to you from your perspective, that this is an aspect of justice. Whereas the cessation of
oppression is interesting to another part of that group. Yes, much less yellow. The disturbing thing
is that it's, of course, much less exciting and much less energizing. So I often think if you,
if you listen to political speech, the applause lines are always the ones we are going to go
after the other side. We're going to go after the bad people. We're going to stop them. And if you
try to construct a political speech in which it was, we're going to unite people. We're going to get
everybody onto the skull and there were no bad people. It would be, it's almost impossible to
have a speech that has any energy at all. And so it's... Let me take issue with that slightly.
My excite, I agree... As a political speech. I understood exactly what you said. So I don't
think I'm going to mischaracterize it. I think that the problem is the reason I pour energy into
trying to stop the political correctness and the rules about what can be said
mostly has to do with the fact that I'm incredibly excited, except I'm excited about something
non-political. Like, if what I'm excited about is pursuing technological progress, scientific
progress, more people being able to form families, etc., that's where the excitement is. It's not
coming from the politics. It's coming from what the politics facilitates. And so I think that the
problem with these speeches is, if you don't believe that there's something that we're keeping
this space clean for, we might as well riot or something, because at least that's exciting
and that's got some energy behind it. Then it's my team versus your team. But I think that what
both you and I have been focused... I mean, look, at some level, anybody is focused on technology
as you are is a progressive in the sense of caring about what is actually progress. And I think
the danger comes from when politics becomes your entertainment.
And you read very correctly, and I learned this from you, that when you look at a bunch of candidates
debating on a crowded stage, look at where the energy is. And the energy is something that
is not, in my opinion, a good indicator. It's not a good proximate for the ultimate that I care about.
Yes. Look, I'd like it to be just the way you describe it. I just want to...
It often is not. And so scientific technological progress, in a way,
the hope is it can lead towards a more cornucopian world in which there's less
malthusian struggle, less violence. And then at the very same time, an honest account of
the history of these things is that a lot of it was used to develop more advanced weapons.
It was in the pursuit of violence. And one account of the tech stagnation, the scientific
tech stagnation, is that the breakthrough thing was the atom bomb. And then you built the rockets
to deliver the bombs more quickly. And by 1970, we had enough bombs and rockets to destroy the
world 10 or 20 times over or whatever. And the whole thing made no more sense. And so if one of
the big drivers of scientific and technological progress was actually just the military dimension,
when that became absurd, did the whole thing slow down to the space age. And not in 1972,
when Apollo left the moon, but it was the key moment in 1975, when you had the Apollo Soyuz
docking. And if we're just going to be friends with the Russians, does it really make sense for
people to be working 80 hours, 100 hours a week around the clock? And again, I don't think it's
all that. But I think one of the challenges that we should not understate how big it is in resetting
science and technology in the 21st century is how do we tell a story that motivates sacrifice,
incredibly hard work, deferred gratification for the future that's not intrinsically violent?
Yeah. And it was combined with that in all these powerful ways.
So when I think about the way in which the nation, let's say, came around...
Because I think this is one of the reasons... A lot of people deny that there's a tech
science stagnation going on. But then one of the other things one hears is, well,
maybe it's not progressing as fast, but do we really want it to progress as fast? And
isn't it dangerous? And isn't it... We're just going to build the AI that's going to kill everybody,
or it'll be biological weapons, or it's going to be runaway nanotechnology, or
and I don't think we should dismiss those fears completely. They're not completely
unfounded. Well, the fear is that it's going to make these things cheap and easy, whereas right
now you still need a state to do a lot of this work. I mean, Elon Musk is one of the first
private individuals with a space program. Yeah, that's a version of it. But I think in general,
it's just that somehow you will lose control over the violence. You think you can control it,
maybe it's a large state, maybe it's autonomous AI weapons, which in theory are controlled by a
state, but in practice not quite. And so there's all these scenarios where the stuff can conspire
a lot of control. I'm more scared of the one where nothing happens. So I'm more scared of
the stagnation world, I feel, ultimately goes straight to apocalypse. I'm much more scared of
that, but we have to understand why people are scared of the non-stagnant world.
Well, it's a very straight... I mean, there are a couple of threads here that are super important.
One of which is that one thing that I sense that both of us get frustrated with is that
if you think about growth as necessary to contain certain violence, and you think about
growth as largely also being how much fossil fuels you're able to burn,
climate is not paired with a reduction in opulence. It's paired on the other side with
war. And if you over focus on climate and you result in a situation in which growth is slowed
to a halt, now growth doesn't need to be the amount of fossil fuel you burn, but it has largely
been that up until the present. You actually see that the trade-off that you're facing is very
different than the one that's usually portrayed by either side. And somehow we never get around to
that conversation, which would be if we were very serious about climate, would we be plunged into war?
Yeah, obviously, you can't have an economy without an environment, but it may also be
the case that you can't have an environment without an economy. And then if both of those
statements are true, maybe the set of best solutions looks really different than if you
just focus on one and not the other. This is why it's so important for me to have environments
in which people who don't agree on things but agree on what constitutes a conversation can sit down
with an idea that nobody's going to leave the table. So with their reputation in tatters to the
extent that they can't find a job on Monday to support themselves is that you have to actually
weigh both of these things simultaneously. And the great danger is people trying to solve either
problem in isolation. Well, if one goes with a general climate change narrative that it's
anthropogenic, the CO2 levels are rising in a way that's dangerous and has a serious risk of some
kind of big, big runaway process, I think always the political question in my mind is what do you
do about China and what do you do about India? Because these are the countries that are trying
to catch up to the developed world. They have an enormous way to go to catch up.
And it's ecological consequence. I think Western Europe has something like 8% of the carbon
emissions in the world. And then we have to have more than just the sort of
magical political thinking where it's something like, we're going to have a carbon tax in
California. And this will be so charismatic and so inspiring that people in China and India
will copy us and follow suit. And people aren't, they're not willing to actually say that literally
because it sounds so... It sounds crazy. But if you say that that's not the way things actually
work, then somehow you need to do some really different things. We need to find energy sources
that are not carbon dioxide intensive. Maybe we need to figure out ways to engineer carbon sinks.
There's all this sort of crazy geoengineering stuff that maybe we should be on the table.
Maybe we should be more open to nuclear power, sort of like a range of very different debates
it pushes you towards. Let me take a slightly different tech. The two statements that I found
later in life, unfortunately, but have both been meaningful to me.
One is Weber's definition that a government is a monopoly on violence. And the other one,
it's a guy I can never remember, who said, I think it was a French political philosopher who said,
a nation is a group of people who have agreed to forget something in common.
And if you put these things together, if you imagine that somehow we've now gone in for the
belief that transparency is almost always a good thing, and that what we need is greater
transparency to control the badness in our society, we probably won't be able to forget
anything in common. Therefore, we may not be able to have a nation. And therefore,
the nation may not be able to monopolize violence, which is a very disturbing but
interesting causal chain. Can we explore the idea of transparency, given that people seem to
now associate certain words with positivity, even though normally we would have thought about
privacy, transparency, trade-offs, let's say? Yes. Well, I always do think there's a privacy,
transparency, trade-off. One of the things that's always confusing about transparency to me is
there's transparency in theory, which is like this panopticon-like thing where the entire
planet gets illuminated brightly and equally everywhere all at once. And so that's in theory.
But then in practice, it often sounds more like a weapon that will be directed against certain
people, where it's a question of who gets to render who else transparent, and maybe it's
even a path-dependent sequencing question, where if you do it first, first strike transparency
is very powerful. And so you think about Mr. Snowden against the NSA, and then the NSA trying
to expose Mr. Snowden's Swedish sex cult, whatever you want to describe it as. And I think a lot of
it ends up having that kind of an... I mean, Assange's... Sorry, Assange. Yeah, Assange's
Swedish sex cult, Assange against the NSA, and Assange's Swedish sex cult, or something like
that. And so I think in practice, full transparency, it assumes people can pay attention to everything
at once or equally, and that seems politically incorrect. But then even if you had this much
greater transparency in all these ways, there are all these ways that would seem creepy, totalitarian.
If you state it in terms of the problem of violence, you can think of the trade-off between
transparency and privacy as transparency is... We're looking at everybody, and therefore,
they can't be that violent, but the state may be very violent in enforcing all this transparency.
Privacy is you get to have a gun, and you get to do various dangerous things in the dark,
and no one knows what they are. And so there's probably more violence on the individual level,
but then less control on the state. And it's again, this question of, are you more scared of
the violence of individuals or more scared of centralized violence? And probably one should
not be too categorical or too absolute about this, but it can show up in both places, and that's why
it's a wickedly hard problem, wickedly hard. It does seem to be, and I have to say, I've started
to hate the transparency discussion, because if you'll notice there's a vogue in 2019 for simply
saying, well, I believe that sunlight is the best disinfectant, as if that constituted an argument.
First of all, one thing that people don't understand is that there are infections like
brucella that are actually accelerated by sunlight. So it's comical. It's not even true. Bleach is
probably a better disinfectant. But the idea that that constitutes an argument in our time,
to me, speaks to the fact that we're living in a very strange moment where if you go back to
Ecclesiastes and the inspiration for turn, turn, turn, there was an idea that there was a purpose
to everything. And inclusion or exclusion were both needed, a time to kill, a time to die,
a time to refrain from killing. There does seem to be sort of an absolutist mania in which
it would be hard to imagine writing a song about a time to kill
in the modern era. And likewise, I'm not positive that people recognize how imperative it is for
a well-functioning government to have places where it doesn't have to constantly account for
itself. Yeah, everything, if you sort of have no backroom deals, maybe that's less corrupt,
but maybe nothing that's not functional, the US Supreme Court still doesn't televised its hearings.
And I suspect that's the right call, even though... And so there is something very...
And I think part of it is that if you know that everything is going to be
transparent, you will censor yourself and you won't say things. So it's not like
the same thing happens in a transparent way, maybe it just stops happening
altogether. If you're a politician or an aspiring politician and you're not going to engage in bold
