I mean, the idea of making people personally accountable for their own happiness
and their own success and path through the world is incredibly liberating.
And I view markets as providing most of the progress that we now enjoy.
So there is something that's very weird and punitive about the desire for redistribution.
I mean, there's almost a desire to tag the wealthy
that has nothing to do with taking care of the unfortunate.
And what I really am talking about here is how do we get a conversation between left and right,
which isn't cryptic, which isn't, you know.
Of course, I have a much more cynical view of this,
where I think the redistribution rhetoric, it's mainly not even targeted at the wealthy.
Oh, it's targeted at the lower middle class at the deplorables or whatever you want to call them.
And it's a way to tell them that they will never get ahead.
Nothing will happen in their life.
And that's actually why a lot of people who are lower middle class or middle class
are viscerally quite strongly opposed to welfare because it's always an insult to them.
It's always heard as an insult. And I'm not sure they're wrong to feel that.
Well, and I feel that a lot of the talk about redistribution is actually
families of high eight through 11 figures trying to figure out how to target
families of six figure through low eight figure wealth as the targets of the redistribution,
that the very wealthy will be able to shelter assets and protect themselves or maybe even
switch nations. Whereas people who are dentists and orthodontists and accountants
are going to be the ones viewed as the rich who are going to be
incapable of getting themselves out of the way.
So I think that partially what good faith conversation between left and right opens up
is that we have a shared interest in uncovering all of the schemes of the people who enjoy
pushing around pieces of paper and giving speeches in order to engineer society for their own reasons.
One way I would restate what you just said would be that
redistribution from the powerful to the powerless, from the rich to the poor,
is like from the powerful to the powerless. And so you're using power to go after those with power.
And that's almost oxymoronic. It's almost self-contradictory. And so
there may be some way to do that. I think most of the time you end up with
some fake redistribution, some sort of complicated shell game of one sort or another.
And the very, and I know the causation of this stuff is much, much trickier, but if we look at
societies that are somehow further to the left on some scale, the inequality,
you have to go really far to the left before, and maybe just destroy the whole society,
before you really start solving the inequality problem. California, when I first moved here
as a kid in 1977, would have been sort of a centrist state in the US politically and was
broadly middle class. Today, California is the second most democratic state. It's a D plus 30
state. It's super unequal. And at least on a correlated basis, not causation, but at least
on a correlated basis, the further to the left it's gone, the more unequal it's become.
And there is something pretty weird about that. There is. You know, something that
sort of fits in here is that in part I've learned from you, and you can tell me whether you recognize
it in this formulation or not, is start with any appealing social idea. That's step one.
Step two, ask what is the absolute minimal level of violence and coercion that would be
necessary to accomplish that idea. Now add that to the original idea. Do you still find your original
idea attractive? And that this flips many of these propositions into territory where I suddenly
realized that something that people see as being very attractive actually can only be accomplished
with so much misery, even if it's done maximally efficiently, that it's no longer a good idea.
And I think that this influence, I mean, this has been very influential in my thinking.
Yeah, look, the visceral problem with communism is not, it's redistributive
tendencies. It's the extreme violence that you have to kill tons of people. You know,
there's always, there's always a, one of the professors I study under at Stanford,
at René Girard was a sort of great philosophical, sociological, anthropological thinker. And
you know, he had this observation that he thought communism among Western intellectuals became
unfashionable. You could date it to the year 1953, the year Stalin died. And the reason was they were,
they were not communist in spite of the millions of people being killed. They were communist because
of the millions of people that were being killed. As long as you were willing to kill millions of
people, that was a tell, a sign that you were, you were building the utopia, you were building
a great new society. And when you stopped, you know, it was just going to be like the lethargy of
the Brezhnevier or something like that. And that, that was not inspiring. I mean, people shifted
from Stalin to Mao or Castro or, but, but the, the violence was charismatic. I think very charismatic.
And then, but then also, you know, it's, if you think about it, it's very undesirable.
I think that there, it's so fascinating that we actually finally get to something like this.
I think that that is a correct description of part of the communist movement,
but not all of the communist movement. There were a lot of people, I think, in the, just my own
family was certainly involved in far left politics. And some of it probably dipped into communism.
What my sense of it was, is that there was a period in the thirties where people realized
that there had to be coordinated social action and that there were people who were too vulnerable.
And that that somehow got wrapped up in all of the things that Stalin was talking about,
that sounded positive if you didn't know the reality. So for example, Paul Robes and,
you know, a hero of the, of the, of the left, you know, was extolling Stalin's virtues openly.
My guess is, is that he didn't fully understand what had happened, that he had gotten involved
in an earlier era and that as things became known and progressed,
there was a point at which many people suddenly opened their eyes and said,
I've been making excuses for the Soviet Union because at least it had the hope.
I mean, you know, there were American blacks, for example, who moved to Moscow
because of the hope that it was going to be a racially more equal society.
My own family, you know, I would say was talking about, you know, interracial marriage and homosexual
open the support of homosexuality, female access to birth control. Those things were
associated with the Communist Party and a lot of those ideas are now commonplace,
but we forget that, you know, once upon a time only the Communists were willing to dance with
these things. Yes, although I, what I, I don't want to make this too ad hominem, but I want to say
that people like your family were likely very intelligent people, but we're somehow still
always the useful idiots. And, and there was no, no country where the Communists actually came to
power where people like those in your family actually got to make the decisions. No, I think
and somehow somehow like maybe, yeah, maybe there were indirect ways that it was helpful
or beneficial in countries that did not become Communist, but in countries that actually became
Communist, you know, it, it didn't actually ever seem to work out for those people.
I definitely think that there was some sense that they were fooled and duped in this situation,
but by the same token, not wanting to make this too ad hominem, you know, as a gay man,
I think that a lot of your rights would have been seen much earlier by the Communists who were
earlier to that party. I think that to an extent some of the things that we just take for granted
as part of living in a tolerant society were really not found outside. And so if you were
trying to dine a la carte, maybe you could take something from the commie buffet, you could
take something from the anti-communist buffet, and you could steal a little from, you know,
regular party politics. Of course, the Dixie Crats were not exactly the most racially progressive
group in the world. Things were very different, and there was no clear place to turn.
Yeah, it's always, it's always easy for us to judge people in the past too harshly. So I think,
I think that's a, that's a, that's a good generalization. I would, I would say that the,
you know, that there's something about the, the revolution, the extreme revolutionary movements
that always seem to be, from my point of view, the violence was always too much.
Well, and I, and, and, you know, it's a, it's a, it's a package, it's a package deal, but
I don't like the violence part of the package. And that's, that's, that's the, that's the part that
at the end of the day makes me think the package would not have been worth it.
So what I would like to do is to take a quick break, and I would like to come back on exactly
this point, because it's the point where I feel that perhaps you are least understood by the outside
world with, in terms of what we've been talking about, both growth and progress on the one hand
and violence on the other. So when we come back, we'll pick it up with Peter Thiel. Thank you.
Thanks. Welcome back to the portal. I'm here with my friend and employer, Peter Thiel,
for this, our inaugural interview episode. And we just got into a point, which I think
I hope people who've been tracking your career, your books, your thought process
are going to find interesting, because I think it's the thing that, if I had to guess, would be the
thing that people least understand about you, or maybe they have wrong the most. Ever since I've
known you, your focus has weirdly been reduction of violence across a great number of different
topics at a level that I don't think has leaked out into the public's understanding
of you and what causes you to make the choices you make. How do you see growth
as attached to reduction of violence? Well, I think that it's very hard to see how anything like
the kinds of societies we have in Western Europe, the United States,
could function without growth. I think the way a parliamentary Republican democracy
works is you have a group of people sitting around the table, they craft complicated legislation,
and there's a lot of horse trading. And as long as the pie is growing, you can give something to
everybody. When the pie stops growing, it becomes a zero-sum dynamic, and the legislative process
does not work. And so the sort of democratic types of parliamentary systems we've had for the last
200, 250 years have mapped on to this period of rapid growth. We had a very bad experiment in
the 1930s where the growth stopped, at least in the economic sense, and the systems became
fascist or communist. It doesn't actually work. And so I suspect that if we're in for a period
of long growth, I don't think our kind of government can work. I think there is a
prospect of all sorts of forms of violence, more violence by the state against its citizens.
There may be more zero-sum wars globally, or there may be other ways things are super deformed to
pacify people. So maybe everyone just smokes marijuana all day, but that's also kind of deformed.
But I think a world without growth is either going to be a much more violent or a much more
deformed world. And again, it's not the case that growth simply solves all problems. So you can have
very rapid growth, and you can still have a problem of violence. You can still have
bad things that can happen, but that's our only chance. Without growth, I think it's very hard
to see how you have a good future. Now, in some sense, whenever I hear you interpreted in the
prior, I mean, look, you have to know that there's a version of you that exists in the minds of
pundits and the commentariat that just loves to paint you as if you were a cartoon villain.
And I always think that for those people who are actually confused about you, as opposed to those
who wish to be confused about you, it's as if you're looking through a window and they're
looking at the reflection in the window, not understanding what it is that you're focused on.
Why do you think it is that almost nobody sees your preoccupation with violence reduction?
Well, it's hard for me to come with a good answer to these sociological questions. I think
people generally don't think of the problem of violence as quite as central as I think it is.
I think it's a very deep problem on a human level. If you think of this memetic element
to human nature where we copy one another, we want the things other people want.
And there's a lot of room for conflict. And if it's not channeled very carefully,
a violent conflict in human relationships and in human societies between human societies.
And this is sort of, I think, a very deep problem. And it's sort of a Christian anthropology,
but you'd also have the same in Machiavelli. There are a lot of different traditions where
human beings are, if not evil, they're at least dangerous. And I think the sort of
softer anthropological biases that a lot of people have in sort of late modernity
or in the Enlightenment world are that humans are, by nature, good. They're, by nature, peaceful.
And that's not the norm. So that might be sort of a general bias people have is that
people can't be this violent. It's not this deep a problem. It's a problem other people have.
There's some bad people who are violent, but it's not a general problem.
One of the things that I think has been fascinating to me in, I mean,
effectively, I didn't know you when I was young. And this feels like a lifelong friendship that
got started way late in my life. And one of the things that kind of was surprising to me
is that my coming from a Jewish background, your coming from a German background,
I think both of us were sensitized by the horrors of World War II, which, I mean, obviously,
the problem for the Jews is very clear. But the fact that Germany never really recovered its proud
intellectual traditions that had gotten bound up in a level of mechanized and planned violence
is a decimation of a great intellectual tradition. And one of the things we've talked about in the
past is whether the twilight of living memory of the Holocaust should be used for some more
profound German Jewish reconciliation, that these are two communities that have held somewhat
similar thought processes from the perspective of mimetic competition. Maybe there was a problem
that they were doing to run into each other, but that in some sense, there are two wounds
that need to be healed now that all of the original participants are either quite elderly
or are gone. Do you think that that is informing our conversation?
Well, I think there's certainly an element of that between the two of us. I think that
there's probably a degree to which the history was so traumatic that people still
understate this aspect. There was something about late 19th century, early 20th century
Germany, where the Judaism was better integrated into the society than in many other places.
And there was something very synergistic, very generative about that. And then getting at all
these ways that it was lost are very, very hard to do. The social democratic response to the
Hitler era and the Holocaust was sort of radically egalitarian. Everybody's equal,
you shouldn't kill people, everybody's equally valuable. And yet in some ways,
what was Hitler killed the best people. And so there's a way in which the social democratic
response to what happened doesn't even come up to the terrible thing that happened. So in
egalitarian society, well, we don't have as quite as many people overall, equal, nothing's
really changed. But maybe you have no Jewish people left in Germany and there's a lot less
dynamism in the society as a result. And that's something that people still can't say in Germany.
If I say it, people won't contradict it or anything. But it's sort of profoundly,
profoundly uncomfortable. So I think there is a sense that there's all these strange ways that
Germany is still under the shadow of Hitler, even the ways that people are trying to exercise
Hitler. In some ways, have deformed the society where you can't go back to the things that worked
incredibly well in pre-World War I Germany. There was probably a lot that was unhealthy and wrong
with it too. But yeah, there's a sense that something very big has been lost. And there's
probably a Jewish version of this that one could articulate as well. But yeah, I think there's
something about the synergy that's very powerful and that's quite missing.
So from my side of the fence, I was just listening on NPR to a description of Fiddler on the Roof
being put on by Joel Gray in Yiddish. And the sound of Jewish middle-high German,
there's something about it that is shocking in today's era. So there's been a Jewish loss.
I felt this a couple of times. I avoided, to be honest, going to Germany because I didn't want
to run into old people and wonder where they had been. But eventually, Soros Invitation found
myself at a conference in Berlin. And when I checked into the hotel, I heard my last name
pronounced in impeccable German. And it was both a horrible feeling and a wonderful feeling,
like somehow weirdly something was home. Or I went to a restaurant near Checkpoint,
Charlie with my wife, and I was missing a fork. And the person spoke no English.
And I remembered from some old story of my father, and I asked for a guppel, which I guess is the
