basically, if it would have been inside that two years, the insurance company would have simply
added paid all the premium back, but they would not have paid the claim. So, it's remarkable to
declare that after two years, insurance companies do pay on suicide. A lot of folks do not realize
that. But with reference to the question about the autopsy, obviously, an autopsy is what I want
to think that you want to avoid. As part of your crannics paperwork, there's an option to basically
say I'm a religious objector to autopsy so that it reduces. I checked that box too and I felt
vaguely dirty by doing it. Because you ain't that religious, you heathen.
Well, that's the thing, is it would be nice to say I'm a conscientious objector or I'm an informed
person who's opting out, but there isn't a legal form like that. There's a legal form that says,
for religious reasons, I don't want an autopsy. I like to think of my rationalism. Not everyone,
obviously, but me personally, as it almost a sort of religious aspect, the way it guides my life.
I didn't feel as bad. I was like, there are people who call themselves religious that check
this box that have far, far less knowledge about the philosophy that is supposedly guiding their
life. They're just like, oh, yeah, I'm Christian or oh, yeah, I'm Jewish and I don't do anything
with that in their lives. Whereas I actually know what my philosophy entails and it guides my life
in certain ways. I was like, I'm more religious than those punks. So sure, why not? Absolutely.
How about you, Jess? What's your religious feelings or feelings about religion?
There's a rabbit trail we go down for a long time. Save me, Jess, rationality isn't a religion.
Well, I was going to say maybe transhumanism. Yeah, that's,
there's a whole lot of smart things we could say about religion. It's not a surprise to any of
I'm sure of, or your listeners, I'm sure, Steven, that, you know, most of most people signed up for
Quranics are not just claims, skeptical, the claims of religion. Most of us think it's one of the
worst ideas that's ever come down the pike. The idea of believing things without good reason is
faith should be the new afterward. We should, you know, use it as a, it's an embarrassment that
intelligent educated humans still are placing a high, high premium on something that is so
obviously bad as believing something without good reason.
I got a question about if anything's changed in the past eight years. And I guess also sort of a
advisory notice to anyone else listening to this. People who might have been your next of kin,
someone who may have been able to inherit your stuff, whether it be children or parents or
brothers or a spouse, can sometimes dispute claims, life insurance claims or whatever.
And I know there's been at least a few Quranic preservations which have been completely screwed
up because somebody's greedy ass kid or spouse said the institute should absolutely not get this
money. This money should come to me and it goes to court and the body is just put in a drawer
somewhere and you're screwed. So the, yeah, the paperwork in CI said very specifically,
hey, this isn't a requirement, but everybody should talk to their next of kin, their family,
tell them, this is what I want. It should not be a surprise to anyone. And if you can at all,
get them to sign on, not to sign on, but to at least say, you know what, I love you and I respect
your wishes and I will not stand in the way of this because you want, you want people to know
that like this is important to you. This is not desecrating your corpse. This is what you want
done. And they have to kind of be on board with that if you don't want legal challenges. I was
wondering, do you know, has anything changed in that regard? Is there more legal protections for
us? And I should bless your heart for bringing that up. That is a really, really important
point. And I want to, you know, emphasize that whole section there. If I can just kind of summarize
some of the things you've made, made reference to there. One is the relatives affidavit, both Alcor
and CI have a document that they don't actually require that you have your relative sign. They
think it's simply a good idea and they do everything they can do to encourage you. Basically,
the relatives sign off saying, yes, I understand that my brother is going to be crowd preserved.
So there's not a big secret. They don't find it. But the other component is how in the world
you structure things so that they can't do it. Basically, the way we structure things,
you cannot, your relatives cannot fuck it up. Excuse my language. The, the basically here's why.
Life insurance has some really unique components. One of those is by operation of law, the money
goes directly to the named beneficiary does not pass go, does not collect $200, does not go to any
potential litigants. And it goes, it avoids probate basically, which is a part where litigants can
jump on it. So the, now that we should not mean it's not possible to sell, screw that mess things
up. The, but what we do is structure the life insurance policy to where it goes direct, the
beneficiary goes direct to the, to the cryonics organization. And we also may structure it in
a way that the family understands if they can test, they are not likely to get anything. We
put verbiage in the, the trust and verbiage in the process that says basically, if you, if you
can test this, if you do not cooperate, if you do not make the appropriate call, you are not going
to be getting my estate or assets. So there's two components to that. One is the fact that life
insurance proceeds go direct to the name beneficiary and do not, are not subject to creditors.
And two is the fact that if you're, if both the Alcor and CI paperwork have some verbiage
that basically states if my, if my family does not cooperate, they are hereby basically cut off.
That's not completely enforceable in all states. It's, there's, that's verbiage that I've been
talking with the attorney I'm working with. I'm working with an attorney who basically,
her and I are writing the book on cryonics estate planning. It's the second book and it's called
the cryonics estate planning handbook. Maybe you can take it with you and it's on this exact
issue. Basically, how do you, how do you make sure that your family, one doesn't slop it up and two,
if cryonics does work, how can you wake up stone wealthy? So that's another issue. It's a whole
new, new, new, uh, rabbit trail to go down with the power. You know, maybe some people may be
thinking, Hey, this thing really works. Would it be possible to not just maybe wake up poor,
it'd be nice to wake up with a whole lot of options. So yeah, there's a whole lot of questions
about that. But we, some of us have been working about 20 years to try to put together cryonics
trust, uh, arrangements that sidestep laws against perpetuities, that sidestep family,
um, people who might try to slop it up or take your money that have a corporate trustee whose
job it is to protect you and grow your wealth over time so that if cryonics works, you can wake up
with a lot of money. Uh, that's interesting idea. That's why I have one reason I have three million
bucks of life insurance on me. These cryonics trust, again, you could have without being wealthy,
just like you can be signed up for cryonics without being wealthy. You use a life insurance
policy to fund the trust. Is that cool or what? I mean, it assumes that money will still be a
thing in the future, but it might be. Yes, that's a reasonable question. And I promise you that is
something that we talk about at length in our, in the book. And, uh, we, I, I think some form of
money is, you know, and I could be wrong, but some of us, uh, I would rather think, you know, some form
of resource allocation is inevitable in any society. I think I'd rather, uh, assume that money is
still going to be a thing. Yes. I think it's a reasonable and safe assumption. Because if it's not,
then you're probably fine anyway. Yeah. Yeah. But so yeah, I know I, I know. When in doubt,
bet on things staying the same. Yes. Or, or at least that they're the human nature
staying the same. And, uh, human nature basically is avaricious. Human nature also, you know, we
clearly are all widely in the lives that are so much wealthier than, than most people have lived
throughout the eons. Yet most of us don't feel like we quote have enough. We still envy the person
who's got 14, uh, computer screens instead of 12. So, you know, it's not rational. I'm not saying
we're not saying humans are rational. I'm saying both humans are humans. And the point being,
it'd be nice to have some options. Wouldn't it be nice if you can find a way to buy the new set
of lungs to let you breathe water? Oh, yeah. Or maybe you want to have a nice, uh, nice little
DNA thing that could let you grow wings so you can fly around. You know, I suspect that might take
some money. I could be wrong, but it should be nice to have a couple billion dollars or throughout
the problem. And, uh, with my three million bucks of life insurance and a cryonics trust,
it grows to about a billion dollars in just 66 years at a reasonable growth rate.
So we have been going a bit over an hour. We should probably wrap it up here soon.
That works. Does Steven, Jess, either of you have any questions or comments for Ruby?
I've got one if you're, uh, I can't see if you're thinking of thought, Jess. What do you,
do you have one or do you have any? I have one. You can go first.
No, you go ahead. Probably more ridiculous. We want the, we say the most ridiculous for
last, even, but go ahead, Jess. Your question will be perfect, Jess. I have one that's,
I think, a legit question, but also a very silly one, which is what is the benefits to
freezing your whole body versus just your head? Oh, that's not a silly question at all. There's
a question. That's a question that cryonists argue about at, at Infinitum. Um, the, I'm signed up for
full body. I'm, I'm happy to disclose my bias there. I think there's a, I think it's a, it's a
well dis, well informed bias. And here's, here's why. Uh, at one time there was a al, alcor,
as a matter of fact, still some legacy data on their website saying that, you know, we can get
better cryopreservation with neuro only. Uh, and at one time that was the logistics that had to do
with, uh, perfusion and malarity concentrations of cryoprotective agents. They couldn't access the
carotids and properly get you perfused, your brain cryo perfused, uh, if you're doing a full body.
But, uh, now they can. That's the, the, the new cryoprotective agent is not as viscous at cold
temperatures and they mechanics can of the, of the perfusing process, meaning we can get full
malarity of CPA in the head, even a full body cryopreservation. But the other component there
is there's a pretty good, you know, that I don't, none of us have a chance to interview somebody
who's a, used to walking ahead. So we can't tell it. We can't say, you know, hey, do you feel like
you're still you? There's a pretty good chance that our sense of self may be in our, um, as well
in our spine or torso. Um, even those of us who are, who believe in, who are hardcore materialists
and think we're mostly in our brain pattern, my clients who are neurologists and brain guy,
brain scientists, they're all signed up for full body because they know they tell me that my brain
parts go down to my toes. So all that's my rationale for a full body is a better option.
If they don't need that body, they can throw it away, but I'd rather send more information forward.
Is that responsive? Uh, I guess I was even thinking about things like gut bacteria,
which are also part of it. Yeah, great point. Or my microbiome, certainly clearly,
hey, I want those trillions of gut biomes to come forward with me. Do they also get cryopreserved?
I think they probably would. They tell me there's a whole lot more of those than their human,
human cells. Yeah, it's a great point. But yeah, they, so it's not, by the way,
C.I. does not give you an option. C.I. is full body, uh, period. There's also a, a yuck factor that,
um, is pretty, uh, just like the aesthetics of others people. They don't want to be
cutting people's head off is exactly, uh, you know, most put, to put, to put Graham's head
in the jar is, is a, is a bridge too far for a whole lot of people. Whereas freezing a whole
body, I think has a lot less societal, uh, pushback. And that's another reason why I think it's a
smarter direction forward for cryonics as a whole. But I still am happy to write people who choose
to be neuro only. Um, but I, I thought my bias is for the full body. And I think there's good
reasons for that. I think it's good PR for the company too. Um, certainly, yeah, like you said,
uh, you picture a be heading and then the, then the process, I think people get kind of shy about
that. It's, it's, it's sorry. It's yucky. I mean, I'm a signed up Cranus for 27 years and it's still
a little bit yucky to me. If it's yucky to me, I know it's yucky to a lot of other people. Right.
Yeah. My, I feel a sense of, of, uh, kinship with my, with my meat suit as well, such as it is. So
I'll, I'll keep that and then, uh, upgrade or, or, you know, modify as needed after the fact. Um,
that's, that's my, my expectation anyway. I guess I wanted to end on, uh, well, and of course,
whatever last sales pitch you'd like to do, I, you know, Rudy Hoffman.com, everyone be sure to
remember that. But, uh, what is, uh, what's your best, maybe your best and your, what's your
other and lower bound estimate for the likelihood of cryonics working? I think that's a catching
point for a lot of people. They hear, well, like, well, sure, but then like these 10 things would
have to go right. And that sounds like way too improbable. And I'm like, well, if you're, even
if you're fairly pessimistic on all of them, that's still like eight, eight to 10%. But that, that's
my own guess. So I guess my, my own best informed Bayesian estimate, but what would you say yours is?
Yeah. That speculation is certainly a really great question. As a matter of fact, I'm actually
working on, you've heard of the Drake equation. I'm sure, I'm sure you're well informed listeners
are familiar with the Drake equation, which took a whole lot of variables to, and multiply them out
and then figured out, you know, to get a result. Um, yeah, there's a lot of things that have to work
well for cryonics to work, but it's a lot of things that have to work well for the people hearing
these words to work. Can you think about the amount of things in the chain, the amount of components
that enable the conversation that we're having right now? It's incredible, but human beings are
clever and we can put things together. The odds of your, my cryopreservation working, I'll speak
personally, I think they're reasonably high. I'm going to give it over like 40 or 50%. And that's
because I work really hard to make sure I do get a good cryopreservation. I don't, I don't take
existential risks. My wife is not only signed up, but fully supportive. Everyone I know knows that
knows I'm a cryonist. I wear my bracelet all the time. I have a pretty good eye sense that
if I were to get sick, I would know, I would know exactly where to go. And that at least
composes, covers the logistics component. There's other variables that have to work together. Yes,
we know that. I think it's certainly better than 10%. If it's a 1% chance, it's still an incredible
option. And what the, if it works right now, if it makes you feel better that I've done everything
I can rationally do, I suspect those who are listening to these words are really smart, highly
educated, super rational beings. We're trying to make the best decision they can about this thing
called death. It's the big one. This, it doesn't get any bigger than this. This is life or death
decision. You're making this instant as you listen to these words. And I suspect even if there is a
reasonable chance of a 1% or 5% or 0.01% or 0.0001% of cryonics working and you could afford it,
you should give it a shot and check this thing out. So in addition, you could do, put cryonics in a,
if you forget Rudy Hoffman.com, hit cryonics or cryonics funding. Basically, you'll pop,
you'll pop up cryonics organizations and you'll pop up my name. I score pretty high on this stuff.
So hopefully that is a good wrap-up sentence and a wrap-up idea. Basically, the odds are unknown,
but if you don't sign up, the odds are 100%, it won't work. Is that pretty, is that a strong
close? I think so. I'm sorry, I'm a closer. Hey, you guys have been wonderful. You guys have been,
I really enjoyed this and I hope people of listening have found some value in this. And again,
you can pop onto Amazon for affordableimmortal.com. Do the download. I'll pay your three bucks if you
don't like it. All right. Let's put this thing in the can and you tell us how to handle it from here,
Steven. Sounds good. Well, we'll wrap this part up and once again, thanks again, Rudy. This was
great and I've been shilling for you and for cryonics for years. This isn't me just being
nice because you're on the air. I've been this way every time the subject comes up for the
last several years. Well, thank you. It is my own best faith assessment. I know Enyaush managed to
get this together without a life insurance agent who was on board. He basically just had to push
everything himself. When I contacted you, you said here, yeah, let's set you up with a policy and
that was it. I got some paperwork through the mail and had to sign it. I did never had to think
about it again. This is a fairly easy process if you get the right people and the only right person
I know is Rudy Hoffman. So thank you very much. We do absolutely do our best to make it as seamless
as possible. Thank you very much. All right. Well, awesome. Thank you for joining us. This has been
really informative. Yeah, excellent. Thank you. And Jess, thank you. And Steven, thank you. Have a
wonderful evening and good luck and stay safe and sequestered out there, everybody. You too. We sure
will. Bye. Okay. I'm not sure if I should say welcome to the Bayesian conspiracy again. We have
reconvened a few days later and welcome back to the Bayesian conspiracy. All the people who paused
and waited a couple of days to be in sync with us. We appreciate it. Your dedication to the show is
noted. Heck yeah. And now we are going to be doing the sequences. Yes. I believe so. That's what I'm
told. Of course, I could have missed it. Maybe there was some illusion of transparency going on.
Well, I mean, we were the ones who told us so we can change things if we don't want to be telling
us like this anymore. But I think this is a good thing to do. So let's do it. Also, I was trying to
make it a segue, but it didn't really land. I got it. And thank you. Yeah. I get one chuckle.
