What the book is trying to address are things like the police system, the court system,
and one about consent and rape culture. These are, I think, good things to point out,
whether or not they're making people good or whatever.
I'm wondering whether you occur. I'm curious what they had as evidence on their side because
it sounds like they're saying, from what I've seen in my experiences, this seems false.
And I think that that sounds a lot like having,
I am really struggling to find words.
That sounds like exactly the symptom that this book is addressing,
right? Of course I'm feeling a conflict in it, but that's sort of the point.
I couldn't remember the word anecdote. It's when you will describe, say your friend believes in
astrology and you say, well, scientifically, that makes no sense. The stars are the existent 3D
space. There's no two-dimensional shape that you can draw over them from the Earth's perspective
that makes any sense. Identical twins seem to falsify the concept of astrology given that we
don't all have identical days to identical twins, that sort of stuff. Being a twin is actually
a good case point for a lot of bad arguments. I have a lot of cases where astrology is predicted
correctly. I read the astrology section in the newspaper every day and it predicted a bunch
of things really accurately. I remember even being a little kid, I was reading about the
description of Scorpio and I was just like nailed it, like damn.
There wasn't that famous thing. I'm sorry, go ahead.
No, I was probably going to bring up the same thing as you, the experiment where they will just
use the exact same description of someone that's so vague that it could apply to anybody.
They passed it out to people and they were like, yeah, we've had a professional astrologer come
and analyze each of your birth years and this is a description of you and everybody has to rate
how well they think it describes them and everybody rates it as being very accurate.
The guy who did that study, James Randy did that way back in the day. I want to say in the
70s or 80s, he wore his stage makeup, he looked crazy. I think it was like his whole persona
and he was like, oh yes, I have come and I've got a friend of mine that's really tight astrologer
and he's really good at this and why don't you all rate how this is and I'll come back next
week and pick up your guys assessments or whatever. Maybe you left the room, I can't remember,
but then he wrote what it was on the board and then, all right, if you guys got this one,
raise your hand and then he gets to look and everyone raises their hand and then they'll notice
as everyone else raises their hand and then kind of sheepishly go back down and they're like,
I didn't realize that everyone got the same one. How could it describe this also perfectly?
Yeah, I guess and then the thing about inferring things about strangers is I guess it's like what,
how much can you infer from somebody based off of a fact like that? I guess probably that they're
not a physicist or certainly not an astrophysicist or not even certainly, but almost certainly.
But beyond that, you can't read a lot of their personality. You can't like, oh, well, they're
probably like a shallow person who believes lots of pseudoscience. Maybe that's the one dumb thing
they believe. Maybe when they said they believe in astrology, they use believe in a different
use than you use it in and you failed to, there was an illusion of transparency on their part
because to them, belief is synonymous with, it makes me feel good or I enjoy doing this every day,
right? So I think we've gotten way off from the original question though, like how well do you
think people can read either other people in real life? Because I usually think I can tell if people
are like, positively or negatively reacting to me, but maybe I should not think that at all.
I know for a fact that I can't because I have an anxiety disorder and I've had to do a lot of
cognitive behavioral therapy to get to the point where, for example, every time I go on this podcast,
I'm not being like, Stephen and Edie Ash hate me and think I'm dumb and don't want me to be on
the podcast anyway. And like it's only think that half the time. No, I seriously would think that
about like I negatively skewed everything. You know, you when you have an anxiety disorder or
various kinds of mental illnesses that do this sort of thing, you read into sideways glances.
And then I've had lots of the kinds of interactions with people because I'm interested in this kind
of stuff. And my friends are all psychology nerds where we do have some kind of misunderstanding.
And then we sit there and analyze the misunderstanding forever. And it's very much
I liked the chapter where they were talking about friends, the show friends, I'm trying to remember
what the cognitive bias was. People being mismatched, where people have an idea of what an angry
person looks like, or a jealous person or you know, a grieving person. And almost nobody actually
does the stereotypical things that we think of as representing those. They're very much like
also cultural, also like familial, like my family has a very different way of communicating and
reacting to things than other people who grew up with other family structures. That's been like
an interesting thing to dig into when I'm interacting with other people where for example,
I've had people think that I'm angry, because especially when I get stressed, I default to a
blank facial expression and kind of a monotone voice. And that's me dissociating or me kind of
being in distress and dropping a lot of the stuff that I'm doing on manual a lot of the time,
like injecting expression and tone of voice and facial expression. But neutral reads is angry
to a lot of people. And they showed there's been studies where depressed people were given
a bunch of photos of people with neutral expressions and they read them as hostile or as
sad or they were much more likely to rate the people's expressions as looking something negative.
People who have been abused apparently are much better at seeing anger and those sorts of
aggressive facial features to the point of seeing them when they aren't there sometimes.
Like an echolalia, or I think that's the word. Yeah, I mean,
again, I don't think that the point of the book was to say that.
Which is a survival skill when you've been abused.
Huh?
Oh, sorry, I was saying which is a survival skill when you've been abused.
Oh, yeah.
No, definitely. It's yeah, it's interesting too, because you can get on
really, you can get people who are really going to confuse each other if you have somebody who
is raised in very loving stable family environment and somebody who had the opposite of that trying
to interact about basic things.
Darn delusion of transparency again.
All right, well, I have to go. So we should thank our patron and wrap it up. Yes.
Sounds good to me.
True. Is it my turn to thank the patron? I kind of think it is.
I think so, it's been a while.
Okay.
We don't keep track of who's turn it is.
So it's not that any of us love you less, it's just that we don't keep track.
Yeah. So this week we want to thank Christopher James for supporting the podcast.
He has helped bring all of this to all of you.
For, you know, we do not necessarily have to rely on wondering whether or not Christopher James
likes our podcast because money helps break through that illusion of transparency.
He can directly signal that it's valuable to you.
And this helps us bridge the inferential gap to everyone else as we keep putting out these
podcasts. Is this bad?
It's good. And I think what we can also say is that you know what, because we have people who
financially support the podcast, while we do have a great setup for
recording in a single studio with all of us, we don't have a great setup or rather you guys don't
for mine is perfect because I got this sexy blue Yeti microphone.
But maybe we can use some of our very generous patron dues to get you guys some mics and
improve the quality of the show going forward for the next few months.
That's a good idea.
Yeah.
I don't have a mic that even lent me. I just need to get it like working with my laptop.
And to the people who aren't aware, we don't have a Discord.
And I guess as far as I want to mention on the Patreon note that, you know, I don't know what
the number is today, but it's higher than it was on Friday of people who don't have jobs anymore.
So if you're tight for cash, start cutting Patreon right away.
Our feelings don't be heard. If we don't make the cut, like this isn't...
You've got to make the right cuts more important.
Yeah. If you're noticing this loss of income, that the loss of income that you give to us,
while deans, our feelings don't be heard. If you say, hey, sorry, job stuff, that's, you know,
by all means. I want to make sure that that's perfectly transparent to everybody.
Yes. So thank you everybody for listening, rate and review us on whatever podcast service you
use. We greatly appreciate it. You can chat with us on the Discord, which we are using,
or at least I am reading a lot more of now that I am home all the time. Even though I'm working
from home, it also makes it easier to slack off when I'm not in the office. And yeah, what was the
other thing? Oh yeah, we have a subreddit that you can post on as well. And we appreciate all of you.
We sure do. This is awesome. Okay. And I forgot this wraps up a Rudy Hoffman's episode. If you
guys do have any questions about chronic life insurance, do reach out to Rudy Hoffman at
RudyHoffman.com. I'll link to it in the episode description as well. So and with that, take
everybody. All right. Bye everybody.
