25 year old a day. He bought 250,000 of a 20 year level term. It was $270 a year.
So I got, but to go back to Steven, what is your plan after the term runs out? Because
my my bet when I signed up was that either at that point will be much closer to me not needing
life insurance anymore. Or since I got the the one that builds and that caches out at the end of
the 30 years, that would get me a good third of the way to being able to self fund it. And maybe
after 30 years of savings, I'd have the other two thirds needed. Do you have a plan for what happens
when the 30 years runs out? I don't think I'm on a term policy anymore.
That's exactly right. Yeah, that's that that's what I was getting to. And your question is
absolutely brilliant, because term insurance is great in the early years, the super cheap in
the early years. It's super cheap in the early years, because the odds are you are not going to
die in the early years. But the term insurance that I work with, and to be fair, most other
insurance guys do as well, is a thing called upgradable term, which means you can lock your
term, your health in, you buy a 20 year term or a 30 year term for two, three, four, five hundred
bucks a year. And what that does is lock your health in. But it also gives you a window because
you can upgrade that term anytime in the first 20 years. Basically, you can upgrade it as Stephen
has done to a permanent policy where the premium is going to be higher, but it's never going to go
up. It will lock in level and then stay and actually just pay itself at about 17 years.
Is the permanent like literally up until the point that you die, even if it's when you're 95?
Even if it's 100, if it's your hundred, 125. Basically, our policies go to and past age 120.
Oh, damn. And I take it, Stephen, that the upgrade in cost was not all that great then,
because I thought that the ones that are permanent are really expensive.
It's not, I don't have a good metric since I've only had the two policies. My first one is 27 a
month. This one is within a dollar of 60 bucks. Oh, damn. Yeah, no, that's not bad at all.
No, I didn't think so. I mean, I pay more for Comcast and Excel Energy. I mean, I need those
too. I don't know which I need more. I need internet or a life insurance more when I try to
think of it. But we hope you want to make that choice. Yeah, related to that, you know,
cash is the fact that newer index universe of life policies are simply not only better,
they're simply cheaper than traditional whole life policies. And it's not magic. It's at the
cash accumulation because there's an indirect, indirect exposure to the standard and poor 500
index, the actual growth on the policy is in the area of 6 or 7% and the cash value. And what that
means is that acute cash accumulation enables the policy to become paid up earlier in about 17
years. So you can pay 60 bucks a month and then maybe 17 or years, 17 or 18 years, there'll be
enough money in the policy to pay it forever. You achieve escape velocity in your policy where
you can stop paying premiums, but the covering stays in place. So it actually is in place in
the later years when you need it. And that's what's again cool. Again, it's a new technology.
The technologies we have are better than the old technologies and a lot of everyone knows that
with reference to their iPhone or their cell phone and their computer, but a lot of folks don't
realize financial services has had an equivalent upgrade where basically the newer programs are
simply a whole bunch better. And that is why, you know, if you were my own brothers or sisters,
I'd say, this is what we ought to do. You know, get start with probably maybe start with the term
insurance if we need to for cash flow purposes, but try to upgrade that thing in the next five
or 10 years to where it'll be in place forever. Was that responsive? Yeah, that was great.
So I want to get cryonics. I just filled out something on your website. Do I need to contact
CI or Alcor as well? Normally, the actual protocol is initially filling my web,
go into Rudy Hoffman.com and look in the videos and fill in the website out. And then you get
your policy in place. And then I send a copy of the original policy to you. And then we send a copy
digitally to CI or Alcor. So then they know that all the stakeholders have their funding in place.
And then there's a separate set of paperwork you do directly over the net directly with the cryonics
org. Does Alcor work with local morticians? Because I think CI does still, right?
Both CI and Alcor utilize the same crowd preservation team, which is called Suspended
Animation Inc. That is technically a segment that's actually not bundled together when you do CI.
Alcor has it all bundled together and it accounts in $200,000 for full-body crowd
preservation. CI has bundled it separately where the CI portion is only $35,000 or even $28,000
if you pay them $1250 a year one-time lifetime membership. But that actually is only a part of
it because that's only the CI component. What you have to have is make sure that there's a
mechanism to get you from where you are when you're sick or dying to where you need to be.
And that is a separate team called Suspended Animation Inc. And they basically, their part's
about $80,000, so we normally would do a CI package that's cryonics institute,
suspended animation, and private air ambulance. That global cost is $143,000, call it $150,
and it's still good to have another. And since you can buy a quarter million coverage at $25,000,
there's a quantity discount at $250,000. So basically you can get a $250,000 policy for
two or three hundred bucks a year if you do start with term. And that way you're overfunded,
you've got crowd presence, you've got the full transportation piece, you don't have to try to
rely on local morticians, which is suboptimal in my informed opinion. I want to dive into that
quite a bit. So my wife works in hospice care as a social worker right now. And I know, right?
It's, I believe we're at this point every time it comes up, but it is remarkable work that I
have zero aptitude for. And since now we share, well, I have this room, which has the other room,
but we, you know, we share a home as our home office. And I can hear her working and it is,
wow, blows my mind hearing her talk to people. She works with people who literally die. She's
literally working with people who are dying over a period of time. I don't have the goodies for
that either. I respect the fact that she's been, she's been present to what they call made deaths
where people basically opt in for physician assisted suicide. You need a doctor nearby,
but not necessarily next to you. They give you a cocktail and you take it and you die
in some time in the next hour or six. Really? Is that that's a doable deal? That's that's legal
and what in what's Colorado? Colorado. Oh yeah, you guys are progressive. Luckily, that's legal
here. Wow, it should be legal everywhere. I think it's ideal for people who want to get
cryopreserved because then you know exactly when you're going to die. Precisely. So that's what I
wanted to ask about was I'm not 100% sure on the legalities. Well, because when I was talking
with her about it, she's very interested in signing up. She will get life insurance policy at some
point and I'll get her a chronic policy. Like we'll make that happen, but she was skeptical
because she sees that you know, she'll occasionally. So basically someone's on hospice,
they've been determined to buy a doctor to be like they're going to die in the next three months.
You can't have to spend an animation and sit by your bedside for three months.
And so if you're going to die at some point of whatever is killing you in the next 90 days,
usually what will happen is she'll get a phone call. Hey, so and so died. Oh, okay,
let me start making phone calls. And then she calls the mortuary, the doctor,
et cetera, et cetera. And it's not uncommon for the mortuary transport people to take two hours to
show up. And so obviously that's way longer than you want to wait for suspended animation to fly
out and get you. So she was just curious, like how on earth can you put all these pieces together
to have this thing in place if you're if you're dying under these conditions. And it sounds like
obviously the best way to do it is okay, well, I'm going to take my cocktail at 4 30pm on Saturday
be great. You know, suspended animation could be there at 4 15 just in case and
have it be ready to rock and roll. But what is the what are some of the logistic troubles of
getting people preserved under optimal conditions? I should also mention that when you're signing up
with the Crown Ice Institute, I think there were four boxes and of like, all right, what conditions
do you want us to preserve you wonder? And one of them is like, do whatever you can, no matter what.
If you have to scrape me off of off the sidewalk with a shovel, put that I think I am probably
paraphrasing that wrong. I think there is a that's exactly what it said. Right. I checked the box
that said use your own best faith estimate. So Crown Ice Institute won't preserve me if I,
you know, get my head blown off with a shotgun by somebody who you know, whatever attacks
around the street, or if I get run over by a car and they find me the next day, they're not going
to pick up the pieces and throw the biggest parts in a vat. And then luckily, there's a rider on my
policy now where my wife is the beneficiary should Crown Ice Institute not collect, she will. So
it's just I guess it's worth pointing out that you get you get to pick the conditions under
which you'll be preserved as best you can in advance. I guess, yeah, I wanted to get that
long-winded question out of what what can you do to maximizes your chance of good preservation?
Yeah, that's a and we can do that with or without a hospice situation. Yeah, you brought up a lot
of really important points there, Steven, as have you folks as well. And that, you know, the optimal
cryopreservation is not a black and white thing. It's a continuum clearly. And one of the things
we can obviously do is avoid what I'll call existential risks. You know, if we're, if you're
signed up for ceramics, it probably is not an ideal thing to go do climbing mountains and
fall in a crevasse because we aren't going to get you, basically, or you go down over water
and in a plane and you, you know, there's simply no getting you. There are a number of
circumstances that basically make cryopreservation impossible. First of all, as you point out,
it's important to realize that life insurance does not go to still goes to someone. You buy a
half million dollar policy from me and you die by any old way, basically, including suicide after
two years, by the way. We will pay that $500,000 to a series of someones. But the, with reference to
getting the best cryopreservation, one of the reasons why Alcor is shooting about 80 plus percent
of good cryopreservations is, as you pointed out, Enosh, most of us have some lead time.
Life is a lot safer than it used to be. We're not dying of accidents, nearly as high percentage.
Most of us, 80 plus percent, are dying of things we have some lead time on. You die of cancer.
We're dying of cardiovascular issues. And, which means, the, of the dozen or so
cryonics claims I've paid, nearly all of them had some lead time, physically got their ass to
where they needed to be to the hospice slash hospital near their cryonics facility and consequently
got really good cryopreservations. Related to the suicide question or the assisted suicide question,
which is something I've been pounding the drum on for decades, and we're finally,
that was why I was so interested, even that it's legal and doable and actually being done where
you're at in Colorado. The very first cryopreservation occurred with assisted suicide in California
about two and a half months ago. Yeah, it was a red, the red letter day for a cryonist because
basically this guy was able to do what rationalists understand we ought to be able to do, which is
determine the circumstance of your deanimation and because you can choose the time and the place,
etc., it was a, you know, it's a good cryopreservation. Obviously it's not available in all states,
you know, there's, and we, cryonics is probably controversial enough without adding assisted
suicide to it, so it's, but at some point, interestingly, I don't know if this is an aside
or not, there's two crazy little mention, but the person that was having to be speaking with
today, who is signed up for Alcor and has COVID-19, was at one point willing to fund a very large
amount of money to help us do a court case where we would find a cryonist who is dying, who would
sue for the right to do a basically assisted suicide for cryopreservation, and once we get a
case like that, then there would be a set precedent. Unfortunately, it was too early in the curve,
basically, and the odds I couldn't get anybody to sign on to this idea because it's too early.
I did have an individual who actually was dying of Parkinson's, and he was okay to do it, and then
his brother talked him out of it, but the point being at some point, we will have a, you know,
a more rational way that you can decide about the circumstances of your death, which make cryonics
a much more viable system, where all those logistics concerns, which are very real,
will be much more minimized when assisted suicide is more of a standard of care.
I know that the cocktail they give in Colorado is heavily damaging to basically every system it
hits before it kills you, and my wife wasn't sure if it also hit the brain. I sort of suspect,
I mean, it must hit, you know, if it's in your body for six hours, it definitely does, but I
don't know how much damage it would do, and I don't know if there are other options for
self-made deaths in Colorado, other than this organ shattering cocktail. I wonder,
I guess without any details on that, I couldn't speculate on whether or not that would hurt your
chances, but yeah, that is a good question. I know there must be things that can kill you that
don't necessarily hurt your brain that much. This week before Christmas, I took one of our
three dogs to be cryo-preserved. I took it up to a cryonics institute. Her name was Hermione.
We shot a picture around here. Anyway, Hermione is a sweet dog, and I will talk about her in
the past tense, but either pretty good chance she's not been in the past tense. Basically,
it was, I put her in the plane with me. We flew up to the cryonics institute. Two in the morning,
I was driving a rented car through a snowstorm to get the cryonics institute, got to the veterinary
clinic where I was literally five minutes from CI. Tremendous service levels at CI. There's a
really caring, compassionate people. Here's the point related to this. So the dog literally dies
in my arms. They bring a little injection, and the dog dies, and within seconds she's being cooled
down. So it was quite frankly, it may have been one of the best cryo-preservations in the history
of time. I don't think even other pets have gotten that good a cryo-preservation. Much less humans.
So basically, until when we can do humans, when we can have the same kind of compassion and
intelligence that we deal with our pets, we'll certainly get better cryo-preservations, but
we can't wait. Don't wait to sign up till that day, but it's nice to know that the life insurance
policies we sell will pay even if you suicide. That coverage that you have, Stephen, on you,
if it's past two years, you can suicide, and your policy will still pay out the full death benefit.
I do want to warn... That is a selling point that I don't want to push.
Yeah, and I want to warn people against that too, because unless it's one of those doctor-assisted
suicide things, in some states there's mandatory autopsy laws if someone commits a suicide,
which would mean you cannot be preserved at all.
Yeah, great, great point, I'm not suggesting people suicide. As a general matter, of course,
I'm simply saying that when assisted suicide does become more of an option,
that will not be a stopper on the death benefit being paid out. But thank you for that cautionary
observation. You're absolutely right. One of the reasons you don't want to suicide if you're a
cryo-insist is that it's almost mandatory autopsy in most states, so don't be stupid, be smart.
It's interesting. Now that you mentioned it, because yeah, I feel for you, and I know that
that was a tough day with Hermione, we put a cat down. She's would have been three or four,
five years ago maybe, not quite that long. And it's tragic and heartbreaking, and she is the
opposite of preserved. She's in her ashes or in a small box above our fireplace.
I respectfully suggest that won't grow back. That's right. Unfortunately, she's annihilated
from the universe, which is terrible to think about, but this is just pure. We occasionally
tangent on this show. I wonder why the cocktail they give you when you have a physician-assisted
suicide in Colorado can take hours, but the shot that they give inmates in death row and that they
give pets, I'm sure it's different shots for pets and inmates, but those ones take 30 seconds,
if that. I wonder what the difference is and why one gets the long one and one gets the short one.
Although actually, I do know that part of it, the cocktail and I'm sure I could look up the recipe
for what they give you in the physician-assisted suicide. I know that there's large amounts of
opiates. You're not laying there in pain for hours. It's, if anything, a controlled opiate death.
I don't think we're worried about addiction at that point, but yeah, that is an interesting
question. No, no. Yeah, that wasn't the thing I was making. I was just making sure that it was
clear that these people weren't laying there in agony as their organs are being destroyed. They
were riding an opium high. That was probably the best they've felt in a long time. I want to make
sure it's as humane as possible. Jess, you had a question or observation. Yeah. I'm trying to
regenerate it. I was wondering if you knew the origin of or you or Aneash, the
required autopsy if you commit suicide? I don't actually know, but I assumed that it was because
suicides can often be faked, that it was actually murder and they want to rule that out. That's
my guess. Mine as well. I guess so. And again, if it's, I paid a death claim on a suicide,
but it was six months after the two-year exclusion, the suicide clause expired. So,
