quote pronounced, you're immediately cooled down. So that's a long answer to a short question.
But right now, basically 80% of people are getting good cryopreservations. And Jess, that's a really
good, I'm sorry, go ahead. I want to make sure that I respond to Jess is she's you can't see it
if you're listening, but she has her finger up, which I saw it's nice. Yeah, we've been trying to
make hand signs. So we're not just talking to each other all the time. It's harder to see on the
camera. Unless you unless you talk, you know, because you don't have the strip up top. I don't
have the strip. I don't know why it's not there. Anyway, yeah, go on.
I'm curious what makes what makes cryopreservation more than just freezing now? And like particularly,
what was the what made the old process bad? And that has been improved in the new process?
That's a reasonable question, Jess. The big distinction, what I'd call a real bright,
shiny line, and that it's still just now emerging into popular consciousness,
is that the distinction between basically straight freezing, I either take you and I've any of us
right now, your heart stops beating and we throw you in a freezer and then throw you in liquid nitrogen.
Basically, a thing called freezing occurs, you know, we're about 70 or 80% water when,
you know, we know that you put a tomato in the freezer and freeze it. It's not the same tomato
that it was, you know, when you bring it out. That's because a whole bunch of bad things happen with
freezing. And so the concept is to instead replace the water in our systems with a vitrification
agent. The new vitrification agents basically replace that water with a vitrification solution.
In essence, a biological antifreeze. That means when things cool down, instead of having ice
shards, instead of having a whole lot of pressures and osmotic pressures as a function of the cooling,
the everything kind of classifies in place, if you can think of like a plastination process.
Now that does that does not mean we can still any bring any people back or even
we don't have cats and rats and dogs yet from chronic temperatures.
We do have vitrificated vitrified organs that are viable after being carefully vitrified.
But to answer your question, that distinction has to do with the current vitrification agents.
And that actually occurred about 10 or 15 years ago. All the current iterations are better and
less toxic reduce freezing damage, even greater as a iterations improve. Was that responsive to
your observation or question? Yeah. How do they prevent cell rupture, these new agents?
Yeah, it's my understanding that basically the freezing process requires basically water.
And the idea is to do initial washout with a washout solution that washes the blood out,
because blood will coagulate and become acidified and slower. And then in a separate
process, promote through the vasculature, through the carotids, the vitrification agent that basically
goes through our entire vasculature, which you probably know is 100,000 kilometers long.
We've got a whole bunch of wiring in us. And utilizing the existing vasculature in our system
that perfuses goes through our system and gets pretty much to all of ourselves.
Now there are some areas that are hard to perfuse, the inside of your eyes and your inside of your
blood marrow, bone marrow. So it's not a perfect process yet, but our main thing is to get our
brain perfused. And that's what the distinction now is. We now have photo micrographs of what
happens with good cryopreservation to brain structure, where it shows all the neurons and
dendrites basically still there. Now warming them up, of course, is still a problem because
there's a separate set of damage upon warming them up. But the point being, we're preserving
cryonics works if you define as preserved structure even today. Cryonics does not work if you say
the definition is can you take people down to liquid nitrogen level and bring them back
with no damage? No, no, we can't do that yet. But we think there's a good reason that we have
good reason to believe we will be able to. Are you familiar with the Kinectome
preservation project? Yes, in general. The guy that wrote the book on Kinectome, I'm trying to
think of his name, come on, Brain. He spoke at one of the Alcor conferences. I don't remember
the name either. This is the, and I know there's a prize for the Brain Preservation Prize that
has recently been won by a fellow who worked for 21st Century Medicine, basically, an
organization that does cryonics research. Robert, it's his first name. I think you guys interviewed
him on an earlier episode before I was on the podcast. Robert McIntyre. Yeah, exactly. He's
Robert McIntyre. He spoke and he'd used a combination of plastidization and cooling down to
preserve brain structure. The challenge there being that that plastidization is hard to actually
It's destructive. Yeah, it's destructive. And now it may work if you can weaken
micro-scan them and upload us to a computer, which is another good possibility. And that's,
you know, most of us are quite open to that. This meat puppet, was that your
your verbiage there? Yeah, me too. This meat puppet infrastructure and is prone to way too
many problems. I agree. We need to find a way to upgrade this. And, you know, most of the people
who are signed up for cryonics are really forward thinking smart people who realize that basically
this particular thing that DNA and we've evolved to is not the end in itself. It's just a clutch
that's been put together and how we happen to be here. It's evolution in action, but it doesn't
have to be the end of evolution. We got to continue to evolve to much more possibility creatures.
I think most. Does that make sense? Yeah, I think most children, if you were to ask them to improve
the design of the human could come up with a bunch of ideas. Like, definitely this is a model.
Let's start with the back that hadn't hurt with knees that don't screw up all the time.
Anybody else want to join the you could join a class action suit because of all the glitches in
their body and maybe question is who do you sue? I was thinking the Pope. I'd like to do that guy.
He's got some money at least. He's a representative of God who allegedly designed
this. So I think he should be held responsible for all the fact they fucked up so much. It's just
ridiculous. Hey man, we were perfect before the fall and then maybe that was it. Then God got
really vengeful and introduced a bunch of errors, I guess. It's like rolling back to the prototype
version. But the main idea I do want to get across to our listeners in their limited time that we
have is that not only is cryonics a real legitimate emerging science, but that it's available and
affordable to most people listening to this podcast. Even though there's a fairly high cost to it,
basically $200,000 at Alcor, about 150,000 at CI for the whole package, that cost is typically
borne by an extra life insurance policy that might cost 80 cents a day or a buck and a half or two
dollars a day. Some kind of, you know, some older depending on your age, depending on type of coverage
you have. And we have people spending four or five, six dollars a day, but a lot of times those are
policies that actually accumulate a cash value, that have that tax benefit of a cash value in the
design to go forever. They're permanent indexed universal life policies. But the point being,
instead of, you don't have to have 200,000 bucks to be signed up for cryonics, you just need to
be able to qualify for a life insurance policy. And the actual mechanism to find out that out is
simply go to rudyhoffman.com, fill out a website form, forget some quotes and get some ideas to
see if this might be a fit. So excuse me for sounding a little bit like a salesman, but I
happen to be a salesman. I was about to give you a sales pitch and point out that I got on
with Rudy would have been something like six or seven years ago. And I think I was paying 27
bucks a month. And that covered the cryonics members, or the, not the membership, but the fee
for the cryonics institute, as well as suspended animation incorporated, which is the company
that flies out and actually gets your body ready for preservation and flies you out to a tank. And
if you're at the cryonics institute in Clinton Township, Michigan,
sometime last year, you contacted me about getting on one of those beat taxes plans too. So
that's, that's the one that like you said, there's like an crude interest that I could
to capitalize on whenever I want to cash out on it. If, and if I wait till I'm 90, it's in the
many hundreds of thousands or something. I do have a question. I don't remember the numbers
question about that. Well, I'm mainly we want to cover a lot of the logistics of how this works.
But since we're on this topic right now, you have to sign over ownership of the life insurance
policy to the cryonics institute when you get it, right? Yeah, great question. You know, the
both Alcor and the cryonics institute do require that they either be the owner or the joint owner
of the policy, which is pretty much the only way they can be sure the policy is in place at any
given moment. Yes. Because they do have to scramble the team, etc. before the before the actual money
is there. But the great news is that the carrier main carrier I'm working with now, for the last
10 years or so, enables the best of all possible structures, I think called joint ownership,
where basically you were the first owner. And she was the first owner of the policy and CI or Alcor
is the second joint owner. So that way you can check on the status of the policy, the actual
cash accumulation is 100% yours. It doesn't mean that you cannot change your mind or walk away
or take all your cash value. Yeah, that's the thing I was going to ask about that. If they're
joint owners, how do you get all the cash out if when you need to access it, if you need to access
it? The short answer is there's a secondary document that's the both cryonics orgs have
that clarifies that you, even though they're joint owners, the entire cash accumulation and
the entire ability to control the policy resides and stays with you. Oh, good. Okay. So it's been
eight years since I signed that. And I just got to thinking about that a few months ago. And I was
like, huh, I know I was comfortable at the time, but I don't remember why. Yeah. And it because a
lot of times people are of larger policies, like older folks might want to have a big, you know,
stuff larger amounts of money into the policy. And if you were putting tens or hundreds of
thousands of dollars into a program over time, you want to make sure that the cryonics org is not
going to basically cabbage onto it. They are both very, very legitimate organizations. But even though
we might intuitively feel that they would do that, it's not, that's not good enough.
Everything is very much in writing. There's a document that specifies that you are the sole
owner of any cash value and you maintain full control. Okay. So if someone is like, hey, I want
to get crap reserved when I die, what, what does that entail? How does that work?
It goes, it's obviously we need to get you signed up while you're alive. And a lot of,
well, this is such an easy thing to put off quite frankly. And as, as people are listening to this
podcast, I want you to take a moment and realize that right now, wherever you are, at any given
moment, something could happen to you. If you're driving in the car listening to this, if you're
bicycling as I listen to podcasts while, while bicycling, all of a sudden somebody could come
out of left field and boom, there you are, you're gone. The point being, life is simply risky. And
what you need to do is get your cryonics arrangements in place early while you're young,
while you're healthy, when you can qualify for life insurance, you qualify for life insurance,
not just with your money, but with your good health. And all of a sudden something happens,
whether it's a, whether it's a heart glitch, whether it's high blood pressure, whether it's a
cancer glitch, which by the way I had a few years ago, and all of a sudden life insurance may not
be available or it may be available at a much higher cost. So the mission here is to realize,
if you're really smart, you get ahead of the curve and grab this stuff, why you can get it
cheap and easy and cheap and easy. I want to, I want to double back on that cheap and easy part
thing, because I'm of the opinion that if you get killed in a car accident, you probably are not
going to be successfully cryopreserved. It's just, at least in my opinion, unlikely that people will
be able to get to you in time. But the vast majority of Americans die knowing that they're
going to die. They die often in a hospital under supervision or in hospice care, well over 90%
of people. And by the time you know you're dying, it's too late to get life insurance, because
obviously no one's going to ensure someone who's guaranteed to die as anytime soon.
Yes.
The thing that really like broke my heart was I knew of a person who was in the
rationalist community and she got brain cancer. This was like 10 years ago or so,
just a little before I signed up, I believe, and she didn't, wasn't signed up, didn't have life
insurance. And I don't remember if there was enough donations made to get it funded before she
died. But yeah, there's things like that that can happen. You just something acts up and you're
like, oh, great. Now I have early cancer in my young age, or even if you're not in your young age,
like if you're 25 and you sign up for a 30 year life insurance policy, anything, a lot of things
could happen before you hit 55. So getting it while you're young and it's really cheap is a great
idea because generally life insurance companies are like, haha, he's 25, he's getting life insurance,
we're just going to get his money for free because he's not going to die in the next 30 years
and they give you super low rates. Great, great observation. But I think you're probably referring
to Kim Suwazi, if I'm not mistaken, the 23 year old. And again, if you're listening to this, I
suspect you're probably you may be older, younger than 23, but most people think 23, there's not
much existential risk. She basically got inoperable brain cancer. And she did through herself on the
part of the Reddit community and the compassionate arms of tyrannosis everywhere, including me,
I actually spoke with, shared the platform with Kim Suwazi. I spoke immediately a few minutes
after she spoke. It was hard to get the audience, you know, basically to follow her where she basically
says, I know I'm dying, I'm going to be dead in a matter of probably weeks. It turned out to be a
few months after that. There was actually a New York Times reporter that followed that whole story
from roughly a year and a half from her trying to finding out that she was had the glioblastoma
to find and she acted her boyfriend had called and see if we'd get a life insurance. Obviously,
we could not. I was looking at to see if I could find the sheet. As you were talking about that,
I got a call. This is what this is Wednesday. It was this Thursday. It was two days ago.
And basically, the guy was desperate to get life insurance. And he was wanted to sign up
Procranix. And so he signed up. He went to Rudy Hoffman.com, filled the website for him out.
And I called him up and he says, well, I want to get this done right away because I have a
I have a lung cancer that I'm going to die. And he was, you know, late thirties.
I won't use his name because that would be inappropriate. But I did later, of course,
until I had to tell him immediately, I'm sorry, you're completely uninsurable. No insurance
carriers gonna gonna touch you with the with interoperable with basically lung cancer. And I
went and looked at my records. And this is a moving part of this story. And I wish I could
use his name. That'd be tacky. God damn it. Three years ago, this guy had called up,
asked for a quote. We kind of we got him a quote. He wound up messing around and not doing anything.
And here he is three years later in desperate for life. He didn't care what the rate was. He
just needed some insurance. And so the point being, if he would have followed through three years ago,
we would have covered him. He would have a, you know, once you're covered, the insurance company
can't change their mind. I have 11 policies totaling $3 million life insurance on myself.
Most of them are written in a preferred health category. I had cancer three or four years ago.
No insurance company would touch me the 10 foot pole now. But because I had the policy
early, you lock your you lock whatever health category you're in there. And they cannot
insurance company cannot change their mind. You can change your mind. So I don't want the coverage.
It's called unilateral contract, but the you can you can change your mind, but the insurance
company can't. So at the risk again, sounding of sounding back in an ambulance up the door and
sounding like an insurance guy trying to, you know, basically scare people into doing something.
The reality is you ought to be scared. If you ain't scared, you ain't thinking straight. You're
basically rationalizing and thinking that the rules did not apply to you that you're never
going to die. You're never going to get sick or bullshit. I don't care how good a care you take
yourself. I don't care if you're vegetarian or vegan. It does not matter. There's a very,
very, very high probability that you're going to need to get coverage. We're probably not going to
get unless you're super, super young. I doubt that we're going to beat aging and time for you.
That's my message. I got a well, I'm assuming you're insured for a good long time. So I guess
this is more a question to Steven. Hey, Steven, did you get the 30 year policy or what did you get
with yours? I think I got like the life policy. I'm not really sure. I should know this on the
top. The documents are in the safe in the closet behind me. I can probably respond to that. Basically,
Steven, Steven started, I believe, with a term life insurance policy that's really,
really inexpensive, especially in the early years, which is not an unreasonable place to start,
especially if you're under 35 or so. And when I signed up as delivering pizzas part time,
so I didn't really have a ton of expendable income. Right. So basically, here's somebody
delivering pizzas part time, who was able to afford to sign up for Chironics. And maybe I just did a
