One chuckle a week and I could survive. It was more of a swerve where they joke. Yeah. So
we had some good ones this time. Illusion of transparency, which like, yeah, and then expecting
short inferential distances. And I feel like they actually would have been really good ones.
Hold up just one second. Aren't we doing, what was it? Molecular technology,
scientific and scientific evidence, legal evidence, rational evidence?
Not according to the website.
Should we, should we like, maybe? Well, we'll chop that.
No, I mean, should we maybe like reconvene a different day?
I can't. If this is going on on Wednesday, I record, we want more tomorrow night. That takes
from like, usually six to nine. So crap. You know what? No, no, no. I've read both of these a number
of times. I know them all. Let's, let's keep going. All right, you got it.
Yeah. So I was saying that we have some good ones this time. Illusion of transparency and
expecting short inferential distances, both of which would have been really good to go along with
talking to strangers, especially illusion of transparency. It's very much in line with
the major themes of that book. Someone want to summarize it or shall I go?
I think you're doing a good job so far. Go for it.
Okay. So illusion of transparency in hindsight bias, which was the previous one,
people who know the outcome of a situation believe that the outcome should have been easy to predict
and advance. So related to this one is the illusion of transparency, which is we always
know what we mean by our words and we expect that others know too. I think I've also heard this
called mind reading. I forget if that's from, I think that's a thought distortion on the list of
like the CBT skills. It also just sounds like a popular nomenclature for like this, this thing,
right? Yeah. How am I supposed to read your mind? Well, I meant this one, this and that and the
standard rejoinder is how am I supposed to read your mind? You know, when all I got here is what
you said. Yeah. Well, I kind of want to dig into it more, but I'll keep summarizing. There was
an example in here. So June recommends a restaurant to Mark. Mark dines there and
discovers A, unimpressive food and mediocre service or B, delicious food and impeccable service.
Then Mark leaves the following message on June's answering machine.
June, I just finished dinner at the restaurant you recommended and I must say it was marvelous,
just marvelous. And so this was a scenario that was presented to a group of subjects.
I'm trying not to laugh. Sorry. It's just a funny situation.
I know. Marvelous, just marvelous is a phrase that I should use more in my life.
So I think that'd be marvelous, just marvelous. When this was presented to a group of subjects,
59% thought Mark's message was sarcastic and that Jane would perceive the sarcasm,
importantly. And among the other subjects told scenario B, which by the way, they're saying
the ones who were told that he had unimpressive food thought that it was sarcastic and that Jane
would perceive this sarcasm. And Jane, huh, there's a typo. Maybe we should report it.
Apparently Jane and June are used interchangeably in this. But anyway, notice. Yeah, the subjects
that were told scenario B that he received great service and food, only 3% thought that Jane would
perceive Mark's messages sarcastic. The study seemed to indicate that an actual voice message
was played back to the subjects, which I guess is not clear. It seemed to indicate.
And that's even, it makes it more surprising though, that people could get such different
impressions from a voice recording. Yeah.
So I think it's very important that it is a voice recording because if it was just written down,
you could imagine the tone of voice to be whatever you wanted. But if there was an
actual voice recording, everyone hears the same thing. Yeah.
Yeah, I think I like this and it's illustrating a point that we don't necessarily have to
generalize too much from this, you know, the specific example, just because it's, you know,
one study and all that. But this general phenomenon stands whether without this study,
but as far as this goes to large parts of like whether I'd assume it's being sarcastic
would be my priors on Mark's usual, like, behavior, if he's a sarcastic person,
if he's the kind of person who's ever used the word marvelous before.
Little things like that. But yeah, I think the gist is that if the group was told, hey,
look, he's being sarcastic, or rather that the food is bad, they assume that he's being sarcastic.
And of course, they would assume that they know that he believes the food is bad,
but that they also believe Jane would perceive the sarcasm. And so what I like about this too is
this was done in 1994. If you run that into text messages today, you get to just go completely
hog wild with this. Yeah, what emoji did they put? So it's really important to use emoji.
Is that a sarcastic wake or a serious wink?
There was another study he cited from 2002, which I thought was even more interesting,
because they told a person to say an ambiguous sentence to an audience. I think one of the
examples given was the man is chasing a woman on a bicycle, and the speaker is given a picture to
show that it's a man running after a woman that the woman is on the bicycle, as opposed to like
the woman is running and the man is on the bicycle. But when you first hear it, it could be interpreted
either way. Anyways, they were told to say the sentence to an audience and estimate how many,
how much of the audience understood what they were saying. And they always overestimated how
many people understood them and underestimated how many people misunderstood them. And I got
that that was extra interesting because then the speaker had full control over how they would
utter the sentence, right? And they're looking at the audience. So maybe they're getting some kind
of feedback from them, but they still just were wrong, guessing on how many people actually
understood them. And as we know from talking to strangers, you can't even trust what feedback
you're getting from the audience. Yeah. So if you want to test this at home with your friends,
I forget if I even heard this from the lost wrong community or somewhere else, but if you tap,
if you tap your finger on the table to like the tune of happy birthday,
or the Star Spangled Banner or some tune that you would expect people to know and then ask them
what song was that? Nobody will know. It'll sound exactly like out of Jingle Bells to year or whatever,
but it's just random tapping. A good example. I remember at Julie Galea mentioning that one
just like five years ago and rationally speaking. And I never forgot that. It's another good example
of like, no, no, like this couldn't be more clear. I'm clearly doing happy birthday. They're like,
I don't know, man, you're tapping your fucking fingers. Is that ACDC? So, I mean,
okay, this is going to be a spoiler for Harry Potter Methods of Rationality. So if you haven't
read it, skip forward two minutes. But Eliezer intended it to be incredibly obvious whether
or not Coral was Voldemort like he was in Canon. And I'm not going to say if he is or not for
people who didn't skip forward, but it is not at all incredibly obvious to the point where
the community was the readership at the time he was writing was very much split as to whether
or not Coral was Voldemort until the reveal was made later on near the end of the book.
And like to Eliezer, he was just like, how are people not getting it? This is the most
obvious thing in the world. It shouldn't even be a discussion.
In all of our defense, even if it was obvious, which I maintain that it was less obvious than
he thought it was, but part of the reason for that is because like it was, if I think it was too
obvious, yeah, it was no way would be laid out that clearly if that's really what was going on here.
I, you know, I agree, but it's, it's a thing that happens a lot with, with writing or you think
the audience is going to get something and they don't and then you over correct and like really
over explain things and people are like, don't spill it out. Like I'm an idiot, you know,
I can read into the text a little bit. It's, it's a very difficult line to walk.
Yeah, that's why beta readers are really important.
Yep. Yep.
That's what I'm appreciating a lot about reading, wrapping up a ward right now is that the author
has, you know, to tie all these loose ends together. And I think do it to the satisfaction
of the raging mob and the mob, at least the only mob that I see and listen to, which is like the
subreddit and the discord, they are, it's hard to summarize, but they are much more like you picture
mobby than like Reddit, where Reddit will just like, you know, is happy just to fling shit across
the fence. It'd be like, ha, ha, this sucked or whatever. These ones will jump down your throat,
but like, I can't believe you would say that, you know, you would put heroic sacrifice on this
pedestal. Really, it's just like suicide. That's terrible. And this is awful. This shouldn't be,
you know, lauded or whatever. It's, I can't, and Brian brought this up in the last couple of episodes
that we want more, like having to write in front of an audience that is dissecting your work while
it's in progress, I think would add a whole new dimension to it. I can't even do it when I'm just
trying to like have an imaginary audience. I end up second guessing myself. I'm like, is this too
dark? Is this, am I talking down to my audience right now? Is this going to be, I don't know.
The post ends on a real world example with huge consequences, where two days before Germany
attacked Poland, kicking off World War Two, Chamberlain sent a letter that was intended to
make it clear Britain would fight any invasion that occurred. But it was phrased politely and
in diplomatic speak, and Hitler thought it was conciliatory. So the tanks rolled right in.
Those polite Brits.
So yeah, the main lesson from this post seems to be when you have something in your head,
you may think things are very obvious, but they are not necessarily in any way obvious.
They very much are not.
The best thing about that is that you can never really be sure someone actually understood you.
Like the premise at the top of this is like, nobody knows, you know what you meant to say
by your words and expect others to know it too. Sometimes if you're not 100% sure what you meant,
then that's obvious that the person probably won't know what you meant if you didn't.
But even if you do, and they tell you back in words that make sense to you,
you might have this kind of like double illusion of transparency. But that is like way less obvious
than a literal double illusion of transparency where I just didn't communicate exactly as
clear as I thought, and then you repeated my miscommunication to me. I don't know,
this can kind of go on at this weird recursive level that to me is just kind of fun and wild
to chase down. But it is, I'm sorry, go ahead. There's two different frameworks that I'm thinking
of just off the top of my head, where people try to mitigate this effect. One is the CFAR's
double crux communication style where, and then there's also the Gottman slash
Gottman rapid pour intervention, which is a relationship counseling thing. And they
both have the same kind of structure where one person speaks, the other listens,
the other person has to repeat back what the other person said, but in their own words.
Or like, what I'm hearing is that you feel like this, and that's making you feel that way. And
I can see that you're upset about this by like, your expression, is that right? And you're not
allowed to move forward until you feel convinced that the other person understands you. Like,
you feel like their ability to rephrase it back to you is, yeah, that's what I meant to say. Or,
I think, with the double crux example, it's supposed to be like, even kind of a steel man
where it's like, yeah, that's even better than what I was trying to say. I guess that's the ideal
version. Yeah, that was in PrepoPor's rules of like civil discourse or something. One of the four
rules was, you should be able to repeat back your opponent's argument in such terms that they say,
wow, I wish I'd thought to put it that way. And I feel like if you could do that, that is the apex
of having a good conversation with somebody to disagree with. It shows, at the very least,
that you understand them well enough to simulate what they're trying to say. And
that means you're prepared to engage them. I think it's great. Yeah, it's also, although I've
tried to have these kinds of conversations, and it takes a lot of practice, and it's very unnatural.
First of all, it makes any conversation take like a million times as long. So,
it's the reason why people don't just speak like that all the time.
Right. I think, I don't know. The other reason, I'm sorry, go ahead.
The other thing that I tried to do, which I've talked about before, is the radical honesty
thing of, especially with people close to me, that there's less inferential distance.
It's like a segue. I was going to do the segue too, yeah, but I wasn't going to use that one.
I was going to say that I think that would work to resolve confusions like Mark and Jane were
having about the restaurant, right? Because you could trust that Mark would accurately
represent how he felt about the restaurant, rather than like, is he joking?
Yeah, like, is Mark a guy who's sarcastic all the time, or does he never make jokes?
But most people are kind of in the middle of that. I don't know. I like to use radical honesty,
say things clearly and bluntly, as much as possible. Totally.
And some of the times that the reason that we can suspect that short conversational supplies
for a long conversation is necessary, because we expect short inferential distances.
Yeah, we should probably...
You believe I didn't write that down first? That was a good joke.
I could hear the audience laughing, give me a minyash. All right, there, finally cracked a grin.
All right.
Oh, jeez, I'm sorry. There must be a long delay between when I'm doing things to,
to when you're seeing them.
No, I'm giving you guys a hard time. That wasn't an avarorious laughter joke.
Anyway, expecting short inferential distances is one of the ones I didn't have to reread,
but I did just because it stuck with me really well when I first read it.
The short version is that basically, when you're explaining something to somebody,
you have a well-grounded intuition that a short explanation will suffice,
because in our ancestral environment, short explanations were all that was necessary,
because we all basically had all the same prior knowledge.
Whereas now, if you're trying to make a nuanced point and a difficult subject,
and you give a short answer like a tweet, it's extremely reasonable to understand that somebody,
or to expect now that someone will completely misunderstand what you're trying to say.
Yeah, like he gives the example that since you grew up in bands of no more than like 200 people,
maybe, all knowledge was passed down by speech or memory, and so like no one was that far removed
from you in knowledge. If you discover a new oasis, you didn't have to explain what an oasis is,
or why it's a good idea to drink water or anything, like almost everyone knew almost everything that
everyone else knew. There was not a lot of distance between you and other people that you had to bridge,
and now we have what he calls abstract disciplines with vast bodies of carefully gathered evidence
generalized into elegant theories transmitted by written books. Their conclusions are 100
inferential steps removed from universally shared background premises.
Yeah, we have really intense specialization in everything.
Yeah, so sorry to interrupt, but I wanted to get that out real quick before you went to the why
something that's more than one inferential step away seems to be crazy or lies or something.
No, no, you're good. And I brought up Twitter because it's always, I'm not on Twitter,
but I see tweets once in a while on Reddit, or I'll hear about the fallout sometimes.
I don't know if Dawkins uses Twitter less, or if he's just slightly less insane on there, but
for a while he was just totally tanking his reputation. I think by trying to have nuanced
arguments in 140 characters, and now they've up to, I think to 280, so he was able to get out the
whole sentence like, there's every reason to expect that eugenics would work from a scientific
perspective, but that doesn't mean that we should do it or something. And the thing is,
like with Dawkins, and with a lot of people, they just assume everyone knows basically the
same thing that he knows. That's my point. Yeah, that's exactly the point. I'm speaking to an
audience of my fellow scientists here, right? And it turns out, no, with Twitter, you're speaking
to literally everyone. Yeah. And most of them don't have that knowledge. Yeah, so I mean,
there's nothing scientifically controversial about the fact that it would be super easy
to breed in traits into people if you really want it to, right? If aliens visited Earth tomorrow
