Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, I'm Jess
And today we have with us, oh, I'll go ahead, we've got Rudy Hoffman, who if anyone's listened
to every episode of this, so far you guys will be familiar with his name, he was the life insurance
agent who got me hooked up with cryonics, and he's also the author of The Affordable Immortal,
which I do, which I guess doesn't matter to our folks as listeners.
No, right, yeah, we're, again, still doing this all distantly. So we're all doing this over
a web conference, and then in order to maintain some semblance of actual communication, we've
got webcams on. But for listeners, it is a physical book that you can buy, called The
Affordable Immortal. And Rudy, why don't you tell us about the book and about you and what you do?
Outstanding, delighted to, Stephen, and thank you, and thank you for listening, everybody
out there. It's exciting to be talking to a whole lot of wonderful invisible human beings
in non-real time. The science fiction lifestyles are obviously really existing as we speak.
I've thought for decades about how cool it would be to have multiple conferences where
here we are, and I'm literally looking at myself and three other people on the video
screen in front of me, and talking to thousands of people in a non-real time basis. So science
fiction is not science fiction, it's actually real. And along with that idea,
Quranics, of course, is the cooling of human beings to minus 196 degrees Celsius in order to
preserve us for future technology. That was a hell of a segue. That was a hell of a segue.
Yeah, thank you. And I have actually written the book, which I'm cleverly holding up, which is
helpful to at least three people on the planet right now, but since there's no video for you,
but there are listeners that say basically the title of the book, again, is the affordable
immortal. Maybe you can beat death and taxes with an exclamation point by Rudy Hoffman.
It's published on Amazon and available through Amazon in both Kindle formats and paperback
formats, basically about 12 bucks. I got a quick question about that subtitle there.
Okay. Does it have anything about how to beat taxes in it? I was going to ask that.
Yeah. Oh yeah, thank you. Yeah, as a matter of fact, there is. And the title is obviously a riff
on the well-known Ben Franklin quote, which is nothing is certain in this quote. I actually
started out in the book and says, in this world, nothing can be said or be certain except death
and taxes. So yes, the idea behind what we have the funding mechanisms we use, basically a life
insurance policy also in addition to funding your crowd preservation also has inherent tax
advantages in it. So they're actually that is, it's not just a clever title designed to riff on the
beating death and taxes quote by Ben Franklin. It also happens to be
based in the reality that there's tremendous tax benefits and advantages to life insurance.
Okay. Little bonus sticking it to the man while we're at it.
Absolutely. And with $2.2 trillion being recently as recently as this week,
shoved out to try to keep things from going to compact completely.
The taxation factor is liable to be much more extreme in the future.
And so that those tax benefits are not insignificant. Be happy to briefly life
insurance has tax-free death benefit, tax-free accumulation of the money while it's growing,
tax-free access to the money while it's in the policy.
So it's one of the reasons why a lot of smart, wealthy people stuff money into life insurance
policies. But the really, really smart ones use life insurance to fund their cryopreservation,
which means that this amazing new technology that is an emerging science is not just a good
concept, basically an accessible and affordable technology for a whole lot of people.
Not everybody, but for something like a dollar a day or two or three dollars a day,
money that a lot of us blow in a Starbucks whack when you could go to Starbucks.
By the way, for those of us who hearing this, we are recording this, of course, on what is this
April the 2nd of 2020, about 32 days into the zombie apocalypse.
And for the future, when we listen to these podcasts in the future, we'll say, oh my goodness,
do you remember how rapidly that happened that all of a sudden everything completely changed?
But we can talk about the COVID-19 thing, which hardly goes, I don't think it's a conversation
occurring perhaps in the planet, does not mention that. But as a point of information,
that's one of the reasons our crannics inquiries have actually stepped up, because the
eminence and reality of death in its most ugly forms has become more obvious.
Do I think all of us, I talked today with a video conference, one of my clients who
happens to be COVID-19 positive. And along with her two out of the three of kids are COVID-19 positive.
So it's, again, it's not theoretical, it's real. People do get sick, people die, people have accidents.
And to my way of thinking, every one of those deaths is like a library burning down a true tragedy.
If you think about the amount of information that's composed in your brain, in each of your
brains, and it puts a library to shame, it's basically, we have trillions of bits of information.
And each of us is kind of an irreplaceable part of the universe, and to have that consciousness that
whatever it is that makes us, us, go away almost certainly permanently, because there's no evidence
that any of the silly superstitions people call religion is accurate. And to have that go away
permanently is just a true tragedy. And for those who are, go ahead.
I'm not even sure, like, library is a good analogy anymore, because nothing in a library
is unique nowadays. It's more like, if the library of Alexandria burned down, which was...
Oh, brilliant. Yes, thank you. Yeah, the library of... Yeah, well, there's truly irreplaceable
information. And so if we think of ourselves as everything that has gone into making what us
we are, and are in the old verbiage, we'd call it a soul. You know, those of us who are hardcore
rationalists and realists, you know, to typically reject that term. But there is something that
makes you a unique special entity. And the whole concept of cryonics is that by simply preserving
the brain, you, in the brain pattern that you are, there's a reasonably good possibility,
we think, that a future technology can fix what we died of, fix the damage caused by the process
itself, and restore us in some form, in some mechanism, to vibrant and levels of good health
and bliss that we even only dream of now. And that is the dream I sell, if you will. And it may
come across as a little flaky. But we try to be, you know, while we try to be hardcore rationalists,
I think it's also incumbent upon me as a promoter of cryonics, and I'm unabashedly a promoter of
cryonics, to basically explain that our mission is not simply to come back in the format that we
might die from. Obviously, we don't want nobody wants to come back near death and feeling awful
and old and age and decrepited and have the full of cryo protectant, full of cryo protectant,
which is by the way, still fairly toxic. Instead, but the premise of cryonics is to actually come
back feeling as good or better than you felt the best day of your life when the miraculousness of
being alive, of having some of it being existing, was just really obvious. And, you know, I would
love to say I have a whole bunch of days like that. I don't know if about you, but I don't.
But every once in a while, you do have one that's close, you say, oh my goodness,
this is what it's about. I used to have, yeah, pretty darn good days until I injured my back
about, God, almost a year ago now. And it's been eye-opening to see what it's like to live with
pain. And I didn't realize, I didn't quite realize what it was like for people that had to do that.
Wow, it is paradigm shifting, I suspect. I mean, I feel so much worse for everything Steven's
ever gone through, because I know he's got the same thing. And yeah, it's, it makes you
hate our monkey meat suits even more, you know? There should be some way to get this stuff replaced,
fixed up. Yeah, I agree completely. I maintain minds a little less severe. What was that a
reference to, Steven? I didn't quite... Oh, you know, I should have mentioned that you felt bad,
because I've had back issues for, let's see, it's April, coming up on nine years, I guess,
but it's not as severe as what Inyash is going through. So I just wanted to make that clear
that he's been more, he's been enduring more than I have. So I don't want you to pretend like I'm
doing a whole lot, Inyash. I just, I needed that out for posterity. But yeah, so I like the,
I guess I'll let you keep going with your, with the just by all means, please continue, Rudy,
as I enjoy your... Oh yeah, thank you. Well, thank you. I think, you know, the concept here we're
talking about is the bliss of how, you know, potential bliss. And I think a lot of smart people,
including some of the people very possibly listening to this podcast have speculated that
in the future, we won't just be, have levels of misery. And quite frankly, the human condition has
enabled levels of misery that are just shocking to most of us. And Inyash, the, to have that paradigm
shift where all of a sudden your back hurts is, you know, is helpful to me. I mean, it makes us
realize, hey, and I've had a situation where my wonderful wife has both of her knees just hurting
virtually all the time. We're basically, and that is pretty, you know, it's a drag. Let's face it,
we've got the human condition has some pretty awful components to it. I much more understand why
youth was so valued in the past, because, you know, 100 years ago, if you had this sort of injury,
you're just like, Oh, okay, I'm broken and much less useful to everyone around me for the rest of
my existence now, plus all the pain. And at least 100 years ago, you had like alcohol and opium to
help you through the pain. Go back a few hundred years more and you got nothing. You're just
But at least now, at least now you can still contribute to society and you're not just having
to run around lifting heavy things and carrying, you know, dead animals and stuff, you can contribute
to value your mind. Incredibly tough. Yeah. Yeah. But of course, they didn't have a choice. It wasn't
like there was a choice. You know, you think about how much better life is. And I think, Inyash,
that's a reasonable, you know, jump. And some of us, I'm sure some of you are listening to this,
I've read one of my very favorite books of all time. By the way, Bill Gates said this is my
favorite book of all time. And it's not my book, unfortunately. Harry Potter and the Methods of
Rationality. Yeah, almost. That should be another great book. But the book, of course, is by Stephen
Pinker called Enlightenment Now. I see that Inyash is shaking his head. Yes. Well, I haven't read it,
but I know of it. Oh, it's absolutely brilliant. I've read it four or five times. List the audio tape
four or five times. But the subtitle is the case for rationality. It's the case for reason, science,
humanism and progress. And I suspect that the niche market that comprises your podcast
listeners appreciate those values and cryonists and transhumanists of all sorts, you know, resonate
with those values. The thing is, we now have the technology to do stuff that was clearly science
fiction in the past, including this conversation that we're having. And we also are really close
to having the technology, although we can't prove it works, to cryopreserve people. And I think it's
an important distinction here to make the very important distinction between the thing called
proto science or early science or emerging science and pseudoscience. A lot of folks, including the
people who many would call themselves hardcore skeptics, might lump cryonics into the pseudoscience
arena. A matter of fact, even Wikipedia, which is usually a wonderful bastion of great
wisdom, for lack of a better word, and helpful information, has been taken over by trolls
in the cryonics arena. There's a couple people out in the world for some reason
that really, really do not like cryonics. And for some reason, and I'm not sure exactly why,
they have managed to take over even the Wikipedia entry. And instead of saying,
this is an emerging science in which the very best technology is brought to bear to preserve
human consciousness. Instead, they say this is freezing corpses. And most scientists think this
is completely ludicrous. And there's some just some verbiage in there that's really kind of
off-putting that's not even handed at all. To be fair, it is technically freezing corpses.
Yes. And that's a very important point. I see that hand, Ms. Jess. Go ahead.
I was just going to say, all, what was it, 4,000 listeners, you go edit Wikipedia,
you're listening. Oh, yes, thank you. Yeah, because we've had some...
Like when... Go ahead.
Like when Stephen Colbert saved the elephant population.
He had his audience going, like, add a zero to the number of elephants in the wild. And he's
like, we did it, we saved it. Wow. I like it. Although this will be less, this will be less
dishonest. Yeah, exactly. That's a great, great analogy, though. And the... Yeah, that is a...
But the reason I'm bringing that out is because Wikipedia, in my mind, has been one of the most
amazing emerging technologies that enable, has enabled collaboration of some of the best
information. And I'm not negative about Wikipedia, by any means. I am just... It's just an
anomaly having to do with the current way that cryonics, if you could look at cryonics and
how it's perceived on there. In contrast, of course, we have an open letter by signed by
hundreds of scientists that shows cryonics that says cryonics will almost, you know,
has a very good chance of working. We can't guarantee it works any more than your doctor
can guarantee your heart operation is going to work. You know, the reality is there's lots of
variables can go wrong in any technology and an emerging technology. But conceptually,
there is... We have good reason to believe, and we have actual positive documentation and
photomicrographs to show that brain structure, or your actual structure, is preserved with a
high degree of fidelity, down to not just the cellular, but even intracellular level. And,
you know, that is the whole concept of vitrification, which is not freezing. And it's
important distinction. We're not, quote, freezing corpses. Two wrong concepts there. One,
just to call somebody, the difference between you being near death and all of a sudden being
pronounced dead does not mean your brain pattern goes away. We know that from many people who've
been brought back. And it turns out their brain pattern, if it wasn't more than 10, 15 minutes,
is still there. And if they're cooled down, if you fall in the ice someplace, you can... That's...
We have half an hour, 45 minutes, hour, hour, sometimes two hours, people have been brought
back with their brain pattern still intact. This is hard science. This is reality.
A corpse is defined as, you know, when legal death has been proclaimed, and that's just
someone saying, yep, this person's dead now. So...
Great. Excellent.
It's a gray line.
Precisely.
But you're not dead. You're not dead until you're warm and dead.
Yes, and your brain pattern starts to really go away, which is not saying that if you die some
place and have, you know, an hour and a half or three hours or two days of warm temperature ischemia,
that's not a bad thing. Obviously, we don't think there's... You know, we don't...
At some point, there's a concept called information theoretic death that'd be pretty difficult to
come back from. But the whole idea that death is a single binary event is simply, quite frankly,
ignorant. And it's ignorance that no way we should not have given the current information that people
have clear access to. So we're not... One, a corpse is not a corpse, just because some
medical professional says he's dead. The other thing is that the... We're not freezing people.
We're basically cryopreserving them with the best medical technology we have, which still is not
perfect. But the new vitrification protocols, especially when properly executed immediately
after a pronouncement of legal death, preserve structure with a high degree of fidelity.
And that's an important concept. And I think it's an important concept our listeners should
understand. So I know there's been... Well, actually, I don't remember how many exactly. I know it's
been over a hundred people that have been vitrified so far. Do you know how many of those were
really good cases? Because I know some percentage of them were less than ideal when they were getting
vitrified. And I don't know how many were in good conditions.
Yes, thank you. I will make sure that you get your observation in there,
Jess. But the... Right now, the status of cryonics is that it's still... There's
less than 5,000 people signed up. There's probably about 150 people at Alcor and who are cryopreserved
about that same number at the cryonics Institute. To answer your question, earlier cryopreservations
a lot of them were bad, quite frankly. The mechanics and logistics were simply not there.
The cryoprotective agents and earlier protocols were simply primitive, quite frankly.
In direct response to your question, I just spoke with Diane Cremines, the Alcor director
of a membership person. And I was asking her that very question. What percentage now are getting
good cryopreservations? And their statistics for the last like four years is about 82% are getting
really what we call good cryopreservations. At bedside pronouncements where the cryonics text
with their profusates and their ice are literally right there the minute and moment death is
