or just like doing something really, really relaxing.
I mean, definitely don't drink coffee or alcohol
because those two are really disruptive to sleep.
And I guess just keep reading about the issue
because sleep is like a super, super complex human behavior
and we don't know that much about it.
There's a great book you should read called Why We Sleep.
It's by the guy who's the head of the Berkeley sleep lab.
Awesome book, like really easy to read
and tells a lot about what we've learned about sleep
and what kind of experiments are going on
in sleep research right now, et cetera.
And I just learned a lot from it.
So I think those are some things tried different temperatures.
So I found that I need to be cold in order to sleep well.
So I need to be at 18 degrees Celsius.
I don't remember what that is in Fahrenheit,
but it's basically fairly chilly.
How long has it been since you have slept like on your own?
I know a lot of people who are in relationships
will actually get separate beds
because just your partner moving
can sometimes make things harder on you.
Yeah, that's a good point.
So I've been, I've had a partner sleep in my bed
for, we share a bed rather for like the last seven years.
This has been going on longer than that.
And I wake up, I'm aware of the wakeups
that I have in the middle of the night.
I'm basically aware of, well, I guess I can't say
every toss and turn, cause I don't know the ones
I'm not aware of, but I'm aware of several per night.
I just get up, you know, change orientation,
roll over, go back to sleep or something.
But I'm aware of a lot of those.
I think I'm just a light sleeper.
Yeah, that sounds awful.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I'm used to it, but yeah, it does kind of suck.
I'm tired a lot.
So I'll check out the aura and that's pretty cool.
I think, I think just experiments.
I mean, some people find really weird things
will help them sleep.
So for example, I sometimes find that
if I take a really cold ice shower,
it actually knocks me out after I get under the covers.
So it's just like experiment and try to find out
what the drivers of quality sleep are for you.
Okay, cool.
We are coming up on our hour.
Steven, did you have other things?
Yeah, I was actually just curious in general.
How did you find out about the podcast?
This is our first international conversation here.
I'm into the whole rationalist community.
I'm one of the people that really want to live forever
and merge with the machines in some way.
And essentially, I find a lot of the discussions
in the rationalist community to be interesting.
So I'll read Star Slate Codex, et cetera.
Although I think Scott Alexander doesn't like me
because he thinks that I'm too aggressive
in my articles that I write
and that I give transhumanists a bad name.
So I think I just found you guys through some part of that
and I listened to a number of podcasts and liked them.
And then I saw that Rob McIntyre,
who I know through Y Combinator,
has had a couple of podcasts with you guys.
And I'm like, oh, I love the rationalist community.
I want to go talk to these guys.
Awesome, awesome.
Well, yeah, I'm glad you got in touch.
This has been really cool.
No, that's really interesting.
And now I'm glad you reached out.
This has been really fun to learn about.
And I mean, I think if Scott Alexander
said anything bad about you,
I think that's how you know you've made it, right?
If somebody as big as Scott has given you a hard time.
Yeah, but, uh-huh, go ahead.
Okay, I do have one final sort of question,
which is tangentially related.
So I like all this, you know, life being awesome
and being productive and all this,
but I also go out generally once a week
where I am up really late
and it throws off my sleep schedule
and I drink alcohol and that fucks everything up.
And is this just something that is not possible to do
or I have to accept that I'm going to have, you know,
a lower productivity in my life if I do this every week?
Cause I really enjoy it.
I think it's important to just, you know,
decide what kind of trade-offs you want to make where
because I mean, anytime you change your sleep schedule
significantly, it's going to have some negative effects.
So I'll do this from time to time as well.
And I, you know, we haven't talked about it,
but I'm really big on using things like MDMA and LSD
for biohacking purposes as well.
MDMA is a great drug for helping kind of social intelligence
and helping, I guess, especially for someone introverted
to help develop social skills and extroversion
and that kind of thing.
But, you know, every time I take something like that,
that is part of, you know, a night long thing
and that knocks out my sleep schedule
for the next several days.
So I think it's just most of the time,
like I don't like alcohol because I think it's just like,
there's better ways to get high.
It is one of the shittiest drugs, yeah.
And it is really bad for you.
And I feel bad after I drink alcohol.
And so I just completely gave that up.
But I mean, you know, there's always trade-offs in life.
So I guess like you got to just like say, okay,
this is what I want and this is why I prefer
to keep this particular thing.
Plus, you know, for me, like I cannot fully kick sugar
because I'm quite addicted to it.
I sometimes managed to go without sugar at all
for like a month, but then I'll have a stressful event
of some kind and I'll start eating some cookies
and then, you know, it just goes downhill from there.
So, you know, I don't think it's possible
to just like be perfect with respect
to all of these things or to be like super religious about it.
It's important to just say, hey, like here are the impacts
this is having and I want to make better choices.
Generally, some choices will still be bad,
but that's just, you know, part of the human condition.
Yeah, awesome.
Well, I think I have covered most things I wanted
and we're running low on time.
Did you have any last things, Stephen?
I have one last question not at all related
to the previous topics.
I was, you know, we don't get someone from Oskow
on the line so far ever.
And I can't help but ask, is there any sentiment, you know,
to the average citizen over there?
Or rather, what is the sentiment regarding President Donald
Trump in the US or is that come up over there?
I'm curious to sort of what the feeling is on the ground.
I think I'm not the right person to ask because I'm, you know,
I live part of the time in the US and part of the time here
and part of the time in Europe.
And I kind of grew up in the UK and the US.
So I get the sense that people here, I don't even know, actually.
So I think people, when he won, a lot of people
were quite happy with that.
But yeah, I have no idea.
And I try to, one of the big things
that I try to do as part of my work related to mental health
is I just try to really not get exposed to that stuff at all.
That's fair.
Yeah.
I mean, it's just news and social media and all of that stuff.
I think that they kind of suck time and attention.
And I think, you know, they actually kind of reduce
intelligence because if we think about intelligence
as an applied ability to, you know, focus and get stuff done.
So I've really deliberately, so I have, like,
all the news, like The New York Times or Wall Street Journal,
et cetera, I have a band on all my devices.
So I can't actually even go and see it.
And I've been trying to kind of get off of that because I cannot do
anything about Donald Trump or about Kim Jong-un or about Putin.
So it's outside of my circle of influence.
So I mean, I kind of shouldn't care, especially since the media really
makes quite a negative narrative out of the whole thing.
And I feel like if I listen to that a lot, then it'll make me more stressed
and it'll make me a more negative person.
So I take the idea of, like, filtering my own information space quite seriously
because it's almost like, hey, if you listen to Donald Trump,
then some of your neurons become orange.
You know?
Yeah, I think that's a very good answer.
Every now and then I have a news blackout just for, like, a week.
And I noticed that nothing, like, the news you get is not actionable, you know?
If someone in Washington is doing something, what the hell are you going to do?
Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
And if there is some news that's actionable because it's really related
to, you know, your work or your business, someone's going to tell you about it.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. So I guess, like, in conclusion, I just, like,
would encourage the listeners to really explore the whole area around personalized
health and preventative medicine because, you know, the things that people die from
nowadays are not singular events like diseases of, you know, like flu or something like that.
But it's mostly lifelong metabolic diseases.
So these are lifelong processes that you can act to reduce or prevent to some extent.
Plus, you know, the body is really the thing that everything else is based on.
And there's a very great deal of depth to dig into here.
So we talked a little about sleep and sports and stuff like that.
But I also find that everything to do with mental health, so things like meditation
and psychotherapy, et cetera, are super important for just your well-being and for
