Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy.
I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Steven Zuber.
And today we have with us, is it Sergei?
Serge, forget it.
Serge, OK.
Welcome to the podcast.
He is on the line with us from Moscow, right?
Yeah, that's right.
I'm here at the moment.
Excellent.
Thank you for joining us at this with the Weird Times
Ogan Convergence.
And you wanted to talk to us about biohacking.
And I normally, when we have a guest on,
I know something about the topic.
And I know absolutely nothing about biohacking.
So you're going to have to hold our hands a bit through this.
Unless, like, Steven, you have become
super knowledgeable in the past weeks.
Let's pretend I have it for the sake of the audience.
OK.
All right.
Cool.
Well, actually, I've listened to your podcast on no tropics.
So you have to know something about it.
So you know words like midaffinals.
So that already makes you more qualified than a lot of people
about biohacking.
Oh, great.
Cool.
So I guess the main idea of biohacking
is that we, as humans, are obviously
systems of biochemical reactions.
And everything that we do depends on what's going on
inside our body.
So whether we have energy during the day,
whether we're in a good mood, whether we're
able to solve a complex problem, whether we're
able to have good productive relationships with other people,
it really all depends on the state of our body and mind,
on our hormones, on our neurotransmitters, et cetera,
et cetera.
And biohacking, I think the core idea
is that we should use what science has discovered
about our bodies to figure out how
to make them work better for whatever objectives
that we have.
So I'm an entrepreneur.
I've built a couple big companies before.
I started my last company.
It's called Ostrovok.
It's the largest online travel company in Russia.
And I was working as a CEO, working pretty hardcore hours
and really, really stressful job.
And I just started doing various experiments
on what I can do related to my health and well-being that
would also make me more productive and effective
and competitive as a CEO.
And it kind of started from some obvious things,
like, hey, sleep more.
And just sleeping more starts having a lot of downstream
interesting effects.
Like, I found that I would procrastinate much less.
And I would have fewer anger management issues,
because as a CEO, it's not the best thing
when you flip the fuck out at the developer that's
screwed up right in front of the office
in the middle of everything.
So essentially, I just started with simple things like that.
And then gradually started adding more things.
First, things like vitamins, things
like understanding a little bit about my genetics.
For example, I have a genetic mutation
that reduces the quality of vitamin B12 metabolism.
And I need to take a lot of vitamin B12
in order to compensate for that.
And that's kind of had effects on my subjective well-being
and also an objective biomarkers tested in my blood.
And then I just kept adding more and more and more to that,
just because it seems like if you have an engineering mindset,
you want to optimize the system that everything else is
based on, that all other things you do in life are based on.
And that is our body and our mind.
And so I started doing things like taking
Adderall and Medafinil, doing things like sleep trackers
to figure out exactly what my optimal sleep times are.
And then I started really going into pretty deep stuff.
So by now, I have a medical team led by Dr. Peter Atia.
He was pretty famous in the whole bio packing and health
optimization community guide, who's
focused a lot on things like ketosis, which is, I guess,
like a dietary intervention that's helpful and things
like heart disease prevention.
And so by now, I do pretty sophisticated things.
Like I manage my hormones quite extensively.
So I tune my thyroid hormones constantly,
kind of like trying to push it into an area where I'm not
overdoing it, but at the same time, I have more energy,
better mood, et cetera.
I tune my testosterone cycle in a fairly smart way.
So essentially, the testosterone cycle
is a long cycle of biochemical interactions, which
start with your pituitary gland that produces some hormones that
are precursors to testosterone.
Then they get converted into testosterone.
Then that partially gets converted into estrogen.
And estrogen is received at the pituitary
to kind of close the cycle and tell the pituitary
to produce less precursors to testosterone.
So that's how the feedback loop works.
And I had kind of low precursors, but average testosterone.
So I essentially took some stuff that
blocks estrogen receptors at the pituitary,
and thus increases signaling to produce more testosterone.
But instead of some guys in the gym
who jack up on testosterone and cause issues,
I'm actually just signaling better into that pathway.
So anyway, that was too deep into one
of the particular examples.
But I think if I give an overview,
then biohacking really is about managing your health
in a very proactive way and with specific objectives.
So the main things that I would categorize it into is sleep
and optimizing that, nutrition and optimizing that,
exercise and optimizing that.
And then the more sophisticated things
are optimizing mental health and doing lots of tests
to understand how your body works
and where you have potential defects because of genetics
or some other reason.
And then medicines and supplements and drugs
to essentially tune your body to where you want.
So that's the overview, super high level of what I do.
And I've written some very popular articles about this
just on the side.
I don't have any commercial interest in biohacking.
I work in tech in things like e-commerce
and artificial intelligence.
But basically, this is something that's a very effective tool
for me to enhance my competitiveness as an entrepreneur
and to help me get things that I want more off.
So things like energy and good mood and cognitive ability
and presumably longevity as well.
So yeah, that's an overview.
So that's awesome.
Yeah.
Can I jump in there real quick, Yash?
Yeah, go for it.
Two things.
One, Sergey, I'd love for you to send us the,
sorry, I'm going to start over.
I think my audio is coming in too hot.
No, it's good.
There we go.
I mean, on my recorder, I can see it flaring there.
So I was going to say, that's a really cool overview.
Thanks for going through all that.
I guess, sorry, I got a little turned around there.
I had a couple of quick questions.
One was, you said you found out that you
had a hereditary predisposition to poorly metabolizing
B vitamins.
Did you find that out through something like 23andMe?
Or how did you come across that?
Yeah, it was just 23andMe plus an interpretation service
called Prometheus.
Since 23andMe no longer provides interpretation
of your genes because the FDA kind of cracked down.
But there are services that will take an API from 23andMe
or like a data dump and decode it.
So Prometheus is one I really like.
It connects to an open source kind of like a Wikipedia
for genetic mutations, SNPpedia.
And it just analyzes all of your stuff
and tells you, hey, these are the things that
might have the biggest impact on you negatively or positively.
So that was one component.
And the other component is I started
doing a large number of blood biochemistry tests.
And I noticed that I had significant elevation
of a protein called homocysteine, which
is a protein that's associated with a lot of negative health
outcomes.
And it's particularly elevated in vitamin B12 issues.
And I had the mutation called MTHFR,
which is a thing that tends to interfere with B12 metabolism.
So I just started taking huge doses of B12.
And I immediately noticed a large drop in that protein
biomarker in homocysteine.
And I also noticed a subjective improvement in well-being
in things like sleep quality and most of all,
emotional and mood control.
And that's not entirely surprising
because B12 actually has downstream effects
on neurotransmitters and in production of things
like dopamine and serotonin.
And that's where that could have a potential impact.
And that was one of the first things where I said, whoa,
holy shit, this kind of thing can
