And then I would go and just like research and geek out
and try to figure out what those numbers,
what they actually mean.
And I just saw, so with testosterone specifically,
I mean, obviously it's quite a famous molecule
because, hey, you're supposed to get better muscles
and you're supposed to have better sex
and you're supposed to basically feel better,
be in a better mood, be more energetic, more confident.
That all sounds fucking great.
So definitely served me up for more of that.
And I tested my levels over years
and kind of saw that it was like average-ish
and I'm not one of those people that's content
to have an average result, that's something.
Plus, I don't know about you guys,
but I grew up on role-playing games a lot.
And for me, this whole thing is like,
okay, you just got plus one to testosterone.
This is a primary step that gives you
plus 10 minutes per day of energy, that kind of thing.
So essentially, I was just kind of asking myself,
okay, can I do something about this?
And with testosterone specifically,
for a long time, I wouldn't really touch it
with any direct intervention.
So it's affected by a lot of kind of things like exercise
in the right way and sleeping the right way.
But before I started doing like hormone treatments,
I only really dared do those
once I got proper doctors advising me
because the hormone systems are fairly complicated.
And so specifically for testosterone,
you can have biochemical bottlenecks
in quite a large number of different parts
of the testosterone cycle.
So it could be that your problem
is that too much testosterone gets converted into estrogen
or that not enough testosterone is released
into free testosterone,
which is the biochemically active part
because you have too much of the protein
that finds free testosterone, that kind of thing.
And if you do something wrong there,
then it's quite easy to screw yourself up.
So specifically with hormones,
I think it's really important to be very sure
that what you're doing is the right thing,
consult with an endocrinologist, et cetera.
So it's just like kind of a tricky,
potentially dangerous thing.
But I have seen very nice effects.
So the testosterone bit was definitely very noticeable.
So it was a noticeable boost to energy.
It was a noticeable boost to basically mood
and it was a noticeable boost
to just like being horny all the time.
So, and I had like a very...
So the way we tuned that particular bottleneck that I have,
I had a very good reaction to it.
So my free testosterone rose by about
80% over two months and has stayed there ever since
for the last, I guess, like year and a half.
But that I've been tracking that
since we started doing this intervention.
So it's quite a significant change.
So it sounds like this is one of the ones
that is not very easy to hack by yourself.
You need medical professionals for this.
Yes, and I think, so hormones in general,
a lot of people appear to have screwed up hormones
for whatever reason.
It could be bad sleep practices.
It could be some toxic crap that we breathe
when we live in cities.
It could be stress related,
but hormones, I think like from what I've seen
of other people's results,
just about everyone has some kind of hormonal issue
and hormones are a very actionable thing
that can mostly be tuned.
But it's also something that, yeah, you're exactly right.
It's something that takes professional help
to really interpret in the right way.
Because if you start searching about that stuff online,
you're gonna have these crazy biochemical diagrams
of this thing conversing to that thing.
And it's just very hard to understand
unless you've been doing this for a while.
So what are the easier things that we can do at home
with kits that we order?
Sure, so I think, well, the first thing
I think that's really important to figure out
is what you want.
So what your specific objectives are.
Some people are very big on longevity.
Other people are very big on things like mood and energy.
I mostly, my primary concern is really to do with performance.
Because I think the longevity part of things,
I think other people will solve for me
by the time my natural health span and lifespan is up.
So given the way the trends are going.
But so I think the most important thing
is to just start with the why you are doing this.
And if your goal is, let's say, energy
and mood, then definitely sleep.
Definitely, so exercising in the right way.
And really the right kinds of exercise.
The best kinds of exercise for downstream hormonal
and metabolic impacts are, first of all, hip hinge exercises.
So things like deadlifts and squats and leg presses.
And the reason those are very effective
is because you're exercising by far
the largest muscles of the body.
So your leg muscles and your glutes,
they're really, really large
and they're relatively far from your heart.
So you're essentially really getting much more bang for the buck
from one squat than you do from one bicep curl.
So if you are doing a lot of things like hip hinge exercise,
kind of reducing your fat percentage,
upping your muscle percentage,
then that's helpful because your body is just,
I don't think I'm the best person
to really describe all of the effects,
but you do get more energetic.
You do get more hormone production from those things.
Another thing I would look into
is called high-intensity interval training.
So the main idea is that instead of running on the treadmill
for an hour at the same pace,
you do really, really aggressive kind of speed ups
and slow downs.
So where you will warm up for five minutes,
race all out for 20 seconds,
rest up for a minute and a half,
race up for 20 seconds again,
and do that like eight times in a row.
And what that does is it stimulates your cardiovascular system
to improve because you're kind of pushing it to the limit.
And it also stimulates more mitochondria
to appear in your cells
because you're also pushing the cells to the limit.
And those things appear to be having an impact
on energy kind of down the line.
So in terms of, if you want to specifically talk about meds
and things like that,
then I mean, Medafinal definitely gives energy
as I think you've, as you've obviously experienced.
Yeah, so I think you really have to think about
what exactly you want
and kind of take a systematic approach
and gradually look for opportunities
to get some kind of results.
And then when you get a quick win of some kind,
then you will find additional motivation to keep exploring,
to keep exploring this.
So yeah.
How hard is it to find these wins with things like 23andMe
and Prometheus?
It's not trivial.
It's not trivial.
So I think it's much harder than to find quick wins
with just things like sleeping well and eating right
and exercising right and meditating
and getting psychotherapy or whatever.
So digging into biochemistry is harder
just because a lot of people have fairly unique situations
and there's a lot of data out there that you can get.
But it's really hard to interpret that data
without just like spending a lot of time researching
about it yourself and talking to people who are knowledgeable
and just really digging.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, that's where the hacking part comes in, right?
You gotta sit down and actually really do the work.
Yes, exactly.
And I think that it's totally worth it
because it is a thing that affects everything else.
So I think in general, moving into the future,
people who really heavily invest into this kind of thing
will be able to use it to develop additional wealth,
not just financial, but also intellectual
because I have this additional energy,
I can spend time taking cool courses on Coursera
and learning about biochemistry or about nanotechnology
or something else.
And that's an asset that I built
and that asset I think in the future
is going to help develop more financial returns,
more intellectual returns, et cetera,
that can be reinvested into more biohacking.
And that's where the whole thing with divergence
in human capabilities is going to happen.
I think it's already is happening,
especially as more and more technology is going to appear
more and more data, more ability to interpret the data,
et cetera.
So it seems like I almost feel like this is a necessity
if you want to be working in a highly competitive area
