your ability to get the things that you care about done on a daily basis.
So I would just really encourage digging into this and learning because it's a very important
system and it's worth it to invest into it.
Fantastic.
Yeah, I think that's awesome.
Awesome.
And I'll send you the links to the articles that I write about this stuff.
And, you know, if you have any comments or questions or someday we'll have another conversation
I would love that because, you know, like I said, I love the rationalist community.
It's one of the communities full of really, really smart people who think about things
in novel and interesting ways.
Awesome.
Well, you take the next word out of my mouth.
That's going to ask for those links.
So perfect.
OK.
I think it's a lot of fun.
Thank you so much for coming on.
Thank you, guys.
Have a nice day.
Thanks.
You too.
Should we get into listener feedback and things?
Let's do it.
All right.
There's a joke.
I'm assuming a joke comment on the subreddit for the last episode, the 98% likelihood that
this episode is about Pataculous.
It says 60 to 98% is a very wide range, but it's episode 60.
Yes.
Yes, it is.
Oh, that's even better then.
Yeah, I mean, episode 60, 98% chance.
I listened to that episode and it was really interesting.
Cool.
Yeah, totally agree.
That was awesome.
Did you sign up for Pataculous yet?
Not yet.
I should.
I signed up and I had some.
I'm in accounting, so the end of my month is always a bit light.
So I signed up at work and just answered a bunch of questions while I was there.
That's awesome.
OK.
I'll do that.
I've got time.
I hope you have a red pick for this week because I did not read through the ones that
I have, and so I am not prepared to present them.
If you don't, that's OK.
We'll just get skip it this week, not rat pick a rat chat subject.
Rat chat.
Do you ever watch the flinally?
No.
I think that was before your time.
It was a brief empty V show with sock puppets, which I thought was really fun, but they
had rock facts and the intro to that section was one of the for one of the for Rockfax
Rockfax Rockfax.
We should do something like that.
That sounds funny and like borrow a drummer and just have them bang out this thing.
We go one of the for one of the for a rat chat, rat chat, rat chat.
I could take it.
As long as you do the noise, I'm not very high energy.
OK.
And from emails has a question.
If we would like to change the world for the better, it seems quite reasonable to have
more rationalists in it.
And I agree.
That's kind of why I did the HPMOR audio book.
It's why I do this.
I'm hoping that some people will get sucked into it through this sort of thing.
They continue and seemingly a no, it seems as if a lot of children do get influenced
by their parents on who they become as a person, myself included.
For the good, by the way, thanks mom and dad.
Also keeping in mind from the Malthusian trap, shouldn't rationalists do their part in
bettering the society as a whole by introducing to it more people trained in the art of rationality
from a young age, people who will be more altruistic, open minded, better scientists
and researchers and so on?
Seems to me a very reasonable thing to do and a big influence on deciding if you should
have children.
If you do not have any other reasons why you would not want to.
A young mind is much easier to change and adapt or even think up new ideas.
Another part would be trying to convert, I'm making this sound like a cult aren't I, as
many people as possible, but that's a more difficult task.
And see, I'm all about the converting, although not necessarily using that particular word.
I mean, that's like I said, that's the reason I do this sort of thing to, well, that and
it's fun, but to try to, to try to get it out there more.
And I think HPM are in particular has been really successful in doing that, which again,
is all aliases are so fucking awesome.
I just made a podcast of it.
But I think one of the reasons the rationale that is important, and I know I've said this
before is because as we continue to increase lifespan and eventually get indefinite lifespans,
then we can no longer count on killing all the old people who don't disagree with us
through old age.
And we actually have to learn how to best incorporate new evidence and change our minds
as opposed to letting the opposition die off.
And so I think the rationality is vital as we head into the future.
But I also, I realized that having children is one of the easiest and most effective
ways to spread an ideology, and which is one of the reasons why religions that focus on
that are successful and I also banning contraception is a good memetic move for things that are
hard to teach adult or convince adults.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's a magic man that watches you masturbate.
Only sounds reasonable if you've been brought up to believe that, but I think first of all,
it feels like cheating to me because the young minds are so vulnerable.
It's not like you're going in there and convincing someone with good rationalist arguments.
You're just hacking into their brain from when they're young, and it's an important
fight.
Isn't cheating, you know, a legit move, right?
It's called technique.
That's right.
So yes, in an important fight, you just want to win and you don't care if there's cheating,
and I think if we have to rely on outbreeding the opposition, we'll lose anyway.
That's fair, but maybe we need to keep a critical mass.
Yeah.
Yeah, that too.
I mean the shakers managed to abstinence themselves out of existence, which is too bad because
they seemed pretty groovy Quakers, shakers shakers were like the Quakers except not
allowed to have sex.
Okay, just probably one of the reasons they shook so much that might be it.
I don't know, but I
I understand the the reasonableness of that particular argument.
I just hate the conclusion and I am not going to have kids myself.
I don't know.
How do you feel about the situation as someone who has considered procreating?
I considered and disregarded the idea years ago.
Oh, you did?
Yeah, I don't know.
I thought you were still a little bit on the fence about it.
Not even a little.
No, I've never really wanted kids.
Okay.
Did I not come across that way during our kids episode?
I think I mentioned being briefly like attracted to the idea, but not, I mean, at the end
of the day, I couldn't handle three years of poor sleep and constantly having human
shit under my fingernails and, you know, the constant anxiety of like, is this thing going
to die and it'll be my fault?
But like, I think, you know, all right, let me articulate this.
Anecdotally, Julia Galev mentioned that her parents, the way that they raised her and
her brother played a big influence on how they turned out.
And it was largely just being like treating them like people.
And if they said, you know, look, is this fair?
Why are we doing this?
They would say, you know what?
I thought about it and I think you're right.
Like, if you get that once every few months from your parents, I think that does a big
thing that like, hey, good reasoning can actually play a big role in my life.
I know my evangelical streak comes from being raised as a Jehovah's Witness.
Yeah.
I think if your goal is to like just get into people's heads when they're malleable, I had
very like informative instructors in school, you know, especially when they're like old
enough, I guess, to take philosophy classes, you know, at that point, you get a lot of
people who are already like super gridlocked into whatever they believe.
But I think you expose young adults to like what a real argument looks like and what
it's like to encounter a position that you disagree with.
I remember a lot of good exercises be like, you know, who believes evolution should be
taught in schools or who believes it shouldn't.
And people would raise their hands either way and they would say, OK, cool.
The people who raised their hands saying it should be taught in schools.
You guys come together with an argument about why it shouldn't.
And then vice versa for the other group.
And just the idea of like trying to put forward a compelling position for an argument
you disagree with is good practice.
And I think, you know, everything I'm getting at is if your goal is to maximize the
number of new rationalists through indoctrination, you might do really good teaching.
You only have so many kids, you know, a dozen is probably at the super high end.
But, you know, more likely two or three.
So, granted, they could go on to have their own.
But who has that many generations to keep track of?
So, well, I mean, that's that's where the long term thinking comes in.
Like the Catholic Church is just great about this thing because they don't care
about what happens in the next few years or the next few decades even.
I mean, they do to an extent.
But what they're really looking at is what happens generations down the line.
Yeah, I think they've done really fucking well for themselves.
Yeah, they're like they when when they force people to convert, right?
It's there's this old saying, I don't remember who said it and it's nice and
pithy, but the whole a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still.
And the Catholic Church responses, that's fine.
We don't give a fuck if you actually believe or not.
As long as you raise your kids this way and your kids raise their kids this way,
your grandkids are going to believe.
So fuck you, we win.
Yeah, I think rationality doesn't have the same stick that we can hit people with
though.
So like the other thing is that I strongly suspect that many of us don't
see a 10 generation down the line thing timeline that we can plan for, right?
You know, so if the world's going to be radically different in a century,
we don't have, you know, a dozen generations to work through.
I also have this into not really an intuition.
It seems that a lot of who people are is based on their genes that that is in.
I that sounds stupid to say now that I've said it out loud because yeah,
duh, of course, but I just mean to the point where it doesn't matter all that
much how you're raised.
I mean, it matters to an extent, but your genes tend to matter more.
And so I think, God, like when my dad told me that he was secretly an atheist
the whole time, I was like, you motherfucker.
And then like a month later, I was like, huh, that kind of bred true.
Like even though they raised me strictly in this super fundamentalist religion,
