the more desire to sleep there is.
And at some point you fall asleep.
And that's when adenosine gets cleared out of the brain.
And at the same time, there's another cycle,
which is the circadian rhythm,
which is melatonin and essentially exposure to sunlight,
et cetera.
And if those two cycles go out of whack,
where let's say today you go to sleep at nine
and tomorrow you go to sleep at one
and the next day you go to sleep at 10,
then those two cycles are misaligned.
And some of your sleep stages,
especially the early sleep stages,
which is when a lot of deep slow wave sleep happens.
So some of them will just perform in a suboptimal way.
And the important thing to realize
is that sleep is actually not passing out.
Sleep is a very, very active state
when a lot of bodily and body and brain systems
get repaired, cleaned, rejuvenated, et cetera, et cetera.
And there's a bunch of stages that the body,
that a sleep goes through.
And all of them are important.
And essentially if you're shifting your sleep time,
it's almost like you're living
in a permanent state of jet lag
and you're disrupting some of those stages quite severely.
So you're not disrupting your sleep by 10%.
It's more that you're taking a particular stage of it
and degrading it by, I don't know, 70% or 80%.
And that has a lot of negative effects,
both short-term and actually long-term as well.
So this is one thing,
it's just sleeping at the same time every day.
So I try to not shift my sleep
by more than 20 minutes a day.
It's really hard, it's really hard,
especially with travel.
But when I managed to get this done
for several weeks in a row,
I just know that I feel much better,
my mind is sharper, et cetera.
The next big thing is to sleep enough.
So it's really important to get something
at least seven and a half hours of real actual sleep.
And what that means since sleep efficiency
for young healthy people tends to be around 92%.
So you spend 92% of sleep
if you're doing a good job out of sleep,
maybe 85 or 80 if you're doing a bad job out of sleep.
So essentially, if you're spending seven and a half hours
in bed, you're actually sleeping
for probably like six and a half hours.
And again, there's some sleep stages
that happen towards the end of the night.
They're essentially like a particular sub-stage
of REM sleep.
And if you sleep for six hours
instead of seven and a half or eight hours,
then you significantly degrade those stages
and the functions that these stages have.
So I think those two are by far the biggest things
to do with improving sleep.
There's a bunch of other more minor things.
So I try to wear orange kind of blue light
blocking glasses several hours before sleep.
I don't drink caffeine for at least eight hours
before sleep.
So this is another thing by the way connected to genetics.
So about half of us are slow caffeine metabolizers
and half are fast.
The fast metabolizers metabolize caffeine
with a half life of about five hours,
which means that if you drink caffeine five hours
before sleep, then you still have half of it
in your brain binding adenosine at the time you go to sleep
and that's potentially disruptive.
And if you're a slow metabolizer,
I think your half life for caffeine is like nine hours.
And basically you shouldn't really be drinking coffee at all
because you're going to disrupt your sleep
unless you drink it at like eight in the morning.
So that's an interesting thing.
I used to drink coffee up until 6 p.m.
and think, oh, three hours is enough,
but actually caffeine half life is pretty long.
I've lately started drinking coffee again a cup a day
and it is kind of ruined my last week.
So I'm going to completely cut that crap out again.
Yeah, you should check out
whether you're a fast or slow metabolizer.
And did you do those tests?
No, so this is 23andMe is the first step?
Yeah, that's the cheapest step.
So do 23andMe, they'll send you the data
and then you connect it to the service
I mentioned earlier, Prometheus, pay them like five bucks
and then they'll give you a report
and that report you can easily parse.
So it's like a searchable archive with a nice UX
that you're going to be able to see,
hey, like search for sleep
or for whatever else you're interested in
and see all the genes you have
that are associated with that particular phenotype.
Interesting, you just also, sorry to go on a tangent.
You said UX, that's the first time I heard that.
Is that user experience?
Yeah, yeah, user experience.
Interesting, okay.
Sorry, this is like a thing
if you've been building websites or mobile apps.
No, I always heard UI before, but not UX.
These two are slightly different.
The UI-
The interface is how it looks,
the user experience is how it feels to use it, right?
Yeah.
Okay, all right, sorry,
I didn't mean to get off on a tangent there.
Oh, no, you're good.
I was going to mention too,
I've been taking the last week or so,
extended to release caffeine pills
because I don't drink coffee,
but I'll tend to take a caffeine pill in the morning.
And for whatever it's worth,
I got these on Amazon for like 15 bucks for 100 of them.
And they're so far, but I don't know a week or two in,
they're doing pretty well for me.
I find that I'm not tapering off around like 11 or noon
like I would if I took a regular caffeine pill
first thing in the morning.
And it metabolizes to be about 100 milligrams caffeine.
Interesting, I've never tried those.
I mean, yeah, I'd give them a shot
if you use caffeine to supplement your alertness.
I mean, I imagine if you're taking medaffinil every day,
you probably don't use caffeine on the daily,
but maybe you do.
I do because I already know,
so medaffinil and caffeine do combine,
so you got to be cautious with this
because you might get over stimulated
and that's going to be unpleasant.
But I've been taking this for so long
that I kind of know how much coffee I can drink
and I know the symptoms if I'm drinking too much.
Plus, I just really like the taste of caffeine
and it's kind of my morning psychological trigger
for starting to work.
So I kind of have a very, very, very standardized day
when I will get to a coffee shop around like 7 or 8 a.m.
and work there for six or seven hours every day.
And it's kind of like my morning routine
which really triggers me into working well
and kind of being in the flow all the time.
I love that your morning routine
starts with working for six hours.
Well, I really like that because it's...
So if I wake up and quickly get to doing a bunch of deep work
where I can focus without anyone distracting me
at an office or something like that,
then by 1 or 2 p.m., I feel like I've done
an enormous amount of productive work
and the entire day is still ahead of me.
So it's a pleasant sensation because then later on
in the day, I can just relax without the feeling of guilt
that I have to be doing something.
Plus, the sense of flow is so enjoyable.
It's one of the nicest, I think, things in life
is when you get super, super deeply engaged into something.
Yeah.
So, okay.
I like that a lot.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Can we go to the testosterone cycle then?
How did you start testing for that?
So I gradually just read a bunch of
just online materials and books
and that kind of thing on health.
Just over time by myself.
I've been doing this for about five years, I think,
five, six years.
And I started just reading.
There's a very nice book by Ray Kurzweil called
Transcend, The Nine Steps to Living Well Forever.
And it's a very good overview of a lot of the basics
in terms of kind of personalized healthcare.
And so I just looked at all the tests
that people are commonly doing in labs
for various disorders or for various diseases, et cetera.
And I just decided, hey, I'm gonna do all of this.
I've done tests, I've done like hundreds of tests at once
where I would go into a lab
and give them like 35 vials of blood.
And they would send me like a huge amount of data
that I would have an assistant enter
into an Excel spreadsheet.
