Right?
Is because they live in poor areas with poor property taxes.
And I think if there was a charter school rule where every person can get $2,000
to send their kids somewhere else, if they wanted to, the rich people in the
rich areas would just keep sending their schools kids to the public school because
it's just as good.
I mean, I've seen some really fucking nice public schools out there in the rich
areas, whereas the people in the poor neighborhoods are the ones with the
schools that are crumbling, that have horrible discipline issues within the
classrooms where people are just making noise and fucking around with the teacher.
And those are the ones that would most benefit from going to some place that
isn't falling apart.
Yeah, I can see that too.
I clearly don't have a very strong opinion on this.
Okay.
I just, it's like, I see his point in a way because the way that these things are
supposed to work is that all of society gets together and then provides free
schools for everyone.
And in theory, once you start taking that money away and giving it to people who
want to go to different schools, it's the rich people that want to put their
kids in private schools, so they're just getting extra money and they're taking
it away from the pot of people.
But when it comes down to in the real world, the poor area of schools are the
worst ones and they're the ones where you most want to pull your kids out and
put them somewhere else.
I, my only thought on this really is, I remember the first time that I learned
that school funding comes from the, like the surrounding neighborhood.
I was so flabbergasted by that.
I didn't believe it until I was able to verify that with somebody else.
That blew my fucking mind.
That makes no sense.
Even, I think I learned this in like junior high or high school, you know, as a
young, you know, young high school or something, but it was, I was like a kid
and I was like, there's no way that's fucking true.
You tell it because all that would do is keep the poor areas poor and enhance
the rich neighborhoods.
Yep.
There's no way that it's that blatantly unequal.
And it turns out it was.
And so my only thought on this really is like, that's some horseshit.
It should be, uh, not funded from your surrounding neighborhood.
Yeah.
I can see how it got that way.
I can see kind of the reasoning for it, but I can't, for the life of me, get
why, uh, maybe the poor schools in the country get some support from the
government or something, but it's clearly not enough.
You know, teachers having to buy.
Supplies for their kids to use or like not everyone having access to a computer.
You know, uh, when I was in elementary school, I think that was when we first,
like my first time using a computer was one of the green text on black
background, old school computers.
I think clearly not cutting edge for the day, but they were like, they
taught us on them because they're like, Hey, you know what?
This is computer things really taking off.
We should kitchen out a type and shit.
Um, the idea that, you know, there are kids now who don't have access to
like learn the skills that are going to get them like real jobs.
It blows my fucking mind because their schools are funded by the poor neighborhoods.
Yeah.
I, I'm expressing, I'm running a loop because that still boggles my mind.
How anyone can look at this and be like, that makes sense.
This is good.
Let's not change this.
So yeah, I don't know what to say.
And I just, I disagree with the, with the concept also that if the cost of sending
a kid to a public school is $2,000 a year, which is what I think I heard for
vouchers around here.
Um, and you pull the charter school.
No, no, public school because that's at least in Colorado, the, the proposed
initiative and I don't remember where it went because I don't have kids and I
didn't track it, but the proposed initiative was it costs the state $2,000 a
year to put the kid through public school.
And so if you pull your kid out of public school and take me to private
school, we'll give you that $2,000 and you know, it seems to me that at that
point, you aren't actually costing the system.
Anything you sure this, the, the school gets $2,000 less for your kid.
But on the other hand, it doesn't have to teach when your kid, so it's saving
those $2,000.
So it's a breakeven proposition, right?
And I know that's not like literally true.
Like a school that was completely empty would still have the costs of paying
its teachers and, and keeping the building maintained.
So it's not perfectly scalable.
But if, if the estimate is $2,000 a kid, then giving that to the parents
who are pulling their kids out should be a net zero thing.
Yeah.
But what can anyone afford a private school for two grand a year?
Well, not, not the private schools as they exist now because they're for
rich people, right?
But if there was a thing where you could get 2000 a year for training kids,
then possibly in the poorest neighborhood, someone might be able to set up something.
I know that there are like some communities of homeschoolers that do, you
know, or it's like people are basically like teacher certified and stuff.
And they kind of do like a small neighborhood thing.
I think largely this is done in like a religious context where, you know, let's
not show them the books that have evolution and stuff in it.
But there, I'm sure not religious approaches to doing this.
And that sounds like the kind of thing that, you know, could cost under two
grand a kid per year.
Yeah, that's interesting.
It'd be hard because I was thinking two grand a kid that's, if you get 20 kids,
it's one classroom, that's only 40,000 a year.
I don't think that's enough to run a classroom and pay a teacher salary.
Oh yeah, you'll need volunteer teachers or something.
Maybe, and probably, you know, rented space.
I guess it's not big.
The group is, right?
If somebody just has like a really big, uh, well, no, I don't know.
I was going to say like half a dozen people could hang out in a room, but
that's not really enough.
Is it?
No, no, I don't know.
Yeah, I don't have a very informative opinion on this.
I'm trying to do that Robin Hansen thing where, well, not just Robin Hansen, but
he brought it to mind, um, on his episode with Sam Harris, where.
He per the chapter in the elephant in the brain on conversation, not saying
something when there's a topic that's up, makes you look poor in front of your,
your peers, right?
Cause you know, you're, you're showing that you don't have a tool for this
particular conversation.
And then, you know, that signals to them, oh, they might not have tools for
other things that could care about later.
So that's why everyone's so eager to talk all the time because they could
show off what they're talking, they could show off that they're useful for
other things that might actually matter.
But to fight that impulse, I feel like it's important to say, I really have no
idea what I really have no idea.
So rather than make up one on the spot, I'm going to just say that sounds possible.
But I, I'm going to sit this one out.
So if nothing else, I don't think the intention is to starve a public institution.
I think it is to provide people with other options and maybe as a result that
might, that might end up happening, but on the other hand, it also wouldn't happen
if the public institution was even halfway doing its job, right?
Maybe.
Maybe, okay.
All right.
All right.
I'm ready to, that is all I have for feedback for this week.
Sounds good.
Matt, you wrote another great question that I haven't forgotten about.
We're going to get to it, but I want to give it more time.
So it's my opinion from what I've seen of Jordan Peterson, this public figure in
Canada, who apparently feel some of the same niche that Sam Harris fills, you
know, not afraid to say things that are challenging to the left and, you know,
no, not, not a fan of like the liberal craziness that's shutting down, you know,
public speakers on campuses and whatever.
It's like, he's, he's filling that role, I think, a bit.
And it's my impression that the guy's a fucking crank and that he says a lot of
it's like whack-a-doo shit that makes, that is unsolvable and that couldn't exist
in a sound mind.
So like, I'll hear things like, oh yeah, you know, liberal feminists aren't
against Islam because deep down they're really seeking dominant male or domineering
males in their lives.
He said that?
Yes.
Holy shit.
I sent, I sent David a sound bite.
I don't know what the full context was.
It was him on some podcast or something.
So rather than a rat chat, what I want to ask is like, what people's thoughts are
on Jordan Peterson.
Oh, no.
No, no, no, no, no, not in a mean way.
No, no, not even in a mean way.
I just mean you are inviting a firestorm.
My impression after talking with David is that I was eventually moved to the
position that it might be like outsiders hearing about Sam Harris and they hear
some crazy things and they're like, oh, this guy must be fucking nuts.
Okay.
But once you hear the guy in context, you know, I think Harris holds very few
stupid ideas.
Can I tell you what I think of him?
Yeah, Peterson.
Yeah.
Okay.
So Sam Harris, I don't think it's a fair comparison because you can listen
to Sam Harris talk on one topic for an hour and you're like, oh, okay.
That, I mean, maybe I disagree with his particular opinion, but he is a thoughtful
person who has put some effort into thinking about this and he seems pretty sane.
You know, I have sat down and listened to Peterson for more than an hour, like
multiple hours, two, three hours probably at this point and I've given up because
the first thing I saw from him was fucking awesome.
It was a TV interview where this reporter was just trying to gotcha him, right?
And she, she was pushing buttons instead of having a map.
So she pushed this button and expected a gotcha in return.
And instead he was like, no, this, I'm not playing your game.
Here's why you, what you're saying is bullshit.
And she kept trying to get back there and get him into this gotcha position.
And he just wouldn't do it.
He's like, no, you're not going to get me to say the stupid thing.
Here's why.
And it was, it was beautiful.
It was a great example of the maps versus buttons sort of thing where he didn't
have buttons to press to spit out an answer and I thought it was great.
But that being said, I think his map is semi incoherent because I think that's
my impression as well.
Yeah.
I've seen him talk for an hour and every now and then he has something really
like interesting and cool to say, but for the most part, his thoughts don't seem
to relate to each other even that well or the rest of the world.
