And it's just like it is, it is discombobulated brain stew that's all coming
out and you can like pick out the gems of, oh, that's really cool, but it doesn't
seem to cohere into anything legible.
So in my opinion, I think, I mean, from what I, he shows up a lot on the
Sam Harris subreddit where they talk about like the newest episodes and stuff
and between episodes, they'll throw out random bullshit.
That's, you know, throwing shade at Peterson or some other stuff and
my first exposure to him was on his first episode on Harris's podcast where
within the first 20 minutes, Peterson threw out some definition of truth that was
like basically what's called pragmatism.
It's true if it's useful.
And he insisted that he's being more Darwinian than Harris because his actually,
counted on like as useful if it was encouraged survival.
And I've never heard of a person that uses the phrase more Darwinian than you who
wasn't really just funded by the list.
And then I listened to him for the next 90 minutes, refused to come down on like
objective truth being an actual thing.
And I was like, this guy must be some religious nut job.
Who is this guy?
And Google him when he is.
And Peterson's a religious nut job?
Yes.
Well, he's like a new age apologist.
So the reason that he wants this crazy bastardized version of the word truth out
there is that he can say Christianity is true and it's true that it's raining outside.
I did not realize he was religious.
The best I can tell.
So whether or not, I mean, he also didn't AMA a couple of days ago and that's why
he was back on Harris' subreddit.
You know, the top question was like, maybe I'll just find it so I don't sound
disingenuous.
Give me just one second here.
Like a lot of his answers to me end up feeling like a word salad.
Like you didn't say anything.
I think that that's the one thing that I really dislike about his presentation as well.
So like, you know, Harris can put across an at least coherent idea in a few minutes.
And it's entirely plausible that there are ideas out there that are too complex to get
across in less than eight hours.
But I mean, that sounds a lot like I'm suspicious of that because that sounds like,
you know, hey, put up this huge upfront investment.
I mean, you can explain the benefits of something as complex as rationality in just a few minutes.
A few sentences gets across the general point, right?
If you need more than a few hours to explain your position, I wonder if it's too convoluted.
So anyway, the top, the top question on the AMA was, Dr. Peterson,
you've claimed that the atrocities of Nazi Germany came out of a loss of belief in God.
However, only about 1.5% of Germans in 1939 claims to lack religious belief,
and many of the anti-Semitic beliefs propagated by the Nazis were inspired by those
Christian figures like Martin Luther.
How can you explain the populist spread of Nazism in Germany as a result of atheism,
when historical facts do not suggest such a conclusion?
I remember that that was the top voted answer when I looked and he hadn't answered it yet,
but it looks like he answered it about an hour and a half in.
And he says, he says, Nazism and atheism was an atheist doctrine.
So was Marxism.
Well, I mean, Marxism was, but Nazism certainly wasn't.
So I kind of agree.
But to him, I think he has to say it is because anything's quote,
not religious if you're not doing good.
So by that definition, good Christian Nazis are not religious, but good atheists are religious.
So again, when you can say truth is whatever is quote useful,
then truth is whatever you want and nothing matters and there's no facts.
And so he's just allowed to be the arbiter that says they weren't religious,
despite them wearing in God with us on their belt buckles and Hitler's famous
what God, God stand or he had he opened.
He had this big thing that he would say during his speeches, some God related quote.
Okay, it's not coming to me.
But like, so despite all that, and despite, you know, the the church is,
you know, commemorating Hitler's birthday and stuff.
You can sell that wasn't religion.
No, no, that couldn't have been because they were doing the wrong thing.
No, no, real religion is people doing the right thing.
So, you know, you know, when you when you give money to the poor, you're being religious.
I mean, that's assuming I give money to the poor though.
But I'm grabbing an atheist.
So I don't know.
I don't know if we have to keep all this in there if it's a really good
conversation starter.
But the reason they brought it up is because I think David's super intelligent
and he convinced me that I'm missing something.
Right.
So that's the weird thing that there is a fair number of really intelligent people
in the rationalist community who seem to be really taken by this guy.
And I don't get what I'm missing.
First thing I need to do is finish reading Scott Alexander's review of
Peterson's book, 12 something or other.
Even Scott Alexander seemed kind of smitten by him.
And I was like, this is so weird.
Yeah, at least Alexander, I think has the he's like the
was it that Aristotle quote that is the mark of an intelligent person that they
can entertain an idea without believing it.
Yes.
Yes.
So I think he did me of that.
He really is.
I mean, he even talks in the beginning of that that essay is somebody insane
shit that Peterson said and he's like, well, running past all that this book
actually has some cool stuff in it.
But he's like the one person I know that they can do that.
Right.
I remember near the end of the lesser on community,
someone made a post just a whole bunch of rationalist commenters walk into a
coffee shop, right?
And what what they do with that exactly?
I don't know.
It was it was they walk into the coffee shop and there's someone there saying
that this coffee was made with the blood of some children somewhere.
And so Grun goes and thinks, how can I do this and sets up a very elaborate
self-blinded test as how he can test which coffee is it that has the
children's blood and which one isn't?
And it was just typically perfect Grun, right?
And Scott Alex.
And it was just, you know, kind of a caricature of each of the big commenters
on the boards.
And Scott Alexander's was, Yavain thinks about this for a while, makes a long
impassioned post about why it's a good thing to drink coffee made with the
blood of children and ends it with, I'm doing all this to strongman this
position as strong as good as I can before I come back tomorrow and just
rip it into tiny pieces because it deserves to be ripped apart and he leaves
the coffee shop and everyone's like, let's drink the blood of children.
This is awesome.
You meant steel man, not straw man, right?
I mean, did I say straw man?
Yeah, I meant steel man like he's really steel manning it so it goes down
forever, but the lesson everyone takes from it is drinking the blood of
children is great.
That's awesome.
I think that's that's a good I think Alexander is one of those people who
can argue very convincingly for just about anything.
Well, because I mean, he does, he's great.
No, I think I like it.
So yeah, I just brought that up because that's what was on my mind today.
So it wasn't exactly something I can point out with a link, but I'm wondering if
like, Pearson says nutty as I think he is, or if I'm totally missing something.
And if there is, there's something that you can point me to that's way less
than eight hours of my time, right?
If there's a 30, I mean, you know, every insane thing that Harris says,
I can point you to something that you can read in 10 minutes,
and that gives you his full position on it.
It's, I don't know, is it, you know, I sure of any ideas that take more than
several hours to like convey?
Like, it's one thing to like fully understand it to the point where,
you know, you can build it from scratch, you know, a la Feynman, but you know,
my counterpoint to David when he mentioned that was like, I could explain the
like history of the universe in 15 minutes, right?
Like granted, you can build the universe from scratch from that explanation,
but you could get the overview.
I don't know, there's, I mean,
Eleazar said once that he had to write the sequences in order to,
in order to convince people that AI is an actual problem,
because there was just so much inferential distance between where the world was,
that he had to explain, you know, reams and reams of stuff,
and he managed to do it in a entertaining way that made you want to keep reading it,
you know, and he did his job.
I don't know, he, maybe he could have said it in less, but
the sequences were kind of a masterpiece of crossing
that inferential divide and giving people all the information they need.
I don't know if it could have been done in less,
but I think the case for artificial intelligence safety could be made in less.
Yeah.
Getting people to believe it is different.
Right.
Right.
So just getting people to know what the fuck you're talking about
shouldn't take that long.
I mean, I think you could come across that in an hour.
No.
Well, I mean, I've been able to summarize the AI thing in a few sentences before.
Yeah, yeah, same.
I mean, at parties, whether or not they believe the conclusion is different,
but at least I can lay out my argument in just a few minutes.
And I'm suspicious of somebody that says,
my position is too complex to do that.
It will take me eight hours to explain to you what my position is.
And at the end, I hope you took good notes because,
you know, you don't have to listen to the whole thing again.
So, I mean, I've heard both the positions for why, you know, it's,
it might be important to research racial differences and for why we shouldn't do that,
or at the very least never talk about it in public with people who aren't already trained
in this sort of, in this field.
And I think they're both good points.
And I don't know which way I come down on it personally,
but they were both explained to me in the matter of minutes, you know.
And that's a fairly touchy subject, right?
Yeah, I don't really know where to go there.
So, I'm trying to be as generous as possible because,
you know, I keep calling out David,
but he was the guy I was talking to when he's been on the show,
so I think he's okay with it.
He had said,
I don't think you're engaging the principle of charity here.
And I said, you know what?
I tried.
Well, no, no, but I wasn't.
I think I stopped and I was like, you know what?
You're totally right.
I heard some insane shit.
I don't know how anybody that is worth listening to could say these things,
but I'm totally willing to grant that there's things.
I mean, I've seen memes of Harris saying
that we should nuke the Middle East, right?
