So, like what she doesn't say, you know.
Well, I went into Peterson's charitable because
I had heard a few good things about him already.
And the first thing I saw of him was this awesome interview
where he just showed calm and respect
and basic like rationalist judo on this TV reporter person.
So, I was like, this guy's awesome.
And that's why I went on to keep giving him second chances
and watch a couple hours of his stuff.
And before I finally gave up with like this guy's incoherent.
So, I think maybe the way my best preferred outcome here would be
if anyone is like, oh yeah, Peterson's awesome.
Check out this 30 minutes or less video or this short essay or something.
But I don't want to read a 600-page book or watch an eight-hour lecture.
Right.
Just because, I mean, that's it.
Maybe it sounds lazy, but it's, I don't think, I think that's fair.
I can't spend eight hours engaging everything that I think is dumb.
Just let me rephrase that.
Or no, that's, that's roughly what I'm trying to say.
I can't spend that much time on everything that I'm trying to consider
because there's too many ideas.
I can't spend that much time on everything, right?
So, yeah, if anyone has like a cool short thing to send me, I'd love to see it.
But I'm trying to see what's going on here which way the dust will settle.
So, I think I'll put my card in the table.
Cool.
Otherwise, let us thank a person.
And thank Kyle, our sound engineer for, as always, making the sound awesome.
So, seriously, yeah, Kyle, you fucking rock.
Yeah.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, we got to think of the people that did our music.
Oh, yes.
Thank you.
I made a note to you, Josh, that we forgot to do with the last couple episodes.
So, big shout out to our, we've got different composers for the intro and the outro.
I'm assuming you have them down.
So, David did some of the music for Methods of Rationality, right?
Yes.
David did the fight scene with Sprout.
And he, he did one other piece, which is not coming to me now.
I'm really sorry, David.
But he's done, he's done some, at least two pieces for the Methods of Rationality podcast.
I'm trying to think of other original scores.
I know you credited them all during the show.
Anyway, yeah, let us know which one it was, and you'll get a shout out there.
Thank you to David Greer for composing our intro music.
And to the Samariki Project for composing our outro music.
The, whatever that rock and roll one was supposed to be like a three episode placeholder,
and it ended up lasting like two years.
So, I'm loving this.
I've listened to the episodes that have this coming on there, and it's
more relaxing and chill.
I think it totally hits more of the vibe I'm going for.
So, excellent.
Yeah, love it.
And Kyler Sand Engineer, another shout out.
And to our Patreon supporter for this episode.
This episode's Patreon supporter is,
thank you to Andrew Morosco for being our Patreon supporter for this week.
Well, I mean, he's our Patreon supporter every week,
but he's the one we specifically thank this week.
Yes, thank you.
This episode, rather.
Yeah, this episode, yeah.
It's a whole thing.
We're all, you know, time's confusing.
Yes.
Anyway, thanks Andrew.
It makes a big difference for us.
And thanks to everyone who helped spread the word,
tell their friends, leave into iTunes reviews, anything like that.
Yeah, no, yeah.
It makes a big difference.
Thanks a lot, guys.
It helps a lot.
Okay.
I think that's everything.
I think that's everything.
All right.
Have a good night, everyone.
We'll be back in two weeks.
Yeah, yeah.
