have a significant impact on my life.
Let me dig more.
I want a lot more of that.
So yeah, that's when I started digging in.
Interesting.
That's really cool.
How do you, at least you were taking the blood tests recently,
how do you get these blood tests done?
Well, I guess you have a team of doctors.
But assuming that one didn't have a team of doctors,
can I just go into a clinic somewhere
and ask them to draw my blood and send it somewhere?
Or how does that work?
So in the US, it's kind of complicated
because the medical system is pretty screwed up.
I think everyone knows.
So it's a little bit harder, but there
are a number of services that provide online blood testing.
I think the one called Life Extension is pretty good,
despite the kind of weird and over-selling name.
But you essentially go and buy those online.
You pick out the list of tests that you'd like to do.
They send you the kits.
Or I think maybe you have a local phlebotomist
who can just draw your blood into the tubes
and send it off to a lab.
And that's how it gets done.
So in the US, it's a little more complicated.
Most labs will not do stuff without a doctor's prescription
and also will be super expensive.
Because the way it usually works in the US
is the doctor prescribes one test for some specific disease.
And of course, the insurance company
wants to bill $600 for that one test,
even though the marginal cost of doing it is $0.50.
So essentially, you have to just look out for specialists.
But there are companies that already cater to biohackers.
Or people who are just interested in preventative health.
The bigger challenge is interpreting the data.
So some of it is easy to interpret, but a lot of it is not.
And there's not very many doctors out there
who are kind of taking this proactive approach towards help
management.
How much of a, well, you said the B-12 one was a major help.
That was the first major intervention that you did?
I wouldn't call it a major intervention,
but it was a noticeable benefit.
So one thing that I guess the body is a very complicated system
and there's a great deal we don't know about it.
And one wouldn't expect to have,
given that it's a system that was designed by evolution,
you wouldn't expect it to have a lot of easy hacks
that are so noticeable that you immediately feel better.
But I've done a number of interventions
that were noticeable for my well-being.
So one is B-12.
Another one is Adderall Slush and Daffodil.
So these are definitely not placebo.
So I started out, actually, the first thing
I've ever tried that had just like a psychoactive clearly
effect on me is when I tried Adderall in college.
And after I had to write lots of business school essays,
like 15, and then I realized 12 or 14 hours later
that they were all done and I still wanted to work.
And I went home and ironed my socks
and sorted them by color.
So yeah, that was the point when I was like, whoa,
this little thing had such a significant impact
on my ability to work.
And after that, I just took Adderall for a while,
realized that it had some negative side effects
that I found kind of annoying.
The biggest two were that it kind of made me anxious.
And it also, it made it very easy to work on anything,
but perhaps not necessarily on something
that's worth working on.
So sometimes I would go off on a tangent
and write some email extremely well
when the email didn't fucking matter at all.
And I would spend an hour and a half writing
this amazing email.
So I switched from Adderall to Medafinal,
which is a very nice meds that there's
a good medical research base that
suggests that it has no material side effects
and that it has an impact on human cognitive abilities.
So essentially one of the very, very few interventions
that appear to boost executive function
in healthy humans that are not sleep deprived.
So I think that I take it every day.
Oh, wow.
I've heard that taking it every day
can be harmful, start to add up to bad effects.
You don't find anything negative?
I don't.
I think it's hard to.
So I've actually, I've taken Adderall and Medafinal
for about eight years.
So like seven years of Adderall every day.
And then I managed to, so I was starting
to find those kind of, especially the anxiety effects.
They were unpleasant.
And so I decided to just ditch it and switch to Medafinal.
And I don't think I see any issues.
Medafinal in general is a very gentle med,
unless I guess you take lots and lots and lots of it.
But I don't think I've seen any credible, credible evidence
that it was harmful or that it could be harmful if you take
it all the time.
I imagine it probably becomes a little bit less effective
if you take it all the time.
But I don't think, like I find myself very productive,
even though I take it every day.
So whatever it is, it's not broken.
That's what I've heard too, is that it wears,
that a lot of people have tapering off effects
where they get reduced benefit from taking it every day.
I'll take it on occasion.
And I think the last, most recent time was, but Thursday.
And yeah, it's a really profound effect.
But it's not like jittery, like you mentioned, like Adderall.
It's just stuff.
Exactly.
So I found that it's an effect that's
kind of like your head is just more clear, constantly.
And it doesn't cause anxiety.
And it's just like it's a reasonably nice effect.
But by the way, one thing that's important to mention
is one of the biggest challenges in all of this personalized
medicine and biohacking areas is that different people react
very differently to many compounds and to many meds.
Partially for genetic reasons.
So it turns out that our liver, which obviously metabolizes
medicines, is one of the most heterogeneous areas
of the human genome.
And there's a good reason for that,
because you would want to, if a tribe of humans
found new berries or mushrooms and ate them,
you don't want all of them to die.
You want it to be a very, very diversified kind of part
of the genome.
But the consequence of that is that different people metabolize
meds in very, very different ways.
So my favorite example is codeine,
which is a tranquilizer, essentially a painkiller,
rather, that gets metabolized into morphine by the liver.
And so some people have the gene that
have many copies of the gene that metabolizes codeine
into morphine.
And so they take some codeine that a doctor prescribed them,
and they get really fucking high, really high.
And for, like, 10 minutes.
And they call the doctor and say, doctor, that was awesome.
Can I have more?
It's only worked for, like, a little bit.
And the doctor writes in his notes,
potential drug addicts don't give any more morphine
derivatives.
And then someone else might have no copies of the gene.
And so the codeine just goes into the bloodstream
as an inert molecule that doesn't do anything.
And the guy calls the doctor and says, doc, doc,
this thing is not working.
Can you give me more?
And the doctor makes that same note.
How the guy's a drug addict.
And this is just one illustration of how primitive
modern medicine is, and also how heterogeneous we are as humans,
and how hard it is to build scalable solutions out
of personalized medicine.
So we've covered the neotropics once before.
And I think we've many times said the great values
of getting good sleep and exercise.
So I wanted to go a little deeper into the other things
then.
I think right now, the biggest thing that would stop me
is just not knowing how to get started on all of this.
Like, what would you recommend for someone
who wants to get something like this initiated?
You took that question right off my listing, Yash, way to go.
Yeah, I wrote a couple of big articles around this.
So I'll just send you the links to my blog.
And you can read those.
They're like 30, 45 minutes just to read the articles.
And it includes all my tests and all that stuff.
So you can read that just to get a sense of the details.
But I would definitely start with sleep.
So sleep is one that has a very significant impact.
And there's a number of things
that most people do wrong with sleep.
So the biggest ones are, first of all,
shifting sleep time from day to day.
So the reason that you don't want to do this is because,
so sleep is driven by two specific cycles in our brains.
One is the sleep pressure cycle,
which is that when you wake up,
a protein called adenosine starts accumulating in your brain.
And that's actually the protein that gets inactivated
by coffee, which is why coffee staves off sleep.
So the more adenosine appears in the brain,
