or if you want to achieve something really, really major
that a lot of other people want to achieve,
it's really, you've got to understand how your body works
and figure out how to tune it
or you're running the risk of basically becoming obsolete
because other people will do it
and the returns in society are going to consolidate
to those people and you don't want to be
off of that bandwagon.
If you were to say get these tests done
and run a 23andMe and go through an interpreter,
do you think like one weekend of sitting down
for 12 hours a day for two days in a row would be enough
or is this like a multiple weekends long sort of project?
Good question.
I really like how you asked that.
I think that in one, I think in two days
of intensive focus, you will understand a lot.
So the first day, you're just gonna read
a whole bunch of stuff and it'll all feel very confusing
and overwhelming and then, you know,
you could sleep on that for several days
and then come back to it again.
And so I think it's more of a one weekend,
we'll get something interesting.
There's specifically in terms of 23andMe,
there's not that many genes that are very well known
in terms of their effect.
So the one that I have a mutation in
is a fairly well known one.
There's other ones, there's some that are specifically
like introduce significant cancer risks
or something like that.
There's one particular gene that introduces
or reduces Alzheimer's risk, that's quite important,
but not that many genes are well mapped out.
If you, I think that's what's more actionable
is if you take, if you do lots of blood tests.
So, and really test out your lipid profile.
So kind of how much heart disease risk you have,
your hormone profile.
So, you know, you might not want to do something
without a professional, but at least you'll know
that there's something potentially interesting.
Your glucose metabolism profile.
By the way, all of this is also listed in my article.
So you'll be able to see kind of all the tests
that I've done and you can just copy that.
Oh, perfect.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
And that's the, that you can definitely get value
out of in a weekend because you're gonna find
that for example, you might have some lipid screw up.
And, you know, that means that you should be more cautious
about things like heart disease risk over time
or you're gonna find out that you have
really shitty vitamin D, which most people have
in the northern hemisphere anyway.
Well, I guess not in the latitude that you guys
and I live at.
Yeah.
So, yeah, things like that.
You're definitely going to find actionable,
useful stuff in a weekend off digging into the data.
And to get that data, like you said,
find a Google like a phlebotomist,
get a bunch of blood draws and then take them to a lab.
Will the lab do it without a doctor's prescription?
So there are some people who will do it.
So if you Google these guys called Life Extension Foundation,
they're a website that sells fairly high quality supplements
and they also sell blood tests.
So for example, I'm just gonna Google this real quick.
So let's say I'm assisting Life Extension.
Anyway, I can't quite find it,
but if you just go on their website
and check out the different tests that,
oh yeah, there we go.
So you go to lifeextension.com, blood tests,
and then you can see, for example,
let's see, B12 status panel.
And for 50 bucks, they will test several things
related to your vitamin B12 metabolism
or for, let's say, for 70 bucks,
they will test your free testosterone
and total testosterone.
So it's still, it's not cheap,
but it's much cheaper than lab testing.
And you can just buy that online.
I'm not sure exactly how the blood draw stuff works,
but there's phlebotomists.
I don't know, in San Francisco,
I had a phlebotomist who would come and draw my blood
for like 30 bucks or whatever tests I wanted.
And they would just come to my apartment
and do it in the morning.
So it's other countries, it's much easier.
So in Russia, I get, I think like 150 different biomarkers
tested for a total of, I think like by now 400 bucks.
450 bucks.
So in the US, it's gonna be more expensive,
but you can definitely get a lot of this stuff done.
Excellent.
I personally take NAD plus every day supplements.
Do you, have you looked into those at all?
Do you know anything about it?
I take NAD plus.
So I think with supplements,
my philosophy is basically as follows.
I actually, I take a shit load of supplements.
I take, I think 60 or 70 pills a day.
Holy shit.
Really drawing that inspiration from Ray Kurzweil.
Yeah.
That's not including the prescription drugs.
So prescription drugs, I think I take about 12 or 13.
But with supplements, I mean, my philosophy is pretty simple.
So the most important thing is to make sure
that the supplement cannot be harmful.
And certain supplements like iron supplements
or calcium supplements, it is possible for them
to be harmful, although they could also be
situationally useful depending on what you have,
what you have going.
But most supplements are definitely not harmful
because, you know, taking, I don't know, green tea extract
or, you know, vitamin D12 or omega three fish oil,
you know, those things are mostly food,
just concentrated food and you're making sure
that you get plenty, plenty of them.
And I imagine that probably half of the stuff I take
is completely useless, but I don't know exactly
which half it is and some of them are plausible.
It's plausible that they are useful
and none of them are likely to be harmful.
As long as, you know, you buy them
from very highly reputable high quality suppliers
and you're careful and, you know, you make sure
that you're not taking something
that is actually going to be bad for you.
So I kind of take the philosophy of like,
hey, you know, I'll collect the potential upside
plus I get placebo value.
I think placebos are fucking awesome.
So because you have no downside, you just have upside
and you just have to believe in it.
So yeah, that's like a fairly well-reproduced effect
in medicine, although some people challenge its existence,
but, you know, it's just so with supplements,
I think most of them, I don't know how useful they are,
but I still take them because they could be useful.
Okay.
Do you got anything, Stephen?
So my goals basically are to feel more alert
and more cognitively engaged throughout the day.
So I've been the last several months,
I've been going to the gym a few hours a week,
working on better sleep,
but that's really what I wanted to ask you about.
So I historically am always a terrible sleeper.
I've got a nice bed, comfortable pillow.
I keep doing it at a good temperature.
I do all the, what I feel like the external things
I can do, but I sleep poorly every, basically every night.
There's a few nights a year where I wake up
and feel like, oh man, I feel great.
Most of the time I go to bed tired and wake up tired.
So like, do you have any, have you discovered anything
for people who try to have good sleep hygiene
but sleep poorly nonetheless?
So there's, I think several things I would look into.
One is, first of all, just make sure that you measure it.
So by like, I really like Aura, O-U-R-A.
It's a ring type device that tracks your sleep
by essentially flashing light through the thin part
of the skin under the finger and figuring out stuff to do
with blood pressure, sorry, not blood pressure,
heart rate, heart rate variability, et cetera.
So that's just a useful tool to really figure out
what is going on, whether you're waking up a bunch
of times at night and you don't remember
or you're not getting enough of a particular sleep stage
or something else, that's the first thing.
Another thing I would consider is going to a sleep lab.
So a sleep lab is basically where you go and sleep
in the hospital and they will hook you up
to a bunch of equipment like those caps on your head
and oxygen sensors and stuff like that.
And sometimes people find that they have a sleep disorder,
for example, sleep apnea, which is a condition
where people, essentially people's oxygen supply
gets a little bit disrupted at night
and it makes them wake up, like have a tiny awakening
and then fall back asleep without noticing,
but it's disrupting the sleep stages.
So I would test for that.
And then after that, I would kind of keep track
with the ordering and experiment.
So try not eating after like 3 p.m.
Try meditating before bed
