my dad wasn't atheist.
My mom's kind of like, you know, whatever.
And so despite the conditioning of being in this religion, I broke atheist anyway,
as did both my brothers.
It seems the genes kind of overwhelmed the education part of that.
Or it could be that they weren't thorough enough in their indoctrination.
That's possible.
You don't want to live through it.
I mean, did they seem like they were being super sincere all the time or did they
just like go through the motions?
I'm not sure if I would be able to tell the difference, but it certainly seemed
like they were sincere.
Like I was legit shocked when my dad came out as an atheist, secret atheist.
That's yeah.
That's super surprising.
I wonder what value they thought they were giving you by raising you that way.
Oh, you know, community and all the, all the standard, aren't there less
ostracizing communities like the Unitarian church or something?
Well, and all the general religious propaganda that you need religion to
teach your kids morals and all that other stuff that people didn't know any
better until fairly recently, you know.
Until 20 years ago.
Yeah, that I wonder if so, you know, there that goes to his point, though,
like if you want more rationalist in the world, you need people who are
rationalists propagating their genes, because if you try to teach someone
who's innately not that way, it won't stick.
I don't know.
I suspect that religiosity is more nurture than nature, but I mean, you have
a good anecdote that that is counter evidence.
So yeah, but I mean, on the other hand, I still have that evangelical fervor
that was that was brought to me by my religion.
It's just it has been usurped into the into evangelizing for atheism and
rationalism, depending on what period of my life I was in, you know,
like when I was in my teens and twenties, I was a huge crusader for atheism.
Yeah, I went through that phase too.
And then I realized that it was a lot of the same arguments and it wasn't
it lost its fun pretty quickly.
But I was bouncing back from a very mild religious upbringing.
So I was bouncing back from a very serious one.
I can imagine being way in it, way further in it for longer.
Oh, shit.
I had something that's going to say about, uh, well, I had something.
Let's just pretend I said something really smart there.
Cool, Stephen, that was amazing.
Thank you.
You have changed my mind.
I will have all the children now.
Perfect.
Now it wasn't about, it wasn't about procreating.
I can't remember what it was, but it was, uh, you know, oh, I don't know what I was
going to say, you, you guys also, you and your brothers became, you know,
atheists in the last 20, 30 years, uh, like the last generation or so.
But atheism as a whole has been going way up during that time too.
Right.
So that seems to be more counter evidence that it was genetically based.
It's true.
Yeah.
Cause really non religiousities on the, been on the upswing for decades anyway.
Um, and you know, I think even just 20, 30 years ago was some thought, some sub
5% or something and now it's up to almost 20%.
Yeah.
Um,
that is, that is faster than, than breeding atheists could account for.
It's just, I think propagation of ideas.
Yeah.
Um, and that's, you know, the more, I see things like rationality and, and, you
know, critical thinking and open minded discussion of ideas being more popular
going forward, cause that just seems to be more required to have a life in the
first world.
Yeah.
Um, you're interacting with people that, you know, didn't grow up in your bubble
every day.
Um, so whether, you know, it's at work or a lot of people, you know, there's a
correlation between non religiosity and liberalism and higher education.
Cause you know, you go away from home.
Typically you're not surrounded by the same safety nets or bubble walls or
whatever that you were raised in.
I've heard them referred to as lightning rods.
You could hit struck by the, the lightning of new knowledge and realization, but
then you have this community to ground you where all that gets channeled
through you and you renew your faith.
And so if you are taken away from that, you don't have that lightning rod
anymore and when the lightning hits you, it blows the roof off your mind.
Man, I can dig it.
Yeah, that might be it, but anyway, I predict this will go on the way up, but
whether or not it's happening fast enough to save the world, I don't know.
So, uh, probably mention this at some point, but Jesus didn't have any
children and yet his influence is huge.
So not necessarily, you don't necessarily have to have children to impact the future.
That's true.
Just be a great cult leader.
Yeah.
Oh, shit, Yudkowsky.
Oh, no, no, no.
Scott Alexander is the one true Caliph, sir.
I don't know.
He, he's less of a like upfront public figure.
Yes.
And I think less charismatic, that's what I was going to use a little bit.
I mean, well, no, that's a good word for it.
That's what I was thinking of, but he, it's not, I think he's less breaking.
He's not doing a lot of like new ground, new breaking new ground.
He's digging awesome trenches in this new ground that's been broken.
And he's, and he's kicking tons of ass there, but, um, I don't know.
Going more for depth rather than breadth.
Maybe he also covers more topics than, than the sequences or something.
But I wonder if he'd be half as successful without less wrong, having been a precursor.
Yeah.
Right.
So I suspect not.
Well, and as early training, you know, that too, he was one of the first
rationalists on the boards there.
Yeah, that's true as your vein.
Yeah.
I mean, get on, get online and, you know, I think my advice would be if you're
trying to increase rationalists, get online and proselytize through whatever
medium you want, um, grab a microphone like we do, uh, talk to, you know, if
you're, want to make your life out of it, you know, run, um, you know, some sort
of an education thing, whether it's like a, I don't know, work at CIFAR or
something, right?
Yeah.
Um, I think, you know what?
I think a lot of it comes down to comparative advantage for some people
having kids is one of the best things they could do in part because they're
good at it and they enjoy it.
Whereas for people like us, we would not be good at it and we would not enjoy it.
And our, our skills are probably better put to other uses.
Yeah.
That's probably about right.
That said, you know, if you're going to have kids, I steal every incentive to
make them, you know, young little rationalists.
I think it would be awesome, um, you know, I don't know how they'd go through
public school, not being, you know, or being raised to not capitulate to stupid
authority arguments or, you know, if they can't get along with their peers or
something, because their peers are all regular kids, but, um, there's got to be
some way to make that work.
Are you worried that we are drawing, that we have already drawn our bottom line?
Do you remember that post?
Yeah.
Okay.
But what, what line are you thinking that we've drawn?
Well, that we've, we already decided that we don't want kids and we don't want
to accept that raising kids is the best way to go forward with this.
And so now we're making all the arguments that we can find against it, but we
already decided where we want to be and we're trying to get there as opposed to
looking at things the way they actually are.
Now that you pointed it out, I still don't feel that way, given that I don't
want to have kids, what else can I do is I'm raising the question and I'm not
thinking, all right, now that I'm starting, you know, picture picking my life
from scratch, how do I want to do it to maximize this?
But I still also think that if, you know, you're teaching 60 kids a day, you
know, at a college or something and you get through to two of them a semester,
that's still more kids than you could ever have over a few years.
So if that's bottom line thinking, it's not jumping out of me.
All right.
Well, there you have our non-answer.
Thank you for the email though.
It sparked some interesting conversation.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I'm not, if someone's looking for like instructions on what to do, I'm
not even prepared to touch that.
I'm prepared to give, give my thoughts on things, but you can't ask me what you
want, what, what to do with your life, do whatever you feel like doing and then
kick ass at it.
That's my advice.
Yeah.
At this point, Stephen and me went on a 20 minute digression about the Marvel
cinematic universe.
If you would like to hear that, it's up on our Patreon for subscribers.
All right.
Next question.
Okay.
Ah, yes.
Uh, James on our website, the basin conspiracy.com posted in the comments on
the getting schooled episode, I feel like it was overlooked that the reason
charter schools exist is to privatize schools to divert, is to privatize schools
to divert money from poor minorities and unions specifically.
The more the system is dicked around, the worse it is, and the more they can cut
slash pocket the money from it.
This starved the beast strategy is a well known tactic for conservative pro
business political operators.
So yeah, the claim is charter schools exist specifically to pull money away from
poor and minority groups.
Um, I am not an economist or a school scientist.
I have no idea if that's true.
I could see other compelling arguments being made that like, um, I happen to
live in like an area without great schools and all my kids to go to a great
school and I can provide for that.
So like, that's why I wanted to exist.
Not just to fuck minorities and poor kids, but, um, I can see that it also
does that, but I don't know if that's like the purpose.
I think I kind of want to disagree with him to the point where I think the
opposite is true.
Like if you live, the reason people move to really fancy pricing neighborhoods
is at least 80% of the reason that I've ever heard is because they want their
kids to go to good schools because in America, at least schools are funded by
property taxes.
So you go to the most expensive area you possibly can afford to live in and then
your kids go to the schools there and they get a good education and that that
is kind of what helps fuck the poor schools.
