missiles, but they do certainly have intermediate range missiles that could reach Europe, Iran,
you know, the key players that way. And of course, aircraft delivered weapons.
I suspect that their doctrine is very similar to the US doctrine in that
and they actually, we know that they do not have a no first use doctrine. In other words,
they are willing to use nuclear weapons first. They've essentially said as much.
It's one of these things where so it's not just the US, it's just the US and Israel US and Israel.
Yeah. And the only reason I didn't mention them at first is because technically,
Israel has not declared itself to be a nuclear power. So
we, you know, we're, you know, they have them. I mean, there's no, and what they do is they play
their goal is what's, and it's a tactic that I have qualms with, but I understand why it's used.
It's called strategic ambiguity. They don't want to get tied up in all the treaties around
nuclear weapons. And if they said they had them, that triggers all kinds of stuff with the UN and
with various treaty conventions that they don't want to do. But I think it's an important point
to say that, you know, Israeli officials have actually said, well, if we had nuclear weapons
and a large Arab army came to attack us, we would use them. So, you know, that to me is
as solid as US doctrinal statements of saying that we would use a nuclear weapon in the event of XYZ.
So dumb question is a use of a single tactical nuclear weapon. Does that
break the seal as it were and constitute a nuclear weapon? And therefore the countries
like Russia and China that did sign the non-first use, that is a, that was a first use even though
it wasn't a huge one. Yeah, I think it does. For one thing, I've heard it said by people
who really need to go back to school and study military strategy and tactics, if I can be so
blunt as to say this. You know, nuclear weapons make a tremendous difference on the battlefield.
You know, if you, for instance, you could concentrate, say, a brigade or division level
force to assault and you look, for instance, look at what the Israelis did with Gaza. They
concentrated, you know, several hundred thousand troops there in a very limited area to attack Gaza.
Well, if Hamas has the law, somebody had a credible nuclear deterrent, you might not want to do that
because that would be a prime target to use a tactical nuclear weapon because to wipe out
that formation. So it means you have to disperse your forces. It means you have to what's called
mop up, mop as a military technical term of using protective gear. It really changes the
whole pace of warfare. So that's one aspect of it. The other is once you cross the line, okay,
so you use a 10 kiloton to attack an air base. Well, then I go, well, I'm going to use a 25 to
take out a port. And then you go, well, you just destroyed a port. We're going to destroy this
factory yet happens to be sitting in a city, but it's important to your war effort. So we're going
to use a 200 kiloton to wipe out that industrial center. Well, now you've just escalated pretty
quickly into hitting strategic city targets. And, you know, so yeah, that once you break the seal,
as you said, it opens the whole range of it's very, it's very hard to show. And this was what the
exercises in the 80s, and I hope they're still doing them now. That's what those exercise should
when you have two guys sitting around playing gaming it out. Once somebody uses a nuke,
you start going back and forth and it escalates. And that's why I keep highlighting your words
and your experience on this, because all the other things that we are working on and concerned
about biodiversity and plastics and global heating and the energy transition and sustainability,
all of that work goes out the window if that seal is broken, because then we're in a different world.
Yeah, we are. And okay, one or two, even a, you know, a few nuclear weapons, the environmental
effects are local. You know, we've talked about this in the past. You know, you start to get
right, but the economic effects are a huge domino and it crashes the entire global system of
international relations and governance, because once you cross that line, there's no more taboo.
Well, then why and you know, you mentioned Israel, one of the scary things is let's say that Israel
gets desperate, suppose has block comes in and starts moving in or and you start lose, they
start losing territory and they decide they need to use a tactical nuclear weapon to stop it.
How does Russia react? How does China react? Do they decide, look, these guys cross the line,
we have to take them out to make a point that nobody should ever use a nuclear weapon again.
You know, how does the US step up? It just the whole thing unravels. And again, I want to be
really clear here, because this is something that came up after our last podcast. I think that
Israel would be very reluctant to use a nuclear weapon, except, except under two
circumstances. The first is desperation. They're being overrun. And they did in 73. They had,
we believe, three nuclear weapons at that time. And there's a good authority from internal
documentation that they had them prepped and ready to use when their armies were being defeated.
So I think that, but so under desperation, I think they would. I think they might against
Iran. If they thought Iran was on the verge of getting a nuclear weapon, I think they might
in cooperation with the US. I don't think, I think that they would use one in desperation,
regardless of what the US said against Iran, they might do it in cooperation with us kind of to
make a point, but also to ensure Iran never got nuclear weapons. Those are low. That second one's,
I think, a fairly low probability scenario. I don't want folks to think that the Israelis are,
you know, foaming at the mouth and have their finger on the switch. I think it would,
but I think that their calculus is such that there is a very real risk in certain circumstances
of them going nuclear. Thank you. Just to clarify my previous point, I didn't think that a few
tactical nukes would have a huge impact and destroy the environment, but I think it would,
because of the ripple effect, destroy the environmental movement.
I actually think it would. I think you're right. You just left a step out. I think
a few nuclear weapons would ultimately destroy the environment because I have a hard time seeing
how it stays limited. If it's between the US and China or US and Russia, I have a hard time
seeing how it stays limited. India, Pakistan, or Israel, and some potential Iranian exchange,
where you're talking a dozen or so, yeah, that could stay limited just because of the physical
numbers. But I think once you get the major powers involved, I don't see how it stays limited.
And this is why I've had you back, you know, with only two weeks in between because there's
so much going on. Okay, so what should people listening to this watching this and in the halls
of power in our nation or in the world be thinking about and working towards, given the implicit
unbelievable gravity of the risks that you are outlining here?
Well, I think there's two aspects to that. I think the first is doesn't involve nuclear weapons at all.
Americans need to be much more engaged, aware, conscious of what our government is doing in the
realm of foreign policy. We need to push hard for our elected leaders to participate in global
governance structures. Yeah, it's inconvenient. It doesn't always go the way we want to, but
the alternatives are what we're seeing now, chaos. So that is the first big step is, you know,
we're not always going to get our way. We can't always be the hegemon. We can't, we're not going
to be the world's hyperpower and politicians that say that need to be voted out of office,
quite frankly. I don't care which party they're in, and they're in both parties, unfortunately.
We need to have people who see international affairs first through the prism of diplomacy.
And yeah, you're gonna have to deal with unsafety characters, but it's got to be diplomacy first,
not diplomacy as an option. Then you can start to talk about what kind of a military and what
kind of doctrine we need to fulfill that goals. What are the real threats? What are the real risks?
Do we really need things like more bigger nuclear weapons, or are we really secure
with the weapons mix that we have now? Should we be abrogating these treaties, or should we be
engaging with other countries? You know, we dealt with the Soviet Union,
the evil empire. Ronald Reagan negotiated with the evil empire. In a modern Russia, modern China,
are, despite the rhetoric, nowhere near the level of ideological confrontation we had with the Soviet
Union. And if Ronald Reagan can talk to, you know, Yuri Andropov, my God, I mean, we can certainly
talk to Putin or Xi because they're in a different class, in my view. So again, what can you do first
Don't just let foreign policy be the realm of experts. You know, be aware of what your country
is doing. Push for rational foreign policy that involves diplomacy. And the second is be aware
that we're talking about horrific destruction, not in another country. It can happen here.
Those scenes you're seeing in Gaza, that could be Minneapolis or Savannah or Atlanta or whatever.
And again, think about it, three weeks to just to turn Gaza, northern Gaza into rubble,
18 milliseconds to turn a city into rubble. Thank you in quotes. And I really appreciate your
wisdom and expertise. And I'm hoping that we don't have another podcast for many years.
Well, you know, we could always you could make me cohost so that whenever one of your
guests says something, I can chip it and go, wait a minute, it's worse than that.
You could be the systems ecology. Who's the guy on Johnny Carson show that would always laugh?
I forgot his name. Oh gosh. Ed McMahon, Ed McMahon of the podcast.
I'm glad we can still laugh about it. But thank you. I called you this morning to wonder what
was going on with this Russian news. And here we are having a conversation about it to be continued,
my friend. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. And I appreciate you doing the state because I know
a lot of your listeners may look at and go, you know, this is an ecology, energy, economics.
But as you said, and I really want to emphasize, none of that matters if we blow ourselves up.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of the Great Simplification,
please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit thegreatsimplification.com
for more information on future releases.
