it's been 20 years since we've fired off a nuke. We've learned a lot. We've done a lot of simulations.
We've were developing these new classes of weapons. You know, they, we think they work
theoretically. We've done lots of computer models and simulations, but are you really that confident
a sophisticated design is going to work? So if you go back to Oppenheimer, and that's actually
a really interesting case because the little boy bomb, the uranium bomb, very simple device,
very simple design. Everybody had, they did subcritical tests. Everybody was so sure that
that would work. And we also didn't have a lot of uranium at the time that they were willing
to risk using the first one and dropping it. But the plutonium bomb, we tested much more
sophisticated design, much more complex design. And so as you increase complexity of the weapon
system, you start to reach a point where you need, and plus we're talking high energy physics
under extreme conditions. And so, you know, we've learned a lot about nuclear weapons during the
testing, but we've now got a lot more sophisticated systems. And so if you put your Dr. Strangelove
hat on, you go, well, of course, we've got to test these things to make sure they work right. And
who knows what we'll learn, you know, and you can even argue, hey, you know, we could learn
something to solve our energy crisis by resuming nuclear testing. And you can say that with a
straight face. In the meantime, it's good for GDP. Sure. How many do we need, though, there's
like 12 or 13,000 warheads, 100 of them would do in our entire civilization. Why do we need more?
It's just so maddening to me. Well, and that's an interesting thing. Because if you look at
the Pentagon press release from the 27th, it makes a big point, we're not changing the number of
weapons. Okay. And if, you know, nuclear weapons are so complex, if I can use a brief analogy with
if you've got, say, a manual bolt action rifle, and you've got 10 bullets, okay, that's got a
certain risk level and mean something. If you have 1000, okay, that means a little bit more. If you've
got 10,000, you know, what's the point, you know, you can only fire, you know, 10 or 15 rounds a
minute, that's a certain point, it's just pointless. But then, ah, what if you've got a semi automatic?
Oh, well, now you can shoot, you know, 80, 100 rounds per minute. You have a full auto, you can
unload a whole magazine in a few seconds. Well, the other piece of it is, what are those bullets?
If it's just a simple lead being solid core, okay, that's maybe you can do target practice,
you can maybe hunt with it a soft point, well, maybe that's better for hunting.
What if it's an armor piercing incendiary bullet? Well, okay, there's not a lot you can do except
blow holes and things and set them on fire. So if my next door neighbor has 1000 rounds and a
semi automatic rifle, and it's deer season, and I know he hunts every year, I don't care.
If he's got a bolt action rifle with a couple dozen armor piercing incendiary rounds and a
map of all the local gas stations, okay, all of a sudden I'm worried. So the point is,
obviously with nuclear weapons and aircraft and submarines and missiles is a lot more
complicated, but it's the same basic principle. There's two pieces, the number after a certain
point becomes irrelevant. What you care about is what are the capabilities of the bullets?
What's the capability of the gun? So what's the capability of the nuclear weapon itself?
And what's the capability and characteristics of the weapon system, the thing that shoots that
nuke at your desired target? So I'm an energy systems finance ecology guy, and this is not my
area, which is why I'm grateful for your expertise on this, but it sure feels that we're slouching
towards Bethlehem to use a Yeats poem. I don't understand how this is not more widely in the
news, because it seems to me, and please explain, our Russia and the United States are both
de facto becoming more aggressive, more escalatory via this dismantling of the treaties
and these protections that were built consciously 50, 60 years ago against the use of nuclear weapons.
I mean, are we on a really scary path here? Yeah. Without the American public, and I would say
probably without 90% of our elected leaders knowing it, we re-entered a nuclear arms race
with Russia in 2004, 2006, somewhere that timeframe when we withdrew from ABM.
And you can go look at individual decisions in isolation like withdrawal from ABM.
If you look at why we say we did that, it was because, well, Iran, North Korea,
all of these smaller parties are developing missiles that can send chemical or even just
regular old conventional weapons, and we need the ability to shoot them down, and that interferes,
the ABM treaty was interfering with that. Okay. Well, Russia said, look, we agree,
let's renegotiate the treaty and come up with a joint system for dealing with that threat.
But the US, and again, Nate, I'm saying this out of love for this country,
it pisses me off that we come in as, no, we're going to do things our way, and we don't want to
talk to you, and we don't care what you think. And so when you do that, okay, we could get away
with that from the 90s through the 2000s because we were the unipower, we were the strongest
country in the world. We're reaching a point where I don't think we can get away with it.
First off, we never should have done it on ethical grounds, but now, practically, it's
very difficult. So we, you know, we didn't take into account Russia's concerns or China's, for
that matter, they also expressed concerns about it. China was talking about wanting to enter
some of these treaties that were bilateral. They wanted to enter INF and the ABM treaties,
which were just between the US and Russia. But we said, no, we just we're going to dismantle that.
And, you know, part of it, our argument is, well, we don't trust treaties well,
then why do we insist on other countries following their treaty commitments?
You know, it just, it's a mess. Here's another naive question. Is this kind of like the,
the bully who has very high status because he's the strongest guy in the playground,
but then he gets a little older and he's not in the same popular group. And that in order to
maintain our optionality advantage in the world with de-dolarization and stuff going on in the
Middle East and all the bio-physical phase shift, that the only way we can do it is through
military power. And the only way we can do that is through better, bigger, more nukes. I mean,
that's a simplification, but is that the direction? I don't think so. I don't think there's a plan.
I don't think that, I don't think that it's thought through that well. Honestly, you know,
the thing to remember is the people that are doing this aren't evil. They're not Dr. Strange Love.
That would make our discussion so much easier because you could just point the finger and say,
these guys are crazy. The problem is they're not crazy. This is a symptom of something that,
Nate, we've talked about for years, going back 15 years probably, that people get stovepiped.
And so, as you know, economists only talk to economists. They don't talk to energy people and
the energy people don't talk to the biodiversity. And so, if you look at this in that context,
you can look at just the ABM Treaty and convince yourself from the standpoint of the U.S.
that, you know, it doesn't make sense. We need to withdraw from it. But that's losing sight of the
secondary and tertiary, much less quaternary ramifications of doing that. And so, I don't
think it's that the U.S., I don't think we are bullies. I get mad and use that terminology sometimes
and I really shouldn't because I don't believe that we're bullies. I don't think that's our
philosophy. I think that the problem is we look at the world, we know that we have
tremendous military capability. And I think a lot of our actions, and when I talk to people in a
nice quiet moment, senior people, you know what the real driver is? It's fear. And it's not,
it's fear of losing control. It's, you know, you see that in the current things around Israel
or around Hamas or a lot of these. It's driven by fear. You know, we don't, we have a very hard
time trusting. And the problem is trust leads to trust and fear leads to fear. And so, that's,
unfortunately, we are now in a fear spiral, whereas through the 70s, 80s, 90s, up until
probably the early 90s, we were in a trust spiral. And so, that's now broken and we're in a fear
spiral. And a fear spiral is you become more insular and less cooperative and more defensive
and more risk averse. And so, all those things make some of these military movements a little more
understandable. Let me move on to this. You mentioned there were studies in the 80s on
previous podcasts called Prog Profit and others that show once you use even one nuclear weapon
that the incentive is to keep escalating using more and bigger nukes, which eventually results
in something called nuclear winter. Yet now, as you've articulated, we're making bigger, more
advanced weaponry and there's a spiral of nuclear weapon modernization that can never
really be used without getting on this pathway of destroying much of life on earth as you've
articulated in the past. Where are the voices within our country raising concerns about nuclear
modernization and why do they from this naive podcast observer seem so silent?
Note, this morning when I called you, I didn't find that Russia news that they had pulled out of
the treaty, except I found it on an international news source. It wasn't anywhere in the US that
I could see. Yeah, you know, again, I think that the, you know, why isn't it being discussed?
There's a couple of things. First off, there's an insidious level of security around any nuclear
issues. So, security is rightfully, because you don't want somebody building, learning something
and building a nuke in their backyard. I mean, that level of security makes sense. But when
security becomes paranoia, that's a bit of an issue. And particularly around doctrine and weapon
systems, I tend to think more transparency is better because then you can talk about it. But
you know, there is a fear around that and it's a catch 22. So, a lot of these things
tend to not be discussed because of security issues. The other issue is it's very technical,
requires a lot of knowledge. Just think about, okay, we were going to talk for 15 minutes and
now we're pushing 40. And a lot of it's because you start going down these rabbit holes because
nobody knows about it. It's just not, you know, not there. But there was a huge anti-war movement
50 years ago and that's like almost non-existent. Well, and part of the reason is we went through
that phase where, you know, every, there was Russia scared us with Sputnik in particular.
And in there, we suddenly realized, wait a minute, it's not just this backwards primitive bunch of
serfs, you know, living under communism. All of a sudden, they had satellites and we didn't,
they had the first man in space and we didn't. You know, even going back into the 50s, all that
with the nuclear bomb scares, you know, we thought we had a monopoly on them. And then all of a sudden,
oh, wait a minute, Russia has nuclear, you know, or the Soviet Union to be correct.
Soviet Union has nuclear weapons. We got scared. Now, what happened in the 80s? We were scared.
And in fact, fortunately, our president was scared. You know, Ronald Reagan went through
proud profit and it terrified him. He said, I'm going to do something about this. And he did.
So then we get to the 90s. Soviet Union collapses. It's, you know, we took all of our weapons off
of standby. You know, we kind of forget the days, we kept aircraft nuclear arm B 52s constantly in
the air, because we were afraid they would get destroyed on the ground. So, you know, we took
our weapon in the 90s, we took our weapons off of alert. Everybody people started joking about
Russia. Well, they're just a gas station with nukes, but they never took the nuke part seriously.
And so we then got wrapped into the war on terror. And so, you know, we lost another 10 years,
basically, of the fear of losing our fear. Nobody cared much about nuclear weapons.
And the US became the world's dominant hyperpower. And so the average person never experienced
that fear. And we've we're losing that generation that went through World War Two in Korea.
The average American does not know what a destroyed city looks like. Now, sure, we're
seeing stuff of Gaza right now. Do you realize that the destruction you're seeing in Gaza,
we've put about, I said we the Israelis have dropped about 20,000 tons of bombs on Gaza.
It's taken them three weeks to do it. You could do that in one nuclear weapon in 18 milliseconds.
That's 20,000 tons. That's 20 kilotons. 20 kilotons. Yeah, a little bit bigger than that.
And you were just saying that these dialer yield on some of these new nukes is up to
500 kilotons. Yeah, 33. I can't I don't want to say the exact number, but it's
the way you classify nuclear weapons. 100 to 500 is considered a very large
strategic nuclear weapon over 500. And there are over 500 is over 500 are
the largest and we have had we've we've had on alert megaton scale weapons, which are catastrophic.
Does do you think Secretary of State Blinken grasps the true threat of of nuclear weapons
given his position on bringing Ukraine into NATO and his position on the Middle East war
in Israel? That's a really interesting question. And you know, I'm going to I don't know what
Tony Blinken thinks personally or what his level of understanding is. So I'm going to broaden that
out to say the US government leadership. And again, I want to go back to a key point. I don't
think they're afraid of nuclear weapons. I don't I think that they have increasingly seen them as
just something else in the weapons mix. I think they don't want to use them in the sense that
if there was another way to do it. But the thing about a nuclear weapon is they are
and I'm going to use Dr. Strangelove terminology here, they're attractive. You know, you can
cause tremendous if your goal is to rapidly reduce an enemy to the point where they can no
longer fight back in there. You know, obviously, the objective of war is to bend the enemy to do
your will, which is, you know, from from Klausowitz. And so if you want to do that, a nuclear weapon,
it's very efficient. Doesn't take very many of them. You know, they're actually fairly inexpensive
in the great scheme of things. It's easier to if you're talking about, say, destroying a city,
well, it's a heck of a lot cheaper to do that with a couple of 300 kiloton weapons than it is to
do it with, you know, any other means. So I think that it is kind of a dangerous place if you don't
have the fear of them. And we've kind of painted ourselves into a bit of a corner by creating
more usable weapons in the sense that they're more accurate, and we can kind of convince ourselves,
well, we're only going to use it against a military target. Well, okay, but then what about
fallout environmental effects? And, you know, we could talk about the Geneva conventions and
accords and the annex one and how we, you know, you're not supposed to blow up cities, but, you
know, that that's kind of a whole separate rabbit hole that we probably don't want to go into. But
so I think the biggest issue is that I don't think US policy right now, our foreign policy has been
geared so much toward the military. I am concerned specifically about Secretary Blinken,
Assistant Secretary Newland and others. They are more militaristic than the Defense Department.
And so rather than looking at treaties and negotiations, they tend to look at application
of military force as an early option rather than a last or late resort. And that's a huge change in
US foreign policy over the last couple of decades. And I think it grew out of the war on terror,
because we looked at that. And now we've got this whole, and it's hard to, you know, we just had the
20, what the 23rd anniversary of the 911 attacks and the 20th anniversary of the invasion of Iraq.
And, you know, I look at myself and I go, in one sense, I go, I'm not that old, and then I see
the gray and it's like, well, maybe I'm that old. But so you remember, you know, people like Blinken,
Newland, Sullivan, Jake Sullivan, our National Security Director, even General Austin, you know,
they grew up in an era where the US was by far the dominant power. They also grew up in an era when,
you know, how do you negotiate with, you know, Al Qaeda or the Taliban?
You know, I disagree. I think there were, there are things that we could have done,
but it's just like Israel is doing in Gaza right now, their attitude now is,
there's no use talking to Hamas, because we're mortal enemies, one of us has to die,
it might as well be them. And that's, I don't mean to joke about that, but that's kind of the
attitude that you get to. And we couldn't afford to do that with the Soviet Union,
because we knew they had enough nuclear weapons to kill us. So we felt like we had to talk to them.
And I think that dual thing of not being as afraid of nuclear weapons, and not having that
realization that if we don't talk to them, it's the end of the world. And so those two things have
got us where we are. So since this was not limited to 20 minutes, I'm going to ask you
penultimate question, and then a final question. You just mentioned Israel, I think it's pretty
clear to the world now that a two state policy that that ship has sailed. And that's not going to
happen, especially after the events of the last month. If it doesn't happen, this looks like it's
going to be a long drawn out Israel and her supporters versus the Palestinian people, Hamas,
and their supporters, with all kinds of possibilities and risks. What is the situation
with nuclear weapons in Israel? Are they also non first use, or is that complicated, or what's the
deal there? Israel hasn't said a whole lot about their nuclear use policy. So what I'm saying is
based on personal discussions and impressions from what their doctrine has published, and what is
believed to be their weapons mix, they probably have on the order of 50 to 100 of tactical nuclear
weapons, they may have a few larger scale in moderate, which would be up to 100 kilotons or so,
and probably a few above that, they certainly have the means to deliver them either from submarine
launch missiles, intermediate range, I don't know that they have any strategic nuclear
