Today I welcome back to the program my colleague Chuck Watson. Chuck was a special attaché
to secretaries of defense, MacFarlane and Rumsfeld, with expertise in Soviet and Middle East affairs.
He was in the Air Force communications officer as a long history of looking at
geopolitics and nuclear risks, which is why I called him this morning to find out what was
going on when Russia pulled out of this nuclear de-perliferation treaty. He told me this has
been in the works for a while, but it's worse than that because there have been new tests,
new nuclear weapons by the United States in the last few weeks. I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa,
I didn't know that. Stop, let's do a podcast conversation on this if you're willing.
And he reluctantly agreed to do such a podcast because both of us feel
that more people need to understand what's going on, what's at stake. I'm not an expert in this,
which is I'm fortunate to have friends that are experts in these issues. I do host a podcast
and the world is converging on the greatest problem and our geopolitical move from a unipolar to a
multipolar world is one of those problems. I hope at the end of my days on this planet,
I can look back and I was a chicken little with respect to nuclear war risk because I do think
that a escalatory exchange of nuclear missiles would be the worst case scenario for complex,
large life on planet earth. And so I'm willing to spend a little bandwidth on this channel
making people more aware of how this fits together in the tapestry of the human predicament.
Please re-welcome Chuck Watson.
Hey, Chuck, good to see you again. Well, I don't know. The last few times we've talked,
as I said last time, hasn't been such pleasant topics to go with.
Well, that's the blessing and the curse of having you as a friend and a colleague.
You just did a podcast with me two weeks ago updating on the world situation,
including Israel and Hamas and what that means for Ukraine and Russia. And then just this morning,
there's some other news, which is why I'm having you back for an urgent
kind of episode to talk about something that most people are unaware of. But maybe before
we get into that, you want to just set the context of this conversation.
Yeah, thanks, Nate, because you sent me a link to, I think it was an Al Jazeera article about
a change in US policy and a Russian reaction to it. And first off, I want people to really
understand something here is that I served the US government in this country, essentially my whole
life. And I shed blood for this country. I have many going way back. I've had relatives that serve
this country that had a number of very close friends that actually made the ultimate sacrifice.
They lost their lives in service of this country. So what I'm about to say in some of the stuff may
kind of rub people a little bit harsh, but understand that one of the figures in American
history is Carl Scherz, the Civil War general, and later became senator and secretary of the
interior. And he said on the floor of the Senate that, you know, yes, my country right or wrong.
If she be right, I stand by her. If she be wrong, I strive to set her right. So I feel
normally, as you know, I try to stay very neutral about things. And I'll say the US rather than
my country. But in this case, I feel an obligation to those who did lose their lives for this country
to really point out a major, major policy problem and how I don't think we're living up to the
standards that those lives deserve. Thank you for that. I don't have your history with the
government and your service, but I feel the same way as a member of this country and as a member of
our species to try and speak truth to power of what's going on. And I've known you for 15 years,
and we don't agree on everything, but I know you to be very knowledgeable, but also a man of extreme
integrity, which is why we're friends and why I keep asking you back on this show. So let's start
with a brief refresher way back on, I think, episode 17 on the Great Simplification last year.
You shared to my naive surprise at the time that the United States was the only declared nuclear
nation in the world that did not have a no first use policy. As a backdrop for what we're about
to say, can you briefly refresh what that means and why that is? The other nuclear powers have all
said that they would only use nuclear weapons in response to a nuclear weapon. In other words,
we're not going to use them first, but if we are attacked with nuclear weapons, we will respond
with nuclear weapons. That's been the policy of up until recently, the policy of Russia.
China has a very clear no first use policy. I believe both India, the UK, the British government,
France, both have pretty strong no first use policies. India, Pakistan, their doctrines are
a little fuzzier, but still basically no, we're not going to use these ultimate weapons unless
somebody uses them against us first. The US is amazingly the strong exception to that. We actually
we say we'll use nuclear weapons in response to all kinds of things. We say we'll use them
against non-nuclear powers. We say that we will use them in response at one time during the
Trump administration. We even had a written policy. We would use them against cyber attacks on
infrastructure. We would reserve the right to use a nuke against whoever used it. That Biden's backed
off on that a little bit, but still the list of reasons we would use a nuclear weapon first
is long and actually pretty distressing. I don't want to focus overly on this,
but I live in the United States and I didn't know that until recently. Does this piss other
countries off? Oh, absolutely. And in fact, that's something we can talk about in a minute,
how US policies and this, you know, we've started using the phrase rules based order lately, and
that has really ticked off a lot of the world because who makes those rules and who is the
arbiter of them? And what it boils down to is the US says, well, we make the rules and we're the judge
of whether or not you're following those rules. And by the way, we don't have to follow those
rules. And I can give you one of the things I think you want to ask. I'll give you a very specific
example of that when it comes to treaties. So yeah, it does. The rest of the world
is not happy with us over this attitude. So when we spoke earlier this week, and this week seems
like a month already, you mentioned that there have been some recent events between the United
States and Russia that have been pretty much overtaken and obscured by the coverage of the
Middle East situation, one of which involved the United States performing nuclear weapons tests
and developing new weapons during the month of October.
Can you tell us what the US has been doing and why this is concerning enough for us to do a
special episode? In a nutshell, there's two things that have happened in the last two weeks,
actually. The first is on October 18, the US conducted a non-nuclear test within the Nevada
nuclear test range. And it used chemical explosives. There were radioisotopes involved,
and so there's allegations that it was what's called a subcritical test. And that gets into
the technical details of how nuclear weapons work. But you can learn a lot about how nuclear
weapons behave by putting together smaller bits that don't actually start a chain reaction.
And so our declared purpose for this was nonproliferation to try to assess and do seismic
tests and radioisotope sniffer tests. But these are also the dual use kind of tests that you would
need to do if you were going to resume design and production of new classes of nuclear weapons.
So a lot of countries, Russia in particular, does not believe, China also has said that they
don't believe it. Even some of our allies have said, no, we're not so sure what you're up to here.
And the reason for that is based on an announcement that was made October 27,
even though the decision has been kicked around and rumored for months, we're developing a new
class of high yield nuclear weapons. It's the B61-13 is the designation. It's an aircraft
delivered bomb with selectable yield, but extremely high yields upwards of 300 to 500 kilotons. Now,
these are, there was a trend towards smaller weapons because with more accuracy and also
you don't want to wipe out a whole city, you just want to hit smaller targets. Well,
we've reversed that trend by developing this new class and by making it more accurate and more
destructive. That's a step away from historical arms control, historical weapons trends,
and is a pretty dangerous escalation. So in response to that, and, and again, this has been
brewing over time. This isn't something that just happened. Russia was warning it would withdraw from
the 1996 comprehensive test ban treaty. China has also expressed concerns and said that they
would no longer be a party to the treaty. And that's important. The original test ban treaty
was done by actually John F. Kennedy in 1963 with Khrushchev. And it was because the atmospheric
tests were getting out of hand. And so all this radioactive contamination was ending up in the
atmosphere from all these nuclear tests. And folks kind of went around, looked around and said,
wait a minute, this is a bad idea. There's also something called the spearfish test,
which was in space. And so to make a long story less long, we realized that nuclear testing
above ground is a bad thing because it contaminates the earth. And then by the mid nineties, we said,
look, let's just stop all nuclear testing. Because why do we need new classes of weapons
nobody's supposed to be using anyway? So Russia signed it and ratified it. And that's an important
distinction. China did as well. The other nuclear powers did. And this gets, and I think maybe this
is a good point to talk about. In the 1960s, all these nations signed this, this ratification.
The initial test ban treaty, partial test ban treaty was in 1963. The comprehensive treaty
that banned all nuclear testing was 1996. But there's a catch. There's a catch, Nate, and it gets
to the question that you brought up earlier of why countries don't trust us. Well, you know,
in the US and under our Constitution, there's two steps to a treaty. The administration, whoever's
president, his administration has to sign it. But then Congress specifically, the Senate has to
ratify it. Well, in our system, and you know how dysfunctional we are internally, just look at what's
happened in the House of Representatives the last few weeks and between the political parties,
getting treaties through the Senate has been a very difficult time. And so the comprehensive
test ban treaty was signed in 1996 by the Clinton administration. It was never ratified,
which means it does not have the force of law. So the US never actually became a full participant
in that treaty. Russia has been warning since 2004 with increasing urgency, look, you need to ratify
this treaty, commit to it legally, or we're done. We're not going to, we're not going to participate
anymore. And after this test, the eight, so in, I believe it was in August, the Duma passed a law
withdrawing from the treaty. And so their system is actually similar to ours in that the president
can't sign or abrogate a treaty on his own. He can sign it, but it's not legal until the parliament,
in Russia's case, the Duma passes off on it. So in August, the Duma said, okay, we want to withdraw
from this treaty. Putin kind of held that in his pocket as leveraged to try to say, look, don't go
forward with this test. The US went forward with it anyway. And so Putin signed it. And now Russia
has revoked their ratification of the treaty. So on the surface, those are just words. But it sure
seems like that's not a good step in a de-escalatory direction for the world. Like that is a strong
move, wouldn't you say? It is on its own. The Russian withdrawal is just another step
and made pretty close to the final step in dismantling this whole framework of
treaties and around nuclear weapons that got started in 63 with the test ban treaty.
And over time, up until the mid 80s, early 90s, we built this framework that it consisted of the
anti-ballistic missile treaty. And that was basically saying, we don't want either side to
develop a capacity to shoot down the other side's missiles, because then you start to
another arms race. And what's worse is one side may think it has an advantage in launching attack.
The other absolutely vital piece was what was called the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.
One of the things you also don't want is for one side to have the ability to quickly launch
a nuclear weapon at the other side. And they only have a few minutes to figure out whether it's real
and what the target is. Because then you get into these scenarios where you get launch on warning
or launch under attack, which means you've only got a few minutes to make a decision. Well,
Nate, in fact, I think I sent you a picture recently of Putin's visit to China. And now
following him around, just like in the Cold War days, is an officer with a briefcase with the
nuclear launch codes. And that hasn't been seen for quite a while. So of course, our president
always is followed by the officer with the football. We've never really discontinued that.
But now everybody's doing it, which that in a nutshell is what's happened is that
in every one of these cases. And again, this is where I get a little bit emotional and angry
about it. We started it. You know, we withdrew from the ABM Treaty under the Bush administration.
We withdrew from the INF Treaty, the Obama administration set up the withdrawal process,
and then Trump finished it off. We withdrew from the Open Skies Treaty, which allowed monitoring
of each other's nuclear facilities. We never signed the CBT. So it really frustrates me that
this framework that got us through the Cold War without a nuclear confrontation has all been
dismantled. We're almost back to the 50s, where it's the Wild West in terms of nuclear weapons
development and deployment. Okay. I had hoped or I had planned this would be a very short podcast,
but now as is usually the case when I talk to you, I learned things that I'd never heard before.
Sorry about that. And I have questions. No, no, no, that's okay. That's why we're talking. So on
the ratification since President Clinton all the way to today, have there been groups of senators
that wanted to push to get this ratified? Or has it always just been swept under the carpet?
Yeah, every now and then it comes up. And by the way, it's not just in the nuclear realm.
The Law of the Seas Treaty, I could name probably a dozen treaties off the top of my head that the
U.S. has signed but never ratified. And so that's why there's a Russian expression. It's one of these
compound words, which basically means not agreement capable. And a lot of other countries are picking
up this as well, that how can you trust the U.S. to do a treaty if the president may sign it,
but then the next president can say, well, you know, I'm not going to go forward with it until
it's ratified by the Senate. It doesn't have force of law. So what tends to happen is, you know,
whichever president signs his party goes, yes, we'll agree to this. Well, you've got to have a
two-thirds majority. And so neither party has had a two-thirds majority in forever. So the other
side basically says, well, we don't like this treaty because your guy signed it. So we're not
going to sign it. And you get this back and forth thing where because of our internal politics,
the treaties don't get signed. That's the big picture. The smaller picture on the weapons side
is, you know, there's a lot of people in the U.S., the defense industry, various very high-powered
lobbying groups that, you know, nuclear weapons, and it's, man, that's profitable business. So
unfortunately, that's an aspect of it. That all gives me a really bad feeling. And I've had
a bad feeling already. Welcome to my world, Nate. Yeah. So as far as the nuclear test,
you said there was one in Nevada. Did you ever see the movie Oppenheimer yet or haven't you gone?
Yes, I did. Yeah. I thought it was quite good. It was quite good, but they had the nuclear test
there in the desert where they put on the goggles and everything. But why do we need to test
nuclear weapons like that? Is it because we really want to see if they work so that we can use them?
Or is it kind of like two sumo wrestlers that are kind of dancing before they get in the stages?
Is it more of a demonstration of flexing to say, we are willing to do this, we have it?
Or is it something else? Yeah, I'm trying to remember the biology term for doing threat
displays and that kind of thing. You know, the gorilla pounding its chest. So, I mean, that is
one piece of it. It's partly for what's called... Well, it's sexual selection in biology. Sure.
So, there's basically three components to it. The first is what's called weapons assurance,
so that you pull one out of storage and fire it off to make sure it works. That's what we used
to do routinely. You know, computer models and simulations and component testing only get you
so far. If you really want to assure yourself that this thing works, you got to put it all together
in one piece and light the fuse and make sure it goes off. And there are stories out there
that are suggesting that as much as half of our nuclear bombs that are in silos around the country
are so old that they might not work. I mean, I've heard stories to that effect. I'm no expert.
Yeah. And there's also a set of people who say, well, none of the Russian nuclear weapons work.
And, you know, okay, how many does it take? One, ten, twenty out of several thousand. So,
that's not particularly comforting to me, but people have been arguing that on strategic
grounds to say, yeah, let's go ahead and start something with Russia because none of their nukes
work anyway. So just insane. And I also think wrong because they do similar things to what we do,
which is component testing. So they'll take the core out of the weapon and then just light off.
So it's everything except the nuclear component. And so they do similar kinds of testing in a
lot of that, of course, is classified. You can't get into, but there's a lot of testing that goes
on. So the first thing is if you really want to know it works, you've got to light off the whole
thing. The second component is, yeah, it's the threat display. It's the, you know, to show,
yes, we still have it. We can still do it. The third one is weapons design. You know,
