And with that, I can say that it's my great pleasure to introduce today's speaker, Ina
Sipulito, here in our CCNB seminar series at the Free University in Berlin, where we
have in this semester, as a topic of the seminar series, like tutorials on the free energy
principle and predictive coding. And what was it half a year ago? Ines Sipulito was also
organizing here big workshops that probably many people have attended on the free energy
principle here in Berlin over the Berlin School of Mind and Brain. So Ines is affiliated to the
UCL in London. She is also a fellow at the Developmental Psychology at the Faculty of
Behavioral Science Faculty at the University of Amsterdam and is here in Berlin as lecturer
at the Mind and Brain School, which belongs to Humboldt University and is dealing in her work,
as I understand it, mostly with free energy principle in the context of interpreting the
mind's function. We had multiple talks here in this series before, which were introducing mostly
technical aspects of free energy principle and computations within that. We are very much looking
forward to your talk today. And with this, I think I directly hand over. Nice to have you.
Thank you so much, Timohander. Thank you so much for inviting me, joining these wonderful
speakers that you've been having in this really great initiative group on the free energy principle
in Berlin. Thanks so much for the very kind introduction. I am going to now try to share
my slides. Hopefully, there won't be anything rent access in systems preferences. Yes, I think
that's fine. Yeah. So the title of my talk is the free energy principle on the edge of chaos.
I would like to just preface it by saying that it is a little bit of a talk on the
philosophy of science of the free energy principle. And that's sort of like speaking
to and relating to the most recent events that have been happening on the last year.
So if you could just give me the next slide. Perfect. So yeah, here we go. There's been a
little bit of discussion going on on the literature on the philosophy side. People are
talking to each other about this realism, non realism kind of approach to the free energy
principle. Of course, in philosophy, this is not news. It is a very live discussion in philosophy
of science in general about theories, models, etc., in science, in scientific practice.
And more recently, this debate has been revived in the light of the free energy principle. And
that's what I wanted to talk about today. So if you go to the next slide. Yeah. So the line up
for today is just these three main points. I will go very quickly over the realism debate.
And then I will introduce just the essentials of the free energy principle, which of course,
people that are usually coming to these seminars, of course, they're very, very much
acquainted. But I'm going to highlight the points that we need to highlight in order to then come
back and think about the free energy principle in the light of the realism debate. Okay, so next
slide. Yes. So we go now to the realism debate. And nobody would be happy with this definition
that I have here, because the realism debate is so nuanced, philosophically speaking, that it
will be, it is very difficult to come up with a definition that will make everybody happy. But
let's try. So we can say about realism or try to define the properties of a model are expected as
somewhat an ontological property of the phenomenon of scientific interest. So you should find some
kind of isomorphism, some kind of match between the properties of the model and the properties
of the phenomenon under study. Next slide. So for example, the property of study is as we are here
precisely to study all of that things that we love the brain cognition or even cell activity.
Next slide. Yes. So basically now there are three or I was thinking about how can we
put this together, the literature is so vast. And so integrated, I was thinking, okay, let's try to
put together at least three main groups, or three main ways that we can think of realism. So the
first one is the sort of like the more traditional one, which is thinking about under realism,
thinking about models as accurate representations, right. And this comes, for example, from Godlob
Frege in sense and reference. Next slide. Yeah. So the second one is a little bit more complex,
but it's sort of like what we have, we find a lot in cognitive science or cognitive neuroscience,
which is the idea that if models are obstructions, and if they succeed to predict,
then the properties of the model should be literally present in the system being modeled.
It was, was there a question?
Oh, I thought I had a microphone. Okay. So you find, for example, that in particularly very
explicitly in this paper by Michael Rescora, defending a realist perspective on Bayesian
cognitive science. Next slide. The third way of being realist in scientific practice is to claim
that claims made about the system of interest of scientific interest by truth preservation can
also apply to the system itself, in which case a target system is held to the properties of
the model. So this is found, for example, in these two papers that I have here, which are
very recent in the literature on the free energy principle and active inference. So that would
be one way to connect or think about models made under active inference or free energy principle
that also hold a realist perspective on the target system explained under the free energy
or active inference. Next slide. Oh yeah. So then what happens is to put it a little bit more of a
simpler way is that the mappings between the model and the target, so the mappings between the model
and the target, allow to convert truths found in the model into claims about the target system.
So that's the very, very basic idea that is being held in this third realist assumption.
And then we have the converse or the counterpart, anti-realism, and roughly the definition goes
something like this. The model is simply an instrumental tool that once applied to some
activity of scientific interest, then the model allows to learn about and draw predictions about
a system of scientific interest. So the main gist is that as opposed to having an accurate
match or isomorphism by virtue of these or that way of thinking or arguing for it,
the model is simply an instrumental tool that is an opportunity for learning.
Next slide, I think. Oh yeah. However, the system under study does not need to have the properties
of the model, as of course it is argued for in the realist take on it. So that's why
life debate going on. Next slide. Okay. So now also a couple of ways of being anti-realist.
Right? So the first one is the meaningless way of thinking about models. Models are in themselves
meaningless. They do not hold semantic value other than that that is constructed under or by
using them to understand or predict behavior. And this was, for example, held by David Hilbert
or Bas van Vressen. Next slide. Oh yeah. In their view, models need not to be more than
empirically adequate because they are mathematics. Because mathematics is arithmetic and algebraic
qualifier free identities. So in this sense, models themselves are semantic. They do not
hold any semantic value and they are qualifier free. Next slide. Okay. Then very much in agreement
with David Hilbert and Bas van Vressen is Albert Einstein in this amazing lecture that he gave
in Berlin in 1921. If you haven't had the opportunity to read it, please do so. And it tells us this
was in Berlin and it tells us, as far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not
certain. And as far as they are certain, they do not refer to the reality. It is certain that
mathematics generally and particularly geometry owes its existence to the need which was felt
of learning something about relations of real things to one another. So of course, this is very
much in line with the anti-realism held by David Hilbert and van Vressen. Next, and I think I have
something. Yeah. And this is actually something that if you are interested on, I've just alluded to
and the paper is just out. It's a commentary on Michael Miguel Aguilera's paper in Physics of Life
Reviews. And we do go on and a little bit on that, Kasper Hesp and I. Okay. Next slide.
Then anti-realism take two is that there is found as models thought of as idealizations or fictions
in science. And the idea is that models are, allow us to abstract certain features of a phenomenon
and they are for that reason, by virtue of abstraction, an opportunity for learning. Next slide.
Then take three on anti-realism is the view that the success of a model justifies
the acceptance of the epistemic value of the model without necessarily making ontological claims.
So basically what we are saying is that the virtue of the model resides in its epistemic
value and not in its ontological commitments or ontological commitments that one would make
by virtue of using a model. I think there's more on that slide. The success of our best scientific
models, informed models, even if our model is extremely successful, which of course we never
know because nobody would ever claim that they have a model that is true. In the best case scenario
we would claim that we have a model that is viable. So even if we have a very viable model that does
not, according to this view and anti-realist view, that does not allow us to hold a belief that
everything in the model is true. So not even that, the model is viable. Okay, next slide.
Oh yeah, so then we find these ideas, for example, as far back as Oziander in his introduction to
Copernico's Magnus Oppos, and it's just something like this. The astronomer will take
as their first choice that hypothesis, which is the easiest to grasp. The philosopher will perhaps
rather seek the resemblance of the truth, but neither of them will understand or state anything
certain unless it has been divinely revealed to them. Now, since one cannot in any way attain the
true causes, one will adopt whatever suppositions enable the motions to be computed correctly.
Okay, so this is take three. The models are, it's about the viability of the models rather than
the truthiness of the models. Okay, so next slide. Oh yeah, so then when last thought on
anti-realism take three is that then the hypothesis and assumptions that may or may not be encoded in
a computational model are not intended to describe the way the object being modeled is actually structured.
But next, simply serve to represent the observed data in an economical fashion. And this is quite
interesting because these are thoughts that were present quite a while back in time. Okay, next slide.
So this was the setup. Of course, it did not do any justice to the realism debate, which is
absolutely rich, super nuanced, but at least you got an idea of like three takes of how to be
realist about models, or three ways of being non-realist or instrumentalist, if you will,
about models. So now I want to say something about the FEP just highlighting points that I find
interesting in order to then come back to the realism debate and think about the FEP under
that realism debate and see what we make of it. Okay, so then next slide. All right, so I want to
say here that typically my take on the FEP is, so there are these two ways that you can get to the
FEP. One is through the low road, which you start with Helmholtz unconscious machine and then you
work your way through Bayesian inference until it gets to active inference until it gets to FEP.
My take or my preferable take is the high road or what Carl is called the high road,
which is where you start with biology and with certain observations that you make
in the behavior of the world and then you put forward sort of like a first premise
about as an attempt to start explaining how systems, living systems, adaptive systems behave in the
world in a way that that first premise explains throughout across the board adaptive behavior.
So this is my preferred way I think is the one that is most plausible and most interesting to me
and it starts off with the question of how is it that living organisms persist while engaging in
adaptive exchanges with the environment and this is an extraordinary thing because that's what I'm
really obsessed about and I really like is that it's so extraordinary that you have an environment
that is constantly changing so the only rule is that things change and yet living systems do not
succumb to those changes they actually persist in this changing continuously changing environment
and this is the thought that I find extremely important because we should not lose sight of
that thought because once we do that we'll get us into other paths that I find at least I find
less interesting such as minds as computers. Okay having said that next slide so this is living
systems maintain themselves by and then we continue maybe you can just open it yes by remaining in
non-equilibrium steady states right they are open systems which is why as we all know the
non-equilibrium steady states in a nest next one and they do that by restricting themselves to a
limited number of states and why is that well because there is only a very a finite number of
states they will keep them alive and they will not attain a certain phase boundary that would
kill them or something like that okay next one yeah okay so then the FEP coming from this high
road or described or explained from this high road then the first thing to bear in mind is that it
is a first principles in statistical physics understanding where organisms must maintain
their existence and this is what I was referring to earlier on as that first premise so we look at
the world we look at how living beings and adaptive systems behave in the environment right and there's
one thing that is common to these systems is that they maintain their existence right and this is
nice to have as a first premise because it's not controversial at all I don't think that anybody
would good dispute this now the second step of the FEP is that how do they maintain their existence
how do they maintain this imperative well by minimizing free energy which can be seen or put
forward or cast as computational solution to the problem of explaining how the systems
maintain their existence okay next slide so then active inference becomes super relevant here as
we know because it is a theory of how living organisms maintain their existence so how they
comply with that imperative of remaining alive maintaining their existence they minimize surprise
how via perception and action yeah next slide so then the very first premise that we have when
we start off our understanding from the FEP is that to survive any living organism has to maintain
itself in a suitable set of preferred post or preferred states while avoiding other
these preferred states of the environment but then here another very philosophical question
comes up for the philosophers in the room which is okay but what are preferable states or prefer
states for a certain system how do we define them how do they know right so a bunch of
epistemological questions could come up right and the FEP does reply to that next slide
okay so what are these preferred states right okay so preferred states are composed of two
important aspects so one is those that are defined by niche specific evolutionary adaptations
which for example it would be very unlikely to find as we are doing our research for example
to find a butterfly in in a river right because that would not be good for the butterfly so those
are niche specific evolutionary adaptations even though there was once was a student of mine
who told me that some butterflies like to go in the water so maybe this is not a good example I
should change this example okay then the second way of defining preferred states is a very important
one which is the learned cognitive goals so as systems interact with the environment of course
they learn much more about the environment and themselves and that would be the second
way of setting or determining what would be a preferred state in order to maintain existence
for an adaptive system okay next one so in order to survive a fish for example has to stay in a
comfort zone that corresponds to a small subset of all the possible states in the universe it has
to stay in water for example yeah next similarly a human has to ensure that the internal states so
for example the physiological variables like body temperature and heart rate remain within
acceptable ranges otherwise they will die so or they will become a corpse next one
so then here I found this extremely interesting for for our perspective as human beings because
if we do start with thinking okay human beings need to maintain their body temperature so they need
to do that by exerting active control but then there are different ways that we can do that as
opposed to non-human animals right so on the one hand we can do and use all the physiology such as
sweating but we can also use some cognitive mechanisms to buy a drink for example non-human
animals could for example look for water or we can also have some cultural practices like for
example turning on the air conditioning just some examples okay so then the FEP or energy
principle can be thought of as these sort of like steps where we can think about active inference as
the biological problem of survival as surprise minimization where these surprising states are
those that are outside the comfort zone of living organisms so for example surprising state for the
petafile would be water and the surprising state for the fish would be being outside of what then
the free energy principle sorry then the free energy minimization comes very handy because it is a
practical and biologically grounded way to explain how adaptive systems minimize surprise of these
sensory encounters with the world okay next slide then we can of course as we all know use active
inference precisely to explain this coupling between a system that is adapting to a continuously
changing environment where we can have the system of interest as internal states and the system with
which the and the surrounding environment of the system as external states where as we all know
internal and external states do not directly influence one another but they are indirectly
influenced by blanket states such as sensory and active states and the nice thing about it is that
we can use the mark of blanket formalism that is scale-free which interestingly allows us to
set up the internal states of scientific interest for us okay next slide yeah so then
this allows us if we want and to note that I am doing literally the higher road to the FEP
