So I spent a whole day thinking about this, and I'm now completely undecided, but I'm
not prepared to take a stance.
I'm also largely undecided, but what I can do is I can try to present what I think the
predominant arguments are for the people in favor of not deep punching.
Fair enough.
Let's start this off.
Hi.
I'm Steven Zuber, and I'm Sean, a guest today.
Sean is filling in for Trina today, as she could not make it, and we are doing one of
these special, I don't know, what do we call them, mini episodes?
Yeah.
Well, not during our regular time, because something happened and we wanted to talk about
it.
And the thing that happened this time is a Nazi douchebag named Richard Spencer got
punched in the face on the street while he was stopped by a reporter who wanted to ask
him about his Pepe Pin and maybe some of his other weird political views.
And a member probably from Black Block is the speculation, because he was dressed, you
know, all in black, like the Black Block uniform, suggested uniform is just hauled off and slugged
him right in the face and then ran off.
And there has been a bit of a kerfuffle, one could say, in liberal circles about whether
or not it is okay to punch Nazis.
Right.
And I guess before we start, we should quickly say who this Richard Spencer guy is.
He founded the website, alternativeright.com, which is sort of a combined group blog thing
for alt-right thinkers, and is probably the guy who originated the term alt-right, since
the website was alternative right and he kicked it off.
He left that eventually, he's got a new website now, also spreading alt-right stuff.
And he is, to call it a think tank, kind of blows it out of proportion here.
But he's head of a group called National Policy Institute, which bill themselves as a think
tank of alt-right stuff trying to influence policy.
If you knew of Richard Spencer beforehand, it's probably either because you're very into
alt-right stuff, or because you saw that video after Trump won, where this guy in a hotel
room was saying, hail our people, hail Trump.
And straight up doing the hail Hitler salute.
Yes.
There was no ambiguous, there was nothing ambiguous about it.
No.
And the audience was, you know, hailing him back with the Hitler salute.
So very much a neo-nazi on his, even though he says the neo-nazis hate him, I think it's
not unfair to call him a Nazi, especially because he, on his site, one of his co-bloggers
published a thing asking, saying that we should be asking whether Black genocide is the correct
course of action or not.
Right.
So you might not be able to technically call him a neo-nazi because he's not calling for
a particular form of genocide, but he's still entertaining the idea that genocide is a legitimate
course of action.
Yeah.
Should at the very least be considered, and possibly legitimate.
Someone found a quote for me today, I was talking with him about this.
And it's from The Way Back Machine, which takes cached versions of websites of...
And this one is actually from...
Alternative Right.
Yeah.
And it doesn't have his attribution on it, it's just, it's a picture, unfortunately.
I couldn't even get the URL to reproduce.
Oh, I know what you're about to read.
That was Collins, his co-blogger.
This?
Yeah.
Oh, well, okay.
Well, in that case, then, I can't say this came right out of his mouth, so...
It was at least tacitly approved by him.
Paraphrasing, it does say exactly what the two of you guys just said, so.
I was curious.
But go ahead and read the actual quote.
Brace yourselves.
Quote.
However, for too long now, when we consider the questions of race, especially questions
concerning the black race, we have been framing things in completely the wrong way.
Instead of asking how we can make reparations for slavery, colonialism, and apartheid, or
how we can equalize academic scores and incomes, we should instead be asking questions like,
does human civilization actually need the black race?
Is black genocide right?
If it is, what would be the best and easiest way to dispose of them?
With starting points like this, wisdom is sure to flourish, enlightenment to dawn.
Unquote.
So, I feel icky.
And I gotta say, coming into this, my initial response, I didn't even hear about this incident
until yesterday when Inyash wanted to talk about it.
I was like, well, I'm really not in favor of hitting anybody to silence their free speech.
And then I spent the whole day thinking about it.
I'm currently undecided, and I've gotta say, reading a quote like that makes me kind of
want to hit somebody, so I can kind of see where people are coming from.
Yeah.
I mean, it's not hard to find.
You go on social media, there's a whole lot of, I mean, for quite some time, there's
been a lot of argument from pathos and memes getting posted that are things, it's like
there's a whole bunch of Captain America saying, it's okay to punch Nazis.
And it's like, well, my grandfather, I'm pretty sure he was okay with killing Nazis.
So there's a lot of like, this seems intuitively okay to enact violence, physical violence
against people with these extreme views, like these really potentially very harmful extreme
views, right?
Sort of.
My one caveat on that is I don't want to really look to the past for moral guidance, right?
If you go back far enough, a lot of our ancestors were complete idiots.
It was also...
Oh, right.
I wasn't advocating for it.
Oh yeah.
I was just stating what a lot of it's been going around.
For sure.
It was also a very different situation because we were literally at war, and these were people
who, not only were we at war with them, but these were people who had rounded people
up and systemically killed them, as opposed to simply someone on a blog being a douchebag
and sometimes posting asshole YouTube videos.
I wonder if a good corollary, I guess, well, since we're not actively at war with people
who've done stuff like, who are doing stuff like, you know, in World War II, if it might
be the moral distinction between killing a Nazi soldier and killing a Nazi sympathizer
supporter at home.
Right.
You know, who like, well, I would be a Nazi, but, you know, my leg in World War I, otherwise
I'd be out there.
Like, that person's not actually out there doing anything, but I don't know.
I do want to say though, really quick, though Katrina's not with us, she did ask us to
point out, there might be a, I don't know, a weakness in our point of views, or a bias
in that, I think it's an excellent point for us to point out that none of us are actually
in the demographics historically attacked by Nazis.
So yeah, that's a fair point.
I don't know if my point of view would be different if I was in one of those groups,
but obviously I don't know.
So that's something that I guess is worth pointing out, putting up from the outset.
Yeah.
So I would like to make my, quickly present my point of view on this.
I am one of those people who is very against punching Richard Spencer and against, I'm
not necessarily against him getting punched because he's a douchebag and he deserves it,
but I am horrified that what I thought was the liberal side of America is so gleefully
embracing vigilante violence.
So we've, we've a few times before on the podcast brushed up against the topic of violence
and I've always kind of danced around the issue because I am somewhat pro violence, much
more so than I think that I thought anyway.
Other people are and so I was really kind of ashamed of that and didn't really want
to say it, but I've long been a big fan of the Black Panthers and I consider the, during
the civil rights struggle, that is a legitimate use of violence.
I mean that was state sponsored terrorism by our government against some of our own citizens.
This is a reason to take up arms and I fully support them and I just didn't really want
to say that sort of thing in public because I thought I was in the minority and it was
shameful and then this punch happens and it turns out that there's a lot of people
that are a lot more violent than I am.
So the reason I am against this guy getting punched and everyone being so happy about
it is entirely just the rule of law.
The thing that protects us from random people coming up and punching us because they disagree
with our views is the fact that extrajudicial violence is not tolerated in our society.
The reason that there are Nazi groups don't get to ride in the street and punch people
is because we don't accept that sort of thing and once society does start accepting extrajudicial
violence then is that is when we get things like the Deep South lynchings and those sorts
of atrocities because there is no protection anymore for the people who aren't on the right
side of the mob.
You mean the Deep South in the somewhat recent past?
No, not currently.
No, not currently.
No.
But yeah, it's several decades past.
So I guess I'm sort of in between, ideally I'm exactly where Inyash is and if I have
any axioms of discourse, well I have a bunch I guess if you're engaging honestly with
people.
But one of them is like if you disagree with somebody, it doesn't matter how much you disagree
with what they're saying, like shutting them up by hitting them is I guess what's the stronger
word than taboo or wrong.
It is incorrect if you're trying to, if there's discussion.
But I guess you could say...
It is a sin against civil society.
Yeah, that works.
Sin is a strong enough word.
I mean this guy wasn't really doing discussion.
He's got this platform that preaches this disgusting message.
So it's not like it was him talking with somebody.
It's not like he and the reporter were talking and the reporter was so repelled by what the
answers to questions that he got or the questions that he posed that he then hit him in the
face.
It was somebody else who came up and did it.
So that's on a perfect analogy.
I guess I'm where you are on the front of it, Inyash, but I guess that's been the whole
day thinking about this.
And I've kind of...
I had this, I don't know, this moment where in my head I'm like, really Stephen, is your
moral view so convoluted that you're looking at hitting Nazis as is this an okay thing
to do or not?
Like isn't that axiomatically a great thing?
What would Captain America think like you pointed out, Sean?
So I mean, I think, I don't know if I haven't been following a lot of the online discourse
about how the fallout here, I'm not sure if people are saying, yeah, we should have everyone,
every conservative, or if they're saying we should just hit Nazis.
No, everyone is saying we should just hit Nazis.
Oh, okay.
Well, so I guess if you drew the litmus test at explicit Nazis, maybe there's a case that
someone can make there.
And I'm curious what you have to say, Sean.
Sure.
So I guess my overall position on this right now is that I'm largely undecided kind of
like yourself where it's...
Previously we had a bit of a Facebook thread where I had a bit of input and I agree with
something in Yash said where it was essentially, if you strike someone in public, well, in
this case, Richard Spencer stands to potentially gain from being struck in public because...
And not just him personally, it seems like this gives the right for lack of a more concise
term, more ammunition to repudiate the left and protesters in general.
But also, it might make someone like Richard Spencer more able to cast himself as a victim
and gather more support from others.
I'm not sure who you would be able to get support from, exactly.
I mean, given that, and maybe this is just my own bubble, but I would like to think that
Nazism is something, or at very least like white nationalism, is something that people
