generally find morally reprehensible.
Well, I mean, they can barely fill a hotel conference room with 200 people when they
have their national convention.
Right.
It's a very small portion.
They had...
Was it 200?
Because either it was like 300.
But either way, it's a very, very small subset of society.
We're not talking tens of thousands, right?
And I don't know if they're gaining power, losing it, stagnant.
They're just such a small minority that maybe they're just not that much of a threat.
I mean, how much power could 200 people have, right?
I guess even if they're gaining it, how long would it take them to gain any measurable portion
of power?
The argument I hear in favor of the...
Well, against this, they don't have a lot of power thing is that their words are violent,
I guess, that they are making people feel unsafe and threatened by advocating for genocide.
Oh, yes.
And also just the concern surrounding the people that Trump has appointed to his cabinet,
who also allegedly have some very questionable views.
Steve Bannon from Breitbart is part of the alt-right and he, I think he wrote his inauguration
speech and has some fair bit of input.
But I don't think that that is a reason to start beating people in the streets if they
express an opinion that is found to be distasteful.
I mean, that's basically what freedom of speech is, right?
We don't need to protect the speech we like.
We have to protect the speech we don't like.
That's why the people that fight for the First Amendment rights or the people who get dragged
into court and the First Amendment gets strengthened when they are defended are people like the
Westboro Baptists or Larry Flint, which actually a lot of people like Larry Flint now.
But you know, he was a pornographer and people found him disgusting.
And the Supreme Court said, this is what freedom of speech means.
I mean, the...
I'm hearing that people are saying someone has to punch this guy to put him in his place
because the government isn't doing it.
And I'm saying, yes, that's true because he hasn't broken any laws.
He's spoken and said things that are horrible, but that's what the First Amendment allows
him to do.
That's what it's there for.
I think there was a problem when we have to punch people because we have issue with
the First Amendment.
Isn't that the thing that we're supposed to like on our side?
We enjoy the right to speak freely?
Well, I mean, so one argument I've seen is the fire clause, you know, like if someone
goes into a crowded theater and he has fire, you know, obviously, I guess the idea there
is that there should be limits, like certain limits to the First Amendment when it comes
to endangering through the use of words, right?
And so I guess it really comes down to how dangerous you can consider the words of Richard
Spencer and his ilk and whether or not...
I mean, that sort of thing seems difficult to quantify.
I mean, yes, it's very hard to quantify, but my intuitive feeling is that all these people
who are pro-punching fascists and Nazis are people who view themselves as like the barrier
stopping the Holocaust from happening again on our soil.
And they're very self-righteous about it when that is not anything close to what the actual
threat is.
And what they're really doing is degrading the law that protects people from violence.
The fact that he said things you don't like is not a reason to allow for beatings in the
streets of anyone that is labeled a Nazi.
I think part of my hang up on this, I guess, is how you...
This will sound like a pointless question, but I'll give a good example of how you define
a Nazi or how you spot one.
That is a thing I'm worried about, too.
I think that's a good question.
Yeah, there was a great incident on Friday night at University of Washington.
They had some speaker that was coming that people were protesting.
Apparently some asshole.
It's not really important, but what is important is that some guy got shot.
He was allegedly by the shooter said that while he attacked me, I don't want to misquote,
but allegedly apparently the shooter thought that the guy was a neo-Nazi because he saw
that he had a swastika tattoo on his arm or swastika on his shoulder or something.
I'll link the article.
It turns out it was a swastika inside one of those red circles with the line through
it.
That's like a no smoking sign.
It's like anti-swastika, basically.
Yeah.
Maybe it wasn't as obvious as he wanted it to be, but it begs the question of how many
false positives you're willing to tolerate to take out a crowd of a couple hundred people.
Especially if the error rate right now is one guy punched, one guy shot, and the guy who
got shot wasn't in this group.
Apparently the guy who got shot was campaigning for Bernie Sanders, goes to Black Lives Matter,
rallies, plans to go to the women's march, but he was in the hospital.
To me, the slope is slippery and blurry as far as where you draw the line.
So if it's just literal Nazis, well, what about people who don't go to the rallies
but or go to what do you call them, conventions or something, but they share their memes on
Facebook?
Do we punch them too?
Or do they just get slapped?
I mean, a lot of this is like...
I have seen calls on Twitter that anyone defending a Nazi is also a Nazi, and seeing
as I am someone saying that...
That's dangerous, though.
...Richard Smithers shouldn't have been punched, I am now considered a Nazi as well by these
people anyway.
Yeah.
And not to muddle this or shoot us in too far a different direction.
But there's also different gradients of these worldviews where it's like we have straight-up
neo-Nazism.
We also have white nationalism.
I don't know how much you would differentiate those, but then you've got things like...
I actually just found out about this.
Something called...
What was it?
A kinest, I think it's called.
And I'm probably not even representing this properly, but I don't have any rule notes
in front of me.
But there are people who believe that humans should naturally fall into ethnic and tribal
communities.
Okay.
I've heard of that.
So it kind of brushes up again.
People are happier when they're around their own type and so they shouldn't mix, right?
Yeah.
It's kind of like...
I've definitely heard people espouse these ideas that it seems to kind of hint that they're
against interracial marriage and stuff like that.
It seems like there's a little bit with Norse mythological imagery associated with them.
And it's just...
I'm not entirely sure what to make of that.
I thought it might be worth mentioning that it seems like they're different kind of white
national list-esque subsets of people, not just Nazis.
Yeah.
And I guess that does make the question of where you would draw a line to say, well,
no, we're only going to hit people who do exactly this.
And I guess, I mean, it depends to...
And I did see this on your Facebook thread that it depends on how serious you consider
a punch to the face.
It was like an elbow, it was like a flying, it was just a run by elbow.
Yeah.
Watch the video.
That could easily kill somebody.
I mean, if you land wrong, I mean, he's on the street.
He could hit a curb that could have been a kill shot.
And then you only have to hit the curb.
I mean, just a good head smack, you know, it happens.
It happens.
So, I mean, was he prepared to kill this guy?
Maybe he was.
And so, I guess that...
I think if you were...
Well, I mean, there are better ways to ensure someone's death than trying to elbow them
in the face.
Oh, yeah.
Plus, I mean, he was mobile while he was doing it, so the body mechanics that he would have
used to deliver the strike wouldn't have been as grounded as if he were standing there.
I mean, like, was he prepared to kill this guy?
Not was he trying to?
Yeah.
Oh, sure.
Like, was he prepared to do all that possible consequence?
I have seen a lot of people saying something like, you know, an able-bodied man, he can
take a punch.
It's not that big a deal.
But once you're advocating for punching Nazis, you don't know if this guy's been punched
like 12 times already today and you're the 13th punch.
Is it okay to keep punching him until he's crippled?
I think they'd probably say so.
I guess I'm also curious to what the point is of hitting him, like, other than to express
disagreement.
And kind of see, I might also object to this, but it would be more civil, I think, to stand
next to him in whatever he opened his mouth to blare an air horn.
Like if you're in public...
Kind of like the guy who was yelling no, the no guy, you know what I'm talking about?
Yeah, the guy who was holding the camera, the amateur footage, right?
There was a...
We might be talking about the same thing.
I'm thinking of one where there was a guy in public like saying racist things, basically,
and there was someone standing right up next to him and every time you would say something,
the guy would go, no, he would just try to drown him out, he'd just yell in his face.
That is certainly much better than straight up violence, but even that is the sort of
thing that I kind of dislike because it shuts down conversation.
And I think once you can no longer talk with your enemy, the only thing that you can do
is kill them.
You have to either beat them into submission, which almost never happens because when you...
When Black Lives Matter protesters get, you know, someone jumps up on them and tries to
beat them down, do they go crawling back and saying, oh no, we're done, we can't do this
anymore?
Or do they rally and become even more strident in their opposition?
I mean, that's the thing.
Everyone thinks, yes, I will intimidate my opponents and beat them down and they will
not be a problem anymore, but no, it entrenches your opponents when they get physical resistance
like this.
And I'm assuming there's a strong overlap with the neo-nazi group and gun collectors slash
gun hoarders.
So these aren't the people you want to bunker down and piss off, right?
I mean, unless you want it to be turned into a quick, bloody battle that kills all of them.
Yeah.
I mean, unless you're actually seeking to eradicate your opposition, you should be trying
to talk with them.
An argument always gets a counter-argument.
It never gets a bullet or a punch, violence, you know?
You don't use violence to come to a civil society.
I'm just curious, like, I definitely see where you're going.
I'm just wondering, like, what kind of productive conversation, like, what would a productive
conversation with a neo-nazi look like?
It's so antithetical to society, it's so diametrically opposed to, like, basic human
decency that I don't, like, what's the middle point?
Well, how is this meeting of the minds going to end in something that's going to advance
the dialogue and actually be productive, I guess?
