We'll have a discussion session before the end of the year.
It's a real pleasure again to welcome another expert for you guys today about the paper,
so you can join us in this as well.
Thank you.
Thanks for your invitation.
I should say part of the paper is inspired by an art paper,
and you're all marked off blank.
It's a 17th paper.
And, predominantly, the talk is going to be...
Can you move your left leg here back?
You can hear?
You don't?
No.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
We might have this strange question.
Can I hear it?
Excuse me.
Okay.
Is that set up?
Is that set up?
Is that set up?
Okay.
Is that set up?
Okay.
Yes.
China has nested marked off blankets in the boundaries of mind,
and thanks to Regina for setting some of the conceptual tools
to do with marked off blankets,
and I'll try to do a little bit more work
in terms of getting out to perhaps an extended,
or sort of extended notion of A of a marked off blanket.
Now, let me just start with a little bit of intro.
I'm going to speak a little bit in the beginning about the extended mind,
and I'm going to segue into talking about marked off blankets,
and hopefully the point of connectivity will be clear enough on slide two.
And here's Dave Chambliss laying out,
setting out what I find to be a quite nice definition of the extended mind thesis
as follows.
He says this is a forthcoming paper.
A subject's cognitive processes and mental states
can be partly constituted by entities that are external to the subject.
In virtue of a subject's sensory-motor engagements
or interactions with those entities.
I find that to be a nice definition
because it speaks to the kind of sensory motor dimension of an activism.
It speaks to a kind of manipulation thesis,
which is developed both by Richard Menari and Mark Romans,
on what is it that we should think of when we think of what constitutes
an extended cognitive system.
That we interact through sensory-motor engagement with entities in our environment.
Now if you take that sort of definition to be what the extended mind thesis is all about,
then Chambliss suggests that this is one of the possibly strongest objections
that are particular thesis that you can find.
So he says,
perception and action constitute the principal boundary to the mind.
In this view, the mental is constituted by processes between perception and action.
So that what falls outside those boundaries or these boundaries
cannot constitute the mental.
So if you combine one and two,
then the verdict is when it seems like the extended mind thesis is not plausible.
In the paper, he goes on to suggest various ways of moving back
or arguing against the perception, action criteria only for the mind.
But what I want to do is to suggest the following.
You can think about the action-perception criteria on the Chambliss establishes
by which to demarcate the cognitive from the non-cognitive.
You can think of that as mapping on to something like the Markov blanket
or at least the kind of partitioning that you get between states
when you start thinking about the Markov blanket.
So here you've got a cell and above you've got a brain.
The Markov blanket, as Regina pointed out, is comprised of sensory and active states
and those states distinguish or separate external states in the environment
from internal states comprising an organism, for instance, a cell or brain.
What I want to consider is whether or not there is a principle Markov blanket, say,
surrounding the brain that insulates the neural states from external states
in such a way that that particular boundary can qualify as a kind of mark of the mental.
So I want to ask whether or not, say, a boundary around the brain,
the Markov blanket boundary, necessarily enforces a kind of internalistic picture
the realises of mental.
Let me find the right spot.
There we go.
I'm going to do this by, first of all, just laying out a broad overview of the Markov blanket itself
and the kind of conceptual apparatus that follows,
particularly the kind of independencies between states that it is argued to follow from the Markov blanket.
Then I'm going to consider an argument for how the presence of the Markov blanket
might lead to a kind of brain bound view of the mind or cognition.
And then I'm going to gesture towards an alternative called the nested view of Markov blankets.
That's based on some work I've been doing at UCL with Carl Friston and so Pellasio's Rasi and Thomas Pah,
where we explore the self-organisation of the individual Markov blankets,
organising into larger and larger Markov blanket systems.
Okay.
What should I stand for?
Markov blanket for you.
That's exactly right.
Okay.
So in this picture we're looking at three different ways in which you think about kind of couplings between systems.
So if you just look over here and figure out what we have there is some spatially independent subsystems
and I'm mediated by long-range interactions just kind of illustrated with long errors.
Now here the idea is that all the states influence one another continuously.
To such an extent that it becomes impossible to separate the states from each other.
So if you run the simulation you will see that you get to end up with a kind of homogenous blob.
You can't determine where one state starts and another state ends.
What we want to do is to try to say something about what makes states different from other states.
We do that is to introduce shorter range kind of interactions and that's what we do in figure B.
So here we get only short range interactions between subsystems.
And that means that in contrast to figure A where the couplings are spatially independent
we get spatially dependent couplings between states of all subsystems.
What you can see is for instance in the gray cells on the right hand side figure B illustrates short range interactions
between subsystems and you get that again in the dark circles short range interactions between the systems.
What we have here is a situation where B and A are unconditionally independent
and which means you only find interactions between cells or subsystems on the dark side
and you only find interactions between subsystems on the gray side but you won't find any interactions between them.
So there's no further states that couples the gray cells to the dark cells.
And when it comes to the issue of a Markov blanket what we're interested in is conditional independence
such that we get states that are statistically independent from one another
but we also want to ask what can it be that couples those states to each other.
So what you see here is internal red states and external blue states
and they can be distinguished in virtual separation induced by the third state
namely the Markov blanket which is composed of this case D.
The yellow sensory states on the outside and the active orange states just so surrounding the internal red states.
And here the idea is that the Markov blanket both separates internal states from external states
and couples those states through active and sensory states.
And so in our decision to figure B what we get here is we get states that are separated
yet coupled through a set of mediating states in this case sensory and active states.
So the Markov blanket separates internal and external states via sensory and active states.
You can also think of that as the kind of partitioning rule governing the presence of a Markov blanket.
So in this case external states cause sensory states which influence but are not influenced by internal states
while internal states cause active states which influence but are not themselves influenced by external states.
The partitioning rule highlights that internal states and external states are conditionally independent
given the Markov blanket.
And you can cash that out formally by saying if you look at this particular figure
you can think what's the Markov blanket for note 5.
In this case the Markov blanket is the union of its parents which is state 2 and state 3.
The children of 5 which are 6 and 7 and then the parents children which is state number 4.
So the Markov blanket for 5 is therefore the union of 6 and 7, 2 and 3 and 4.
You'll notice that the Markov blanket for note 5 is the cute note number 1.
And the idea here is that once you know states the Markov blanket
insulating the internal state 5 from state number 1
there's no further information you need to know about the operations of 5
except for the information that you get through the states comprising the Markov blanket for note number 1.
Sorry, note number 5.
So that's what it means for note number 5 to be statistically or conditionally independent of note number 1
given its Markov blanket.
Just speaking a little bit about the relationship now of Markov blankets and active inference.
So the idea here is that the presence of a Markov blanket induces a simple form of active inference.
And you can think about as follows.
The tendency of a dynamical system to minimize free energy of its internal states at Markov blanket.
And in virtue of doing that it enables the system to conserve its integrity all the time functionally and structurally.
That means that both internal states, active states and sensory states are in the same sort of game
but they do precisely the same.
They minimize on average their free energy.
Alternatively you can say that these states work to optimize model evidence.
So they work to optimize evidence effectively for their own existence.
So part of what a Markov blanket allows you to do, it allows you to separate say intracellular states from extracellular states.
And if you weren't able to do that you wouldn't be able to identify the system in question.
So it gives you a boundary to talk about.
But given a Markov blanket it becomes possible to cast a brain.
For instance weaving a cell is engaged in the optimization of model evidence or the minimization of free energy.
And what I have here is just a figure of how you might think of that particular process.
So each cell has a generative model.
You can think of a brain having a generative model.
You can think of an organism perhaps as having a generative model that generates predictions.
And those predictions are carried through by sensory motor couplings to the environment.
Those sensory motor couplings affect and select the kind of activities that the environment would forge just to use that terminology.
Which in turn influence the generative process which in turn modulates the dynamics of predictions and generative model.
So here the generative process both orchestrates and maintains the generative model.
That is thought to be if you like comprised or bounded by a cell of states, active and sensory states.
In this case the generative process.
So if you think something like that.
Then all the states that are involved in the Markov blanket active sensory states separating internal from external states are effectively functioning to minimize free energy.
If you think that's the same which Carl Friston does as optimizing model evidence.
Or if you think that's the same as minimizing free energy.
Then you can cast that in terms of statistical inferences.
So what you have here is just an equality of states.
The free energy of sensory states, active states are to know the internal states.
Is equal to the negative log probability of the sensory active states given a model, a generative model.
Plus the Pubek-Liebler divergence between effectively two probability distributions.
Variational density on the one hand.
And then the true posterior density on the other hand.
And what the KL divergence allows you to do is to measure the distance between the variational density and the true posterior density.
So what we can take away from that is it's effectively two ways in which an organism can minimize its free energy or variational free energy.
Can change its internal states thereby reducing the distance between its beliefs or hypotheses.
About external states and the true posterior density given the states of the Markov blanket.
And that's in this literature typically thought of as perception.
You can change active states thereby changing surprise or model evidence which is action.
And if you think about action and perception not being fundamentally separate but running continuously or in parallel.
Then what you get is minimizing free energy is the same as working to minimize the negative log probability of sensory and active states given a model.
And the divergence between variational density and the true posterior.
So active inference is thus all about maintaining your internal states and Markov blanket.
And you can cast that in terms of active inference on the agenda tomorrow.
Just a simple example.
So here's a riverbed.
See you're an organism some sorts.
And what you need to do in order to stay alive very minimally is to at least avoid kind of crossing terminal phase boundaries.
It's not a problem to cross phase boundaries.
It's a problem to cross terminal phase boundaries.
So on one side of the boundary you might think that the organism will maintain its integrity which basically just means maintaining its model of blanket.
On the other side it's likely that it will not unless it gets rid.
So in any case the organism faces a couple of possibilities.
It can choose to remain at a distance from the riverbed or it can choose to jump in.
