That's right.
Okay.
The map is designed to make that move very, very easy.
Okay.
Yeah.
I guess a related question is there seems to be a preferred scale here.
So we as human agents are the elements of the set or the category, whereas you could
take an even more reductionist approach and talk about or the positions of our atoms.
Yeah.
But you're not doing that.
So I guess.
Oh, yeah.
So from a high level theory, and if you do the nesting, could the theory change, could
the structure of the theory change?
No, that's the, that is the point is that the structure, I don't want to ever deny you
origins is what I call it.
Like whatever level you're on, you're allowed to zoom in to the lower level if you can produce
what's inside of there.
So if you know what's going on in your cells and you can say that that stuff is what's
causing what's going on in your organs and what's what's going on in your organs is causing
what's going on in your tissues, then you can use the theory to like zoom in.
So the point is that the same theory applies at all those levels.
In other words, the vocabulary words I'm giving you access to are going to make sense, no
matter what level of discussion you want to want to be at.
And I call it a reference frame that we are talking on the human level right now.
That's actually an interesting perspective because the traditional view is that the language
of atoms and molecules and genes are very different from human level language.
So I would expect that there is no such thing as a scale free theory.
Free scale has its own theory or the most efficient theory.
Yeah, so there's the theory of what sort of dynamical system you want.
Maybe at the very low level, you want some kind of Lagrangian or Hamiltonian guiding
how the system develops.
Whereas at our level, we want to talk about emotions and like what you just said made me
feel and how that affects what's going on.
And so the account itself are going to be very different.
The accounting system, which are that there are going to be interfaces like the molecules
or atoms have some way that they can be affected by the world and there's some way that they
have can be in positions that they have internal state, maybe like what quantum something,
something or spin there in or whatever, that sort of thing is persisting through all the
levels.
We do use analogous like words like state or or interface or we can I can present you
these words and I think they will persist throughout the different levels.
So it's like saying everything can be mathematically models, the same kind of mathematical structure
that the perfect parameters are the values.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So category theory is about the structure.
What structure is held in common between these things and not so much what the content
is.
I'm going to let you put the content in for your theory of, you know, how organs work
and all and Bob will put in his account of how how emotions work.
But the point is that the words we're going to use are going to mean the same things across
all of them.
So related questions, perhaps, yep.
When we think about these states, you know, you've talked about them as though they're
sort of informational bits or streams of bits or something like that.
And I take it that baked in here somewhere is the notion that those bits are being processed
in some way.
There's some correspondence between the inputs and the forces that I generated the results
or what appears on my interface.
But there's like some informational processing layer somewhere that transforms some bits
to other bits.
But it strikes me that also there's some way to process bits such that the structure of
the system changes.
You could give me instructions on how to build that microscope.
And now I can see things that I wasn't able to see before.
And so is there a notion here that bits can be understood as containing instructions for
how to build new structure or is that sort of separate from this model?
No, that's exactly right.
So what I want is that my positions not only can affect you through the arrangement, but
they can also affect the arrangement.
And so my positions, when I moved my mouse over and like found the Zoom button, it changed
the arrangement for me so that I was now seeing a different thing.
What could also happen is that I moved my body into certain positions and like arrange one
tinker toy and like I start applying force to this tinker toy or Lego.
And then I start applying force to this other Lego by putting my body in certain positions.
And as I apply those forces, those Legos move through space and they now start to feel each
other.
So the arrangement changes and now they're applying forces to each other and they're
actually linked into a Lego, whatever you call it, when you put two Legos together.
So when I build integrated circuits or microscopes, that's just a more complicated version.
I sent you instructions, they change your internal state in such a way that you were
now able to kind of like walk through those instructions as you received the correct inputs.
So as soon as you felt the Lego in your hand, you started to move it.
And when you felt the other Lego in your hand, you started to move it and then you put them
together.
And so you can build things using this accounting system.
Yeah.
Okay.
So that makes sense.
And if I'm understanding correctly, you're saying essentially that you're less concerned
with how it is that bits get turned into actions than just that they do.
Like meaning you focus on the sort of inputs and outputs and the model assumes that there's
some layer in between that does the processing.
But it's sufficient just to say there's some layer in between that does the processing.
We don't necessarily need to know how it works.
Yeah.
I'm focusing on like letting you tell that story because I don't know any stories.
Like I feel like I'm wanting to like make an accounting system, a spreadsheet tool or
something where people can write their financial accounts.
And in the same way, I want to enable you to like tell me the story of how you build microscopes
without, but my goal here is not to actually tell you how to build microscopes.
Just enable you to tell that story.
Yeah.
Cool.
I'm trying to find limitation to this kind of view.
How about that kind of view can handle the time dimension or deterministics, the system
that are not able to return back?
Yeah.
It's very possible that what happens when you give me a certain input called a bullet
and all of a sudden my arrangement breaks down so that no longer is my heart talking
to my lungs anymore.
And it's not receiving the inputs it needs to maintain this far from equilibrium state
and now it's broken and it falls into a very basic equilibrium.
Right.
But there are systems that you cannot reverse the time dimension.
So yeah, in that system, you can't reverse the time dimension.
Two different states might flow into the same state called death.
And you can't reverse it because you don't know how to kind of undo that bullet.
It's a special case when you are in a reversible regime.
Right.
I have a final question before we move on that is unrelated to what we talked about so far.
You said the word structure a lot.
Is this similar?
Am I correct in tying this to existing knowledge, thinking about the structure of data like
when you measure complexity through like the limble Z algorithm?
Is this the similar kind of structure you're talking about or am I incorrect in putting
these things close together in my brain?
I would say incorrect.
I can just discard that and ignore that.
Yeah, just discard that.
My structure I more mean like what an architect might be looking at when they structure a
building or I don't know if you've heard of like, I guess you probably heard of vector
spaces of vector spaces of structure.
It's that with an operation called plus and a zero and a times and so you build stuff
up.
Okay.
It's more of that.
Okay, that helps.
I just want to make sure that I stick this in the appropriate relationship with what
hardy exists in my brain.
Yeah.
Okay, thanks.
Can I ask you guys a question about the length of this?
Like I'm on slide around nine out of 23.
Should I go until noon or what's the kind of idea of sorry, sorry, I call it 11.
I'm in central right now.
We normally go to the end of the hour, but since we've been asking, I mean normally it's
like, you know, sometimes a talk and then questions.
But since we've been going back and forth throughout, I assume, I think Mike is here,
but I assume he will leave at the end of the hour.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, I've got to run at the end of the hour.
However, if people, I guess I'll leave it up to everybody.
I'm going to leave this being recorded because I think it's super interesting and people
will want to view it even if they can't stay now.
So you guys have a choice.
You can keep going or if you want, we can just call it at the end of the hour and do
a part two at some point.
So either way, I have a slight preference for doing a part two just because I don't want
to like awkwardness of making people choose or something.
Okay.
That's, that's fine.
So, so we can, yeah, we can call it in 20 minutes and then we'll just, we'll just reschedule
for another Tuesday.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Cool.
All right.
So, right.
We're trying to talk about this accounting system and now I'm going to like do a thing
that might just be really dumb, which is to tell you what it looks like and it might
be dumb because I'm basically going to go through something that's going to look kind
of strange and, and unmotivated maybe, and I'm just going to tell you, hey, have faith
in me that this, that this like that I've done the experiment, the mathematical experiment,
which is like how well does this, how workable is this, how easy it is to work with and that,
that it works really well.
Okay.
So let me just recall the keywords that we're going to use.
There's interfaces.
That's like what you can, what positions you can put out and what forces you can receive,
what kind of your sensorium in various positions.
There's states.
There's arrangements.
There's enclosures and there's nesting.
So all of them are going to be in this picture here.
So each of us has an interface.
So this might be the interface of one of my cells is the interface of another cell and
this is the interface of another cell.
It's, it's expressing something through its membrane and it's receiving something through
its membrane and maybe when the cell is in one position, it actually can't receive as
much as when it's in another position.
That isn't indicated here, but it's part of what is in this accounting system.
So given what, you know, but then there's me and I also am an interface and some things
happening inside of me, I can't see and other things are exposed on my surface.
And so now inside of each of these things is, is a state.
So the state of a cell and the state of another neuron or another nerve cell or any, any cell
because we all know that neurons are just the same as any other cell.
They just go 50 times faster.
And so you've got all these cells in here and I hope that's true.
