So how would such a system track kind of like self, you know, rumination or something, you
know, as I'm thinking to myself, how could I possibly, if it was separate enough, maybe
it's in two weeks that all of a sudden something you said, like, how would you track that type
of internal interaction?
Right.
So somehow you seem to store this interaction.
I don't really know what the hippocampus is, but you store it, you know, somewhere where
it's like not really processed yet, maybe on a sheet of paper.
And it's not really processed.
But then later you look at that region of your brain or that part of the paper and something
else is active in you at that moment that like uptakes what was in that hippocampal region
or on that paper, such that it now affects you in this deep way.
But yeah, that's the sort of thing I want to be able for someone to be able to give an
account of in this system.
And yet I don't have like a precise like mathematical account of what you just said, like what what
a storage region might look like, what the difference between storage region and active
region is stuff like that.
Yeah, the reason I ask is I I think also some of us come from information theory.
So what I think about information processing, I think of like, you have to be able to store
stuff, share stuff, and then things will need to be transformed for any of it to be somewhat
useful or meaningful.
So I'm trying to think kind of put together my internal state with what you're presenting
to see how these things come together.
Yeah.
And yeah, so that's the sort of thing I would want to be able to talk about.
And yet I won't be talking about that exact thing today.
Okay, cool.
Right, so maybe one thing that's might be related to that is that I think compression
and elaboration play a big role.
So we compress our past into a form that we can elaborate in the present, like you've
compressed, say, ways of thinking about the world into this information theoretic thing.
And then you try to elaborate it here in front of me and maybe maybe there's some uptake
and maybe there isn't.
And in the same way DNA and DNA compresses information about who died and who thrived
and it compresses it to a language.
And that language is elaborated in the cell and the ribosome to create, you know, a new
body that follows those prescriptions of what's successful.
Theory itself is a compression of past experience into language.
So that's what these slides are.
And then I'm going to elaborate them in the present.
And now the experience of interacting with you gives feedback and selection pressure
on that theory.
So how good is the information theoretic point of view?
How good is the category theoretic point of view in the presence of the other person?
That's kind of what, that's one thing.
So experiment and experiment, people think about happening in math, in biology, and maybe
they don't think about experiment happening in math, but I think experimentation does
happen in math.
And that is that in math, you're trying to articulate and compute things.
You want to be able to speak clearly, carving nature at its joints, and that's what I mean
by articulate.
Then you want to be able to kind of run processes.
And so we value a formalism F if it makes the expression or articulation and the computation
easy.
So for example, I don't value Roman numerals very much because XIV times VI, like that,
I don't feel like I'm really expressing very well, I also don't feel like I can compute.
So that does the product of those, I have to turn them into Hindi Arabic numerals where
I get to like think of 14 as, you know, 10 plus four and use a distributive law of addition
and multiplication to like figure out that you get 84.
And so if you try to make a program that just takes you from XIV times VI to LXXXIV, it's
really hard to see what you would do.
But so the experiment in math is like, how workable is this?
And today, I'm going to tell you the results, you know, I'm going to tell you this language
that experimentally works super well, and theoretically works super well.
I'm just going to tell you that I've done some experiments and that it's like very workable,
and that doesn't mean that like, and then there's just usually in math, I have to prove
it to somebody, but because I'm not talking to mathematicians, I'm not going to prove
anything to you guys, I'm going to tell you that like the chili tastes good, you know,
in the chili taste cookoff point of view of science, like how good or how good does it
feel to use this?
I'm going to try to convince you that this experimentally is like Hindi-Arabic numerals,
that it works really well.
So that's the sort of value claim I'm making about what I'm going to discuss today.
So the plan for the talk will be, I'm going to talk about kind of this interaction on
Zoom here with you guys and how that's a presently available case of the thing I'm trying to model,
which is interaction between systems and the way they affect each other.
Then I'm going to give a whirlwind tour of what the math actually looks like.
I'm not really expecting you to understand it, I'm more expecting it to kind of wash
over you in a way that like you see I am addressing the things I'm claiming to address, and maybe
just the first sense of what the math looks like.
Then I'll talk about some existing applications and open questions and then I'll briefly
conclude.
So right, so here we are on this call together, what's going on with that, how can we start
thinking about this?
I want to break it into three structures, which are interfaces, dynamics, and interaction.
So each one of us on this call has an interface, and what I mean by that is what we can express
and what we can take in, kind of what's on the surface of the cell.
So for me what I can express is words out of my mouth and you can see my facial expression
but you don't see other parts of me.
So in terms of the interface, there's what I'm expressing out to you and there's what
I can take in and unfortunately on Zoom right now I'm not actually seeing anything.
If you interrupt with voice I can hear you but I'm not seeing any faces.
That could have been different but it isn't.
So now there's the interfaces, there's my interface and your interface, and then each
one of us has dynamics which is like my internal brain state, body state, and how that updates
based on what I'm seeing.
So I'm seeing in front of me this screen and I'm able to press buttons to like affect
the screen and that affects my, what's happening inside my mind, my body.
And finally the third thing is interaction which is that you can affect me and I can
affect you.
And if you turn your speakers off I will not be able to affect you anymore or if you leave
Zoom.
So the interaction is the way that my outputs or my expression gets into you as inputs and
how your expression gets to me as inputs.
And right now this is a bit feed forward because I'm not hearing any voices but earlier it
was more interactive and that affects kind of what flows between us and therefore how
our internal state flows.
And so we draw boundaries around things and we modularize by nested reference frames.
So I'm going to talk about nesting where you have littler systems inside of larger systems,
you might have atoms inside of molecules, you have proteins inside of cells and organizations
inside of societies, and I'm interested in how these nest, how you build larger systems
from smaller ones, but this math is again not numerical, it's structural.
So we're going to see how it manages these interaction reference frames and lets different
dynamical systems housed in different interfaces talk to each other.
So just like geometry is about shapes, category theory is about structure, neither of them
really is about number.
So we're talking about the structure of interaction and what's going on with how interfaces and
dynamics and stuff go together.
So right now we've got, right, I want to be able to talk about cells and tadpoles and
us.
Soon I'll talk about what an interface is as a mathematical object called a polynomial
functor.
It's a big word that you don't have to know anything about, I'll tell you about it and
again it might just wash over you but you'll see that there's math about interfaces.
Right, so, but I want to be able to talk about this stuff in a way you'll understand.
So since I don't have any tadpoles and I don't know anything about tadpoles, I'm going
to talk about us.
So ourselves in the zoom call, each of us can do certain things and receive certain things.
So from now on blue, I think I've coded it so that blue is like outward expression and
green is inward incoming stuff.
So we can outwardly express some stuff and we can take in things and that's what I mean
by interface.
And I'm going to call these positions and forces that we express ourselves through positions
and we are affected by forces.
And if I put a force on your body, that's actually a force but I'm also considering my voice
to be like a force that's moving you through your internal state space.
So when I say, you know, some, if I said a curse word right now, it might force you into
like some weird part of state space that like was unexpected.
So I want you to consider like an attitude of my body, like what I'm doing with my hands
or whatever sounds coming out of my mouth as a kind of position I'm in, my larynx is
in varying positions and that as my voice box changes position, it affects you.
And your inner states and my inner states, they're outwardly expressed as those positions
and then the world impinges on you or directs you or moves you by what I'm calling forces.
So those are just outputs and inputs if you like.
But one thing about this formalism that I think is important is that what your body
can receive in a given moment depends on your position.
So this is, you could have it be independent.
You might be the sort of thing that always receives, you know, a single bit stream.
But it could also be that when your eyes are open, you're receiving a bit or a million bits.
When your eyes are closed, you're receiving no bits, say.
It could be that when your car goes through a tunnel, your input sensorium is smaller
than when your car is in the open because of GPS.
And I think relevant maybe to you guys is like, if you're a caterpillar one day and
a butterfly another day, then like the position that your body is in, like the sort of way
you're expressing outwardly a shape, affects what sort of sensorium you might have.
It may be that the butterfly actually receives a different type of signal.
It's R to the million versus R to the 10,000 of a caterpillar.
So that's the sort of thing I want to be able to do that like if I mute myself or I, if
I change what my zoom position is doing, you will be like what I'll receive and send will
be different.
Even what I receive will be different if I turn off my screen and things like that.
So that's the sort of thing I want to enable with this accounting system is the ability
to like when a protein folds or a cell is in a certain shape or a, you know, hedgehog
is curled up.
It's just not receiving as much as when it's open.
That's what I want.
I want my accounting system to be able to do that sort of thing.
Okay, so you output forces positions, you receive forces, the force or the sensation
you have or the input, whatever we want to call it changes your internal state.
And that new internal state is outwardly reflected that it's a new position at which point you
may have a brand new sensorium as you metamorph into something else.
And this repeats over and over.
It's just kind of this constant dynamics and that's what we mean by dynamical system.
But then where do these forces come from?
Well, they come from the interaction.
Maybe you're just in an enclosed box and like as you buzz around, all you hear is your own
closing, but still there's some interaction between you and the enclosure in that case.
And here there's you and me and we're, my outputs are becoming your inputs and that's
happening through the arrangement.
So zoom arranges it so that my outputs get to you as inputs.
And as you receive what I say, your body shifts or you might say something in the microphone
and that's your output.
So maybe I'll pause at the end of this slide just to see if there are questions.
So the way this works, like the way you receive from me and I receive from you is based on
this arrangement that we call zoom.
And this program is arranging it so that my, I can input your output and vice versa.
In fact, I'm a little bit sad about zoom right now because my input is, oh, wait, I can press
this button.
Oh, I can see you guys, if I just press the right button.
Oh, cool.
Hello.
And so now I'm our interaction with the program.
I just changed the arrangement so that I'm now, yeah, that's really great.
So I just, this is an instance of what I'm talking about.
I can do something with my output and that will change the arrangement so that I'm receiving
different things than I was before.
Okay.
So maybe I'll pause for questions.
I assume for like a nested system, everything you've presented would just apply again and
again and again and again.
