I think I heard that from Mike once upon a time.
So we've got all these cells in here and then there's me and what you can see of me is like
affected by that.
And so our internal state is affecting what comes out of us as positions and is affected
by what comes into us as forces or sensorium.
Now we have multiple interfaces interacting together and I'm calling that the arrangement.
So this, these guys are arranged in this way.
And inside this enclosure, which is like the outer membrane called me with cells inside
of it.
And then there's me over here and there's you over here.
And we're sending each other information.
Then there's this whole zoom call.
And maybe like outside, there's actually somebody on this in the zoom company watching us and
subtly affecting this.
And I hope that's not true, but maybe it's true.
And so there's this kind of nesting as hierarchical nesting of things.
Now what I didn't write here is that the arrangements can actually change through time.
So this wiring is not fixed in reality.
It's fixed in this picture.
But right now I did something on zoom earlier where, where I, my, what I was receiving from
you guys changed.
I actually started seeing faces, whereas I wasn't before.
So the arrangement can change through time.
The interfaces can change through time also in this accounting system.
And something could it be a crawling robot one moment and a flying robot another moment.
So an interface consists consists of two things, a set of positions.
So what position, the set of things, positions you can be, maybe you can, you can just be
in three different positions or maybe you can be an R to the 44 number of positions, whatever
set you want, you as the accounting person, as the bookkeeper, you get to pick what, what
you can output.
And then for every position, if you say, I'm in position A, I'm a, I'm a caterpillar,
then I will tell you the set of force, then, then you also need to provide for me what
forces or sensorium you can receive when you're a caterpillar with your legs in this position,
when you're a caterpillar with your legs in that position, when you're a butterfly with
your wings in this position.
For each of those, there's a set of forces you can receive, they might be exactly the
same or they might be changing.
So what can arrive when you're in that position?
That's this f of I thing.
And now I'm going to encode this strangely in a data structure, like in, in, in C yet
and computer science, you might make these data structures.
And just because it's a tree doesn't mean that like, that the user is thinking of it
as a tree.
It's just that you're holding it as a tree.
And we're going to arrange all this, this, this interface stuff as a polynomial in one
variable with non-negative or integer coefficients.
And it's strange.
It's a formal thing.
Don't freak out when you see the sum sign.
So here's an interface.
It says the interface for this thing is the sum over all.
It's a polynomial.
It's like y to the something plus y to the something else plus y to the something else.
And it's the sum over all of the positions of y to the power, the sensorium there.
Okay.
So these indices here are the positions.
And for each one, there's a set of, there's an exponent, and that's the set of things
you can receive when you're in that position.
If you're a hedgehog and you're folded up, you receive a different thing than when you're
unfolded.
Okay.
So imagine this weird polynomial.
It would say that I have one position I could be in where I'm receiving five inputs.
I have 62 possible positions where I'm receiving three inputs.
And I have two positions where I'm receiving nothing.
This one, I, my body can be in our three many positions.
I can walk around in our three space.
And no matter where I am, I always have the same sensorium.
I'm receiving a million bits or a million variables of information.
So you have different polynomials that say kind of what this, how your interface works.
Can I ask a good question?
Yep.
What does Y represent here?
It's a formal variable.
I didn't use X.
Just I use a, there's a kind of category theory reason I used a Y.
It stands for your data, but that's not very important.
It's just a formal variable that is housing a polynomial and like this data structure,
I could have called it X or Z.
I called it script Y.
So there is no direct link to any of the features of the agents here.
Does it represent physical or?
There's no direct link to what?
Does it represent anything physical like physical?
This thing is represent, this whole thing is representing the physical interface or
the, the, the way that the modeler is thinking of the caterpillar, a butterfly system.
So not in terms of its internal dynamics, we'll get to that later, but just in terms
of its interface that the butterfly and caterpillar, there are two, there is a bunch of positions
that can be in and for each one, there is a bunch of things that can receive.
And you can encode all that in one thing, one data structure, which is a polynomial.
And why do a polynomial?
That's what the next slide is about.
Why we're doing this kind of strange way of encoding things.
And remind me, hold on, sorry, I want to make sure, this is cool.
So I want to make sure I'm grabbing it.
And by position, it's like, if you're outputting a bit stream, your positions would be zero
and one.
Okay.
But maybe you're receiving two bits of information.
So you're receiving two bits and for every moment you're updating your state and outputting
one bit.
Okay.
So position doesn't have a lot to do with like necessarily the state of the system that
you're looking at now.
I mean, it's connected, but it's not the state of the system.
That's right.
This is the interface.
It's the housing.
It's what you can, when you're probing your butterfly or your tadpole, it's the way you
can affect it and the way you, what you can see about it.
And okay.
That, the way you said that, that clicked.
Okay.
I'll take that.
Thanks.
Okay.
So these, this is all the stuff you can see.
And for everything you can see, if it's in that position, it might be receiving a different
sensorium than when it's in that position.
Okay.
So the reason we use polynomials is because there's a bunch of operations on polynomials
that means something with respect to interfaces.
We're also going to be able to get that dynamics in terms of polynomials and we're going to
be able to get arrangements in terms of polynomials and all the stuff I wrote and all those different
colors of green and blue and orange and stuff, those all are going to be within the same
system.
I don't need to like, I guess when they first started with math, with arithmetic and stuff,
they had like a different counting system for cheese and for goats and stuff and like
people who knew the cheese accounting system didn't know the goats accounting system.
This one is supposed to work in the exact same way, no matter if we're talking about
the interfaces, we're talking about the dynamics, we're talking about the arrangements, all
the stuff I've been talking about is all going to be within polynomial functions.
And again, I can't tell you exactly what they are, but I can tell you things about that
you might already know and how, what it looks like.
So we have operations on polynomials, like we can add them, you can multiply polynomials,
like if you have two polynomials and you want to multiply them, you know, x plus one times
x plus two is x squared plus three x plus two.
You can compose polynomials, so like y squared composed, y cubed plus one is y to the six
plus something something, you, but there are other operations too, and each of these operations
is going to mean something in terms of interfaces.
So if you have an interface called P, you know, a butterfly interface, you have interface
called Q, catapult interface, then P plus Q is a new interface.
So sorry, so I'm just going to take these things, if this is P and we have another one
for Q, then I'm going to be able to add those two polynomials up and get the P plus Q or
I can multiply them just like you did in middle school and get another polynomial interface.
So what is P plus Q, it's another polynomial, so it represents another interface that can,
its outputs, its positions are the positions of P and then just jointly also the positions
of Q.
So it's a position of P or a position of Q.
Now given one of those, if you're in, if you're, what's the sensorium there, well if you're
in a P position, a butterfly position, then you get the sensorium of the butterfly in
that position and if you're in the Q position, the caterpillar position, then you get the
sensorium of the caterpillar and that's just how P plus Q works, like when you add them
up and you just get like, I'm either in one of these three or one of these six, that's
why they're nine, why are the fifth?
In either way, I have five inputs and if I'm in one of these two positions, I have four
input possibilities.
If I'm in this position, I'll have three input possibilities, et cetera.
So when you add two polynomials, it just says like, oh, I know how butterflies work, I know
how caterpillars work, this thing can either be that or that, but the dynamics inside is
staying like there's something that's translating between them or like flowing that's allowed
to have either one of those two positions, either one of those two interfaces and maybe
we know that for the caterpillar butterfly dynamical system, it transitions one way but
it never transitions back.
That might be a thing that happens.
P times Q is also a polynomial, P composed Q is also a polynomial, there's all sorts
of things you can do and this polynomial, if you like go back and think, okay, what does
P times Q really do?
What are the sum ends of that thing?
It turns out that a sum end of this, one of those positions of this is a pair consisting
of a position of this one and a position of this one, whereas an input there is that you
would either input from P or you would input from Q and to see that, I'm just giving you
a simple thing here.
So if you have five y to the fourth, this thing is outputting five possible positions
and for each one, inputting four possible things and this one's outputting six and inputting
three and when you multiply them, you get 30 kind of a grid of like, which P position
was I in?
Which Q position was I in?
There are 30 possibilities.
When you multiply, you get a seven up here.
That's because you're either receiving a four or you're receiving a three, one of these
four things or you're receiving one of these three things.
So again, I'm not expecting you to get this fully, what I'm saying is like different operations
on polynomials give you new ways of combining interfaces.
So when you compose polynomials, that's going to be an interface that runs P and then Q
in series.
The sort of thing that like does a strategy like I'm going to run P and then no matter
what you give me, I'm going to run Q according to that.
Like I'm going to output something depending on what input I get from P or P tensor Q runs
both P and Q in parallel.
So you've got kind of two systems side by side and they're each running some dynamics
and this interface will kind of output what both of them are outputting and input what
both of them are inputting.
We're going to get so P or Q runs either P or Q or both.
These are just operations you can do that takes two polynomials and gives you new polynomial.
And there's this other thing you can do which is like running arrangements and we'll get
to that one later.
But what are arrangements?
So we considered ourselves to be in the zoom arrangement right now so that my output goes
to your input or they're like organelles in a cell or cells in a tissue, an arrangement
