How it'll go, but I'm going to try.
So I want to talk about dynamic interfaces and arrangements.
What I'm hoping is, so let me just start actually so I can write.
So what I'm here to do is basically, I'm hoping that there will be some valuable exchange
of ideas.
The stuff that you know is complimentary to the sort of stuff I know.
I've watched about 10 of Mike's talks and interviews.
I've talked with him and Chris fields a little bit.
And what it seems like the work you guys do from what I know of it, it leads to this kind
of unusual worldview about life that a lot of people find surprising.
And yet when I look at it, it seems very natural.
Everything that Mike says in his talks and everything I've talked to Chris about, except
for maybe the quantum stuff, which I don't know that well, the kind of underlying philosophy
is really concordant with the sort of philosophy that comes out of my work, which is just in
trying to philosophically and mathematically analyze what life might be or that sort of
question what organizations in life and that sort of stuff would be.
So category theory is a branch of math and it emphasizes structure rather than quantitative
analysis.
It's not about breaking things down or finding fundamental building blocks.
It's about, it's not about like plays of quantity.
It's about structure.
So like the relations between things and coherence and things like that.
So when you're putting things together, when you understand the basic building blocks,
when you have some building blocks already, how do you put them together and what does
it mean for them to cohere and stuff?
So applied category theory is bringing this branch of math out into the world and hoping
to show in various relational disciplines where you're really, instead of thinking about
numbers of things, you're thinking about quantum, you're thinking about the qualitative and
relationship aspects of things.
That's where it really is designed to work.
So I want to tell you about applied category theory, but specifically in reference to morphology.
Not that I know almost any biology, but just from kind of the philosophy I hear in the
work from coming out of this lab.
So when people think of math, like people often think of number, but I think of mathematical
fields as accounting systems.
So arithmetic is a branch of math, but it accounts for, you can make an account of like the flow
of quantities.
So in finance, you might multiply some numbers because you sold 50 widgets and you might add
some numbers and subtract some numbers and arithmetic is how you write down an account
of what money flowed or how many sheep flowed or whatever.
If you're trying to talk about quantum mechanics, then you need a different accounting system
and you need the accounting system of vector spaces with a way of taking inner products
and looking at angles between things.
And so you need an accounting system called Hilbert spaces.
If you want to account for why certain hands in poker are more likely than others, then
you use a different accounting system with probability distributions and you talk about
what are the legal moves instead of plus and minus what's legal is conditioning or branching
structures and things like that.
So in various fields, you need different sorts of accounting systems and for each one, someone
has invented a mathematical field to make that sort of account.
If you want an account of phenomena, what you need is like when I point at the board
and say, where was at the spreadsheet and say, where did this $12.83 come from?
You need to be able to talk in the high enough fidelity language that you can answer that
question in a way that I get.
So if I want to make an account of elementary particles, what sort of language do I need?
Well, I need some high fidelity language where one person can point to something and say,
hey, how do you account for this?
And so we need to be able to track certain aspects of say quantum mechanics or finance
or probability and throw away other ones.
We don't want to know what brand of deco cards you're using.
We just want to know how many face cards there are and stuff like that.
So certain type differences like face cards versus number of cards, you do want to track
and you want to be able to kind of track the relevant type differences there, like what
sort of thing we're going to be talking about and how they and then you want to be able to
talk about operations like plus and times or conditioning or inner product.
And so for each accounting system, there's sort of what you want to track and then what
sort of operations you can do to it.
And that's what a mathematical field is.
It's kind of telling you the what and the kind of structure, the stuff and the structure
and the properties, I guess they say sometimes of that you're going to be dealing with.
So category theory is a branch of math.
So it must be according to my definition, it must be an accounting system for something.
And what it's accounting for is or what helps you make an account of is that things that
you can build structures, that structures exist in a coherent like you can build blueprints
of buildings, that's a structure, but it's also about just building mathematical structures.
And so the fact that there are structures that we can we can build is what category
theory helps you take account of.
And so I often hear Mike talking about analogies and the importance of them.
And so what those are are similarities in structure across different content domains.
So although the content is different, my love is like a red, red rose, like a rose and
your love are not the same sort of content, but there's some kind of analogy there.
And so making similarities of structure into formal objects is what category theory is about.
So it's been useful in math and computer science and physics and material science and linguistics
and a whole bunch of places, places where you're concerned with structures and analogies
between structures.
So the driving question of my research is basically just to kind of aim right at the
center of this moment in some sense.
So we have this incredible world before us.
We have amazing forms of life from cells to humans on earth.
You also have the built world where we have transportation systems and computers.
We're on zoom right now.
We have language that I'm able to speak to you and you're able to speak back, which is
like systematic presentations of knowledge through slideshows or whatever.
We have morality, like rules of thumbs for how to live together and all of these things
in our world evolved through the push and pull and struggle of living.
So all of all these ideas I'm having and telling you about and things I'm hoping to hear from
you afterwards came because we've tested our ideas on each other, but same with morals.
We tried different moral systems.
We see where we've gotten and we've tried different life forms and we've seen where
we've gotten.
And I'm kind of interested in how that structure could be written down.
Like what of that?
What could we throw away and what could we keep?
What could we track to understand what's going on with all that?
So how do these systems develop?
Like how can we talk cleanly about them in one common language?
Words like evolution, words like niche, like what should these words mean?
Can we make accounting systems that are tight enough and high fidelity enough that we understand
each other and can like really test each other's accounts and stuff?
And maybe we could use that same language to engineer new systems.
So you might, and you might want to know like what constitutes a health of a system?
What makes it sustainable and gives it a sense of direction?
I'd want to be able to account for words like health or morality or something in this accounting
system without having to say, here's what the answer is, but instead letting different
people tell about their view of these things and account for it in terms of, in mathematical
terms, just to be able to make the account whether or not we agree that it's the correct
one.
It's at least holds up.
So like when I check your finance report, I may not know whether the numbers are right,
but I can at least see that they add up, that the liabilities and the assets add up to the
same thing.
So the part I'm going to discuss today is a potential accounting system for these sorts
of things.
I'm not going to actually give an account.
I'm going to just say what sort of system I think an account could be given within.
And so the subject of this talk is dynamic interaction.
So what am I trying to account for?
I'm trying to account for things like morphology and behavior, where you've got little systems
interacting to form a bigger system.
And the interaction structure itself is changing through time.
So the way the different cells are interacting now might be different than the way they're
interacting later.
And in the same sense, the way you and I are interacting now is different than we were
interacting 20 minutes ago when there was zero interaction.
So things come in and out of interaction, and when they're interacting, they're affecting
each other.
And so that's kind of what this mathematical language is supposed to do.
So in some sense, much of this talk will be a case of its own subject matter or some
kind of recursion here.
So I'm interested in the development of life and stuff like that.
But in particular, we are kind of hanging out together right now.
And so in science, the way science develops, which is affecting life, is that there's interaction
between fields.
And so right now, we are having this interaction between fields, between different people in
different fields.
And so there's a communication happening.
We're affecting each other's internal state.
So there's some dynamical systems of you and me.
And this is like a real-time case of development of things or of ideas.
So the concepts described in this talk should be kind of about the talk as an interaction.
So in other words, I guess I'm going to pause just to hear if this is making any sense or
if you have any questions so far, that the math I'm talking about is supposed to talk
about how what's happening right now affects us and leads to the development of structure
and that I'm trying to find an accounting system for that.
So let me just see if I can pause and look at your people here to see if this is making
any sense.
I don't know if I can see anyone.
So first, can you see us?
I can't see you.
So I guess I'll stop sharing for a second.
It's fine.
So if what you're describing is more about, for example, would not necessarily capture,
let's say at some point you say something, your next slide is incredible.
And all of a sudden, everything that you want to convey is like boom in my head and I get
it now.
Is the math that you're trying or the system that you're proposing, would it capture that
sort of internal realization or more about what was happening roughly around that time
in terms of?
It would capture.
So we will be able to say in this accounting system that I output certain things, a slide,
and that you are close enough or in an arrangement with me, and I'll be talking about this, we
are arranged together in Zoom such that you received that thing and that that thing that
you received updated your internal state in such a way that was kind of put you in a new
part of state space that you never left again for 50 years or whatever.
In other words, that something about your interaction with the world was refined so that when you
interact, you no longer were random in a certain dimension, you were refined in that
dimension.
Okay.
So then the accounting system would then need to cover the arrangement, kind of what was
passed between us, but also the internal state of all the pieces.
That's right.
Okay.
Yeah.
And the fact that like sometimes our arrangement changes, like maybe you found that so compelling
that you moved to Berkeley and, you know, or maybe you didn't, right?
And then it didn't change how we arrange in the future.
And so that's sort of what you said was right on.
Yeah.
Okay.
Should I go back?
Any other questions?
I'm happy to pause here.
Okay.
We'll continue.
So I'll just continue.
I guess I have one last question.
Is in what you're going to propose, will it cover it all?
Let's say we're in this interaction, soon you'll be done and I'm going to go have my
lunch and 20 minutes, you know, and 20 minutes into my lunch, I update my internal state
kind of based on my thinking after this has happened.
