And then of course the question is,
where's psychology in all this?
And for the most part, psychology has not pursued
this line of work at all.
As many of you know, psychology is unique
among the sciences and having started out
as an experimental science.
So there's been very little work of this nature.
In psychology, the exception is the other
ecological psychologist who I'll mention today
besides Gibson, and that is Roger Barker.
Barker realized in the late 1940s
that psychology was missing this vital piece.
And so he began to conduct an observational study
of the everyday actions of individual children
as they went about their day in their town.
It was literally sort of descriptive work,
but also Barker wanted to know,
is there some discernible order or pattern
in the child's actions over the course of the day?
In other words, what might account
for what the child was doing at any given time?
And here's the overall conclusion of his study,
although I'll talk about it in more specifics momentarily.
First of all, and this comes as no great surprise,
the actions of any individual child typically changes
dramatically when he or she moves
from one location in the environment to another.
How a child acts, let's say in a classroom
or in a playground or in a pharmacy, changes.
But the other thing which is really noteworthy
that he points out is that if we follow the activities
of an individual child, their actions show greater variability
across different locations,
and that's what the prior statement essentially stating.
Greater variability across different locations
then do the actions of different children
within the same location.
Now, this is really unusual observation
from the point of view of psychology,
which just assumes that the determinant of action
is sort of within the person.
And what Barker found is where the child is,
turns out to be a very reliable predictor
of what the child is doing.
Now, the question is, why is that the case?
And so that's what I wanna pursue for the remainder,
for the most part, for the remainder of my time.
Why is it the case that children's actions
change notably when they move from one location,
and I'll use the word location here generally, to another.
And why is it the case that different children,
their behaviors are more similar within a given location
than they are across different locations for,
just for our present purposes,
imagine this is the same group of children
in each of these situations.
Notice how radically their actions change
across the situations, but how somewhat similar they are,
how more limited, they have much more in common
within any situation.
Now, why is that?
Well, the reason why is that there's an emergent
self-organizing pattern of joint action.
This is not Barker's terminology.
Barker called the book, refer to a behavior setting.
What happens is the emergence of behavior settings.
So what I'm doing, Barker was writing
in the 50s and 60s, and he didn't have
the same conceptual tools that we have today.
He was working largely with the theoretical tools
of cybernetics.
So what we're doing here is trying to cast Barker's thinking
into dynamical systems language.
And so due to the coordinate of coupling
among the constituents, let's say in this classroom,
what emerges is a higher order unit,
in this case, the classroom,
within which those constituent behaviors are embedded,
and from which those coordinated constituent behaviors,
the setting largely arises.
Here's another case where a group of children
sort of all essentially agreeing
to coordinate their actions.
Similarly, give rise to a certain possibility,
in this case, a game, which wouldn't be there
if it weren't for the joint co-ordinative coupling
of the constituents.
There is a sense of there's a collective intentionality.
The children, there's an intersubjective awareness
that we're a part of something bigger.
I'll come back to that.
And to try to talk about this
with a little more specificity,
the coordination among the constituents,
the components give rise to this emergent structure.
And to sustain that emergent structure,
the co-ordinative actions are constrained.
So this is a view here where the degrees of freedom
of constituents are limited by virtue
of their participation in the higher order dynamic structures
that they themselves generate.
That's what I think is really quite interesting
about this phenomenon of behavior setting
and how it fits really nicely
into dynamical systems thinking.
Joanna Rosazek-Leonardo has nicely stated this
as the emergent stabilization
of selective constraints on actions.
Interestingly, her research deals
with mother-infant interactions.
We're seeing the same phenomenon happening
at a different level of complexity.
So why is knowing where a child is a reliable predictor
of what she is doing?
Well, because we're considering her or his actions
in relation to the emergent structure
within which they are situated or embedded.
So going back to where I was at the outset,
we're looking at how perception action is embedded
in a particular set of circumstances,
which in part is generated by joint action.
Now, what led Barker to the discovery?
And I really think discovery is the right word here
of behavior settings.
And again, this was, I would say this occurred
in the early 60s.
I'll give you an example that he cites in his writings.
I'm gonna talk to you about 10 minutes of observations
of a girl named Maude, who's six years old
in a neighborhood soda fountain.
And for historical purposes, I must say that is indeed
the soda fountain that he observed.
So I was pleased to take a field trip there.
So let me help walk you through this complicated figure.
What Barker has done on the left-hand side,
these numbers, is the various things in this case
that others say to the child, what he calls social inputs.
And they're marked by these arrows, if you see.
So these are the various remarks that are offered
by Maude's mother or in a few cases, the clerk.
And this is time.
So these are the things that mom or the clerk say to Maude,
or not what they say, but when they say it.
And if we assume sort of an SR relationship,
you would think that behavior would follow
from these inputs.
But in fact, these are the inputs.
These are, I mean, sorry, these are the behaviors.
They occur over a duration.
So this is the onset of one action.
This is the onset offset of that one action and so on.
So these are units of action.
And if you look at where the arrows lay
relative to the onset of the behavior episodes,
you can see that they don't correspond
to them very reliably at all.
In other words, if we were to predict what Maude is doing
with regard to these actions, which have a duration,
some of which are nested within others,
you can see that they aren't really initiated very often
by what anyone is directing toward her.
That is, there's no reliable causal relationship
in the sense of efficient causality.
Looking, say it said another way,
looking at the actions of others,
they were terrible predictors of Maude's behavior.
Barker was initially discouraged by this input
until these results, until he realized something.
If you step back for a minute,
he realized that in fact, all of Maude's actions
were in fact congruent with the setting in which she was in.
That is to say, she was behaving perfectly appropriately
with the neighborhood, in the neighborhood soda fountain.
Actions were appropriate to the type of place
where they occurred.
So why is that?
And we see this also if Maude or children
or in a literature class or an ice cream shop
or a football field, their patterns of action
overall differ.
And even though we maybe couldn't predict them
on a micro scale, actions are appropriate
to the type of place where they occur.
And so we might view this more in terms of formal causality
that actions take the form of the dynamic structure,
the higher order dynamic structure to which they belong.
And I've already explained how this works
in some of the prior slides.
So essentially the soda fountain was a behavior setting.
It has a dynamic quasi-stable,
that is to say self-regulating function.
It's a set of joint actions by Maude, the mother,
the soda clerk and Maude's brother who was also there
supported by the physical material structure
available, the affordances.
So here are the properties of a behavior setting.
They occur naturally, they're in the world.
They're not created by an experimenter.
They're not necessarily,
