they're not in the head of any one person.
They are properties of the world.
They're composed of dynamic patterns of action
of individuals with the supportive affordances.
They're in a certain place and behavior settings
operate within a specific time period.
So we can pinpoint where that soda fountain is
and when it opens, when it closes.
And notice that it's not a physical location
that's part of it, but it's the setting itself
is generated by the actions of the people there.
So after hours when no one's present in the soda fountain,
it's not a behavior setting.
It's essentially an empty shell.
The behavior setting is an eco-behavioral unit.
Behavior settings are psychologically
and publicly meaningful ecological structures.
That is to say they're perceivably meaningful
and available for others to see
as long as they've come to understand
what these are within the context of their community.
And these structures stem from, as I'll say more fully,
the normative practices of participants.
These dynamic eco-psychological structures exist
independently of any single individual.
If Mod's brother leaves the soda fountain,
the behavior setting still goes on.
And they're self-regulating because if in fact
a participant begins to act
with outside the bounds of normative action,
the other participants can attempt
to kind of bring them back into line.
So what Barker did remarkably over two full years
and another year in another city in the UK,
he examined all the behavior settings that existed
over the course of an entire year.
And this is just one page of a very long table,
but let me give you an example.
So if you look here, the behavior setting type,
furniture store, there was one of them.
It was open 305 days during the year.
It was in operation over 2,700 hours.
So we can begin, and similarly,
if we look at kindergarten classes,
there was one kindergarten class during the year.
It was active 97 days out of the year for 242 hours
and duration, if you wanted to,
if you were looking for a knitting class,
there were two, they occurred 45 times jointly and so on.
If however, if you were looking to,
this I didn't mention this,
but this was the observation of a town
in the United States and the Midwest,
if you wanted to play a game of cricket,
you'd find no behavior settings there.
In other words, the behavior settings
provide the eco-behavioral resources
or the eco-psychological resources
of the town during the year.
This indicates what one could do in the town.
And notice that these, again,
these behavior settings emerge out
of Coordinative Joint Actions of the participants.
So here is, if you will, a behavior setting,
which many of you would be familiar with,
we could talk about the participants
as having a sense of collective intentionality.
They know what the action and what the activity is
and they all know that they're part of this.
Charles Taylor nicely phrases this,
social practices are not carried out
in acts of single agents.
A great deal of human action happens only in so far
as the agent understands and constitute him or herself
as an integral part of a weed.
So in this case, just as the case to the right,
the constituents, the coordination of the participants
give rise to a higher order unit.
What I think all of us who read the literature
and action and ecological psychology
are familiar with the case on the right,
the case on the left though is equally commonplace.
And in fact, our communities are filled
with these higher order units of collective action.
So where might we go here?
Well, I can envision a developmental research agenda,
which I'd like to bring up and encourage anyone
to sort of join in on.
First of all, we wanna understand how children learn
to become participants in ongoing family
and community practices.
And part of this process is surely as put in out
by Eric, Rachel, and Julian Kiverstein,
it's a process of educating attention,
educating the attention of the novice
to selected parts of the world that has significance
for a given practice.
That is to say, the individual is,
the attention of the individual was brought
to these significant events
which have some kind of coherence and structure.
In doing so, the child learns about the range of actions
that are permissible in that location,
in that behavior setting.
What I've written about in other, in various places
is that this is not a matter of rule learning.
Rule learning really can't account for this
for a whole variety of reasons,
but rather what's mostly happening
is that the child learns about what is impermissible
in those places.
That is to say, they acquire a sense
of the constraints on action.
And so then in any given behavior setting,
there is a limited number,
the limited degrees of freedom of action
due to overlapping sets of constraints.
So let me just give you one example here.
So here's a child's party at a restaurant.
And I'm speculating, this is open for research,
that what accounts for the action of any given child
is the overlapping of several sets of constraints.
One being, what is it to have a meal in a public place?
What is it to interact and be in a restaurant?
And three, what is it like to interact with one's friends?
If you sort of bring those three sets of constraints together,
we can see sort of the range of actions
which are likely to occur for any given child
in this situation.
We're not able to predict what exactly the child's doing
at any given instant,
but we can really delineate in a fairly limited way
what the child is likely to be doing.
And so, and also this is not a height,
we're not talking about the determination of action,
but rather within those constraints,
there's a great deal of improvisation and spontaneity,
which makes them enjoyable and fun
and a shared sense of what's going on.
The second program of research which one can conduct,
and this is something I wanted to,
that I've done a little bit on,
is that of course for a child to act appropriately
in a given setting,
they need to be able to recognize what the setting is.
The behavior setting is a dynamic inter-individual unit.
It's not a mere collection of people.
In a Gestalt sense,
it should be some unit that is perceptible.
The child, the individual,
should be able to identify what kind of setting
this inter-individual unit is.
It's an X, not a Y.
So, is there any evidence for this?
And I should say also that in looking for evidence,
we're also providing some support for the notion
that behavior settings are independent of any individual.
They are eco-psychological structures
in the environment considered relationally.
That is to say they have a similar ontological status
as an affordance.
So, let me explain this experiment
that was conducted with some colleagues here.
And what happened is we went into
a number of low community settings
and essentially choreographed over a 10-minute,
sorry, 10-minute period,
what the individuals were doing.
These are sort of paths of travel
through a particular setting.
And then this was translated into an animation.
These blue poles with a red dot on the end,
that's to indicate the nose,
are individuals, but we've eliminated all features
except for sort of the whole entity of the individual.
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna move
these individuals around in the same fashion
as they were observed in the setting initially.
And sort of like if you're familiar
with the point light display research,
it's similar to that in that we're going to see
if participants in an experiment can identify
through the movement of these.
What kind of setting it is?
Can they detect structure from motion?
So let me give you a brief snippet
of one of these animations.
And then after this, what I'll do is show you
a number of choices with which the participants
had to choose among or to rank order.
Now, the participants saw a bit more of this
than what you've just seen,
but then they were given these choices
and asked to rank order them.
How likely is it that any one of these
reflects the pattern of action that we just saw?
I can't go into the explanation
of how we came up with these items,
but it was based on a series of previous examples
but it was based on a series of pre-tests.
