And we are live, okay.
So welcome everyone to the November 2018 Ensouce seminar.
As is usual, at this stage of the proceedings,
we'll have a relatively slow start
to allow people to prep up the speed.
And we have a couple of other members of the community
who hopefully will be joining us live.
Our speaker this month will be Harry Heft
from Denison University.
Harry, a psychologist, a professor emeritus psychologist
in Denison who has worked in the area
of ecological psychology and environmental psychology
for many years, taught and teaches in the area
of environmental psychology and cultural psychology.
Harry's most probably best known work
and the place where I first came across his work
was his impressive term ecological psychology in context,
tracing the lineage of James Gibson's talk
back to William James and also connecting it
with the other domains of ecological psychology,
such as Roger Barker's work,
which will form the basis of much of what
is Harry's gonna talk about today.
So just before we get started with the actual talk,
we have a little bit of news which we can share
if I can bring up the in the coming weeks.
Ezekiel de Paolo, Anna de Yeager and Elena Kouffari
will have a new book released called Linguistic Bodies.
So it's a substantial contribution
to the whole field of understanding language
from an inactive perspective.
It's a, I've been able to see some of the work
and I'm very much looking forward to reading
the full work itself, looking at the whole issue
of embodiment from the ground up,
very much from in a depth that is well worth exploring.
And we are lucky enough as well to be able to,
if you buy now or buy soon, there's a code here
that you'll be able to use to get 30% off
from the MIT Press website as well.
So you can swipe that code and use it to save yourself
a bit of cash on an otherwise very good expenditure of money.
Okay, so that is,
now, so that's it in terms of sort of initial news.
So that'll be the case.
I think we have, we're still possibly gonna have
one or two people will join us a little bit later
for the Q&A session, have a nice conversation.
But in the meantime, I guess, Harry,
we should probably move toward the talk.
Hopefully, we've had a few people be able to catch up online.
That's fine.
Okay, so without further ado, Harry Heft,
please invite you to give this one sensor seminar.
Well, hello everyone.
Thanks for joining.
And I will switch to the slides.
Okay, I'm assuming I think America is still there.
Yep, it's still there.
Okay, that all looks good.
You might not think there's a hide button
beside the stop sharing button there,
which, there we go.
There we are.
So we're all good then.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, the top, the title, as you can see,
is talking about emergent structures in everyday life,
but there are emergent structures
at a higher level of analysis than we normally consider.
So let me just sort of lay out a few basic issues first.
These are mostly issues
that I assume everyone's familiar with,
so I won't spend much time on them.
I'm talking primarily from the perspective
of ecological psychology.
Initially, James Gibson's approach,
and that will shift a little bit.
The major assumption here is that our focus
is on perception action.
When we look at psychology
from the point of view of perception action,
of view the individual as an agent,
an agent whose actions are intentional or goal directed,
and also that are embedded in a context or situated.
Now, in much of the literature,
and I think here is where ecological psychology
might contribute to some inaction thinking,
is that the situated or the embedded notion
of perception action doesn't get a great deal of play.
So in fact, this is what I wanna focus on today,
is the ways in which action is embedded
or situated in a larger set of circumstances.
So when we say that action is intentional,
it's intentional with reference to what?
And the most general statement we can make
is that it's with reference
to psychologically meaningful features of the habitat.
The prototypical example of this are affordances,
which again, I'm assuming the listeners,
viewers are familiar with.
Affordances are relational properties
of the environment taken with respect
to an organism's actions.
So here is a feature of the habitat.
If you're a young child approaching this feature,
it affords particular actions like, for example, climbing.
So the affordance property is a relational property,
as I hope we're all familiar with.
If not, we can talk about it later.
The other common reference that's treated in the literature
is when we're engaging with others.
And so in this case, others are affordances for action.
And so the individual in each of these cases,
the child is a co-participant in a larger unit,
which we could call a with, barring from urban golfmen.
That is, it's part of a dialogical unit.
Again, the individual is intentional.
Action is embedded within this unit.
And then it's a dynamic process.
Lots of people have written about this.
I think the previous ENSO speaker spoke about this as well.
I wanna just highlight a couple of things here
that with the responsive partner,
the individual and that partner
co-constitutes an interaction frame.
This is an intersubjective interaction frame.
There's a common understanding of what's going on here.
And we can understand this with regard
to the diagram on the right,
which comes from a paper by Chamero and Turvey,
where the constituents, A, lowercase B and C,
jointly give rise to a set, A.
They constitute it, give rise to it
and operate within those,
the constraints of that larger set.
And we'll see how this plays out as we proceed.
Notice again, that this unit, the set,
is an emergent dynamic structure
that emerges from the interaction
and the coordinated relationship
of the constituent participants.
Now, let me sort of shift gears
and add a couple of other pieces
before I go on to what I want to say.
E.B. Holt, who many of you may know
was one of James Gibson's mentors in graduate school,
developed this concept of the recession of the stimulus,
which had a big influence on Gibson.
What he means here is that intentional action
has an environmental correlate.
It's directed towards something.
But what's important in this notion of the recession
is that the reference for action can be specified
with regard to features at different levels of complexity.
So for example, action can be directed
toward a single object, toward multiple objects,
which he wrote about with regard to events
of various durations.
And so what we want to do is talk about action
as directed towards structures that can exist
at multiple levels of scale.
And that is to say, the scope of directed action
may shift over time.
There's a wonderful paper by Ludger Van Geek
and Rob Vittigan on The Horizontal View,
which I recommend to you.
So we're looking at how intentional action
needn't be just directed toward an object
or toward another person, but toward multiple objects
and even toward a larger unit and event.
One other preliminary piece of information
before I proceed is that scientific inquiry
has tended to follow along two tracks.
And America's a wonderful paper that he's working on
on this topic.
And that is scientific, there's experimental inquiry,
obviously, but also scientific inquiry
has taken the form of natural, it's called natural history.
And we're all familiar with this in the sense
of what's often called fieldwork,
like fieldwork in plant ecology, animal ecology,
geology, and so on.
And the goal in much of natural history
is to identify the frequency and circumstances
of the occurrence of whatever your basic subject matter is.
So in other words, if we're interested
in particular types of plants, how often do they occur
and where do they occur and under what circumstance.
This work goes back to antiquity,
but we're probably can trace it most fully back
to the work of Unhomehold in the early 1800s,
who in fact was a major influence on Darwin
and prompted Darwin's voyage on the Beagle.
And also in contemporary science,
we're all familiar with the work of Jane Goodall.
And again, the point of natural history
is to identify what is the basic subject matter,
where does it occur, how often, and so on.
