just maybe go a little bit more expansive
just before we finish?
I might be throwing you a curve ball here,
which is not my deliberate intent.
But just to look at some of the theoretical context here
and the relationship between behavior settings
as a largely overlooked phenomenon and theoretical consideration
and other areas of cognitive science or psychology
that have had even to a large extent, possibly niche work.
But nevertheless, where there is a course of work done.
So just when you were talking initially about.
Behavior settings and the manner in which
perception action has been everyone within ecological psychology,
for example, recognises it as always being embedded in a larger context,
but that that embedding isn't dealt with explicitly
to the same extent as other aspects of the relationship.
But I'm wondering about Russian activity theory then
from Luria and Bygotsky and others.
Is there sort of a strong sort of consonance
or resonance between behavior settings,
bark area and eco behavioral stuff and activity theory, which I think.
That's a that's a that's a really great question.
And I've not thought about it before, but it seems to me.
To use Vygotsky in language, if the tools that we engage with
essentially become internalized to structure thinking.
Well, could we think about behavior settings?
As essentially playing that same role.
So we can be sort of we know how to act in certain places
because we engaged with the structures in a Vygotsky in way.
I think that's a great idea.
I haven't seen anyone write about it.
I'd encourage you to write about it.
I'd like to think when I'd like to think I'd like to think more about it myself.
Yeah, let me let me maybe say one final brief form,
although I hope it's apparent.
I mean, the the goal here, both with Gibson and Barker,
as I've been talking about it, is how do we develop
a psychologically meaningful description of the of the habitat?
The the the tools that we've used from the from other sciences
like physics just aren't adequate to account for psychological experience.
So the larger long range goal is how can we think about
the environment in psychologically meaningful ways?
I think affordances is a huge step in that direction.
I think behavior settings,
it's part of the fact that they've been neglected, you know, also not for that benefit.
Thanks. Yeah, it it it does feel like that the
the ecological thinking and, you know, ecosystems thinking is
which obviously was sort of fundamental to to Barker's work and is
I guess the sort of definite room for that to flourish a bit more within psychology.
And even within ecological psychology,
it hasn't it doesn't seem to have come to the fore in the way you might have expected.
It's in the way Gibson wrote.
No, no, in fact, you kindly mentioned my book at the outset.
And and the and the first part of the book is largely on Gibson
and on in its historic and Gibson's historical roots.
The second part is on Barker and I am trying to link Barker to Gibson.
When I get comments from individuals about my book,
it's usually only about the first half.
I mean, it and especially my friends in ecological psychology,
as far as I can tell, tend not to pay much attention to the second part.
On the other hand, my colleagues who are interested in the social cultural dimensions of ecologicalism,
the dimensions of ecological psychology do take note of that.
So part of it might is is I surely do to the fact that the way ecological psychology has evolved over the past 40 years has been in ways that hasn't fully hasn't fully embraced social cultural factors.
And there's a good and and and there's a good reasons that folks might do that.
But but I'm certainly trying to do engage in that latter activity.
Excellent.
I think I think that's probably a very good place to have a nice finishing note.
So I'll just say thank you very much for your time and for presenting today.
And, you know, I guess I look forward to seeing more.
Yeah.
Well, thank you for inviting me. It was a pleasure.
Thanks.
OK, so.
