And what we found was that folks tended to view these,
that scene is either a coffee shop or a restaurant.
And rarely the other three.
Here's another example.
This one's gonna have a little glitch at the end,
but you'll see most of it.
Okay.
And then they were given these choices to rank order.
Maybe you've made a choice.
I'll show you one more.
And they were asked to pick among these.
We also did this experiment rather than having
the labels of the places, just a list of activities,
what was likely going on in the animations.
And overall, what we found was that individuals
were fairly accurate at sort of identifying
what they were observing.
That is to say the behavior settings were perceptible.
Now it's true that some were more easily identifiable
than others.
And it turns out that the ones like this one,
which was about basketball game,
where the actions were more highly constrained
or those are more readily identifiable.
There were a few which we included in the experiment
that folks had very difficult, a great deal of difficulty
but looking at them, there were many possibilities,
the constraints were few.
Okay, so what I'd like to think about then
is that these behavior settings
are perceived pattern of joint action,
much like the patterns that you observe
in the flow of the stream.
Behavior settings are like eddies
that you can get drawn into.
And so to borrow a phrase from Eric and Julian,
we can talk about attractors in a landscape of affordances.
In our case, unlike their paper,
we're talking about the attractors as being behavior settings.
We carry out our daily lives
and we have available to us affordance of behavior settings
which we can be drawn into and can participate in.
And our participation has to be normative
in such a way that it sustains the integrity of the setting.
So we're positing extra individual attractors
in a landscape of affordances.
They're dynamic and self-organizing.
There's interdependence among constituents.
These are emergent structures.
They're self-regulating.
And one other point, and this is the point
I'll come near my conclusion on,
is that they have a historical character.
In order to understand them,
we have to understand the history of the participants,
particularly in the case of behavior settings,
the sociocultural history of the individual
because these knowing how to participate in a setting
is based on normative social practices.
We don't know much about this.
And I think there's really great opportunity
to study these processes in children.
So the title of my talk again,
was Places as Emergent Dynamic Structures in Everyday Life.
We're identifying higher order ecological structures
as properties of human eco-niches
in addition to affordances.
And so to understand embedded action
in everyday community life,
we need to pay attention to the higher order structures
within which actions occur
and to which actions contribute and sustain.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
So I'll just wait for you to finish screen sharing there.
Excellent.
Are we back?
We are indeed back.
Thanks very much for that, Harry,
that all looks well set up there.
So, yeah, so it's changing up all of the kinds of things
that I'd like to talk about
and trying to represent points of view
of a few others as well.
I guess can I just start with one of the things
you mentioned a couple of times,
the relationship between...
That behavior settings had many properties
that were similar to those of affordances
in that they were psychologically meaningful,
they were independent of individual agents and so on.
But there...
Are there any significant differences, I suppose,
between behavior settings and affordances
as they're normally considered,
aside from not being considered
as being associated with an individual object, say?
Yeah, I mean, one could call behavior settings affordances,
I guess the distinction is that they emerged out
of joint action among groups of people,
numbers of people.
So in that sense, I would like to think of them
as not operating at the individual level,
but operating with respect to some social group.
If for those of you who wanna go back
and read Barker's initial work,
he in fact referred to some individual objects,
like for example, a telephone booth,
which is an antique now, obviously,
as being a behavior setting.
I would take exception to that,
I would certainly refer to that more as an affordance,
whereas behavior settings are entities
that emerge out of joint action.
It's what communities provide for individuals.
It's a large part of the basis of social life.
And I think we can then take an analysis
of structures at this level
and better understand structures at a much higher level,
like institutions and so on.
And I've written about this
in some of my recent publications.
Okay, thank you.
So in essence, there's a sense in which a community,
I mean, as a community then,
something more than the collection of behavior settings
that make it up in the same way that a behavior setting
is more than the individual actions.
But is that the same kind of relationship
we're looking at there?
Well, I think we would need to go to even higher order units,
as I said, like institutional structures and so on.
But they're going to grow out
of a number of different settings.
So if you take us, let's say a primary school,
there are the behavior settings of the separate classes
and perhaps of the administrative offices.
And then collectively we could think about the institution.
But an individual is not necessarily aware
of the operations of the institution they need to be.
They just need to be in their place
within that immediate behavior setting.
So I think it provides sort of,
but you had to have said this to me
when we spoke the other day,
it provides sort of this middle of a bridge
between often with the units of analysis
that sociologists are often concerned about
and what psychologists are concerned about.
And we can quite see how in fact,
the more sociological units might emerge from,
well, I should say it differently,
are grounded in psychological processes.
I think that's really the right way to think about it.
That we're ultimately grounded in sort of
these complex social lives that are social structures
we live in, in psychological processes.
I'm not reducing them to them,
but I'm rooting them in them.
Okay.
So I mean, I'm sort of fascinated then by actually,
obviously there's a massive wealth of history
in Barker's work and the development of it.
But I was sort of introduced to a critique recently
of not really a critique, I guess,
but just sort of an observation of the constraints
of Barker's original work.
Given that it was, it depended so much
on the observation of this single small town
in rural Kansas, you know, Oskalooska, Midwest,
being this kind of Norman Rockwell-esque,
almost ideal of what rural America might be.
And then questioning, well, just how representative
is that as a sort of community environment
of the kinds of environments in which,
and communities in which the great majority of people,
even in the United States, actually,
and developing grow up in.
Right, right, right.
Oh, I can make mention of a study that's,
I'm not even sure if it was published,
a study that was conducted by Barker's collaborator,
Herb Wright, and one of his students,
where they looked at small towns,
middle-sized towns, and urban areas,
in terms of how well the notion of a behavior setting fits in.
And just to mention one finding,
we found that behavior setting applied more readily
to big cities than to middle-sized cities,
in the sense that big cities
form these neighborhood enclaves,
which they themselves operate almost as small towns.
So a common remark that many people
will make who live in big cities,
to those who down is,
well, you think about this as a strongly mass of people,
but in fact, we're just a group of neighborhoods.
And so it's quite conceivable
that this notion of behavior settings
constituting, let's say, a neighborhood,
