or again, I call it an enclave, could work quite well.
But it's an empirical question.
And having said that,
let me point out just one other thing to you.
Again, Barker made this discovery, like in the 60s,
he received quite a bit of a claim at that point.
And then his work was promptly forgotten
for the next 40 years,
because psychologists tend to not know
what to make of this structure.
And they keep wanting to read it in ways
which just don't really fit its character.
Now with dynamical systems theory
and also with Gibson's ecological thinking,
I think it can be brought back as something
that is important and greatly understudied.
But in the end, I think to respond to your criticism,
I think it's an empirical question.
Let's go look.
Yeah, yeah.
That's, you know, these are grad students
and natural historians of psychology,
well, I have to mobilize said army in the first place,
I suppose.
I mean, the first, a comment that sort of frequently made
when I bring this up in conversation courses
that behavior settings or modern behavior settings
interpenetrate in a way that would not have occurred
in the time of Barker's original work,
because of communications technologies
that, you know, it used to be a time that you were,
if you were in a behavior setting,
it was more than likely just a single behavior setting,
whereas now we might be engaged in four or five
with different activities, usually at least two, right?
So there's the mobile phone sitting
in the corner of our site while we're also engaged
in other kinds of conversation,
or certainly my students are never in a single behavior
setting when I'm giving a class,
they're always in at least two.
And so if that's the case, I mean,
what are the costs of that?
I mean, it's somehow, you know,
sort of the resources that a behavior setting provides
for its individuals, are they less rich?
Because people are sort of have a foot
in multiple camps at the same time.
Are we engaged in the behavior setting now?
I'm inclined to think no,
because there isn't much that kind of,
I mean, there's a bit that constrains our action
kind of as a dialogue,
but we can be doing all kinds of things,
you know, while we're interacting with this.
So I suspect there could be a sort of a real loss
of community resources.
Another way I like to illustrate behavior settings,
by the way, and this is a common experience
for American adolescents, and I suspect it's true
in Europe and in Ireland and in England as well,
is the problem that adolescents have in the town,
there's often little opportunities
for things for adolescents to do,
because the community doesn't really provide
behavior settings, or I say opportunities
for kids to get together.
Now, I think what's happened is,
in the absence of sort of having nothing to do,
that was the refrain of teenagers in the 80s
and early 90s, we've got nothing to do
because there are no behavior settings for adolescents.
What's filled that void, obviously, is social media.
And we can then go on to talk about
what are the gains and costs of that.
The gains are that they provide adolescents
with ways to interact with one another,
but the costs are enormous,
and I'll leave that to another time
for any of us to think about.
Yes, so it's sort of very easy to let things
expanded to lamentations about the state of our youth,
I suppose, in these kinds of circumstances.
Can I ask then about you, essentially,
you set forward a couple of lines of empirical inquiry.
That, essentially, would be recommended
by behavior settings by a proper recognition
of behavior settings and a use of them
to understand psychological processes.
So, can I actually expand a little bit more
on the first of those?
When you talked about developmental psychology,
in essence, psychological development
is the learning of the range of actions
that are permissible in the various settings
available to a child.
Is there a, so you've already cited
some developmental research,
and Nicole Ross-Manitz worked from
the ENSA seminar just a month ago,
and Joanna Rajachek, Leonardo's work,
who is going to be giving an ENSA seminar
in the spring, hopefully, just to plug seminars
either side of yours here,
are examples of work that fit into that framework.
Are there any others that you might highlight,
or do you think there's any particular gaps
in current developmental psychological research
that really need addressing
if behavior settings are taken seriously?
There's such a paucity of research of this nature,
again, of knowing how children spend their time.
There's been a number of studies looking
at time use in adolescents.
Over the past couple of decades,
they often involve collecting diary information,
but first-hand observation of action,
of adults and children, is really vital.
I mean, let me give you just one of my favorite examples.
It's not related to behavior settings,
but it sort of, I think, makes the point really well.
Karen Adolf, who does research on the development
of motor development in young infants,
has been sort of pushing against this position,
which I think now is mostly dead.
But for a long time, the function is
that children's emergence of crawling and walking
was purely a maturational process,
because it seemed to just sort of come on out of the blue.
And what Karen and her students did
was go into the homes of infants
and just sort of watch their locomotive behavior.
And what they found, much like linguistic researchers find,
is that children are walking tremendously,
crawling, walking tremendously
over the course of their day.
I mean, they're practicing and practicing
for hours and hours and hours.
So what might appear to be sort of
the sudden emergence of walking
is based on just an inordinate amount of practice.
You wouldn't know that if you didn't look at children walking.
And the same thing I think has come to our understanding
with regard to the emergence of linguistic structures.
They don't suddenly appear.
Children hear hours and hours and hours of language.
Now, you wouldn't know those things
unless you actually did the descriptive work.
Let me, if I may, bring up a somewhat different point.
And I was thinking about this with regard
to my comment on social media.
And it has to do with the university where I work.
Like many places, there's been movement more and more
towards students communicating with the social media.
And it seemed to me that one of the effects of that
was to kind of drive students into these separate silos
of social interaction and not promote interaction
with people one doesn't already know.
Well, what can we do about that?
Well, part of the problem is the architecture
for a long problem.
Looking around the college, it seemed that there were few,
if any, big public spaces that would attract individuals,
which might then create behaviors that any patterns
that would draw people into them.
And so we just finished a two-year redesign
of the main plaza on the campus,
which hopefully will generate much more public interaction
and therefore the creation of these social structures.
It was just completed.
So by next spring, we'll be able to start observing all of that.
But in other words, behavior settings
are not just about action, but they're
about affordances and new you.
And so we facilitate and structure behavior settings
by what's the available affluence structure
that's also available.
OK, so I'm I guess that kind of interdependence
between the sort of the physical environment
and the social environment, because the joint action
isn't or the relationship there isn't contingent.
As I think you sort of said before in some of your kind
of pointed out in some of your writing,
that behavior, the physical settings
of the behavior setting or the physical aspects
of the behavior setting are usually designed for purpose.
They're and they don't just happen to.
So I'm sure it happens in some cases
where you have this emergent in an otherwise unstructured
or wilderness space.
But in the majority of your settings
in which we actually exist or act,
then they are specifically designed
for the purpose of enabling the joint action in question.
That's right.
The design of places can promote, not cause,
but promote certain patterns of action out of which
joint action structures can occur.
Eric, Eric Greenfield has certainly written a bit about this, too.
Can I ask them to sort of switch tack a little bit,
