Hello. Welcome to episode two of Frankly. I actually have Frank here briefly for this one.
With me today is my colleague and friend Chuck Watson. How are you doing, Chuck?
Well, it's the third Monday of the week, as we like to say.
So, there's a lot going on in the world. Ukraine and Russia is the focus of the day.
There's a lot of different things we could talk about, finance, geopolitics, economic,
new multipolar world. But on this episode, I just want to get your expertise and talk about one
thing. There was a Pew research study that came out this morning that said that 35% of Americans
would be willing to risk nuclear war with Russia to protect Ukraine. So, let's just drill down on
that question. First of all, how is this possible that 35% of our countrymen and women
are willing to do that? Yeah. And if you look at the details of the poll, it's incredible because
it's evenly split between Democrats and Republicans. So, it's not like it's in the past where you had
a militant group in one party or the other. This is shockingly even. And yeah, I think there's a
couple reasons for it. And one of the biggest is I think people just don't really know or remember
what even conventional wars like, much less the nuclear war, that you look at the scenes,
the horrific scenes we're seeing from Ukraine. Well, that's been going on for years in Donbass,
even within Ukraine, much less Syria, Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan. So, I think the American people have
been somewhat insulated from what a war looks like, much less what it sounds or smells like.
And so, that means that when you start to try to describe how horrific a nuclear war is relative
to a conventional war, there's not that much perspective there. They look at it and go,
oh my God, conventional war is so bad, how can it be worse? Well, it can be a hell of a lot worse.
So, that's the proof point. One thing I learned yesterday, I did a podcast with Tom Murphy
who told me that in the Myers-Briggs analysis, which is just a guide like anything else,
but the sensing or the perceiving that 73% of humans are sensing and the other 27% are the
more intuitive abstract thinking. And so, the majority of people don't really react to something
unless they're tasting it or seeing it or experiencing it. And with some of these longer
term risks like nuclear war, by the time we sense it, it will be too late. Do you think that has
anything to do with our naivete on this subject? I think it is. And I think it's that we haven't
been exposed to war in general. And you look at the World War II generation, even the Vietnam
generation is now getting older and the memories may not be so clear or such a small percentage
of the US population has really seen or experienced what a war is in and is like.
So, you combine that with, as you say, a lot of people, if it's not in your face, you don't think
about it and you don't really realize how bad something is. And so, you see a situation like
Ukraine and you think, well, we should do whatever we can, even if that means risking this abstract
thing called nuclear war. Well, I think people just don't appreciate the horrific nature of that.
The other piece of it is from a leadership standpoint that our current leaders have lost
touch, I think, with all of the detailed nuclear war planning. They're thinking in terms of these
weapons systems. They think, oh, we've got more precise weapons. We've got dialy healed. They're
forgetting some of the lessons, particularly in the 80s. There was an exercise that was run shortly
after Reagan became president, 1983, had the lovely name of Proud Prophet. And so, Proud
Prophet 83 was an exercise where he had guys like Casper Weinberger had come in and said,
well, you know, we can fight a limited nuclear war. Well, every time they gamed it out, it went
strategic, no matter how small we started, no matter how careful the planning was,
every single scenario ended up in a massive nuclear exchange. What does it mean?
What does it mean it ended up strategic? Strategic as opposed to what?
Okay, I don't know what strategic means. When you think in terms of nuclear war, you try to
classify it into three broad categories. There's tactical, where you're using relatively small
scale, say kiloton size devices, maybe up to 10 or 20, you know, a Hiroshima-sized bomb. You're
attacking mainly military or maybe industrial. You're not trying to blow up cities. You're not
doing them as what's called an aerial denial weapon, where you're trying to render an area
so radioactive and cratered that we can't pass through it. So that's a tactical war. You're
using it as just another weapon in your tactical arsenal. A limited nuclear war is where you're
kicking that up a notch. You're going after things like the industrial capacity of a country.
You're going against bases within the home territory of a country. That's, and you're not
trying to kill populations, but you're willing to accept more of the population being impacted
because you're going after things that are in your cities. So, for instance, you think of
where I would report at Savannah. Well, that would not be targeted in a tactical nuclear war,
but in a limited conflict where you're trying to disable the ability of the US to deploy forces
overseas or cut off imports, you would definitely bomb Savannah, even though that would kill,
you know, half a million people. A strategic is when all the gloves are off. You're going after
cities. You're just trying to wipe out the other country.
And is it leaving aside the US general public for the moment? Do our leaders understand the
distinction between tactical, limited, and strategic? I mean, certainly the military people
do, but are Congress people and senators? Yeah. The military people do, and I think that the
military people also understand that there's a lot of gray areas between these. And also,
you're depending an awful lot on the enemy doing what you think they're going to do and reacting
the way that you would. And that to me is where the greatest danger is from a military standpoint,
is I don't think our current generation of military leaders really understands Russia or
Russians or how they think and how they calculate. The whole reason the Ukraine thing went the way
it did, I think, is because of very grave miscalculations on the part of our leadership,
which were partly informed by the military leadership. And I think we're in that same
spiral of escalation now where you're starting with a conventional conflict that does have a risk
of getting ending up in that tactical level. And as we found out with crowd-profit, once you start
to use nuclear weapons, it's almost impossible to keep it confined to these small-scale devices,
because one side or the other decides it doesn't want to lose and starts ratcheting it. It's called
de-escalation through escalation. It's the language of nuclear war, you think of mutual assured
destruction and nuts, nuclear utilization target strategy. The acronyms show just how
utterly insane this whole process is. So we talked about that, and I encourage people who
haven't listened to it. You and I talked about this three months ago on a podcast where you
accurately kind of foreshadowed what is unfolding right now in the Ukraine.
So let's move on to that. So mechanically, militarily, strategically, how can the Ukraine
situation actually lead to a nuclear war? Walk me through that.
Yeah, Nate, it's frightening. And again, I don't think that the leaders, people that are calling
for a no-fly zone, or even this morning's announcement with Biden about pumping more
weapons into Ukraine, realize how dangerous that path is, because we're starting conventional.
And again, the question is, and this becomes psychological, of you're dealing with a nuclear
power, and of course, we're a nuclear power, are we willing to lose once we get engaged in a conflict?
And so once you cross that nuclear threshold, it becomes so dangerous. So we're sending,
the rumor is we're sending these more deadly drones, the switchblade drones, possibly others.
So Russia's going to try to prevent that, which means bombing the supply corridors from Poland.
So what happens if you start killing NATO or US or Polish advisors, quote unquote,
or troops that are transferring and training those, when you have maybe a near miss, where
something goes over the border, then what happens? So do you then escalate? Russia may well have the
ability to prevent these really large quantities of these weapons getting into the country by
blowing up the supply corridors. Well, there's also an awful lot of refugees. We're now in the
three to four million refugees from this conflict, they're going to be moving through the same corridors
that the weapons are going to be coming in. So you're going to have an even bigger humanitarian
disaster, which puts more pressure to do a no fly zone, which means we start to get the risk of
NATO forces and shooting down Russian forces. Once that happens, and then if Russia starts
actually targeting things like bases, well, the only way we can hit a lot of the
forces that Russia has deployed are with very high conventional explosives or small scale tactical
nuclear weapons. And that's where your threshold is. Do we cross that threshold? Or do we just
say we've lost and pull back? Okay, so there's two issues here. One is how does a nuclear
exchange actually happen? And I used to think that most of the risk was from an accident,
where it was unintentional. But you're saying that if we have an arms race where there's drones,
and then there's bombs, and then there's an airfield that's attacked, that it's escalating,
that once you're in that escalation between two major powers, there's no off ramp. There's no easy
way once it starts to de-escalate it. And if there is no de-escalation and de-escalation,
it ultimately leads in some nuclear exchange. Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, you have to be willing to lose. And what does that mean? Be willing to lose?
In the case of a conventional war, one side or the other can overpower. And
even in the case of World War II, with the devastation inflicted on Germany,
you still, they lost militarily. Well, with nuclear war, it's a little bit different,
because if you've got an arsenal of nuclear weapons, are you going to be willing to lose
a conflict when you know you can start using those nuclear weapons to inflict incredible
amounts of pain and destruction on your adversary? So then it becomes this escalate to de-escalate
myth, which says that, okay, well, maybe we blow up a city. Do we blow up a city in Europe?
If you're Russia, you're thinking, well, we're starting to lose. Do we go ahead and nuke a
city in Europe? Well, that's not their doctrine, but that's what people are kicking around.
The flip side, I'm actually more worried about from the US side of saying, because Russia has,
again, the Defense Department just said a few days ago, they're only using about 5%
of their military potential in Ukraine. So the other 95% they're holding in reserve,
well, so if you start to get into an actual major conventional conflict,
the fear is they can overwhelm NATO. So you keep going this back and forth.
Wait, who's only using 90, only using 5%? Russia?
Yeah, Defense Department study is they're only actually using about 5% of their military capacity.
Now, the number of troops is higher than that. But in terms of, they're not using a lot of the
high-powered, they're not using hypersonic weapons, they're not using the extremely high
powered conventional weapons. They're basically slogging it out on the ground.
So what are the odds of an accidental nuclear weapon going off, a deliberate one?
I mean, can you break that down in this situation?
Accidental deployment, I think it's very small.
You look, we've had accidents in the past with bombs dropped and lost and that kind of thing.
But modern nuclear weapons are pretty safe and reliable. You've got things that can't talk too
much about the permissive action links. And there's different mechanisms where without
command authority, it's pretty hard for the US or Russia to set off a nuclear bomb accidentally.
By far, the biggest concern is somebody making a deliberate decision to fire off a nuclear weapon
for some purpose. You do it as a demonstration. You do it to try to, if you've got, say,
a collapse of Ukraine and the troops are headed towards the border, does somebody,
does a US president decide, well, are we going to stop them before they go into Poland?
At what point do you cross that threshold? And you would like to think that they would say, no,
we won't cross that threshold. But the current doctrine, particularly on the US side,
is we can use limited nuclear weapons and not have it. We can use tactical nuclear weapons
and not go limited or strategic. We can combine it to just be small-scale devices.
Is it possible that it's been 40 years since the Matthew Broderick movie War Games,
where they kind of figured out that there's no way to win a nuclear war or the TV show
the day after in Kansas after a nuclear war? Is it possible that some country
with their back against the wall knows how horrific a nuclear war would be,
and therefore they use a demonstration nuke in some hinterland and film it and say,
we have this capability. Watch out and back off. Is that a possibility?
I think that's a pretty small possibility because I think that you've got to demonstrate a will
to use them. And so I think it's more likely of an announcement that, okay, we are going to nuke
this facility, and then they do it. I think that's more likely for the US to do that.
It's possible, Russia could. I think they've demonstrated that their doctrine doesn't really
support that, ours does. But of course, it may well be if things are starting to go very badly,
they may decide to say, okay, we're going to blast this training facility with a tactical
nuclear weapon. Just to prove to you that we've got the will to do it.
Okay. I want to get to the core question of why I called you up today, but let me just finish on
this mechanical pathway. So the thing we want to avoid now is escalation of involving NATO
teta-teta with Russia directly, because if we get on the escalation path,
the off ramps are much fewer. Is that correct? Exactly. And I would again, it kills me to say
this, but we betrayed Ukraine by putting them in a situation where this conflict started in the
first place. Now, I don't want to get into politics of that, but the bottom line is we're now in a
situation where escalation for the sake of Ukraine is putting everybody at risk. I think that we
can now make a very bright line to say, don't go into NATO, because NATO, you've got treaty
commitments, you've got Article 5. We don't have that commitment to Ukraine. And I know it's a hard
thing to hear because you see the suffering, but the suffering that you're seeing in Ukraine
is just a minor fraction of what could happen with even a tactical or limited nuclear war.
Okay. Let's get into that. So what would a nuclear war really mean? How bad would it be?
Can you break that down? Well, for one thing, when you're seeing these scenes in Ukraine,
you look at Kiev or a better example, it's maybe Mariapol. If you look at these
just damaged buildings and the destruction there, remember, that's all done with modern
conventional weapons. You can hardly imagine the scale that even a small nuclear weapon can do to
a city. Hopefully, people have seen the pictures of Hiroshima or Nagasaki. There's not a single
building standing. They're flattened. There's not even bodies. The only places where you see
bodies are the shadows from people where they were vaporized. If you're within a mile of,
say, a 10-kiloton device, which is a very small weapon, that's the thermal energy
is just incredible. How big was the nuclear bomb in Hiroshima in kilotons or whatever?
There's a 12-kiloton, if I remember right. And what is the typical nuclear bomb now in
people's arsenals? Now, we've got a huge range, actually. We've got bio-yield devices that can
go anywhere from, and the exact numbers are classified, but something where even like 500
tons of TNT all the way to, so that would be half a kiloton. The strategic kind of weapons that we
use, the counter-force, they're called the ones that try to blow up the other sides of
the silo, sort of blow up cities and industrial areas, those are on the 400 to 500 kiloton.
So those are 20 to 30 times the size. 30 times Hiroshima. And we have 13,000 of these or something
like that in the world. Yeah, along those lines. And then, of course, there's many thousands of
tactical of the smaller-scale devices. So what are the immediate effects and the delayed effects
of, and then what's the spectrum of, there could be a really small tactical exchange or something
more widespread? Can you just give us a couple thresholds of what that looks like?
Or could it look like? Yeah, so there's really, I guess you would say there's really three levels.
There's prompt effects. That's the blast wave, the thermal unit. Say a 500 kiloton device is as
bright as the sun 50 miles away. It causes severe, like third degree burns as much as 20 miles away.
So that's obviously the very high end. If you're talking a, say a Hiroshima area of destruction,
it's just a couple miles across. But again, everything's vaporized. You get fires. That's
a big issue in terms of the delayed effects because the immediate effect, of course, is you get
thermal damage, you get blast damage, you get fires. That's throwing soot particulates into
the atmosphere. The thinking is if you start to get on the order of 50 or 100 even tactical
devices exchange, you're going to completely make a mess of the, if it's in the Northern Hemisphere,
Northern Hemisphere, weather, probably climate effects all the way into the Southern Hemisphere.
Any many nuclear winners, we talked about that in the last podcast that you start to get these
downrange effects that are longer term climate kinds of effects, which,
