you know, we're talking about crashing the whole earth's ecosystems with some of these kinds of
scenarios. This isn't. And how many bombs would it take to do that? 50, maybe it's,
maybe as few as 25 to 50, depending on how they're employed, could be as many as 100.
It's an experiment. I'm not too keen on trying to try to. So if there, if there's a,
sorry to keep interrupting you, I know very little about this and I'm kind of embarrassed about it.
I know a lot about climate change and biodiversity and economics and debt. I know very little
about nuclear war. What would be the impact if there were some one, two, three, 500 kiloton
nuclear devices in and around Ukraine or Russia? Would there be any impact in the United States?
I mean, assuming there was no retaliation, just devices going off in Europe and Asia.
So a single device, you're talking radioactive fallout about 20 miles or so downwind.
You're talking about immediate destruction, two to five mile radius for that kind of device.
Some of the small ones, the, if you're talking a half kiloton device, then,
you know, it's just a few hundred yards across is the area of, of severe damage and even radiation.
So the reason, by the way, why you want to use that is that you're ensuring the destruction of
the target. Hardened targets would be eliminated. If you're talking about an airfield, you're rigging
it unusable for, you know, any reasonable period of time, that kind of thing. So it's ensuring
destruction of the target is the biggest thing for even a small device. Now, I do want to say it's
dangerous to use these small devices, partly because, again, this escalation spiral. And
let's say that we decide to use one of our new W76s, which is a device that's fired from a submarine.
Well, Russia wouldn't be able to tell whether it's a less than one kiloton or a 30 or 40 kiloton
designed to target some of their larger scale forces. So that's a big risk is once you cross
that threshold, how do you tell whether an airplane is carrying a nuke that's going to destroy a city
versus something that's designed to carefully target just one small facility? You can't tell.
And that was part of the lesson from 1982-83 with, with crowd profit was the other side
doesn't really know what you're up to and can't tell whether you're trying to be restrained or not.
And that's where if you talk about accidents or mistakes, that's where they can creep in because
if the other side isn't clear about what you're doing, they may decide, well, we need to shoot first.
And it's not a Disney movie where Han shoots first in this case. It's massive carnage.
So is it possible that it's just hubris then that, oh, we should use risk nuclear war
in the Ukraine situation because emotionally, psychologically, it can't happen here. So if
it happens in Asia, it's not going to impact my life. Is that part of the dynamic that's going on here?
Yeah, I think part of it is people just don't realize how horrific these weapons are is one
piece of it. Another is even at the leadership level, the thinking as well, you know, if we do
happen to do that, well, if we even had a couple of facilities in Russia, surely they wouldn't
attack the US. Well, I think that's against Russian doctrine. If a tactical weapon is used
on Russian territory, their doctrine, their philosophy says you use one in the US on the US
homeland in response. We tend to think of stuff happening just in Europe or in Asia or wherever
and not having direct physical consequences here. Wait, say that again. They have the ability to
do it. Say that again. If Russia is attacked with a nuke, there's a doctrine where they retaliate to
the United States. That is correct. Continental. So exactly. The problem is we're fighting this
on their doorstep. And so in order to prevent these actions in Ukraine, we would have to make
strikes inside of Russia. Well, Russia has the ability to make direct strikes inside the United
States. Like Hawaii. No, like where you are or here in Savannah, Georgia, or Norfolk, or any
military base in the country, they have the ability to deliver either conventional or nuclear weapons
on those facilities. And aren't there and I mean, this is totally naive on my part. Aren't there
anti-missile batteries that can defend against those things or not really? No,
not from the continental US. They're very limited and they won't work against the modern generation
of Russian weapons systems. Hence the point of this conversation is once nukes are flying,
it's kind of game over. Yeah, pretty much. We have a very limited ability. We could shoot down
maybe one or two ballistic missiles. But if you're talking maneuverable hypersonic missiles or even
supersonic missiles fired from near a range like the Eastern Atlantic could reach most of the
available targets in the Eastern US without being intercepted because we don't have any
weapons systems that can shoot them down. I mean, we are so exposed because we think, well,
the war is going to stay in other places. And it's been an issue. The Navy has had a lot of
discussions about how really inadequately prepared we are to fight in the near region within, say,
1,000 kilometers of the US shoreline. We just don't have the ships. We're going to have the
airplanes. We don't have the weapons systems to do it. Okay. Well, thank you for this update.
Is there anything else you want to add to what would a nuclear war really mean and how bad would
it be? I think there's two issues here. The biggest is that people don't really understand
how bad it would be. We've, you know, most Americans have not experienced war. You know,
I can tell you I was in places like Beirut and it gives me literally nightmares. You can't imagine
what it is like to fight a war in a city. We're seeing that do our TVs in Ukraine. But what you're
seeing there is a very limited snapshot of what a nuclear conflict would look like because you're
talking single buildings that are still sanding. You're not talking about large areas vaporized.
Again, that's not even getting into the longer term things like fallout and radiation and the
whole thing. So my big fear is we have reached a point where people don't know how bad it could be.
The leaders think that it's possible to win one and that's a very dangerous combination.
Thank you for your expertise and time, Chuck. I hope that we have it. It is, but it's an adult
topic. It's relevant to our times and I think more people should be talking about it and I hope
people in leadership are talking about it. We will be staying tuned and hoping for benign
outcomes here and I'm sure I will have you back, my friend.
Hopefully to talk about something more or less dangerous, but that's the way we live
as my friend. Great. Thank you. Thanks, Chuck.
