Yes.
Yeah.
Great piece about how incentive structures can kind of go bad and how like in,
in MOLIC for listeners is like this MOLIC essentially capitalism gone wrong,
where you have like game theoretical things that involve like arms races or
kind of, um, race to the bottoms and things like that.
And, um, a lot of like kind of sad things in society can be shown as like
MOLIC did them, AKA incentives did them.
Um, and that's the final hope here, um, is that in this space you have, we can
create a new, because we can kind of rewire the operating system of the society
and of incentives that we can kind of democratize the incentives, create these
new incentives, we can start to also represent kind of this middle ground in
between us by saying, Hey, we both own some ether.
So let's, if I can help you out with your Ethereum stuff and you can help me
with my Ethereum stuff, we can kind of collaborate here around this either
things, you can kind of start to solve these kind of like tragedy, the
comments and issues here, um, and hopefully beat MOLIC.
How would you do that?
See, so, so that sounds really interesting.
Like the other stuff was like spread EA.
Yes.
I'm on that.
How do you use Ethereum to, to, uh, do that?
Yeah.
So this is, uh, so here are, so you can imagine.
So one example of this is, so I think that the macro concept is that you're
able to democratize incentives.
So you can democratize incentives and you can, by democratizing the incentives,
um, and by those incentives, kind of existing, not with any given person, but
rather kind of in this middle ground area where it exists, like a non-profit is
the person who controls the Ethereum, like the Ethereum foundations that because
it's kind of this ability to, because these blockchains exist in the, in
between, in the commons area, you can then create incentive structures there that
people altogether agree with that can be more beneficial for the commons itself
and for like society as a whole.
Now, okay.
What are you talking about creating incentive structures that people can
agree with?
Yeah.
So yeah, let's, let's do a specific example here.
So you can imagine there is a, um, so let's say there's Google and Facebook and
they are both trying to make better and better AIs and they're going to do
that very quickly and it's essentially a version of the nuclear arms race, but
with the bad result being an ASI or like a AI safety, AI alignment issue, um, you
can imagine, um, the ability to, uh, and people are starting to work on this to
either from a data perspective to instead of having the data in the silos and
having it be where people are kind of operating in isolation, kind of
secretly that data is instead on the blockchain and people can kind of operate
on it, um, in a more kind of transparent way.
And it can exist kind of in between Google and Facebook.
And by existing there, um, you can be, and by the data not being yours, not
being mine, um, you can have more people operating in a transparent way around it.
So that's kind of one version of this.
And like Toyota is working on this with self-driving cars, like a version of
a self-driving car data set that exists on the blockchain rather than on, um, in
the silo data system.
Um, what is, what is the incentive for doing that though, as opposed to
keeping it in-house and capturing all the gains once they make the AIs?
Totally, totally.
So, and so for someone like Google and Facebook, this would be tough at the
beginning, what you hope is you can then, so, so this goes back to the
indimensional money thing where you can start to represent, um, outcomes and
different versions of, of value that are provided to the world, um, that you
weren't able to do before.
So you can imagine creating something like an ASI coin or like a no ASI coin or
like a good ASI coin.
Um, and that could be something that exists and, and, and it, it is a way to
essentially represent, um, you can, you can do a bunch of different versions of
this, but the easiest way to represent it is to say, Hey, this is something that
people can kind of buy into as a way to signal that they are into good ASI or
really quickly, can you, um, define ASI artificial superintelligence is an ASI.
Um, and, uh, that is scarier version.
That's more intense than we expect it to be, um, and, uh, or could be really good.
So by creating this coin that represents, and again, these are, these are not
fully-formed ideas, but it's so the ASI, the ASI coin can represent either people
wanting and signaling that they want a good outcome there.
It can also, the coin itself could also represent, could also have kind of built
into it kind of smart contracts.
So this is a concept of like a social, uh, they call it a social outcome coin or
a social good coin where you essentially buy into the, um, coin at the beginning.
And then as you buy into the coin, it uses this, um, concept called a curation
market where the coin, buying into the coin at the beginning essentially is
easier and then buying into it later is harder.
Um, and so as you buy into that coin, you buy into it and then once essentially
checks an outcome later and after the outcome later, it then, uh, distributes that
money, depending on the outcome distributes that money back to the people, um,
based off of that outcome.
So basically sounds like signaling with your money, what you want to happen,
like vote $1 one vote, right?
Yeah.
I think it's very, I think it's relatively similar to $1 one.
The simplest version is $1 one vote with maybe a little bit more of an aggressive
version where you can actually more aggressively signal by getting, by giving
$1 to open AI project, um, and then getting one ASI coin in return.
Okay.
That's, that's kind of the simplest version.
There are more advanced versions, which I didn't explain very well, but that
involves smart contracts to enable you to essentially peg the value of the money
of the coin to a, to a metric that represents that value.
So essentially a prediction market on whether we think that there's going to
be a good ASI.
So if you got in at the beginning of that, and then that prediction
market was saying, yes, this is good.
Then the value of that coin would kind of like increase.
But if Google doesn't buy any of those coins, they don't have any incentive
to make the price go up.
Totally.
Yes.
Yeah.
I guess, I guess it's sort of like a crowdfunded X prize then.
Yeah.
It's not too different from a crowdfunded X prize.
I think it's also like you're saying, I think it's, I don't expect Google
or Facebook to do any of this soon.
This is going to be hopefully part of this macro trend.
We're kind of, uh, that they call tokenizing the enterprise where you
kind of take businesses and people, they're doing this with this company called
kick, which is a messaging company.
And they're kind of tokenizing it, adding this cryptocurrency, Ken to kind
of tokenize like the ecosystem in there.
People might be expecting something like SoundCloud.
And so this would be hopefully part of this macro trend where businesses
themselves become more tokenized and we start to tokenize not just profits,
but start to tokenize outcomes as well.
Um, but yeah, I think, I think it is a, I think that the two big things are
hopefully that there's the open data set.
And then also that there's a, um, that there's a way to kind of signal that
you're into the, the, a good outcome here.
And there are smart, contractly ways to kind of incentivize people to create
those good outcomes.
Yeah.
All right.
I, I, I, I see how it could have some benefits.
Like I don't think it's the, uh, complete solution to things, but, but I can
see how it could be.
And there's, there's one version of this.
I didn't say that this guy, Amin Soleimani talks about.
He has this project.
He's an effect vultures that has this thing called Molek ventures, which is
his, um, uh, blockchain based venture studio.
That's trying to create things to beat Molek, essentially.
And, um, he talks a lot about this beat by putting a smart contract on the
blockchain.
It's essentially it's, it's a way to, that you can't go back on it.
So like when people are trying to go back on like the Paris agreement or
whatever, hopefully that there, we can create these smart contracts that make
it the case that if you went back on it, you lose a bunch of your GDP or things
of that variety, um, it's a way to essentially makes, um, immutable contracts
in a way, perhaps that were not possible before.
Um, that's another thing that people might be excited about to beat Molek here.
Yeah.
But Molek's the one that I have the least, uh, uh, uh, conceptualization around
at this point in time, I'd say, yeah.
We are coming up on an hour and a half, so we should probably wrap it up.
Are there any other things you wanted to hit?
I don't, nothing on the top of my mind.
We talked about some of the EA stuff.
We hopefully did a high level over you.
What are you, Steven, what are you, yeah, what are you?
Um, we covered a lot of stuff.
Uh, I guess I'd be remiss if I let you go without asking maybe five minutes on
Litecoin, any cool stuff.
So I bought the three currencies that I did because they're the three I could get
through Coinbase and they were the three that the people that I knew who were
into cryptocurrency were excited about, but I didn't bother doing a lot of homework myself.
So I didn't know most of what you just said about Ethereum, which is kind of cool.
Um, is anything cool or bad about Litecoin that's out there?
Is it just a random competitor that took off?
That's a good question.
So it does have, it was one of the first competitors, which was powerful.
The person who is the leader of it, I forget the name of right now.
He is, um, he's very well known in the space.
So kind of that is a good signal.
Um, and it doesn't have as much of the kind of Bitcoin has a lot of inter tribe arguments
because there's no clear benevolent dictator kind of like, uh, the Litecoin guy who I
can't believe I forget his name right now, Charlie Lee, Charlie Lee, or like this guy,
Zuko with Zcash or Vitalik Buterin with Ethereum.
There's no, you know, Satoshi is not known whoever Satoshi Nakamoto is, the creator of Bitcoin.
So Bitcoin has a bunch of like inner tribe issues.
Litecoin, I don't think has as many of those.
Litecoin also, the reason why it's called Litecoin is because it uses,
I'm not sure which algorithm it uses to get, it has faster transaction times, which is nice.
So a good example of this is, I did this podcast with this guy, Ryan X.
Charles from yours and yours is a micro, it's kind of like medium with a paywall.
So kind of like a micro payments platform, um, that wouldn't be possible kind of with
traditional currencies and going through Visa or PayPal or Stripe or whatever,
because you have the, the 3% plus the 30 cents, um, but with something like Litecoin,
they switched from Bitcoin to Litecoin because it had faster transaction times,
and especially because it's transaction fees were lower.
Um, so that is why people generally like Litecoin.
Cool. And since that was under five minutes, I have another question for you.
The Bitcoin fork that happened a couple of months ago.
Yeah.
Um, I can't remember if we talked about that on the air or not at any point.
I don't think so.
I don't see why we would have, but I feel like I talked about it in this house at some point.
That's what was on my mind.
Is there a quick overview of what happened there slash why that happened?
Yeah. So that's a good question. The, so at a high level, I don't know as much about it
because I'm deeper into the Ethereum space. Um, there's this lady, Linda here, who writes,
