I don't know, not too long ago in the writing community where someone just
like got everyone piled on him.
And I was like, well, maybe he did something shitty, but I don't know him.
I ain't going to judge him until I meet him myself.
Cause I know how the internet works.
I see someone making a really shitty joke about, about AIDS in Africa.
And then they lose their job a few hours later.
And I mean, yeah, you shouldn't have made the shitty joke, but it's, I just, I
don't, I don't trust, I don't trust the internet to give me decent ideas of
people, of who people are anymore.
Like if the internet someone says someone's reputation should be really
shitty, I'm going to be like, I'm going to make that decision for myself.
I am a big fan of Mr.
Zuber and I don't really like Mr.
I don't know.
Not Zuber.
Yeah, exactly.
I think it might like just to, you know, with the hypothetical though, it could
be less about like who you're going to be friends with or who you're going to
hire or who you're going to like invite into your house.
But maybe who you're going to hire for your company, right?
You get 200 applicants.
That score might come into play, right?
Cause you have, or 2,000 entirely on how much society like values that score.
If the majority of people do value that score and say that you're a bad company,
if you hire someone with anyone less than a three rating, then yeah, that
would probably affect my decision.
But if I can convince all of society that the score means nothing, then it
won't matter, you know, that's what I'm going for right now.
I'm trying to convince people that these numbers are stupid.
So I dislike your coin ideas.
I mean, well, it's going to happen.
If it's inevitable, you can dislike it, but it won't be part of the future.
That's true.
I can dislike communism, but it's still there.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yes.
Exactly.
One, so finishing up this point, I do, cause I decided I do want to get a little bit of
pushback.
So there's another side of it, which is this, it's this new coordination system.
And in theory, and a new organization structure, it's also very aligned with
like these new coordination, these new like networked human organism, like
collective intelligence things that are happening.
There's some really interesting, like peer funding stuff happening
within the EA community.
And there's also, there's a pure funding, pure funding is when one person
pays another person to do something instead of an organization paying.
So it's essentially what I do with my Patreon as well.
Patreon is a subscription kickstarter.
So I have my Patreon.
It's online, patreon.com slash Rhys Lenmark.
And you go and go there and you can pay me money per month to do my thing, to
create a humanist blockchain future.
And, and so it's not a company that's paying me money and I'm not being
sponsored or whatever.
It's, it's like a person, a peer to peer kind of person way to sponsor people.
So that's happening generally, but it's also happening in some interesting
ways within the EA community specifically, which is cool.
And it's happening in other things as well.
And the, and the hope also is that another big macro trend that people are
talking about is this idea called a teal organization.
Have you guys heard of like a holocracy before?
It's like a really flat organizational structure.
So like Zappos does this and it's like no managers, you know, it's like really
flat kind of very bottom up and that people in space talk about how like tech
informed society and society also informs the tech.
And so like the blockchain, this is kind of Conway's law, which states that
essentially the code that you create will be representative of your organization
and your organization will be representative of the code that you create.
Um, and so because blockchains are so kind of distributed, decentralized, what
have you kind of bottom up, there are these new organizations that are coming
around in this thing called teal and teal.
That's like the color teal, um, which is where you kind of imagine the organ,
the organization as a organism.
So instead of like in the past, you know, there's this thing called, you know,
they say orange, they color code them in this funny way, but orange is like, um,
the organization as a machine, their inputs and their outputs.
And that's kind of what we've done for a lot of the last hundred years or whatever.
Um, and then recently in the new kind of Silicon Valley style, it's like,
Hey, we're into green, which is like the organization is family, like very welcome
to the Slack family, welcome to this family.
Um, and so people are pushing that that's, that's what has been and now what
people are expecting and see is like the new frontier for this is kind of these
new teal organizations.
Um, so this is me saying that this is blockchain is essentially equal.
It's like the technological equal to these teal organizations and that this
all is part of this macro trend towards this stuff, this thing called platform
cooperativism and this kind of new concept of how people, one of the new
ways that people can organize and motivate themselves.
And if there is a new way for people to organize and motivate themselves, then
there should be a little bit of EA within it.
So is there like, uh, like Bayesian conspiracy coin where if we need some
accounting done, we're like, you will get Bayesian coin for doing our accounting.
And then when we put on a show, we get Bayesian coin for time on mic or stuff
like that is just like, you need something done.
You offer Bayesian coin to anyone who can do it.
Are you, yeah, are you saying like, is that like how teal works?
Is that teal organization?
Oh, so how do you coordinate humans through teal?
Yeah.
So there are three main ways to coordinate humans through teal.
Um, the first is like self management.
Um, and that's essentially the, uh, idea that people define their own goals.
They define their own, um, metrics and they, and then they can become part of
these kinds of like, like, um, organizations that call circles.
These are kind of like little groups, essentially.
So like a team of teams kind of thing where you become part of a circle and
you allocate, you know, 30% of your time to the diversity circle and you allocate
50% of your time to the effective, ultra circle or whatever.
Um, so it's kind of this bottom up people defining their own roles and then
becoming opt in into certain kind of circles.
Um, that's one part of it is a self self management piece.
What if everybody wants to be like the, uh, actor circle and no one wants to be
the guy holding the boom mic circle?
Totally, totally.
Well, everybody, there will be if the organization wants to, the organization
will still have these kind of bottom up, um, like the organization needs to exist
as a thing.
And so if there's a bunch of people that want to be the actors and there's no
one holding the boom mic, then the organization will cease to exist.
And so in a kind of a peer to peer kind of circle by circle way, people will
determine, okay, everybody needs to spend 20% of their time holding the boom
mic or whatever that looks like.
Um, so it's kind of instead of a top down, like, this is the way things are
going to happen.
You will be judged on your results and here's what your job is going to be.
And everybody's kind of specialized.
It's like, it's kind of bottom up peer to peer, uh, way to determine how work gets
done.
That sounds like it would be a thing that doesn't work.
Totally, totally, totally, totally, totally.
Just, just for my interaction with other humans.
Step, you said there are three ways of managing people in a teal environment.
And first one is they manage themselves.
Oh, that is hilarious.
And the other two are just nothing.
Yeah, it is true that, um, there are, there are some good, um, success
examples of this, um, within non-blockchain space.
There's this, uh, great nursing organization that, uh, it used to be,
this is in, I believe the Netherlands.
It used to be hyper specialized.
Everybody had their own little roles.
Everybody was timed on all the specific things.
This new company came around that was tealy and it was very community based
instead of having a specific accountant and specific, whatever.
You had these small teams or these community based nurses, uh, you know,
10 to 12 nurses who were, uh, you know, responsible for their
county or their community.
And, um, every, all the metrics went up.
Um, they've experienced ridiculous growth.
They have, um, they, they're all these sub-communities.
Everybody's happier.
That is the care that they're giving is better.
Um, and, and there's only, there are these coaches that exist one level above,
which like work with like 50 or so of these given communities.
And that's kind of what the hierarchy looked like.
It's essentially a two depth hierarchy or three depth hierarchy.
Um, remember the name or can you send us a link afterwards?
Yeah.
It's, it's part of this book called reinventing organizations.
Um, and that's what there's, they have a bunch of case studies in there.
And there's a specific company within the blockchain space called consensus,
which is very tealy.
Um, and, um, yeah.
And there are, I assume that many of the other companies in the space
operate in that way as well.
So, but so this is the point, the macro question for you guys is, it's kind
of a weird argument.
These top two arguments I think are weird because they say, Hey, if there's
this new technology coming out, or if there's this new way to organize people,
then the EA community should be in it.
Sure.
That's not a classically given argument.
I don't think within the EA community.
Are you guys convinced by it at all?
Or do you think it's like kind of weak?
No, I, I, I am not convinced by it.
I like, if I would want to know more than just like, oh, there's something new
happening, so we should have someone in it.
I, I'm always sort of in favor of throwing smart people at new problems.
And so, I mean, kind of like, you know, I always want like scientist
philosophers and like people who take thinking as a core value to be thrown at
any new thing.
So in general, I'm persuaded by like the general theme of the argument.
Um, but I mean, I don't know.
Yeah, I'm, I'm interested.
I don't know if I'm ready to come down.
Like, I mean, VR is becoming a rather big thing now too, which is neat, but I'm
not hearing any arguments for like, because it's becoming big, we should
have some EA people in VR.
Well, I, and I agree, but I think based off my first point, I would argue that
that is true.
I would argue that people, that there should be EA people in VR, actively
trying to shape this new kind of more addictive, more intense environment in
kind of an EA way or have you.
Um, so I would, I would make the argument for the first one, which is new
technology, I would argue that for VR or biotech as well for EA.
And then for the second one, I would argue that for any new kind of
