as inputs and then do this like essentially what I understand is like a reverse RSA solve,
which means that they're essentially solving a hard problem.
And that hard problem is it's kind of a two only a one way problem.
So what I mean by that is if you take two big prime,
or if you take one big number and you're trying to determine what two primes
multiplied together to equal that big number, that's hard to find out.
You can't just say like, oh, this like, you know, really long digit number.
It's definitely these two primes.
That's hard.
And so unless you have a time turner, which we might.
And so but so it's a hard problem to solve.
So it takes a lot of just like brute force in order to solve it.
But once you solve it, the rest of the network can easily check and go up.
Definitely, you got that.
And so they use that with these things called nonsense, which are like leading zeros.
And so there's there's kind of some deeper, more cryptographic mathematical things
that I personally don't totally understand.
But the key is that it is a one way solvable problem, hard to solve, easy to check, essentially.
OK, so once someone has run through this this process of finding the number that matches,
they submit that to the network.
It is verified.
And then that goes officially onto the end of the chain.
As the new state of the network.
Yeah, exactly. OK.
And that how much effort does it take to find one of those?
Lots. So for a given day.
So the amount of electrical power that's used to you essentially can imagine
bitcoins as like a representation of electricity.
So you essentially go to a place, whether it's in China or America,
or like, oh, great hydroelectric power here, we're going to take this electricity.
It's really cheap.
Essentially build a sort of farm there of Bitcoin farmers, turn that electricity
into bitcoins and the amount of electricity that is spent is equal
to the country of Denmark right now, I believe.
And so this is this.
This is called what we're talking about right now is called proof of work,
where people are proving that they've spent their computer time working on this problem.
And people are sad about how much electricity is being used.
So there are different versions of consensus algorithms that people are
excited to use in the future that will use less electricity.
These things are like proof of stake or delegated proof of stake and things like
that that are going to be less electricity heavy.
I know that I've tried to buy things with Bitcoin before where it took
like more than an hour for the transaction to go through, because I guess
there was just so much traffic and each transaction took an amount of time
slash electricity to solve that there just wasn't enough to clear them quickly.
Yeah, exactly.
Pain. Any any questions so far?
Um, no, I'm kind of just, you know, following.
I I'm not sure if this is the point to segue into this, but I just sold
my Bitcoin last or what Sunday.
So I bought what, 0.04 or 0.04 bitcoins?
I had bought like a hundred bucks worth.
And I bought it, I don't know, in mid June when it was climbing.
And then it climbed for like another two hours and plummeted for three months.
And I finally sold it.
I bought about a hundred bucks and then I sold it for 181 in what four months
turn around. OK, yeah.
So I was feeling pretty good about that.
That is a huge return.
I'll say.
But I mean, I sold Bitcoin.
That's like a sin, right?
But you should have.
But I'm thinking like, how long is it going to stay above for a grand?
Could be forever.
Could be that other things will take off.
I still have my Ethereum and Litecoin. Cool.
Yeah. So my friend keeps asking me, why do people give money for Bitcoin?
Oh, wait, I have a really quick question.
Yeah. Was I stupid in selling?
I should have waited till after this conversation to sell.
It depends. So I was up.
I'm going to blame you. Yeah, exactly.
Exactly. So first off, everybody who's in this space is pretty hilarious.
Everybody says who's in the Bitcoin, who's in the Bitcoin blockchain space,
says, hey, I have some advice here, but remember, this is not financial advice.
I actually should say that.
I think that you can essentially it's a kind of a bimodal distribution
for what this could look like going forward.
Bitcoin could either be the biggest thing that's ever happened and be worth,
you know, millions of like each single Bitcoin.
There's only 21 million of them ever.
And if it's the main store of value in the world going forward
is the main way to do remittances across, you know, countries or what have you,
then it's going to be really expensive, you know, as more and more people get into it.
And so you sold it for 4,000.
If it's worth a million in 10 years, you're going to be a little bit sad.
So that's one version of reality.
The other version when Bitcoin hit $80 and I was like,
there's no way it's worth $80 and it crashed down to 40.
And I was like, I told you, yeah.
And then I waited to buy until it was like three and a half thousand.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. And there is a version of it where it equals zero, though,
whether it's if, you know, there's Bitcoin and Bitcoin cash,
and then maybe it'd be this third kind of Bitcoin.
If there are better ways to do remittances or if a store of value
just becomes one of the ones that has more utility, like Ethereum or what have you,
then maybe your Bitcoin goes to zero and you wish you would have,
and you kept it up until 20,000 and then you wish you were sold it,
but then it went to zero.
So I think I don't blame you, but I think the one way that I do think about it is
the tokens that you hold kind of make you pay attention to that space.
And so if you are not that interested in the Bitcoin space,
then I feel like not holding makes sense.
And if you're more interested in Ethereum or Litecoin,
I feel like it makes sense to hold those.
I'm more interested in the ones that coin-based,
the super user-friendly, easy app that lets me buy these things.
So I mean, I'm not wedded to any of these current these cryptocurrencies.
It's more just like, well, they were all easy.
And I was like, oh, I've made almost, you know,
at one point it was over 200 bucks than what I had in my Bitcoin wallet.
And so that went down a little bit, then went back up and like, all right,
well, it's on its way back up.
I'm going to go ahead and just cash out now.
But yeah, you're right.
It could turn into, you know, a big thing down the road.
I'm kind of interested as to what other sorts of things
that might be used for, and maybe we should get into that later.
You know what?
I'm going to shelve that until later for, for why I'm holding on to my Bitcoin.
Like it's, it might not just be money, but the thing my friend keeps bringing up
is like, I don't understand why I'm giving money for this,
that there's a bunch of people going through hard math equations on their computer.
Why am I giving the money?
And ultimately what it was is a guy or a group of guys who said,
hey, we're going to just make this ledger on the internet.
Here's our coin.
Give us money for it.
Like, why am I giving the money for this?
What is just basically a ledger?
What, what does this makes no sense to me?
Is your question, why do the miners get the like Bitcoin as I think his
ultimate question is like, what is, what is the value here?
The, the he's like, what stops me from just going out and making a coin of my own
and saying, hey, come give me money for my coin.
Yeah.
So, so the value comes from the pure scarcity of it.
The other part of it is the utility value.
So there's no real scarcity if anyone can make their own coin version.
Totally.
So that's why, so that gets into the third point around stories that people tell.
And like, there's this big Bitcoin and it's just like the same stories
that we've told around various kinds of currency in the past, whether it was
shells or gold or fiat currency or what have you is, hey, this thing has value
because there are enough people that believe it has value.
That is, so that is something to expect going forward, especially for something
like Bitcoin that, so, so certain things do have this utility value where you can
spend the currency itself.
So for example, with Ethereum, you can spend the currency itself to run these
like smart contracts to essentially run computation on this world computer.
Let's get to that in a few minutes.
Yeah.
Well, we won't get to that or like basic attention token is similar
where you can spend it for utility value.
But if you just deny the utility value, then you can imagine this system
as one that allows people to start creating their own currencies.
Yeah.
So whether it's Bitcoin or like, I kind of have my own Reese coin
through this like Patreon site.
And because of kind of the early adopter incentive structure where if you get
in at the beginning of one of these, then that's better.
So people, as a result of that, people kind of expect there to be many different
kinds of these things going forward.
It's like, hey, I didn't get early enough into Bitcoin.
Let's me and a bunch of other people create Bitcoin too.
We'll all get in at the beginning and then the people who are in later
have to pay more than we got in the beginning.
So that's sweet.
I think that is his main objection.
Like I point out that Bitcoin is just like any other fiat currency.
Like the actual dollar is not worth shit in terms of the materials.
Like what are you going to do with a little slip of paper?
But it's you know that with that dollar, you can exchange it for one
dollar's worth of goods or services.
And so I tell him, you know, a Bitcoin is the same way.
You know that if you paid $50 for a Bitcoin, you can get about $50 back by
giving it to someone else and change for money or exchange for, you know,
drugs or whatever it is that you want to buy with it.
So, you know, it's, it's, it's a store of value more or less.
And, and his point is like you said that I don't, it seems like a Ponzi scheme,
that you get in early, the price gets pumped way up.
And then what's to stop everyone from just cashing out and abandoning it.
Totally.
And I think we'll see some of those things happening and that's already
happening within the space and various other ways.
And for Bitcoin now it does have these, we're used to like in Western countries
or in America, we have a stable government with a stable US dollar.
But like Venezuela buys it has a lot of Bitcoin, you know, because they,
that's a stable form of currency for them.
And in fact, a currency that goes up or for people who are like doing remittances
from where you're going, you know, from Nepal, like lots of their GDP comes
from people in Nepal going to work in the oil fields in the Middle East
and then sending that money back to Nepal.
And right now you go up from Saudi Arabia, up to the Saudi Arabian Bank
across the Nepali Bank down back into Rupees and to Nepal.
And that is, it requires, you know, 10 days and a lot of transaction fees.
And if you can do that with Bitcoin instead, then people are excited by that.
