who used to work for Coinbase and is writes these really good intro articles and has this
great intro to Bitcoin versus Bitcoin cash article, which just gives us great, um, table.
And I'm kind of forgetting the table right now.
The, at the high level point is that there was this big debate among the kind of the
two parts of this ecosystem, Bitcoin core, which I believe are the developers and then
the Bitcoin miners, um, which are the people that run a lot of the mining equipment.
That's like 10 people around the world kind of, um, who have like 90% of the hash power.
Um, yeah, people. Yeah.
That's kind of scary.
Yeah.
It's supposed to be more distributed than 10 people.
Totally. And this is this funny decentralization, centralization thing.
Uh-huh.
Um, so yeah, it is, um, I, that number is close to correct. Um, hopefully the, um, so the miners
wanted, I believe that, and I don't understand this well enough, but they wanted to just purely
increase essentially the, the network was getting too filled with things and there were, they needed
to scale this. This is a huge thing within the space generally is how does it scale?
How's the theorem going to scale? How's Bitcoin going to scale?
So one scaling way was to create this, was to essentially increase the block sizes.
So instead of a one megabyte block, instead of one megabyte of transactions going on there,
instead of let's increase it to eight megabytes or two megabytes or something.
And that's what the miners wanted, I believe.
And then the non miners, the developers, Bitcoin core, they wanted this thing called,
um, segwit, which is an algorithm that allows you to essentially get faster transaction times.
Um, and so that was the battle between these two groups.
And that battle happened for a while and, but they actually came to agreement around
this thing called Bitcoin cash where they would, uh, or I believe where they would essentially
do this hard fork. Um, and as a result of that hard fork, it would, you essentially,
all the currency that did exist gets duplicated. So there's all the Bitcoin and then there's all
the Bitcoin cash. Um, and now Bitcoin, I believe that Bitcoin itself has, um, has segwit online
and that Bitcoin cash has some people over there who are excited by or more like Bitcoin cash
maximalists and that I believe has increased block sizes. Um, so that's kind of what's
happening in the space right now. And then in the near future, there'll be this thing called
two X, I believe, which is where you have on the main, um, Bitcoin blockchain,
you also increase the block sizes, um, from one megabyte to two.
So I think that's the space I could be, do not trust me on any of that because I really,
I know just enough to say that, but not much deeper. Yeah.
I wanted to go back to a thing you said just a little bit earlier. Uh, you were very excited
about how, uh, the cryptocurrency like democratize democratizes the power and like pulls it away
from the big governments and the institutions and these centers of power and spreads it among the
people. But I, I, it's, I'm pretty sure that there's more than 10 people in like the old school
institutions and governments. It seems like we have just managed to concentrate things even,
even further if it's down to 10 people in the group.
Totally. That's a, I think that's a good point. And that's this, there's this great piece by
this guy, biology, who is the, um, co-founder of 21.co, which is something that you guys should
check out as well, which is a way to essentially get money to, um, to receive emails kind of,
or to do tasks. Um, in any case, he talks about quantifying decentralization,
this great blog post, and in that they say, uh, he, he does his quantification because that's
the main goal of this whole space is to decentralize things, to make things more like equitable or
heavy. But because of the way that systems work, they recentralize in various ways. Um,
and so yes, there's definitely recentralization on top of these platforms and there's definitely
recentralization happening generally. And I think that is one of the hopes and that is,
let me say one other thing, which is that the Ethereum blockchain, which I believe actually
does have a similar, um, decentralization coefficient, this like Gini coefficient as Bitcoin,
but in theory, they hope that it wouldn't because you don't need to, um, on the Ethereum blockchain,
they have a different kind of consensus algorithm within their proof of work algorithm that means
that you can't use these specialized ASIC GPUs to run. Um, that doesn't give you any advantage
in Ethereum, but it does give you advantage in Bitcoin. So I was like an attempt by them to try
to decentralize it more. But yeah, it's, this decentralization thing is, uh, that's the hope
and the goal. And there's definitely recentralization happening. Cool. Uh, so before we go, what are
you working on now and how can people find out about it if they wanted to? So, uh, what am I,
I am working on primarily two things. Um, the first thing is, uh, I have a podcast, my own
podcast called creating a humanist blockchain future. Um, and it's about some of these concepts
that we talked about today, um, and interviews various people within the space to kind of, uh,
get a, and kind of do deep dives on both from a technical side, from like a philosophical side,
um, and having like some good philosophers within the space coming on soon, which will be sweet.
So I have a podcast and I also have a, I do kind of a consulting thing within the space as well,
where I use these kind of teal principles and kind of lean and agile practices that I've done in the
past to kind of help people within the space, um, in this way. So I do that through my Patreon,
which is patreon.com slash Rhyslenmark that slash R-H-Y-S-L-I-N-D-M-A-R-K. Um, and I implement some
other cool things there. Like if you give me 10 bucks a month, then for every 10 bucks you give
me, you get one Rhys coin, and then that Rhys coin can be spent on my time. Um,
we're implementing Bayesian coin after this. Get that money going. Um, I also do have a
self-imposed income cap as well because I am of the EA mindset and think that, you know,
studies show that after about 45,000 bucks in America, you have decreasing returns or essentially
very small returns on month on happiness when you get more money. So at around that point for me on
my Patreon, um, I essentially stopped taking the money and redistributed it back to the system
in various ways, um, like charities and things. So that's what I do. That's what I work on. Uh,
yeah, you can come check me out if you want and definitely support if you want.
Cool. All right.
We'll definitely link to all of those on the website.
Well, thank you guys so much for having me on the show. Um, and yeah, happy to talk about these
things. No, thank you for coming. This was great. I, I enjoyed talking to people. Like,
if you and Ash and I just, you know, chatted about this, it ended up like our game theory episode.
So which was where we were supposed to have somebody who knew what they were talking about
on and then we kind of just winged it. So no, I appreciate your, your expertise and your time
for spending here with us. Yeah, it was fun. Thank you guys. And Stephen, you want to stick
around after this to do some listener mail? Sure. Okay. Excellent.
All right. Before we begin, we have to thank our generous Patreon supporters for helping us.
This week we want to thank Casey.
Thanks, Casey.
And anyone else who wants to support us, you can do so at Patreon, or if you would like,
simply leaving us a review at iTunes also helps quite a bit. It gets to spread the show to more
new people. Yeah. Ultimately, you can just trap somebody in the car on a road trip and just keep
playing episodes of this while they are, you know, unable to change the channel. Yes.
I'm kidding. Don't, don't hijack that. No, totally do. If they reach for the, the, the
switcher on the, on the thing, just slap their hands. Be like, swear of the car. Yeah. Listen,
you got to listen to the sexy Enios and sexy Stephen being like, Hey, listen to us talking
about nationalist things. Man, one of us has, uh, what am I trying to say? I was going to,
I was going to make an illusion to how I had, had something, had, I had been drinking a little
bit earlier and you haven't, and you wouldn't have been able to guess that from this exchange.
Right. I am just high on life. Thank you.
Uh, so for going to listener feedback, let's start with the great Nick who asks, um, this is
after our parenting podcast. Did any of the panel, and it's just going to be you and me,
I guess, since we don't have the rest of the panel here. Did any of the panel have any thoughts
on the issue of overpopulation as someone trying to do better? I struggled with wanting children
being that it's pretty much the single worst thing you can do for climate change.
So those are two different issues are my first thought on the one hand. Yes,
your carbon footprint goes radically up with a kid. I'm, I mean, I was going to say I'm personally
not worried about overpopulation, but I'm also not planning on having kids. Uh, but I'm also
thinking that by the time that becomes like a real thing where like we're running out of,
like landmass people to live on and food people to eat, uh, I think we'll have other solutions to
those problems, whether it's like, you know, uh, artificial islands or living in space or whatever.
But yeah, I've always sort of been torn on like the carbon footprint, uh, problem. Yeah, I don't
really know how to get around that. Like, yes, you're making a carbon footprint, but you're also
like producing potentially a lot of good value for the world too. And for like your life and other
lives, if you, you know, if your kid goes on to make people happy. So like, I don't know how I'm
not going to do that math and say, you know, they need to have this number of utilize and share
as much happiness as the world to accommodate their carbon footprint. But yes, people have carbon
footprints. Yeah, I, I am also of the opinion that those are kind of unrelated, that yes,
people do burn things for energy, but people also do a lot of good. And really who is going to
figure out how to scrub all the carbon out of the atmosphere, if not for people,
because I'm sure pretty darn sure the dolphins ain't going to be doing it. So, so if we're
relying on humans to eventually find some technological way to get the carbon out of
the atmosphere on net, the human species will be carbon neutral. And you're not going to help
things at all by reducing the amount of humans that could be either working on the problem
directly or helping to keep the system running that funds the people that does work on those
problems. I don't know if we talked about this directly in the episode or not, but like, you
know, a lot of like cults and religions have the great meme of like no protected sex. So like,
therefore lots of kids. Yeah. So like, there's some virtue in like having kids that not like
you're going to like just force feed rationality, but that you're planning on raising to be somewhat
sane rather than just like, you know, no one is raising their kid to be, you know, a religious
nut job on purpose, because they think they're doing the right thing. But yeah, you know, the more
scientifically and rationality rationally oriented or inclined people that we get out there, the
better, right? So maybe one of them will be the people who solve all these fun problems.
So I personally think that it is a bit overpopulation is kind of sort of an issue,
in my opinion, because the human race, as long as it grows at any sort of rate will eventually
outgrow the universe. I don't remember, I know we mentioned this at an earlier episode, and it's
been so long now that I don't remember what the actual timeframe was, but Robin Hansen once calculated
that if we continue growing even at 2%, that within a matter of a few hundred thousand years,
there'd be more humans than there are atoms in the universe, which is obviously unsustainable
if you want to remain it physically bodied. But even if we go entirely to simulated humans in
some sort of computer, there's an upper limit on how many people could be simulated too. So
overpopulation could eventually in the long run be an issue. But I don't see it being
issue for a while. And by the time it starts getting to the point where we're running out of
universe, I think we'd be able to self modify our own desires quickly and easily enough that we
could take away the desire to have lots of children. So I'm going to go out on the limb here and say
that everyone is okay having one kid to replace themselves without any sort of guilt that they
should have at all. And if you are in a relationship with one other person, then that is two kids
between the two of you. I do seriously side eye at the like quiverful movements and other sort of
we are encouraging people to have 12 children because that is that is some
way too many children in my personal opinion. You are not doing your kids a favor when you're
having that many of them. But I am going to go ahead and at the risk of sounding egotistical
saying that I think brash lists and the sort of people who would be listening to this podcast
have tend to have higher than average value children, which I know goes directly against
my earlier things where I was saying that all human lives are valued the same on a moral level.
But seriously, I don't think you you are going to be the type of person that has shitty awful
children. Your kids are probably going to contribute to the world in some way. And so
go forth and multiply by two. Right. Don't think it is the single worst thing you can do for climate
change or for the human species or for the planet or whatever. That is just that's basic
misanthropy that humans are evil and we should have less of them is what that feels like.
And I dislike that attitude. Right on. Cool. There was also some back and forth following
this with Nick and another user and they they basically came to similar conclusions as what
we've just talked about if I recall correctly. But I wanted to get your input on it too because
I thought it'd be interesting to ask you. Cool. The Great Nick also says because I talked about
them at an earlier episode at just as Nick, I believe I made this username back 15 years ago
on somewhere like Newgrounds. I originally wanted the username The Great Nickname,
but it was too long. So I cut the last word off. My name is not Nick. Sorry about that Nick.
From now on, I will refer to you as the Great Nick only or Nickname or something, but not just Nick.
So it's a very common misunderstanding. Yeah, maybe I'll just call him The Great.
The Great. Yes. So on the ritual episode, we got feedback from Shelley Doesn't Drink saying,
I love sing-alongs and don't get creeped out by them. Not even if it's Christian songs from back
when I was a Christian, but chanting along as a group. Very, very creepy. Even if the words
endorse something I express something I endorse. Around 2000, I was in a city where anti-war
protests were going on and I happened to walk by one as they marched down the street with their
signs and chanting. I felt instantly overwhelmed by emotion, deeply moved and inspired. I got
physically choked up and my eyes watered. But I did not actually want to feel moved or inspired by
this, which caused me to feel simultaneously repulsed by the experience and how it was hijacking my
emotions. Basically, anytime I see something like a protest or a group display of earnest
reverence solidarity, I get this reaction. Even the cliched scenes in football movies.
It affects me like that and it's icky. I totally see how if you are having your emotions hijacked
when you didn't want to, that's a bit of a violation. I'm sure they weren't doing it
specifically to target the person, but that is also something I would dislike and I would
stay very clear of ritual and religious sort of things if I knew it affected me that way.
Yeah. I'm just off-put by chanting in the first place because it does seem like the
kind of thing that you do right before you throw someone into volcano. No one likes being tugged
around without setting themselves up for it emotionally. If I'm going to be freaked out,
it's one thing to get scared if I'm going to go see the new it movie or something. That I'm
wanting it. I've consented by buying the ticket and sitting down and watching it,
but if I'm just scared in public, somebody just screams on the train or something, then that
sucks, but I don't know. That's just part of being in the world. Occasionally,
someone swears in traffic or something. Just today, someone went around me at a straight
lane. They're like, I'm going to go faster and went around to the right turn lane and cut me
off. I'm sure glad that I was watching because you did that out of nowhere and if I had straightened
to go over this pothole thing, we would have collided. I signed on the brakes. It's like,
they scared me without my consent, but what am I going to do? Yeah. I try to endure social
norms of not doing that, I guess. I try not to be a dick. I try not to get in people's way and step
on people's toes. That's probably the way to go. Do you also try not to join groups of chanting
people in the streets? I can't think of a single situation off the top of my head where I've ever
chanted. Oh, I've been in a few marches and the chanting is really fun. I've been in a march
