So it says if you put your, you scroll across this ad, then pay Reese one
basic attention token.
And so all these smart contracts, they are ways to essentially, um, give an
exchange value in this peer to peer way, um, on the Ethereum blockchain.
Can you, so how does that happen?
Because you said there's a turn complete computer as part of the public
ledger, what, what, how does that work?
I thought the public ledger was like a static thing.
Yeah.
So these smart contracts, um, so on the Bitcoin, so, so on the Ethereum, on the
Bitcoin blockchain, you can imagine it as just the like list of transactions
going back and forth on the Ethereum blockchain.
You can imagine it as a, you can, when you actually code a smart contract, you
put that smart contract onto the blockchain and has like an address.
So that says, okay, there's this smart contract at this address.
Um, just like I have my own address where you can send me ether or whatever.
Um, the smart contract is just like that.
But instead of sending me through, you can send the smart contract ether.
Um, and the smart contract is essentially like, you know, it's just, it's, so it's
on the blockchain, you can see the code essentially in this Ethereum, um, code.
And then you can run it in this kind of Ethereum virtual machine.
Um, so it's a way to essentially, you have, in addition to sending and receiving
in addition to the blockchain, having, um, transaction notes, Reese to X, Reese to
Y, it also has, there's a smart contract at this address.
And if you want to run the smart contract, you can look at the rules of that
smart contract and interact with it in various ways, send it some basic
attention token and get some people's attention or, um, there are these things
called distributed autonomous organizations or DAOs where it's essentially
a smart contract that you essentially can vote with like some tokens and say,
Hey, we want to vote on where to put this.
There's some money on this smart contract.
Let's allocate that money to a good thing.
Where should we do it?
And we all vote essentially in that smart contract takes those votes as input
and then as output sends that money somewhere.
So that's what a smart contract is.
So is each, I'm trying to figure out exactly how this, uh, Turing machine works.
So I, I assuming that the code is not run on an individual people's computers.
Is it that each transaction hash is another clock tick on the computer?
Or what, what's happening?
The way, so I don't know the full deep level, the way that I understand it is
there is, um, that in order to, you essentially it's, so you have your code,
um, and that code is, you know, if statements or what have you, and you can
essentially say, um, so, so what you need to do is you say, Hey, I want to do this
thing.
I want to add this to the list of running this smart con or the weights or I
would say this is running the smart contract should be added to the next block.
I believe.
And so you say, okay, not only did we send money to X and recent money to Y, but
he also ran this smart contract.
That's what he's claiming.
And then when that happens, running that smart contract, um, you essentially,
you need to, um, do the computations within that.
And you essentially need to pay a little bit of ether, um, in what's called
gas, which is like a small little bits of ether to run that code.
Um, and so, yeah, I believe that that's how it's run and saying, Hey,
this smart contract was run.
And then the, the, the computers and network run it, spending some gas to do so.
Okay.
And then the output is put into the next block.
Yeah, exactly.
Neat.
Okay.
And, and what, so basically all that computing power that was being used just
for hashes is now also being used, uh, to run small little programs as well.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And what, what is so great about that?
It's great because it is a, um, like why the term smart contract?
Yeah.
So you, it is okay to imagine as a smart as an actual contract.
It's okay to imagine as like an agreement between people.
Um, and it's nice because you can start to define for any kind of peer to peer
agreement.
Um, you can say, Hey, let's create a new version of this peer to peer agreement.
We can code it up very quickly, like basic attention token or whatever.
We can create this new system essentially.
Um, and with that new system, it can be run very easily in this kind of
trustless way this smart contracts exist and, and people can run, uh, can start
to run things in a peer to peer way, which was not really possible before running.
You'd always have to have a trusted third party in case something went wrong or in
case your friends, you know, spend, you know, eat all your Cheetos or whatever.
Um, so that's the idea.
And we're just now seeing a lot of these kind of, um, the killer apps of, um,
smart contracts.
The first one that we've seen is the ICO, um, which is an initial coin offering.
And what that is, is you essentially tell your friends, you say,
Hey people, what if like a good example, this is this thing called file coins.
You say, Hey, what if we made, um, what if you could like buy and sell, um, in
this peer to peer way, like, you know, storage on everybody else's computers.
And everybody's like, yeah, it seems like a good idea.
You write a blog post about it, gets a bunch of upvotes.
So then you write a white paper, which is like a detailed, um, computer science
way of formalizing the protocol and saying, here's how it's going to work.
Here's how the incentives are going to work.
So you, you say that and you write the white paper and people are like, oh,
this is sweet.
You say, okay, cool.
Everybody seems into this network.
Um, you say, great.
I'm going to put a smart contract on the blockchain.
I'm going to run an ICO or put this ICO smart contract on the blockchain that
says if you give it money, if you give it ETH or Bitcoin or whatever, then you
get in return, you get some file coin, um, because, and people will want to do
that because they will then want to use that file coin later within the network.
They'll say, Hey, I'm going to pay some money for the file coin now.
And then later I'll be able to use that file coin within the network.
Um, or they could just be speculating and say, Hey, I'm going to spend some money
here, get some file coin return and then sell the file coin later.
But it's essentially a way to kind of jumpstart a new network, um, and get a
bunch of aligned early adopters, you essentially aligned a bunch of incentives,
the incentives of speculators and early adopters and the employees, um, all
around this new network.
So that's kind of one of the first killer apps we've seen, uh, with smart
contracts is the ICO.
It seems very much eating its own tail kind of thing though.
We have a, a coin contract that's good for making more coins.
I mean, definitely what, what, what can you actually do on it?
Cause I imagine you can't store a lot of data on the, on the.
No, yeah, you can't, you cannot.
Yeah.
You don't want to store very much data on the ledger.
There is this, um, the way that a lot of people store data in the space is
this thing called IPFS, which is the interplanetary file system, which is a
way to kind of have a cool name, a way to essentially store data across many
different, um, and it kind of this distributed way, not in like Amazon S3
or whatever.
Um, so yeah, I mean, if for the ability to do ICOs is to just the ability to
get more new kinds of tokens and to jumpstart networks.
And that is powerful, um, for like a new kind of for breaking down the
defensibility of networks, but like you say, those people should only get into
these ICOs if they think that the token that they get in return will actually
have utility value.
So you'll be able to use that basic attention token to buy attention or you'll
be able to use the file coin to, um, get storage on people's computers.
Um, so that, those are the, those kind of this, I mean, Ethereum came out
essentially in 2015.
Um, there've been a bunch of ICOs this year in 2017.
People, like there's, there's other projects happening a little bit
earlier than that as well, but people expect to see some of these tokens.
It's kind of a make or break time in these next couple of years where you say,
okay, is the promise of this network, which is these awesome distributed basic
attention or awesome distributed file coin network, will that actually get
built out and then will these tokens be used in this great new network?
Um, we'll see if that happens.
I, I have covered basically most of the things I want to know about ground
based knowledge there, you things you want to know.
That's all the like pre-req knowledge.
I think that anything that I would have asked about.
So there was a bit of news making rounds recently, uh, recently, isn't like
the last two weeks from the time of recording.
What was it?
Showtime's website was, uh, using, uh, through the browser, uh, using viewers,
computers to mine Bitcoin, not dissimilar to how Pirate Bay was doing it.
And so my thoughts were like, all right, Pirate Bay, I'm sailing with pirates.
I kind of suspect that, you know, I kind of like understand what I'm getting into.
You know, if you guys want to, they were, well, what did, what did Pirate Bay say?
They were doing, uh, like piloting some tasks or something.
Like, just see if it was possible.
All right, that was it.
We got discovered.
So yeah, we were just seeing if that would work.
All right, bye.
Um, Showtime though, you know, you're not on there to steal stuff.
You're on there, you're paying to view stuff on the website.
And hey, while you're here, we're going to go ahead and use your browsers.
So I was curious, A, if you knew much of like the technical implementation of
how they did that, and if you had any thoughts or responses.
Yeah.
So I, the other one I heard about for that was FC Barcelona, the soccer team was
also doing that.
Um, and I think that it was just like, I'm not sure for Showtime's example, when
I was talking to someone about the Barcelona example, it sounded like it
was just kind of a rogue dev who was kind of trying to be funny.
It was just like, let's just inject this code in here.
You know, it's been the user CPU cycles on mining some Bitcoin.
Um, and, uh, yeah, so I think that I, so I, yeah, I guess it's happening.
I don't know.
So whenever my computer is running slow, it's cause someone is hacking my, uh,
my cycles to mine coin for them.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Cause those bastards.
Um, when your computer is running slow, it's almost always your browser.
If it's only one window that, you know, is slowing things down, then yeah,
keep an eye on it.
Probably Bitcoin.
Yeah.
I don't know what they're going to do.
I think that that's an interesting thing.
And it's in, in theory, that is leveraging the thing that we want to be
happening generally, which is take any kind of liquidity in the world, whether
that's liquidity of, um, CPU cycles.
It's like, Hey, you're not using them.
So like, why not mine some Bitcoin?
You know, well, also cause I'm paying for the electricity.
Oh, totally.
Well, I think, I think that you should get the value back, you know, but I
