and I don't think we chanted. No. I did almost do one. I was at a conference
and Bill and I, the Science Guy, was doing a thing and I was still more shy back then
and I wanted to do like a bill, bill, bill and I didn't and it's one of my regrets.
But as far as regrets go, that's pretty mild. But that would have been a chant,
but that's sort of not the same. I'm going to go ahead and just say that's distinct enough
because everyone has seen the show where that's in the opening music from his 1990s television
program, Bill and I, the Science Guy. And that's not me just being like, you know,
all hail the Science Guy out of nowhere, right? Right. All right.
Googleplex Byte says, I think an intellectual monopoly on anything is fine so long as it
abides by Georgia's philosophy. That is, every intellectual monopoly's value is to be evaluated
and some portion, example given 20% per annum, is to be given to everyone as intellectual property
in, as it's fundamentally everyone's common property.
Share the proceeds in intellectual property or share the property itself?
The proceeds from it.
Okay. Yeah. Initially, I thought you said the property itself. I'm like,
how do you share 20% of an idea? You can read the first page of my five page thesis.
Yeah. I mean, I don't have much to add there other than that's interesting.
That would take a lot of the problem out of monopoly, right?
Yes and no, I think. I think it would take some of this thing out of monopolies if,
if the, you know, portion of it did go back to everyone. I think people would be much less
concerned about monopolies if a lot of their profits were divided back to people and like,
hey, you've given us this monopoly power, we're giving you back something for it.
But on the other hand, intellectual property, I think is a slightly different domain.
As you are probably aware, Lovecraft is very big, his mythos. I have this game next to me called
Cultists of Cthulhu, which is based on the Lovecraft mythos. And it's, I mean, it's pretty big
in geek circles, but it's, it's like, I don't know, half the games out there, board games,
are based on some sort of Cthulhu mythos. Half is an exaggeration, but there's a lot, right?
And people really enjoy the, the Cthulhu stuff and write a lot of stories with it and it's
become sort of like a rich cultural ground that we all can pull from and, and express ourselves.
And part of the reason for that is that Lovecraft died early enough that he just got missed being
swept up with the Disney Mickey Mouse indefinite copyright forever on everything thing. So,
his works, most of them went into the public domain, which is why we can do things. And I think
that's a good thing. We now have this cultural background that we all share and we can all
tell each other stories and build on it. And I liken this to what if there was a Disney type
of monopoly back in ancient Greece that didn't allow people to travel from city to city and sing
about the, the gods and, and pass on their cultures like, nope, I'm sorry, but corporation X
has a, has a monopoly on all stories about Zeus and, and Aries and corporation Y over
there has all the stories on Hercules and Hera. So, and you, you can't tell any of these like,
I feel like the, for example, Marvel, the superheroes that we have today are basically
the equivalent of the pantheon of the ancient Greeks. They're humans with superpowers that we
tell stories about to make sense of our own lives and to inspire us and they're bigger than life
and their problems aren't really real, but they kind of reflect the things that we struggle with.
And they, they've very much taken the place of those more human gods in my opinion, but only
Marvel is allowed to tell any fucking stories about it. Like if we try to go out and build on this
and make it into something, we get sued. And I think that really impoverishes our culture to have
these stewards owning all the intellectual property that we build our psyches upon.
And this isn't something I've done a lot of reading about, but it's interesting to me,
first of all, you make a compelling point and you're right, it would take some of the sting out
if you got some money back, but then you still lose like, like what if Tolkien was able to patent
high fantasy, right? And if I'm, if I'm correct, Tolkien's is high fantasy, right?
Basically Harry Potter is low fantasy. No, Harry Potter is definitely high fantasy.
I thought high fantasy was took place on not earth in a place with different rules and regular fan
or low fantasy, whatever not high fantasy is took place in our world with magic or some other element.
No, well, okay. So high fantasy is definitely, I mean, Tolkien is like the earth example and
it's generally things that are on other worlds and a non human or not, not him, but a non earth
type world with no reference to earth at all, right? But I would consider
Harry Potter to be pretty darn close to maybe not high fantasy, but in that same school because
the only difference between Harry Potter and Tolkien is that it does take place on earth.
Oh, but Harry Potter could just as easily not take place on earth because it's not talking about
like, well, not really talking about like the, the actor prime minister in 1990 or whatever,
right? Right. So like if it was relating to actual world stuff.
Well, it does like reference World War Two. Yeah. And like at some point,
minister fudge meets the prime minister or something, right? But like
it's probably closer to urban fantasy. Gotcha. But urban fantasy is still fantasy. It's not like
when I think of low fantasy, I think of things like Game of Thrones in the first book. I guess the
first book was called Game of Thrones. It's in the first book, there was like basically no magic
the and like one or two little things and the dragons were born near the end. But for the most
part, it was just medieval Europe. People with swords and bad hygiene hacking at each other.
Gotcha. So I was going to say, what if Tolkien could patent like high fantasy? Yeah. And then
suddenly no one could write in that style without paying Tolkien Enterprises some dividend from their
their returns on that book. Yeah, we wouldn't have Dungeons and Dragons.
Yeah, or like lots of other stuff, right? So that I guess I'm not sure what counts as intellectual
property. Like if I make up an idea and I share it, I don't know, I am not well thought enough in
this subject to give any meaningful thoughts other than to say, I basically with everything you said.
And like, I could see if you reduce it to absurd pretty quick, yeah, things get really
boring really fast, even if you're not talking like in the context of like products or like
things that we can touch, right? If the rounded edges rectangle is my IP and you can't make a
phone that looks like that because you're not Apple. Well, that's going to slow down like everyone
else's phone market. So that's one aspect. But yeah, just like, no, we have, you know,
sorry, Marvel Universe has patent on anything that has to do with superhuman anything. If the
person can lift more than 700 pounds, that's that's beyond, you know, what you guys are allowed to
publish. Yeah, that would be insane. Yeah, that would be crazy. And it's not quite that bad. But
I do think that anyone should be allowed to make a Mickey Mouse movie if they want to. And that
would also introduce some competition with Disney that they would now have to be more,
they would have to create the best Mickey Mouse movies, the most Disney-esque ones in order to
make people want to go to Disney Mickey Mouse movies. So I don't want this to be like the,
you know, intellectual property episode or post episode discussion. But like,
so what if that was the thing and somebody made just a bunch of videos of Mickey Mouse beating
up minorities and, you know, throwing racial slurs. And then like, their big thing of Mickey
Mouse that they've had as their icon for like a century is not being associated with all like
these, you know, Nazi-esque bullshit, right? Like someone pepe to Mickey? Sure. So like, I can kind
of see the benefit of like, no, we're going to sue you if you try to pepe Mickey. Because, you
know, people think of us when they think of Mickey Mouse and we don't want them to think
of us when they think of pepe mouse, right? So I kind of see the rationale.
I don't know. I don't think it would really do that because there have been people like drawing
Mickey's with Hitler mustaches and such. Yeah. But if they made that into like, if that showed up
on the Simpsons and on Rick and Morty and, you know, other cartoons that hadn't, you know, audiences,
then, you know, people would be associating that with Disney, especially if there was like no
protection of like, yep, I'm from Disney. I'm the real one. That's what happens when I'm not on
the screen with Disney. I'm pretty sure that you could still like, protect your brand. If someone
says they're making Kellogg's cornflakes, but they're not actually Kellogg, then you could sue them.
You can like, you can make your knockoff cornflakes, but you don't call it Kellogg's cornflakes,
much like you can have your own Mickey movie, but you can't say it's a Disney Mickey movie
unless you're Disney. Okay. Yeah. All right. I can see where that goes. All right. I'm ready to move on.
Okay. On our sacred cows thing, Zerth says, I confess I roll my eyes when I hear rationalists
have few or no sacred cows. I bet it's because they define sacred cows differently. Bayesian
conspiracy's definition is a falsifiable belief about the world that one doesn't want to falsify.
Or at least risk falsifying. Yes. Like it could be true, but I'm not going to look at it because
if I open that box and I'm wrong, then my belief is shattered. Yeah. In which case, it does seem
like rationalists have fewer sacred cows than non-rationalists. But I will define sacred cows
as a belief that causes you to not notice mistakes you make. Example of this kind of sacred cow.
Thinking that talking about it makes it better. Thinking I'm unworthy. Thinking worrying solves
nothing. Thinking people need structure. You walk into conversation and start talking and miss
what your interlocutor was saying because you believe things like this.
What was the definition? A belief that causes you to not notice mistakes that you are making.
I'm fine saying that that's a thing and it's a problem. And we can call them sacred cows,
but then we're just messing up definitions. I feel like mine is closer to the colloquial usage.
I think that sounds more like, it almost sounds more like they're defining a bias.
That's what I was thinking. I thought that's what they're going to give examples of.
Yeah. I mean, it's good to... I don't know if it's necessarily a belief that keeps you
to prevent you from noticing when you're wrong. Yeah. I'll have to think on that.
I mean, that sounds like a conversation worth having, but I don't know if it's the same...
I think we're talking about different phenomena entirely. And whether or not we want to call
them the same thing is, that's whatever, but I think they're distinct things.
I think there's definitely things that make me wince and not want to talk about them.
Like if someone says that different races have different IQs on average,
that is a thing where I would be like, you know what? I am not comfortable talking about this.
I... For a number of reasons. Does that make it a sacred cow?
That we have to hold on to the mythology that all people are born equal?
I don't know, man. I mean, yes, by my definition, I think it would, right?
But it's a separate question to wonder, is that worth digging into, given what could
happen and what would be the benefit of finding that out? It actually happens to be that tall...
That sounds totally like a sacred cow, then. Like he was saying, it causes you not to think
about it. What would be the benefit of finding that out? That is totally a thing that you would...
Say if you have a sacred cow belief. One benefit of finding that out,
if it turned out to be drastic, which is probably definitely not, because somebody
have noticed by now, could be like, okay, so it looks like for whatever reason,
people under five feet really struggle with spatial reasoning. We could adjust our curriculums
and schools to help with that, right? Or choose something that you care about more than spatial
reasoning or something, right? But it just so happens that tall people make more money,
but they also have typically shorter lifespans. So those are things that I think are actually
true about tall people on average. Obviously, mileage is varying. That's kind of an important
thing, right? So not acknowledging those things would be pointless and just make you wrong.
So I'm not really sure... When you grab politically charged topics and then say,
I don't feel like touching that. There's all kinds of good reasons not to do that, right?
So it's like, oh, you know what? I don't want to be the one person arguing that we should
do a rigorous IQ analysis by race, because then you sound like an asshole and that's
going to ruin your reputation. So that's a great reason not to do it just pragmatically.
In addition to... I guess it's like asking, is it worth the reputational cost to go down this road?
Yeah, probably not for most people, right? Like Charles Murray, the author of the bell curve,
he has like security risks because of a book that he wrote. And people who haven't read it
assume that he was like some Hitler. And he wasn't even making really that big a claim.
No, and the claims that he was making were pretty substantiated. I mean, at least
if they were incorrect, they were at least well-reasoned and it seemed in good faith, right?
This didn't seem like some bullshit book to push an agenda. This was like, I wonder what's
happening? Oh, this. These are my findings and this is how I got there. So that's different
than saying like, I'm going to write a book that proves that top people are actually smarter.
Yeah, so I don't have much to add there.
There's an interesting question from Meladin. What intrinsic value would you give an object
of mystery? This was when we were talking about... I don't even know what we were talking about.
Maybe it was after the burning of the Picasso painting or something? I don't know. By object
of mystery, I mean a thing, not a person that nobody knows anything about and possesses a
fascinating unique phenomenon to be discovered. If it were destroyed, no one would ever have
the possibility of researching something similar. An example would be like the monolith from the
movie 2001. Well, movie and book, but most people are familiar with the movie.
I'd give it exactly six value.
Yeah, that's a weird question because I don't... Yeah, I don't know. It would be...
Then the question is like, does it have value even though it's not a person?
Yeah. How can you know what value it has if it's a mystery object? As far as you know,
it's just a black piece of rock.
Part of the prompt though is that it has unique and interesting properties that are
unique or that are unfindable anywhere else. Who knows what that could be?
It's value, I think, in this context would be interpreted or discoverable in hindsight.
You look at it and be like, okay, it just turns out to be a different shade of blue
than anything I've ever seen before. I'll give that one value out of 100.
But it's like, oh, this is like a recipe that cures cancer. That's 100 out of 100.
So I don't know. That's probably kind of a flip and answer to a
sincere question, but the better way to phrase it is like, do things that aren't people have value.
And I think things that aren't people do have value.
I think so too, especially insofar as they provide value to people, right? So like,
this lamp isn't a person, but I sure value being able to see.
I'd be willing to pay $20 for this lamp.
Right. So in that way, I think it's completely reasonable to say that things have value.
I don't think things have value. Well, maybe that was another interpretation of the question.
Like, do things have value in and of themselves just because they're rare and interesting?
I can see an emotional case for that, but Sam Harris has this great quote in,
I think it was the moral landscape. He says, imagine a box that contains something that has no
bearing on the well-being of conscious creatures, whether hypothetically or in any possibility,
it can't weigh in on the experience of anybody. You have by definition the most boring thing
in the universe, right? So like, if this thing isn't going to do anything for anybody at all,
no matter what, then it's super, super boring, right? It has no value. Again, if it's a box with
a cure for, I'm thinking a cancer nonstop, if it's a box with a cure for cancer,
then it's super valuable. But like, its value is depending on how useful it is to people or
other things. Maybe it's the box that you crack this vial and it releases this thing in the air,
and now whenever an animal is about to die, it gets this shot of endorphins and it feels great
rather than dying in agony like everything does. So that can be valued to not people,
but it's still only valuable insofar as it reflects the well-being of conscious things.
That's how I'll define that. I like it. All right, I'm ready to move on.
Cool. Chlorine Crown says, I was listening through the archives where we got to the one
before you talked about the Those Who Walk Away From Amalis by Ursula Gwyn.
