And we'll actually use it for that pure kind of cross-functional or cross-global
utility value as well.
I've heard one of the main advantages that people like about the Bitcoin
is that it does remove the major institutions, the banks and the governments
from the chain.
Yeah, that's what people are excited about.
It also kind of makes it worrisome because I, the big Bitcoin crash
that happened a few weeks ago happened after China announced that basically
Bitcoin is not going to be legal in China.
What is all that about?
That is a, so China, so this is going to be, this is part of a macro trend
that's happening within blockchain and Bitcoin, which is things that have
been existing centralized power structures of trust, whether those are banks
or governments are kind of being dissolved into the network through
things like Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
And that is going to be sad for the current people in power, whether
that's banks or with Jamie Dimon saying, Hey, Bitcoin is a scam.
So whether it's banks or governments like China.
So that is definitely going to happen for the Chinese one specifically.
I don't know that much about it, but I do know that they are planning on
reopening both Bitcoin and the ability to do these token sales and ICOs.
But China, more than other places, has kind of a top down kind of government
controlled system.
And so they were one of the more aggressive ones and kind of being more
regulatory around it while things like America and between things like
Singapore or Switzerland are kind of more free market and are places
where these things live.
So China is basically saying that any legitimate business that tries to
accept Bitcoin is going to get shut down by them.
Yeah, that if you try to pay for your groceries with Bitcoin and the grocery
store accepts, then some government regulator is going to come in there
and find them or jail them or something.
Yeah.
And I don't know.
So it'll be fascinating to see what China does with Bitcoin going forward
because the strategy that they used with the essentially the internet and
social media companies, which was keep them out from China with censorship
focus strategies and say, you can't be in here, Google, you can't be in here,
Facebook, they just banned WeChat actually or not WeChat, but what's
that and by banning them that allowed for the Chinese specific ones,
whether that's WeChat or Taobao or Baidu, which are all Chinese versions of
the big media companies and big internet companies, those ones that
allowed them to flourish in China.
And so we'll see what China does with something like Bitcoin and other
cryptocurrencies because they'll want to probably employ a similar strategy,
but it may not work because collaboration is so incentivized and
because you can't difficult to stop things like Bitcoin or what have you.
So I don't know exactly what's going to happen going forward.
It's definitely in uncertain territory.
Now people have heard of people like selling their mining equipment and
stuff, and then we'll see what it looks like in a week and in a month.
But I would definitely expect China to come out and they've said that they
plan on coming out with new regulations around Bitcoin and other crypto.
Can we get a quick explanation for people who don't know what mining
equipment is because that sounds on the surface, a ridiculous thing to say about
it, digital currency.
Totally.
And mine equipment, it should really be called like transaction workers or
something like that.
Computer transaction workers or verifiers, validators.
Yeah, so it's just a bunch of hardware, kind of like I talked about earlier,
where you have places where electricity is really cheap.
You'll build a bunch of computers there, essentially, and have those computers.
You kind of give them GPUs, really advanced like ASIC GPUs, and then you
tell them, hey, solve these hard problems that we talked about earlier and get
some Bitcoin, and then you just have these big mining operations where they're
quote unquote, mining the Bitcoin.
And what mining means is just solving the hard cryptographic problems and
getting Bitcoin in return.
So in the real world, I have a problem with Bitcoin in the same way that I have
a problem when I try to spend gold or silver, as the libertarians wish I would,
in that no one accepts my slips of gold, nor do they accept my Bitcoin in the
real world.
What is this ever going to change?
The hope is that it will change.
So some of these B to C, so at a high level, we expect there to be Bitcoin,
the early adopters for Bitcoin were people who wanted to run away from
censorship and who wanted both from a like bad nation state perspective, but
also from like a drugs or illegal perspective or what have you.
And then, so those were those early adopters, the early adopters for a lot of
these other new technologies are like developers, developers that want to
build on open source platforms and stuff.
So that's where we're seeing all the early adopters stuff happening now, but
there are some consumer facing applications happening.
We expect those, those are things like Toshi, which is made by Coinbase or status.
But those kind of consumer facing applications are not, are just at the
very beginning and most people who use them won't even be aware that blockchain
is underlying them and then we'll see what it also, it looks like for people
to, for the ability to buy like in real life goods and services with Bitcoin.
It definitely is not a thing often, but there are some places that do it.
That is, that is the thing that kind of worries me because it seems the vast
majority of Bitcoin is used for illegal things.
And I have no problem with that when it comes to drugs, because I think
drugs should be legal.
So I'm like, yeah, go Bitcoin.
But then it also seems to be mainly used for paying ransoms when people are
kidnapped and really bad things like that.
And I totally understand why if all the governments look at Bitcoin and say,
this is a currency that enables kidnapping and human trafficking and other
bad things and it doesn't do anything else, we should ban it.
That's kind of a problem.
Totally, totally.
Yeah.
And I don't know what percentage of Bitcoin traffic these days.
So I, first, what percentage of Bitcoin is actually being used from a transaction
perspective and what percentage of it is actually being, is just being
exchanged by speculators.
I don't know that number.
The other number that I don't know is what percentage of Bitcoin usage is for
kind of these illegal activities and what percentage of it is actually for just
like remittances across borders or whatever.
I don't know.
I think, yeah, I don't, and I don't know what the long term situation will be with
this kind of, and people in the space will say things like, hey, you can't track
cash, you know, which we talked about earlier, which is true, you know.
Um, it's, but it's different because cash is more physical and this is digital.
So this is kind of like digital, untrackable cash.
Um, and that does have some clearly negative actors will come and have negative
ramifications.
I don't know what that looks like.
I heard with, um, things like spending habits and massive data mining, it's not
terribly difficult to tie, uh, a public key to a physical person anymore.
Yeah.
I, I've heard things of that variety as well, that you can look at the date and
say, oh, this was Reese.
He purchased those, that LSD, yeah.
Not, not necessarily as anonymous as people like to think.
But you could use Bitcoin to buy a more anonymous currency and then use that to
buy whatever nefarious thing you're looking to purchase.
Right.
I mean, so like cash isn't trackable, except it more or less lives in your
bank, which has your name on it.
And then you go in and be like, can I have $80,000, please?
Sure.
And if you withdraw more than 10 grand, they want it.
They have to, the, the, the teller fills out a piece of documentation saying this
is why you're taking that out.
Interesting.
Um, so, you know, you could get around that by keeping it all in your house all the time,
but that almost seems shadier than saying, I have 11 bitcoins.
Like if you have like, you know, a safe in your closet with, with stacks of cash,
like that's, one of those people looks more like a criminal than the other one.
Right.
Of course that's just, that's just speculation, but I don't know.
I feel, I guess I'm not sure how easy it is to track, track your, uh, public keys and
stuff, but I guess that was my thought on the, the cash versus Bitcoin, uh,
attaching to a person line of thought.
And I think that what you're, one of the, one of the things that I'm thinking about
here is this idea of self sovereignty is a big thing in the space where you say,
Hey, um, like I have ownership over my own money.
It's mine.
It's not owned by the bank.
It is my private keys that own this.
I have a written sheet of paper that gets them and I can get my Bitcoin, whatever.
There's also like self sovereign identity where you have your identity on the block
chain.
It's not owned by, it's not a social security number.
It's not owned by a Facebook idea or whatever.
It's your thing that just exists on the blockchain only you can access it.
That this idea of self sovereignty and kind of like, like libertarianism is, is
huge within the space.
And what we're seeing from people and what I'd hope to see more and more is
people themselves, it becoming the status quo for individuals to kind of like
showcase and signal that they are being good actors within the space.
So for example, there's these 16 projects just recently got together under
no regulation or anything, but said, Hey, we're creating this transparency
project within the Ethereum ecosystem to, to, to signal that we're being
transparent.
You can see our salaries.
You can see our, um, where all the money goes.
You can see all this stuff and they're kind of signaling that as a way to kind
of be like, we're good actors here.
Um, so I thought maybe we'll see that happen more in the space is it's possible
to do bad, but people will signal that they're doing good by it with transparency.
So you mentioned Ethereum, which, uh, I want to pivot to Ethereum now because
I am pretty darn excited about Ethereum.
Can you tell us why Ethereum is so cool?
And so many people are excited about it right now.
Yeah.
Um, so Ethereum is cool.
Um, and, uh, Ethereum, the way I like to imagine Ethereum is you had Bitcoin
at the beginning and people were trying to do other things with it.
They were like, Oh man, let's make this dogecoin.
And when they made the dogecoin, it was like a little bit too hard to like fork
the Bitcoin code and make the dogecoin thing.
People were also trying to like build on top of Bitcoin, but like you have to
code this really bad language to do.
And like, it wasn't working that well.
So this guy Vitalik Buterin was like, or guy slash kid, um, he's like 22 now or
something.
He was like, Hey, let's just essentially make it so that we have an abstracted
kind of turn complete computer on the blockchain that can, uh, make that so you
can decode any kind of arbitrary transaction.
So the way that I think about that is through Ethereum works through this, um,
key underlying primitive called a smart contract.
And a smart contract is just something it's essentially a peer to peer agreement
that allows you to transfer value.
So for example, with that basic attention token, um, example we gave before, that
is just a smart contract that lives on the Ethereum blockchain and says if it's
just an if then statement.
