organization organizational system.
I don't know of any other of those that are necessarily coming out these days,
but, um, what do you, what do you mean by like, we should have an EA person in
VR, like, I mean, do, do we assign someone from the community to watch over
the VR companies and be like, don't do that, sir.
That is the other problem there is that the implementation is like, who's
going to listen to somebody be like, Oh, you're, you're, you're trying to talk
me out or something.
That's not my bottom line as far as profits.
Like, why the hell am I going to listen to you?
Yeah.
It's like, you know, it'd be really cool.
Virtual five virtual war games.
And the person's like, that could have not bad knock on effects.
It's like, well, fuck you.
I want to make my virtual war game.
Like, why should he listen to them?
Or she, and this is, and this is the tough thing.
And I've, you know, I've talked with people in the community around the early
days of when Google was making their deep mind thing.
And the EA community was generally arguing, let's maybe wait a bit on this.
Um, and saying, and trying to talk with Google and saying, Hey, I don't know.
Like maybe this makes sense to kind of chill on this for a little bit.
It didn't work.
And Google said, no, no, we're still going to do this now.
But they got their voice heard at least.
They were able to be part of the conversation in their, as you guys are
saying, and this is all just about what metric you're optimizing for.
And there are people, all these, um, all the, all the classic companies are
operating for profit in various ways.
Um, usually in US dollars or would have you and the EA's kind of one metric
that matters to their KPI is instead kind of qualities or, you know,
something quality adjusted life years or something like that.
Um, so I don't know exactly what they do.
But they probably, they operate around instead of the profit metric,
they operate around a, uh, human race and kind of quality metric.
Okay.
And to kick back on my own point that, you know, it might be hard to get your
voice heard just because it's hard and maybe has low chances of success at the
payouts, huge, and it's not that hard.
You should, or excuse me, and it's not like all that life consuming, right?
If you're not going to dedicate your life to trying to get the people at VR to
listen to your EA, your EA pitch, but you're going to dedicate, you know, a
weekend a month for a year or something, uh, you know, that doesn't sound like a
bad idea because it's not like ruining, you know, it's not dedicating a huge
investment, right?
Yeah.
The opportunity costs that.
So, but I mean, if you, if you're a, uh, especially if you're a figure with, you
know, a following or something and someone's inclined to like take your calls,
uh, hit them up.
Yeah.
Sure.
So did, did you want to keep going?
Or I do, I do have two other points here, which I think, which, if you guys think
they're interesting, and these ones are specific to blockchain, so they would be,
so they're not at the macro level.
So these ones, so the second one is all about, or sorry, so this first, this
third point rather is, um, specific to blockchain.
It's about this kind of redistribution of wealth.
So, so the, the blockchain is all about kind of redistributing and
decentralizing all the things.
And, and, and one thing that they're doing that with is kind of wealth and also
a little bit with power.
Um, and so that has some implications and this is, this is one way to kind of see
the Bitcoin in the blockchain story is as one that is very connected to a bunch
of young people who want to do good in the world.
They're trying to go out there.
They're trying to do good and they're like, oh man, the world's really bad.
It seems really hard to like operate within the existing ecosystem to do this.
Like I can like go and like try to work for a politician, but I'm not sure
whatever.
And they also want to have an impact and they've told their special.
Um, and then something like Bitcoin comes along and they're like, oh man,
this thing is a, this went up 20 X, you know, a theory went up 15 X in the last
six months or whatever these people started to get into the state.
This is what the new society looks like.
This is the story that we're, that we as young people are, are part of and it's
like bringing power back to the people or whatever.
Um, so that's kind of what part of the Bitcoin or what part of the blockchain
reality is about and that has kind of two implications.
One of them is from a wealth side.
So right now you have like, you know, 8% of people owned as much wealth as 50,
the bottom 58 or the top eight people have as much as the bottom 50.
And you have not that many people who are giving to various EA causes or who are,
um, doing good EA things or what have you are, they're just a surprising amount
of rich people with a surprising amount of houses.
And, um, that's moderately sad, but you have these new kind of crypto millionaires
that are coming up that are just, that are 27, they're pretty young, whatever.
Um, and if we can kind of get them to have this kind of EA mindset around taking
the giving what we can pledge or taking the founders pledge or like what I
want to do, this kind of like crypto's pledge, um, a crypto pledge, like founders
pledge, but for crypto, I think if we can get this kind of new generation of people
with money, um, to kind of partake in EA activities, that would be cool.
And this is happening to some extent already, like Vitalik Booter in the
main, the dude who invented or who was the main Ethereum guy, he gives to, um,
he is on less wrong.
He talks about, uh, he gives to give directly into against malaria foundation.
So he's into this and also like Miri machine intelligence research initiative.
The biggest, um, donation that they've ever gone was a million dollars in
ETH and this happens like three months ago or whatever.
So this is one side of this is like, if you have a bunch of new wealth being
generated and a bunch of money essentially going from fiat into Bitcoin and other
cryptos, we want the people who are part of that Bitcoin, other cryptos, that kind
of new wealth to kind of give that money back.
So, uh, I totally agree with you that, that, that's cool.
And I encourage everyone to be into effective altruism, but on the other
hand, I don't see how that's specific to cryptocurrency.
That's like a new field has arrived and people are rich.
And I would like to convince rich people to be active effective altruists, but
what does that have to do with crypto?
Really?
I mean, that could be anyone.
Yeah, I think that that's relatively correct that they're that, but I think
that the difference in why in crypto it's so special is because it's part of
this macro trend where we're, where you have essentially like, if you imagine
yeah, all the initial like, if you could convince all the initial people who
made the social networks at the beginning, Google and Facebook and what
have you to that, to be more EAE, that would be cool.
And that would be kind of a power law return where if you get Eric Schmidt to
do it, that'd be awesome with, and I agree that pretty much any time that
there's this new macro wealth transfer that getting EA in on it would be good.
And right now what my, my hypothesis is that a macro wealth transfer will be into
or wealth transfer slash wealth creation will be into crypto and it will be kind
of decentralized and bottom up and that if we get many of those people and to,
to have EA like mindsets, and that would be good.
So I agree with you that it's not, it is kind of specific to crypto and that
this is kind of this macro trend away from like fiat, perhaps into these
new cryptocurrencies, but it is, this would happen with any kind of money
being any kind of new, nouveau rich kind of situation.
Can I push back real quick?
I also consider crypto to be a fiat currency.
So when you say moving away from fiat, I'm like, I know the traditional
definition is fiat money backed by governments, but I still think that
cryptocurrency is basically a fiat currency.
I almost agree, except that when the, when the things have utility value.
So for something like ether, I would claim that that is not just backed by a story.
I would claim that ether is backed by the utility value itself by people.
Even if, even if, yeah, people want to run smart contracts on this computer.
And so if people want to do that, then it's not purely backed by the idea.
It's backed by an actual desire to, for ether to run smart contracts.
Okay.
Yeah.
All right.
Point taken.
There's another side of this, which is this like creative destruction
externalities piece, which is we were, if, if, and a lot of people talk about
these ways, if the bank is going, if, and these are kind of the more
aggressive versions of reality, but if the bank kind of be, gets
distributed into the network and, and the trusted centralized institution,
whether it's a bank or whether it's a government, if that kind of gets pushed
into new city states or gets pushed into these like non bank entities, a lot
of the people with power will no longer have power anymore.
Um, and that is worrying, uh, because whenever there's a power shift like that,
then that, that what I call a creative destruction externality, which is when
you create a new thing that has like the classic example is like, um,
self-driving cars.
Since I can do that.
And then there's going to be a lot of job loss for, you know, the truck drivers.
I love that.
That is now the classic example, like the classic example used to be the
person making the horse buggy whips and now to smart driving cars.
Yeah.
Yes.
Exactly.
And if, which hasn't even happened yet, but so we're going to have this
externality, which is both some of the like white collar jobs are going to be
disintermediated by blockchain, but also you're going to have, um, this,
this power, uh, this, this shift in power.
And if you have that shift in power, I just, I'm worried when that stuff happens,
whenever these shifts in power happen, it's kind of worrying.
And so I guess that this is maybe still another kind of not specific to blockchain,
but kind of just like, whenever there's a shift in power, if there's some kind
of good, rationalist kind of C far trained, double cruxing person that can come
in there and kind of help the power shift better.
That is something that I think would be good.
Okay.
So it seems like your two micro examples or Michael micro, uh, points, yeah,
we're sort of implementations of the first main point that it's good to have
EA people in stuff.
Yeah.
We're going to get our feelers in as many things as possible, which I'm in favor of.
I also would like to spread the EA ideology.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm just trying to think of something more useful to say about it.
Like, wouldn't it have been great if we'd gotten, you know, the creator of, uh,
or the creators of, you know, whatever, uh, Facebook and, uh, Google and YouTube or
whatever, all, you know, EA minded before they did that.
So I guess the goal is to, all right, well, let's not let that keep happening.
Let's get the next Facebook things in our, uh, let's, let's inject our memes into
them first and then when they become billionaires, we won't have to like talk
them out of giving them their money because they're already going to be
inclined to give it away.
That's pretty much the macro concept here, I would say.
And I do agree that these, this, this point that I thought was specific was
actually more just like, Hey, this is this macro power trend.
And it's like having EA's in high impact situations is good.
Um, yeah.
There is one final point here, which is about this.
You guys read meditations on MOLIC.
