think there is this, this is kind of the beautiful world that some people in the
blockchain world say is like, let's take any kind of liquidity and use that
liquidity to then transfer it into some other to use that to get some kind of
scarce thing.
So this is an example of that.
There's also these things called prediction markets where you can kind of
take, um, the liquidity knowledge of the world, kind of matching that
liquidity with the capital.
So you, so essentially reducing the salt about reducing the friction for things.
Um, and so reducing the friction for anybody to say, Hey, I think I know
something about this future market here.
I'm going to match my knowledge with my capital here.
Um, and so yeah, that's, yeah.
So hopefully it's a matching liquidity thing.
I don't, I hope that less injection code injection things are happening
going forward, but I don't really know.
So you are particularly excited about, uh, cryptocurrencies because of something
with EA, by EA, we meant effective altruism.
We had a episode or two on that in the past.
How, how do these two things, uh, intertwine how they run it?
That's a good question.
And I actually, I was taking some, uh, I'm writing an article right now for
the effective altruist forum, uh, about this.
Cause, cause right now you have like 80,000 hours has a cause selection list.
Um, and it says, Hey, they essentially base it off of, um, how neglected the
problem is and then how impactful it is and then how tractable it is.
So how solvable it is.
Um, and right now something like artificial, like aligning AI alignment or AI
safety is, you know, top on their list and saying, Hey, we should really do this.
Um, and there are other things up there as well, but Bitcoin and blockchain and
all that is not at all in the radar really it seems.
Um, and I think it should be, um, so yes, I'm into it.
And I have some notes here about why I think it's true.
Um, I'll say them at a high level and then we can dive into them in a second.
Um, the first two, and I want you guys to kind of push back on this from
like a rationalist, you know, like, I'll snap or be tested or tested or not.
Does not really know this is, this is rough.
I guess it's another way to say this.
So I think that there's four big points.
Um, the first two points are about how this blockchain technology, people talk
about it as like a new wave of the internet and like, um, and I think that
just in general, if effective altruism could get in on new technology at the
beginning, like if you injected effective altruism into the beginning of the
industrial revolution, maybe we'd have less climate chains around, or if you
injected effective altruism into the beginning of like AI, you know, in those
kinds of things, then maybe we'd be less far behind on like the AI alignment
problem or have you, um,
What do you mean by injected effective altruism into those things?
I think what I mean by that is injecting a essentially injecting a mindset,
which is, um, quantitatively based around all human lot, around outcomes,
utilitarianism and having human lives all being treated as equal.
Um, and saying, Hey, right now, instead of the profit motives of the companies
that are pushing it forward, being the primary determiners of what happens
within this new, with this new technology, instead, we should also be
thinking from an EA perspective around, um, how this technology will impact
society.
Um, how, how it impacts human flourishing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Did you want us to push back after you've listed all four points or when they
come up?
Yeah, that's a good question.
If you have pushed back right now, push.
Yeah, push.
Let's push.
I'll just say, like, given like the limited resource of effective altruists
and the speculation involved of like which, which fields do you want to jump
into and push our, you know, EA speculators into, I guess I need to hear
the rest of the argument because like that sounds like there could be a lot
of wasted effort there, but it's kind of like with everything, it could pay off,
right?
Yeah.
There could be a lot of wasted effort investing in Bitcoin.
And yeah, boom, five years later.
So yeah,
I agree with that though.
I mean, I think in that, this is a, this would be, this is something that the
EA community is talking about generally, which is these, um, essentially a
hits-based business, which is what EA has traditionally not been able to do
because every little person mattered.
Um, but with, you see things like why Combinator won't have you in the startup
world is all about hits.
Um, and so EA is getting more into hits-based investing.
And that's what they're doing with like their EA grants program.
That's what open philanthropy project is doing.
And so this would definitely be a hits-based investing thing where you
essentially bring effective altruist mindsets into the RNA or into biotechnology,
into blockchain and cryptocurrencies.
And then maybe they, they wouldn't have had any effect or maybe the effect
would have already happened or what have you, you know, um, but maybe in some
cases it was good to have those couple people there, um, from that kind of
hits perspective.
So that's, that's the macro point here.
And this, this point, as, as I said, is not just applicable to blockchain.
I think that this is true generally.
This is just like, Hey, we should have do gooders with any new technology, essentially.
Yeah.
Cool.
So that's, that's point one.
That's kind of at the macro level.
Um, and then, and that one's really based off of how much you believe that the
technology will have a big societal impact.
If you think it's a small technology, then we might not need, it doesn't have
high expected value.
Um, the second one here is again, um, kind of a little bit abstracted away from
blockchain and cryptocurrencies, um, but is about kind of so, so people talk
about blockchain as a new way to kind of coordinate people and to motivate people.
Um, and what they mean by that is like, um, so there is traditionally, you've
had things like the state or the market or the, you know, the firm.
Um, and then up and coming, these are things like the network, things like Airbnb
and Facebook and what have you, these are ways to kind of coordinate people
around things and then kind of motivate them and incentivize them to do stuff.
Um, and blockchain is another, seems like a new way to do this, where you
kind of coordinate people around a given protocol.
You say, Hey, let's all come together.
Here's how the protocols can work.
It's going to be a basic attention token, blah, blah, blah.
Um, and you start to motivate people with tokens there.
So this is the macro point here is that if there is a new kind of operating
system or new kind of kind of coordinating, motivating organizational structure,
that, um, effective altruism should be, uh, part of shaping what that
structure looks like.
I don't think it, it doesn't strike me as a very new way to do things though,
because basically it's money, like people like tokens, because then they can
exchange them for goods and services and just straight up currency in whatever
country they reside in.
So, I mean, there's nothing that new about paying people, right?
I think there's not, so the way I like to think about this is money thus far has
been kind of one dimensional.
If I have money in my pockets, like it's a US dollar, whether it's one or a thousand,
whether I got it for, um, hurting somebody, or if I got it for like saving
the world, it doesn't really matter.
It's just like, it's kind of a one dimensional object.
You can imagine cryptocurrencies and all these different kinds of cryptocurrencies
as kind of indimensional money where you're able to see, um, oh, wow, this
person has some do good coin or this person has some basic attention tokens.
You can kind of see in an indimensional way how, uh, like what they are incentivized
for, what they're, what they're looking into, where they got their money, those
kinds of things.
So this doesn't, this, this answers, I think your point about, um, this as a new
kind of money and what this new kind of money looks like, this doesn't answer
any pushback around it as a new coordination and motivation system.
It's definitely still incentives, but you could incentivize people.
I guess it kind of, the way I like to think about it is kind of like it
democratizes new incentive structures.
So you can say, Hey, I'm going to make this smart contract and this new smart
contract, it's going to have this incentive structure built in where if you
want to get some of these tokens, you have to do this kind of thing.
Um, and in the past, it was probably more, it was more difficult to do that,
especially on the internet.
Um, but now you can essentially create these new incentive structures in a more
easy way with low costs, low refriction to kind of create new incentive structures.
I did read a interesting, very short story about a thing called nice, nice coin
where, uh, people would get nice coin basically for being nice.
And the main, uh, benefit of having a bunch of nice coin is that people liked
you and wanted to be around you.
They're like, Oh, this guy has a lot of nice coin.
He might be a pretty cool person.
Whereas if someone had almost no nice coin, they'd be like, Oh, don't take that
guy. He's probably a jerk.
I saw that episode of black mirror.
Not exactly, but they did one like that kind of like with, uh, it was like a
hybrid between that if people had Yelp reviews out of five stars and Facebook.
Yeah.
Except like it was literally everywhere.
Like, yeah, there's little attachments in your eyeballs.
Okay.
Um, so that didn't work out well, but nothing works out well in black mirror.
That was a good episode.
And I do, I do in general expect something like that to happen in the space is
people talk about reputation a lot because if you can track all the things
and you can see what all the people have been doing, well, we're going to have
some intense reputation systems and there's like this new Chinese social
credit system that's being pushed by.
So like, I think the problem with number based reputations is that they are
stupid that anyone can just ignore a number and be like, you know what,
whatever I like Bob, he came to my house and helped me chop wood that one time.
And his number can be zero, but that's probably because those social justice
warriors called him a, I don't know, Nazi or whatever.
And I'm just going to ignore the number.
There's always have the actual reputation reputation.
Well, and, you know, also consider that you can let someone else take
the reputational hit for you.
You know, like if, if, uh, if say I wanted to buy drugs online with Bitcoin,
but I wanted to be tracked, I'm going to run that risk.
I could just give like paper money to my friend who has Bitcoin and be like,
Hey, you want to buy some drugs for me?
And then that way it's on their history and not mine.
Right?
It's like the cash doesn't come with a receipt on it, right?
But your friend still knows about your reputation, what you did,
cause you did it with them, but they might tell some, their friends, you
know, there's, but this is the actual reputation means, right?
What people think of you because of their interactions with you.
I guess I was looking at like the kind of thing that like,
I were to pull you up on a website and be like, oh,
Enya has a 3.3 out of five.
And that's because he did these things.
I also tend to not trust websites anymore for those sorts of things.
If I see a bunch of people piling on someone, it happened.
