Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we have a guest.
Rhys Lenmark, thanks for being here.
Thank you for coming over.
And we are here to talk about cryptocurrencies.
We have you on because you know some things about cryptocurrencies, whereas we don't really
all that much.
I mean, I guess I know a little bit now, but not a ton, ton.
Can you tell us first of all what a cryptocurrency is?
Is this like E dollars?
Yeah, so the initial version of it was thought of as like an E gold, but now it's kind of
expanded into various other things.
And so a cryptocurrency, the way that I like to imagine it is it represents some kind of
value within kind of a network or a protocol that can be used to kind of spend on some
other on something within that network.
So for example, there's a thing called the basic attention token, and you can imagine
it as kind of a new version of Facebook where right now with Facebook, Facebook pays.
If you're scrolling in your feed and you're scrolling, you're scrolling, you see some
ads, the advertisers pay Facebook essentially to get your attention.
You get with basic attention token, instead, they essentially define these like API's in
this protocol and say, okay, now as you're scrolling through your feed, if someone wants
your attention, they will pay you not Facebook in not dollars, but instead in basic attention
tokens.
And then you get those basic attention tokens and then you can either spend those to get
other people's attention or you can sell them for US dollars or fiat or what have you.
So this is a question that I get a lot from, well that I have gotten a lot from my roommate
and from other people who are new to the whole thing.
Why would anyone exchange anything for a Bitcoin?
Or a basic attention token, like what is it good for?
Wait, quick pre-question.
Are basic attention tokens a thing that are actually happening?
Yes.
Because I just was mentioning before we started recording that I haven't been on Facebook in
a long time.
Oh, I haven't seen it on Facebook.
Oh, sorry, sorry, no, no.
So this is basic attention tokens are happening.
They're happening through this thing called the Brave browser, which is started by the
person who is a co-founder of Firefox and made JavaScript, invented JavaScript.
He's making this Brave browser.
That's not a bitch.
And so he's making this browser and within that browser you can pay with basic attention
tokens that's currently in beta right now.
Okay, and I'm assuming you can kickstart your amount of basic attention tokens with real
money, right?
So you can buy basic attention tokens on any exchange?
Is that kind of what you're talking about?
Yeah, but then you can earn them by watching ads before you watch it.
Exactly, exactly.
But so for some people they can just like, oh, I want eight million of these to start
with and then I'll get my stuff rolling rather than have to watch ads themselves.
Exactly, exactly.
Thank you.
Thanks for clarifying.
So why would anybody want to buy a Bitcoin?
So there's a couple of key underlying things here.
The first is that there's this, Bitcoin's our part of this new concept of digital
scarcity, which is something that didn't really exist before.
The internet is kind of defined by being able to take any object, duplicate it
in infinite times, send it around the world wherever you want, all for zero cost,
which is cool, but there's no scarcity there.
And that's how you see the issues with pirating and Spotify and all those things
like that. So with something like Bitcoin, because it's essentially digital
scarcity that is controlled not by any single party, not by like a given
corporation, but by that it's controlled like by these miners or what have
you through math.
So it's the Bitcoin has digital scarcity.
And the reason why you would get into Bitcoin, there are kind of two reasons.
I like to think of it as a the pure kind of scarce value or mimetic value or
collectible value of the currency.
So what this means is a good example.
This is Dogecoin, which is this stupid little or also fun little coin that it
just, it was based off of this Doge meme and there aren't that it doesn't
actually do anything, right?
But because it's a digitally scarce good and because there's demand for it,
that means that it'll have a price and a value.
And so it has a hundred million dollar market cap.
It's kind of essentially representative of the network value underneath.
It's representative of the Reddit community and all these things.
And they kind of used it to kind of, and they've sold Dogecoin to bring the
Jamaican, Bob said, team to the Olympics and they've done like some cool things
with it. So that's kind of one side of things for why you would buy a Bitcoin
or any of these other things.
It's just pure collectible value as a collectible or as fundraising.
Yeah, collectible or fundraising.
You can, well, and I'm talking about why you would buy into one.
So you could say, Hey, I want this Dogecoin because I love the Doge meme
and there aren't that many Doge coins.
And so this person is going to sell me on sweet.
I'll pay five bucks for it or whatever.
So what stops there from being more Doge coins?
So the the amount of tokens is defined by the protocol.
So, for example, with Bitcoin, they're only ever going to be 21 million
Bitcoins ever.
And that's why the current price of Bitcoin is, you know, 4,000, whatever
dollars, if they're going to be one trillion Bitcoins, then all the Bitcoins
today would be worth a lot, a lot less.
So it's essentially coded into the system is how many, how scarce the item will be.
I know about how the blockchain works.
But I think a lot of people might not.
Why can't you just say I have more Bitcoin and like duplicate a Bitcoin on your computer?
Yeah.
So this is, so we're kind of covering starting to cover like the four main
sides or I don't need to go into that.
But there there's the blockchain is another key underlying part of the system.
So you can imagine the blockchain as kind of this distributed ledger where, you
know, if any Ash sends me one Bitcoin says from any Ash to Reese and then I send
one to Steven from Reese to Steven.
And you can imagine all those are transactions on a ledger.
They all all those transactions get put into a block.
And then those chain of blocks is the blockchain.
I like to imagine like a toilet paper roll.
So every single Bitcoin that's ever been created, there is a record of when it was
created and every single hand it's passed through.
Exactly.
It's like a real physical coin whoever holds onto it is the guy who's holding
it and there's no way to trace where it came from.
Aside from, I guess you probably know it was minted in the mint.
Well, isn't there like one transaction between say, you know, you know,
gives you a Bitcoin and then before you give it to me, you put it in this jar
with a thousand other Bitcoins and I, you put one in there and I take one out.
And then there's no way to know that I got it from you, right?
So that's how you would anonymize the transfer.
Totally.
And that is so this anonymous.
So, so a couple of things.
So first it doesn't say Reese or Steven or any Ash on the blockchain is it has
your, your public key with this like RSA cryptography thing.
And then the, the other side of that is like you said, you can, there are
certain currencies like Monero and Zcash, which are built for more like more
intense anonymous transactions.
And they use that system that you just talked about, Steven, where you put all
of them together and then you kind of redistribute them.
You don't know from whom it came in to where it went.
I thought you could do the Bitcoin.
I'm not an expert, but I was under the impression that people who used Bitcoins
to buy, I was going to just say illegal things, but that's way too dark for the
kind of things you can buy with Bitcoin who buy drugs online with them.
They use some sort of anonymizing server service like that.
They might do that.
It's not built into the protocol.
There are others where that system is built into the protocol.
Right on.
So the point with the Bitcoin is that every single Bitcoin is tracked.
So if someone claims to have another Bitcoin, you can go back and check the
public ledger and say this Bitcoin has appeared out of nowhere.
It is not a legit Bitcoin.
Yeah.
So, and exactly.
And so you can, if you try to say, hey, Reese gave me a thousand Bitcoin.
That's not, you essentially need my private key in order to sign the
transaction in order to say that that happened.
And you don't have my private key.
So it's impossible to make the claim that Reese gave me a bunch of Bitcoin.
So there's an unbreakable chain tracking the life of every Bitcoin,
which is how we can actually make them scarce.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
And then that's why, and it exists in kind of in this in between zone,
not in a data silo at like Google or Facebook or a bank or whatever,
but exists on the blockchain visible for anybody to see.
Now, on the blockchain, when you say that there's no one central server
anywhere that has all this information, right?
Where is the information stored?
It's duplicated across all of the network.
So my computer, for example, has another, another blockchain on it called Ethereum.
And I have the, I'm running a full node for Ethereum.
So that means I have the full list of transactions over time.
And it's however many gigabytes and it exists on my computer and also exists
on 25,000 other computers around the world.
And so, yeah, it's not just one place.
So people who are into the scene and want to be a part of it somehow,
put a program on their computer and then that keeps the entire record on their computer.
Pretty much.
And you don't have to be running a full node and there's like not that much of a reason to.
There's a lot of ways, more consumer friendly ways to kind of access the blockchain
without needing to have a full history of it.
But yeah, you can if you want to run the full node.
And if you want to, you can take your computer and turn it into a miner as well
and just start to try to solve these mathematical proofs in order or mathematical
hard problems to get Bitcoin or Ethereum or would have you as well.
So what's the block part of blockchain?
So the block is just the transact.
So it's just like it's the list of those transactions.
So it's transaction, transaction, transaction, a bunch of those together,
get put into one block and then the chain of those blocks is the blockchain.
And for every block essentially that goes, I guess, added to the chain,
there's a reward given to the miner that solved the cryptographic problem
to kind of check the safety of that.
So let's unpack and pack that briefly from what I heard.
If I want to send you a Bitcoin, we go ahead, we make that request,
we exchange our keys and then someone has to run a bunch of calculations on it
to what verify that we wanted to make the transaction.
Yeah, so this and I don't have a perfect knowledge about this,
but essentially the way that I understand it is that transaction from any ash to
Reese, we essentially submit that transaction to the network.
And then the network says, ooh, I'm going to put this transaction onto the next block
and then a bunch of those together, go on to that block.
And then when they essentially take the list, and this is where I'm not exactly sure,
but what they do is they essentially take the kind of a bunch of those transactions
