votes, referring to the fact that the popular vote went three million in favor of the candidate
who ended up losing the electoral vote, right? For all this paraphrasing, it's worth mentioning
that Tim explicitly said don't read all this word for word and feel free to just, you know,
generously paraphrase. So that's what we're trying to do. Yeah, it was a long reply. Yes,
was it was that reply recent or was that from a while ago? A couple weeks. Yeah, okay. He also
said that this is not meant as an actual recommendation, more that what he is saying is a prediction
and the prediction is people vote stupidly and other things that this prediction models is that
all large democracies will have a large number of stupid policies and politicians in all large
democracies will spend an inordinate amount of time focusing on stuff irrelevant to policy
because it appeals to people's stupidity, like, for example, the size of a candidate's hands
and increasing voting by, for example, really encouraging it or getting voted, get out the
vote drives or making voting mandatory will probably make things even worse, not better
and so on. And that is why he had the sure the the argument that he did that you cannot stop
this sort of stupidity simply by voting alone. You have to change the incentives as well.
And he does say that he doesn't think any particular group, not even, you know,
rationalists or listeners of Bayesian conspiracy are likely to be more politically sensible than
anyone else, because if you're passionate about politics that a size sign already that you've
kind of thrown your rationality out the window and he says that goes for him as well.
That that's an empirical an empirical question that I'm not sure if we know the answer to. Yeah,
I would like to think naively that people who make an effort to stay objective and be are
capable of discussing both sides of an issue without yelling or losing their minds. I would
hope that they're on average better voters than any other person, right? I would definitely want
to think that too. Like there are a lot of there are a lot of like quote unquote team players.
I mean, you know exactly, I'm sure you know exactly what I'm talking about because you see it
all the time where it's just like, well, when you guys had Obama, we, you know, phrasing it in terms
of like, well, I think it's not so much like I think this or I think that it's it's we did this,
our team did this and it's just this weird collective
I think also in practical human terms, if you're going to be spending hundreds of hours
researching something, you have to be passionate about it because if you're not passionate about
it, you're not going to take the time. It is the rare person, I think it could read for hundreds of
hours on just duty alone without any passion driving, right? Or unless they're being paid for
it, right? So yeah, I think that's a kind of high bar to set. I do see what what's him saying,
especially like, you know, in general, I think that was my main takeaway that I didn't like,
but he did a better job of explaining in this and maybe he said this verbatim on the show and it
passed my mind and my friend's mind and the person who wrote in. But I took it kind of like as a,
well, it's basically not worth it because, you know, the odds of your vote changing the
election are so small, etc. And for me, I just didn't like it because that's not an argument
that you can generalize because the people who be persuaded by those kinds of arguments are
exactly the kind of people you want voting. And you see what he's saying is that they might not
be that much better. But I think that, A, that's a question that I'm not sure if he has that we
know the answer to. And B, if we're not, then we can work on being better at it. I mean, many of
us care, if you care more about being right than about your politics, then your politics will change
to what's what you believe is right. And that's sort of the the underlying motto of rationality,
rationality, like I want to be right, not not I want my position to be right. I want
I want to change my permit per my position, so it is more right. Exactly,
or let's wrong. Seeing yeah, I was I was going to let someone else do that one.
I have one other one last one, but it is a big one. What on which episode is it the voting one
to no and you were there for the Nazi one as well. So right let's let's have it. Let's have
at it. Have at it. Have at you. Okay, so GT to us in email says that he really enjoyed our response
to Albionic American. And since the idea seemed to be a new one to us, he would like to lay it out
in full. This is a feedback to the feedback from the the Nazi punching episode. Yes. And so that
that's where this is coming from. And if you're not familiar with what he's talking about, that
was in a previous feedback section. I think it was on the I did not see that coming. Albionic
Mary was was he the one who said like the the people who are alt right or they're they're
they're making a commentary on the human condition. Was he that guy? Exactly. Okay,
so this guy's a follow up to that. Yes. Okay, I'd love to hear this one. He says the right believes
in something called human nature, which is to say basic instincts, desires, biases, etc,
that all humans are born with and will always have to some extent. People may display different
behaviors as a result of different material conditions or the presence or absence of different
ideas. But the fundamentals of human nature are constant. As a result, any utopia scheme that
requires us to fundamentally change our nature is bound to fail. Examples given, if socialism
requires that greed be destroyed, socialism will fail. If feminism requires that distinction between
male and female be be destroyed, feminism will fail. And if world peace requires that in group
loyalty be destroyed, then world peace will fail. The leftist view seems to be that with
enough social engineering, any kind of society is possible.
Dude, this is okay. Like some of it gets objectionable. This sounds like exactly what I was
talking about with that conflict of visions thing, the unconstraining constrained vision, but like
he's parroting exactly what and the thing is those two are. I think he has some not a bad
point here because there is some level of human nature that you can't fundamentally alter, right?
Let me let me. Can I say two things on that really quick? One is that I don't know how
representative this is. He says the right believes and I'm close with a lot of Republicans and we've
had lots of conversations. Something like this, especially the more specific examples that he
gives later never have come up. And to the extent that there might be something known as human nature,
I would argue and this seems to challenge what what GT wrote in that there is human nature
across homo sapiens, not across different shades of homo sapiens. And so there are
not so subtle insinuations later on that there are different human natures for different races
from GT. That's not something I'm saying. And I would challenge that. I would also wonder
how the right somehow found all the secret truths of human nature where the rest of us missed it.
And that if they if they have evidence that isn't just like pointing at, well, like, look,
there's increased crime over here or look IQ test scores are different in this part of the country.
Well, that's that's not strong evidence in favor of like underlying human nature is being different
among those people because you can control for variables and have that cross different,
or I guess cross racial boundaries. And so that can't be underlying for differences between
different pigments of humans, right? So that's that's sort of my main gripe with with that whole
line of thinking there, that if there's something like human nature, that's that's the steel man,
we can take that and make that separate. But I do not get the impression that that was the
point that he was making. Okay, I'm going to I'm going to read the next thing of his that I find
not objectionable. And then we can get to the actual objectionable stuff. Sure. The next thing
he says that I think is not objectionable is the right and I'm not sure again, all right people
or all Republicans or something. I think by the right in this case, he means a more specific
group of perhaps new reactionaries or or some other kind of right that I don't think he speaks
for all people on the right is what I'm saying. But in in his in his words, the right believes
that if such a thing if such things are desirable at all, we will at least need to see some evidence
that we can get there. The right is generally skeptical of the idea of moral progress progress
in general, at least partly because we believe society has actually regressed morally on certain
issues. Consider Jonathan hates moral foundations, is it hate, height, height, height. Okay, if
conservatives value things like loyalty, authority and purity, then have we really progressed from
their perspective? Are people more respectful to authority now than they were in the past?
Are we more loyal to our nations or tribes? Are we more chased in our sexual behavior?
As far as I can tell, not so much. And I think he has a good point there that the people on the
right probably don't think we've made more progress because we have been abandoning those
things that he mentioned. So height doesn't come right out and say this because he's an academic,
you're not supposed to sound so biased. It turns out that moral systems that have like
purity as a really important element to it get really nasty, really fast. These are the things
where like, consider what was it a few years ago, there was that school on fire and some,
forgive me for my bad memory, but it was in some strictly by the book, Muslim country,
and apparently the fathers of the children in there, it was a girl's school, kept the
rescue personnel from going in because they didn't want the girls pulled out without being
properly veiled. And that's the kind of shit that happens if you care more about the purity of
keeping your little girls veiled and whatever purity that does, it leads them to dying in
buildings, right? So like a moral system that would have me have that as an ideological purity
to an extreme. Yeah. And if that's your desired outcome, I'm prepared to say you've got your,
you value the wrong things. And this is, I guess, somewhat controversial. I think it's
not just possible, but it's super common to have wrong values, right? I'm prepared to take a stand
there that if you value purity over like staying, you know, saving a life, your values are misaligned.
So then he gets into areas where I want to make it very clear that these are things he has said
and not things that I endorse in any way. But as examples of things that he thinks the left
claims are possible and the right says they would need some evidence that they're possible because
they think human nature will make these things impossible, says the poor can be made wealthy.
I want to interject really quick and say to GT specifically that if you want,
you're welcome to put this on the website as a comment to any episode that you want,
including this one. And then you can have your entire write-ins public. And I guess,
I don't want to make it seem like we're censoring you and only sharing the parts that we want,
but it's also a brevity thing. But part of it is that I don't feel like engaging parts of it,
but you're welcome to put those out there and we'll leave them on the website as long as things
stay civil. You never got mean and that's really the only line. As long as you're being civil,
I'm happy to engage, just not necessarily with every point when we have a time budget.
He says the poor can be made wealthy, which I think is just a weird...
Yeah, my biggest problem with that is that allegedly there's a very strong correlation
between socioeconomic inequality and criminal activity. It's not like... If you go to a place
where everybody's poor, there's not going to be crime there. Everyone's kind of on the same level,
but if it's like there's a lot of disparity, that's where you get into that. So, I would say,
does the left really even believe that the poor can be made wealthy, or is it like they want to
close that gap a little more and make that disparity less so that there's a basic quality
of life going on? Raise the bottom line. Stephen Colbert said, I won't stop till everyone's in
the upper one percent. That is totally the point I was going to make too. It's a very strange
argument because in historical terms, the poor are wealthy. Our poor have more wealth than the
vast majority of people ever did in the past of ancient kings. Yes, our poor have better lives
than kings did a millennia ago, which is... Well, it's supposed to be relative, right? Like the
disparity at the time. Yeah, so relatively, they are not as... You're still living like kings,
because that's all they knew was living. Right. They have more clothing options,
better clothing, better housing. They have heating and air conditioning. Well, maybe not air
conditioning, but refrigeration of food, more food options, medical care. Their children generally
do not die of dysentery in their young age. The only difference is that they have less jewels
and no servants. Yeah. The poor are in almost every scale measure much better off than the
wealthy were of the past. So in that respect, not only can the poor be made wealthy, the poor
have been made wealthy. Well, yeah, no. And again, I feel like that's a weird way to phrase it,
because it's saying that the left wants to make everyone wealthy, but since when? I'm never like
no, isn't that... The left is more about having safety nets and providing upward mobility for
people who've fallen hard times because of a pink slip at the wrong time or whatever, right?
I think the left's goal is more or less wanting to raise the bottom level of quality of life.
We can't make everyone live like millionaires. We can make everyone live like you're making
40K a year, right? Ideally. You're not making judgments between like,
well, do I want to take the bus to work and have lunch or do I want to like fill my gas tank so
I can drive myself? Like those kinds of equations like, am I going to go hungry today?
Aren't considerations that people want people to have on the left? Ideally, on the left, at least
as far as I can tell, we would like to have a post scarcity world, right? Sure. And that's basically
the definition of everyone is wealthy. Yeah, I guess it depends. Like I wasn't sure if wealthy
meant like, yeah, the purchasing power of Bill Gates and everybody should have that, which is
ridiculous, or that everyone's got the purchasing power of somebody who can, again, feed themselves
and clothe themselves. If we get replicators and we live in a post scarcity society, that's a
different thing. Well, I mean, it always seems to me like he says, by claiming that the poor will
always be poor no matter what due to human nature, that even once we have a post scarcity economy,
there would still be people who are poor, which seems odd to me, but I guess could be possible
in some way. I don't know. I wonder how when they had the time in evolutionary history to
evolve a different human nature than other humans, I mean, these are the same species,
and like, did it happen six generations ago when their family's business went bankrupt,
and they've been poor ever since? That's not the timescale that base nature's evolve on, right?
All of my objections to his points are just on historical record. He says, his next point,
that black communities can be raised to the level of white communities. Okay, so he's
right, as everyone in the room, which is so. So is this him repeating what he thinks the right
believes? It's what he believes to as far as I can tell, because he's representing his group
in this email, and I mean, I believe what he's trying to do is point to the fact that in America
right now, most communities that are majority black are worse off than most that are majority white
in several different measures, but his claim is that due to the fundamentals of human nature,
black communities will always be inferior to white communities, and I'm like no. Just based
off the historical record. There were many times in histories where non white communities were the
superior ones. Well, I like I'm trying to like, like, like, if I'm in this deal, man, I don't
want to steal man. That there's even places in the world right now where in nations where their
black communities are better than white communities. Is he talking about just America, and is he just
talking about like like like human nature in terms of like tribalism, like like, oh, we're
predominantly white, so we're always going to press, you know, people of color. Is that what
he's going for based on what I have read in these sorts of circles before the the argument is that
it is a genetic thing that the white races are just genetically better, and so we'll always
end up having better communities. No, like, like, like I've seen that map. Like I've seen that map.
There's this map of like IQ, like average IQ, but it's like we're comparing countries that don't
have the same educational opportunities. It's really a stupid, stupid map. I mean, also the
thing that really gets to me is that I do believe that different cultures can be better or worse
than others, and that the culture you're raised in has a huge impact on who you are and how you do
in life and what you value and what you value. Yes, but the there are legitimately shitty cultures
out there, and there are legitimately good cultures out there. Sure, and in, but it's not a genetic
thing. No, no, it's not a genetic thing. It may look genetic because the same genetic group settled
in an area and had that culture, but it's not intrinsically genetic. And I think as one of my
examples of this is one of the worst in my personal opinion, cultures. God, worse. It's such a
valuable word. One of the least optimized for modern living cultures in as long as I'm being
weasley and trying to not make myself look like an asshole in in in modern America is the border
or culture or river culture, depending on what term you want to use. So there was a group of
immigrants that came from the there was a border between. I believe it was England and Scotland
where there were constant border disputes and the people that lived on that border basically
were living like in the several hundred years ago version of Somalia for decades at a time.
