out, we can radiate it out, we can poison it out. And its chance of coming back, depending upon the
kind of cancer is fairly high because we didn't actually understand why the body is growing
cancers there in terms of why are cancer cells proliferating more than normal and why did the
body's immune response not know how to deal with them effectively. It's actually only in the last
year or two with the proliferation of immunotherapies that cancer is actually starting to be looked at
in a causal way at all. Chemotherapeutics radiation and surgery, the only things that have been approved,
are exclusively symptomatic without addressing why the body's doing this. Same is true with all of
those disorders. And so one of the reasons is that we don't have a good type of science for
understanding in a very complex system like the human physiology, how dysregulation works,
that's not acute. If it's acute, it's kind of easy to tell they got exposed to this poison
and they got sick instantly. They ate this sushi and they got food poisoning and other sick.
That's kind of straightforward. But and there are some things where we have pretty good correlation
like someone has, you know, eats way too much carbohydrate and we see type 2 diabetes come on,
they're still a pretty straightforward correlation. But with the other diseases that I mentioned,
they're more complex in origin. It's because one, the cause and effect are very separate in time.
We have time dilation, which makes it very tricky. Two, you have many different causes that are
contributing to the disease oftentimes. So it's not actually that there is one thing that was wrong.
It might have been some nutrient deficiencies. And it's actually really important to talk about
this for a minute. When we think of nutrient deficiencies in modern nutritional theory related
to modern medical theory, we think of, again, an acute level of deficiency such or a level of
deficiency sets that it causes a acute disease. So vitamin C being so low that you get scurvy,
or vitamin B1 being so low, you get berry berry. Well, if you look at where an optimal level of
that vitamin is versus where the level is at which you get an acute disease, there's a pretty big
range in between there of suboptimal levels, right? It's not low enough yet to be a disease state,
but it's pretty far from where an optimally healthy person is.
Yeah, there's a threshold issue in terms of diagnosis.
Right. And so there's a lot of subclinical deficiency that doesn't show up as deficiency,
because in a disease model, it's not yet causing an acute disease. But that doesn't mean that it's
not causing the regulatory processes of the body that are supported by that particular
nutrients to regulate less well. Well, if it's regulating less well, you can start having,
you know, all kinds of sub adequate regulation occur that can eventually lead to disease.
The same is true with subclinical toxicity. So someone can have acute lead exposure or
a mercury exposure where they get sick right away and it's really obviously sick.
You can look at what the ideal level is, which is there's no mercury at all. There's a pretty
big layer in between, which is a much higher amount of mercury lead or cadmium or PCBs or
styrenes or whatever glyphosate that would have been there in an evolutionary environment,
but not yet enough of a level that we would call it an acute poisoning or toxicity,
but it has an effect, has a sometimes massive biological effect as a carcinogen or a neurologic
disruptor or a necron disruptor. And so now imagine that we start stacking these, right?
Now imagine that we recognize that in the United States, and I imagine it's similar in
with pretty big variants actually in different developed nations.
When we look at the breast milk of mothers in the United States and not mothers in industrial areas,
but randomized areas, we find in the vicinity of 200 different petrochemicals in the breast milk.
And this is things like volatile organic compounds from carpet and paint, as well as
you know, styrenes from the memory foam bed, as well as things like organophosphates from
the herbicides that are used in agriculture to, you know, things that come from industrial
manufacturing and et cetera. And those all have effects. So now you look at a world where our
agriculture depletes the topsoil of minerals. And so we, and then we only put back in with
our fertilizer just a few main minerals, right? We put NPK back in, but we remove
all of the 72 give or take trace minerals. So then we get trace mineral deficient topsoil,
and the vegetables still look like vegetables or the feed that goes to livestock
still looks like what it is, but it's missing really key nutrients that are parts of enzymatic
process, et cetera. So we have, you know, kind of ubiquitous nutrient deficiency as a result of
agriculture that is not regenerative to the topsoil, while simultaneously having
ubiquitous exposure to chemicals that were not part of our evolutionary environment. And it's
kind of important to understand like the detox systems of the body that and detox is kind of a
bad word because it's been so abused by fad diets, but it's a real thing that your cells are producing
metabolic outputs, which are the toxin, the toxic output of the metabolism and the body gets rid
of them. The kidneys do that, the lungs do that, the liver does that, the lymphatics are involved,
et cetera. The exhaling of CO2 is doing that. So our body has detox systems for dealing with
things that were in its evolutionary environment, but glyphosate was not in our evolutionary
environment, right? And neither was like any significant amount of refined heavy metal.
And so we don't even have good evolved mechanisms to deal with those things.
So when you start looking at multiple different types of subclinical chronic toxin exposures
and deficiencies and psychological stress and pathogens, and again, I'm not talking here about
acute pathogenic exposure, meaning you have a flu or meningitis. I'm talking about
dysbiosis in the gut. And I think now most people are probably pretty familiar that
there are a huge number of interactions, biochemical actions that are necessary to make
human health that human cells don't do, that our symbiotic microbiome does. And in an evolutionary
environment, the baby always got the genome of the mom and dad, but it also got the microbiome
of the mom in particular. And so the microbiome and the genome were passed down together.
Genome does not actually code everything necessary to do a human well. 80% of our
GABA is produced in the gut, main anti-anxiety neurotransmitter. Give or take 50% of our dopamine
is produced by bacteria in the gut. Give or take 50% of serotonin produced by bacteria in the gut.
Vitamin D binding protein that actually is what makes vitamin D able to go into the
vitamin D receptors mostly produced by specific bacteria in the gut.
So in evolutionary environment, again, we didn't have antibiotics. Now this doesn't mean
antibiotics haven't saved lots of lives, of course they had, but then you also throw off.
And chlorine has helped us in sanitation tremendously save lots of lives, but then
chlorinated water is also having an effect. So most people have
There's so many different ways in which to pick up and go with these different
points that you're making and like the over focus on hygiene that potentially leads us to
not having the kind of immune responses we need or C-sections, meaning the babies are not getting
the microbiome of the mother and so on. But what the main thing clanging in my head right now is
this is kind of scary. They're genuinely scary. And to circle back to the question that
I asked just a couple of minutes ago is how can we find the trustworthy information to be able
to make informed steps? Because it seems like it's a full time job to try and be on top of it.
And when it's at the below the threshold where it's a condition that people can
clearly say, Oh, you've got this issue. Isn't there a big danger that we just run around
imagining that we've got this deficiency, this deficiency, this deficiency. And we're just kind
of guessing and we don't really know. Yeah. So the just in kind of wrapping the the major point
I was trying to bring there is that when it comes to disease that doesn't have an acute
cause, oftentimes, it doesn't have one cause at all. It might be the dysregulation of regulatory
systems from exposure to toxins, exposure to pathogens, dysbiosis in the gut, chronic stress,
postural issues, lack of movement efficiency. And you have one thing that is suboptimal,
that makes the system regulate slightly less well, that makes it more susceptible to other
things that are suboptimal and you get a vicious cycle. And eventually there's enough dysregulation
that you actually start to get damage in certain tissues or certain systems and those cluster
together and we call it a disease, we call it MS or rheumatoid arthritis or whatever. But the
reason that we haven't had good cures is because we're not going to find a single cause for it.
We find a number of different things that statistically correlate but none of them statistically
correlate enough that treating that one statistical correlation always cures it because that's one
of a set of a number of things that can be involved and it's not even the same set in everyone.
So this is a key thing in terms of understanding why we have to take a more complex approach to
understanding something as complex as the human body. When you're trying to understand issues like
aging and issues like chronic disease and on the other side human flourishing, variable isolation,
right, what is the one thing that is wrong when one drug that will treat it is just not going to work.
So that's important just kind of from an approach point of view.
So how do we find good resources and how do we process? Well, a couple things.
Like all areas there's a pretty good Pareto principle, an 80-20 kind of principle here
where if people do a good job with the foundations of well-being they're going to have a lot less
disease in their life and the foundations of well-being are relatively straightforward. So
in order, sleep enough and sleep well. That's all the regeneration that happens in physiology,
any nutrients that you take in, their ability to actually support the genesis of new tissues,
etc., any exercise you do, the ability for those tissues to regenerate, all of that's
going to happen during sleep, mostly during delta sleep. So sleeping enough and sleeping well,
foundational, eating. Just as a side note, before we get to the next part there,
there's such a cult these days I think about the highest achievers in the world go on four hours
sleep and is nonsense. Yeah, I wonder about that. Like how are they managing to continue to function
or do some people only need four hours sleep? Yeah, I know a lot of
world-class high achievers and almost none of them have four hours sleep. Most of them actually do
pretty good job of self-care. There are people who will push very hard for a period and then burn
out and then they're either done with their creative time period or they have to learn a new way of
being. There are people genetically who need less sleep. There's a few genes that actually code for
more efficient sleep, but this is actually a tiny percentage of the population that can,
that will end up needing in the vicinity of five hours sleep. Most people genetically do best on
something in the vicinity of eight hours sleep. There's a whole lot, it sleeps a very complex
topic. In general, how do you know if you've slept enough and slept well that you wake on your own
feeling well rested and energized and you have good energy throughout the day?
Now, obviously that's oversimplified because your energy throughout the day is going to suck even
if you slept well if your blood sugar is unstable or if you are not exercising which is a key to
circulation and generating androgens and things that are necessary, but if you are waking tired
then sleep is not sufficient yet. So it's a deep topic. We could do a whole
thing on sleep. Over at our site, Neurohacker, we have a couple whole podcasts just on sleep,
world-class sleep researchers, and there's a lot of sleep tech that's coming out. We're in the
process of developing some products for sleep optimization, but that's one of the foundational
pillars. Okay. The other foundational pillar is like everybody knows these, but most people
have not studied them well enough to know how to optimize them, like sleep, making sure that you
aren't exposing yourself to blue light and stimulants in the last little while, that you're
not exposing yourself to things that have your mind anxious, that you do something to relax your
body, whether it's a hot shower or a hot bath or some stretching before bed, that you create a sleeping
environment that is dark, that doesn't get disturbed by noise, so it has a white noise generator if
needed, where you're not being disturbed unnecessarily, like there's a whole bunch of practices.
So it's both learn these practices and implement them or deal with the consequences of not having
done it, which we'll end up looking like going to doctors for illnesses later.
The next one is movement, and
there's a whole lot to get into in terms of what fully optimal movement looks like. You can check
out real movement specialists like Paul Check and Edo Portale, who will teach you about the
difference between strength training and balance training and coordination training and endurance
training and why it's important to develop different patterns of movement that stimulate
neurogenesis, but in which genes get up regulated by different kinds of exercise and which brain
regions get stimulated, but again there's an 80-20 even for exercise, which is if you are getting
your heart rate up near its maximum for some period of time, even a short period of time daily,
you're going to do a lot better than if you don't, and if you break up being sedentary,
meaning you aren't sitting for multiple hours on end without movement, you get up every hour and
do a few jumping jacks, it doesn't have to be a lot, your life will be radically better than if
you don't, your health will be radically better, and again then study more because those who do
exercise not just more but better really will have a radically higher quality of life, you drop
body fat percentage and you drop all-cause mortality, etc. Diet is the next one, which is
as much as you can take in foods that look like parts of your evolutionary environment, meaning
things that are not highly processed, and as much as you can avoid things that
are highly processed, that's the good first rule of thumb, it's not perfect, obviously there are
plants that are poisonous, obviously you can have a protein powder that is processed that's
actually good for you, there's a lot of good books on nutrition where you can dive deeper,
but if you just start by thinking okay well we evolved to have a diet that had
a lot of plants but not a lot of the same plant, right? We would have had different plants in
different seasons and they would have in a hunter-gathered environment been just little
bits of lots of different types, all that have different nutrients, so can I do a variety of
different kinds of plants and animal products and they should be organic, should not be covered in
pesticides, meaning that if you spray a chemical toxic enough to kill things like ants and cockroaches
on your food and then eat it, that's kind of silly, and should come from as well a maintained
soil as possible, so if you can get even better than organic, if you can find local farmers that
do biodynamic farming, permaculture farming even better, and as much as it sounds like that's
fancy, all it is is trying to get a little bit closer to what all food was before the industrial
revolution. It's not that it seems that it's fancy exactly that it can be expensive, like I
remember I lived for a little while in the US and I found it was really expensive to try and buy
things that seem to be labeled organic or to shop in whole foods, I think it is maybe a bit easier
in some countries in Europe unless the labeling system is misleading, but is there kind of a
barrier of entry that's based on money for a lot of people here? No, yes going to whole foods can
be expensive, there's a couple ways to look at this, one if you find your local farmers markets
because they aren't having to pay to have a big box store with lots of, I mean they're basically
disintermediating the grocery store part, you can get even fresher, better quality food cheaper,
and cheaper than what you would pay for the conventional agriculture at a normal
store, the conventional produce, so the cost really can be dealt with. The produce is usually not that
expensive, the things that are expensive in places like Whole Food usually are the healthy packaged
foods and pre-made foods, the produce is a little bit more expensive, but it's still like not super
expensive, and there's a whole bunch of reasons why farmers markets and co-ops are like really valuable
things to explore, so that's one topic on cost. It also sounds fun to be able to go there rather
than just be in another supermarket. It is fun, you're supporting local farmers to actually get
paid better than they get paid other places, especially the ones that are doing organic
and permaculture, which supports environmentalism and agriculture and climate change dynamics and
micro-economies, and it's just every reason that that's a good thing to do, and yes you can start
to actually make friends in the community there and have this fun experience of what markets have
been for a lot of human history. So that's a way that cost is not a barrier of entry. The other
thing though is when we say solar is more expensive than coal energy-wise and that solar still needs
to get cheaper to be at grid parity with coal in some areas, it's just complete nonsense, because
99% of the cost of coal energy is just- the coal company doesn't have to pay for it, so they
don't internalize it into the cost of coal, it's externalized to the commons in the form of
CO2 and mercury vapor and nitrous oxide and zinc oxide and the mountaintop removal mining
that it took to get it, and there's a massive cost to all people, to the environment, to future
