Welcome to the High Existence podcast where we challenge the way you live.
We bring you the wisdom and tools to help you grow into a more enlightened version of
yourself.
Join us by taking the ultimate life experiment, our 30 challenges to enlightenment course,
a complete spiritual path to help you overcome the limitations of your mind and to embody
the highest philosophical realizations.
Use the code wisdom at checkout to get a huge 25% off the course, available only to
podcast subscribers at store.highexistence.com.
I'm your host John Waterlow, you can find me over on High Existence and on my own podcast
Voices in the Dark.
Hi everyone and welcome to the High Existence podcast.
Before I introduce the guests, I just want to circle back to the pre-recorded promo there
that you just heard about the 30 challenges to enlightenment.
I know pre-records aren't always the most exciting way to hear about something.
I want to recommend it myself just on a personal level because it's something that I actually
read and worked on whilst I was spending a month in a Buddhist monastery on a hilltop
in Nepal and believe it or not, just by all the teaching, all the other reading I was
doing, it was actually just the handbook that goes with that course that was maybe the most
profound, insightful and life-changing thing that I experienced, worked on and thought
about during that month.
The boys who put it together, the High Existence team, did an incredible job of pooling together
all of their knowledge, self-growth experience and put it in this format which you can really
directly apply into your life and it not only gave me a lot of insight into myself but
it showed that so much of what I was learning in the monastery via Buddhism is something
that goes beyond any particular school of thought from Joseph Campbell to Nietzsche to
psychology books to other self-help manuals.
A lot of them are kind of saying the same thing in different language and in the 30
challenges course, you get it pooled together and you begin to see, you find the ways in
which the message can connect to you through the different modalities that they pull in
and I definitely recommend you go check it out and with 25% off with that code, it's a
really great opportunity and I think there's a free version, a little sampler booklet,
so you can take a look and see for yourself, see if it is something that you think would
connect for you.
Anyway, moving swiftly on, our guest this week is Daniel Schmacktenberger of the Neurohacker
Collective.
If you haven't heard our first episode with Daniel, you can go check it out on the feed
if you want to hear more about the macro level, the fate of humanity from ecological
economic perspectives, what new systems do we need to put in place if we want to preserve
our world and ourselves as a species.
Daniel could be introduced in so many different ways as a philosopher, a great thinker, a
strategist, someone who can deal as easily with talk about quantum mechanics as he can
about the human body and the systems that draw the world together and make it function.
In this particular episode, we're talking about how we can make change at the level
of you and me.
We talk about health and it's not just a kind of biohacking podcast that we do talk about
Neurohacker's principle first big product called qualia, which is a new tropic that
isn't like most new tropics that give you a little buzz and then kind of screw up your
system.
Qualia is actually specifically made to raise the baseline of the human regulatory system
that's making you more able to deal with everything in your life down from the biological
level up to the consciousness level is how we experience things.
If you want to try qualia, we do have a deal with the Neurohacker Collective and you can
go to the show notes, click that you get a 10% off, offer using the code high existence.
Martin has tried it out and says it's absolutely phenomenal for him.
It allows a huge amount of mental clarity, but beyond that, as you'll hear in this episode,
it's doing so much more to help you be the best version of yourself.
But why use it?
That's kind of the theme of this episode.
We talk about how given that we are physically embodied, everything that we do is mediated
through our biology and therefore we have a responsibility to ourselves and to the world,
everything that we do to understand that so that we can actually be that version of
ourselves, put the work out, do things that help us connect with other people in the world
around us.
But most of us, we don't really know how our body works and we don't have practices
and thought processes which help us to do that.
Daniel unpacks things down at the level of the key pillars, the foundations that we need
to put in place in order to be able to be the versions of ourselves that we most want
to be.
So we dig into those foundations.
There's lots of practical advice in this on how to alter your life and effectively upgrade
yourself.
But we also reflect on how difficult this is to do and to overcome that resistance in
a world or at least in our Western societies in which the medical system is essentially
set up to treat acute problems without really getting down to what's causing them, which
can be as simple as a nutrient or mineral imbalance.
He breaks that down in language that's so much easier to understand than the kind of
deep science that he's actually drawing on and has a significant amount of command over.
Talking about Daniel is something that I could do at enormous length and so I'm going to
cut it short here and let him speak to himself.
This is an incredible episode and from a very wise man that was a real privilege for me
to speak to.
I know you're going to love it and if you have questions, he invites it at the end that
he's happy to come back on the show and answer questions directly, then email me.
I think it's probably the easiest thing to do.
And the address is Jay Waterloo, that's J-W-A-T-E-R-L-O-W at highexistence.com.
Let me know what your questions are for Daniel.
We'll collect some together and see when we can get him on next time and address those
directly.
Now, please enjoy the episode.
A welcome back, Daniel Schmacktenberger to the High Existence podcast.
This is part two, strongly advise people want to hear about the future of the world, that
they go and listen to the first part where we took a really macro view of where we are
as humanity and where we may be going next.
And in this part, we're going to dive more into the personal development, the biohacking,
the neurohacking and how we can develop ourselves in order to do anything positive in the world.
Daniel's founder at Neurohacker Collective, which is a movement dedicated to upgrading
our individual and collective capacities and to safeguarding the well-being of all.
As you would hear in the first episode, it's pretty tricky to sum up Daniel, though I guess
it's pretty tricky to sum up anyone in a fair and rounded way.
And we had a really great conversation, so welcome back, looking forward to this second
part.
Thanks for having me.
It's good to be back.
I really enjoyed our last conversation.
So to begin in the given we've already got, I guess, if there were any soft questions
in the first one, we had them in the first one.
So we can dive right into the bigger picture here.
We'll talk about qualia, which is the new tropic that has been developed by the Neurohacker
Collective, which is having incredible results for many people.
Martijn, who joined us last time, was sharing some of his own experiences, which were very
positive.
He found it very powerful.
So we'll get into that, but first, at the more general level, the personal level, there's
a theme in your work, and it's something that a lot of people who read high existence really
resonate with.
It's the idea of taking responsibility for ourselves before we can do anything for others.
What does responsibility mean to you, and what do you think are the first steps that
anyone needs to take in terms of personal responsibility, and how perhaps if the first
step is admitting that we haven't been doing so, how do we make that first the first step
to find that truth?
Well, in this context, when we're talking about our own physical and mental and psychological
and spiritual health and well-being, ultimately, if a doctor does a good job or messes up with
a procedure or with a drug recommendation or whatever, with our health, we're going
to be the ones who benefit or suffer from it.
So we're more invested in the medical care and the psychological care and the health
that we get than anyone else is.
And so it's really a responsibility we want to take to understand our system well enough
that even to the degree we're interacting with professionals, that we understand what
they're saying, we understand the alternatives, we understand the consequences, we understand
the risks and upside ratios, and if we don't, then we just kind of trust an authority to
know everything about a topic and always make good decisions for us and then just be mad
at them when they don't.
It's just not a very empowered approach, and as soon as you realize that we're already
in an exponential information ecology where you've got so many journal articles coming
out on any new topic and a clinician is a busy person that's having to mostly see people,
they can't stay up to date with what is new and relevant and there's so many kind of key
breakthroughs.
I don't know in the different European countries that your listeners are in what the stats
are, but in the United States where I'm at, itrogenic disease, meaning disease that is
caused by the practice of medicine, so interactions from drugs and complications, complications
from surgery, infections got in the hospitals, et cetera, is depending upon what you include
in that is either the first leading cause of death in the US or the third.
And so it's a big deal for people to realize that and even the people who aren't dying
are mostly, they are experiencing side effects from other meds or treatments they're on,
or they just have suboptimal quality of life because the medical system is mostly not oriented
towards optimizing human flourishing, it's oriented towards treating acute illness.
And so if we want to have a really richly flourishing life in all dimensions, there are causal dynamics
that are associated with health that we can actually progressively understand better and
there are choices that we can take that make a huge difference from the foundations of how
we sleep and eat and move and process stress and information to what we actually engage
in in terms of life extension, integrative medicine, you know, personalized medicine,
or genomics, et cetera.
Yeah, I think if anyone has had more than just a common cold and they've been to their doctor,
it can be kind of shocking, I've had it a few times where you rapidly realize that the limits
of current medical knowledge, at least in terms of when you go to a doctor, you brush up against
them surprisingly quickly and that a lot of, I guess it's part of the convenience of seeing
so many people, they're trying to push you into a flow chart of expected situations and going,
okay, well, you've mentioned this symptom, so I'm going to need to prescribe you this and that's
kind of the end of the story here. I had a junior doctor friend of mine who gave me some
cause for hope who said that he'd been taught that patients know their condition better than you do
and you should listen to them because they also know the history better than you do
and can tell you how things have gone. But even with that more open mind, you're suggesting we
need to do some of the work ourselves and go looking, but there's, you know, if you type almost
any set of symptoms into Google, you're going to see a fairly scary and bunch of misinformation
mostly. How can we try and understand and what is the thing that we should be trusting when we
go looking for it ourselves? Yeah, let's understand the problem space a little bit better and then
let's understand how people can approach empowered responsibility well. So you said there are limits
of knowledge. Let's not even get to the limits of knowledge first, let's just look at the limits of
time. So the way that modern medical system in most developed nations, the way the financial
structure of it works, doctors just can't afford to spend much time with people unless it's a
concierge medicine practice, where people are paying a huge amount of out of pocket money because
that doctor racked up a tremendous amount of student loans in the process of learning medicine
that they have to pay back and etc, right? So they, if a doctor's seeing you for five minutes
or 15 minutes and sometimes two minutes for a health issue and sometimes a complex health issue,
it's not even the limits of knowledge that are going to be bumped up. It's the limits of time to
be able to get enough data. I have a doctor friend here who I actually think is one of the most
knowledgeable integrative rheumatologists in the world and really has a profound understanding of
causes of autoimmune disease. But as a result, his clinic got so inundated with incurable cases
that came that he started having shorter and shorter sessions. And then I started watching
him actually practice really poor medicine because he only had a minute with each person.
And so he didn't even get to ask the questions that would give him a holistic picture again.
So the first thing you can be pretty sure of is that if your doctor isn't getting a really good
sense of your whole medical history and your symptomology and when your symptoms started and
how that corresponded to different exposures and events that might have happened and looking at
really good laboratory data and corresponding and seeing that it makes sense, they just couldn't
possibly have a decent picture of what to do. Yeah, I think my doctor that I try and hold on to
even as I move around the place, what I like about him is he's always running late and he's
running late because he tries to give people the time that they need. But obviously there's
knock on consequences for him. Right. So then let's explore this a little further.
Conventional medicine, modern Western allopathic medicine has done a brilliant job of saving a
tremendous amount of lives from things that we used to die from that are mostly acute onset
illness. And it's really an exceptional system of medicine for acute cause suffering. So if we're
talking about injury, it's not that we can't do a lot better in the future than we will,
but anybody who gets in a car accident or gunshot would much rather go to the ER than any other
healing system. And if you have acute poisoning, so dealing with toxicity that is acute high-level
toxicity or acute infection, it's really good at dealing with all that. If you have chronic
complex illness that did not come on from one acute cause, so we're looking at cancer, we're
looking at autoimmune disease, we're looking at neurodegenerative diseases, we're looking at psychiatric
disorders. It's interesting to know that there's pretty much no actual cures for any of those.
There are symptom treatments. And of course, if someone's body has grown a cancer, we can cut it
