switch and fall asleep pretty quickly and then be energetic, right? That's adaptiveness. So
starting to look at why does a system have decreased capacity to do those things? What are
the rate limiting factors in the system and what can we offer to support the system's capacity to
do that better? So just as a four instance, if your listeners are interested in an example,
let's just say we take dopamine that we were talking about earlier, rather than give
you know, something like an amphetamine, right? Adderall's amphetamine, that is an
in chain dopamine agonist, where you get a big rush of dopamine, but it is decoupled from changing
acetylcholine levels or glutamate or looking at how the other catecholamines are focused
or the neuro inhibitory chemicals or anything else. And it doesn't look at the whole process of how
the body normally regulates dopamine. So you do get down regulation addiction. We said, well,
how does the body normally do dopamine creation? And there's this whole complex process of how
protein is broken down into amino acids and phenylalanine is converted into tyrosine is converted
into an acetyl tyrosine is converted into al-dopa crosses the blood brain barriers converted into
dopamine travels down an axon crosses the synapse has to cross a whole bunch of different kinds of
enzymes that break it down in the synapse and then goes into one of multiple dopamine receptors
that affect how it's processed, you have to have the right dynamics happening in the cell,
Krebs cycle processes to have enough energy to process that some of it will hydroxylase
in an orbe nephrin you map this whole thing out and then say, how can we support each step in
that process? And so then we have, you know, what are the vitamins, what are the amino acids,
what are the minerals, what are the different dynamics that convert one step to the other
step that can be at suboptimal levels that lead to rate limiting in those processes.
And so we made a database of like 500 chemicals that were associated with the underlying physiology
of all of those subjective states and capabilities. And then we started paring it down in terms of
which ones are well tolerated and have positive synergies with other ones and don't have negative
synergies and support each step in the various pathways. And, you know, that led to an initial
hypothesis of how to make something with things that we wanted to test. Do we need more or less
choline donor in this more or less dopamine agonists in here, etc. And that led to about
100 iterations with testing and we get qualia. And we've done preclinical tests, we're in clinical
trials now, but we did preclinicals preparing for the clinicals where we did people's QEG
brain scans as well as a bunch of biometrics like HRV and topography and etc. And psych metrics
and cognitive metrics before people took it. And then once they did qualia just once and then once
they were on it for a month. And we saw really awesome results. The data set was too small and we
only had it single-blinded. So I won't speak to the numbers yet. We're going to speak to them once the
full double-blinded larger scale clinical trial comes out. But, you know, and we would of course
have done larger trials earlier on except they're expensive and trying to pay for all of it is a
tricky thing. And this is where it's like we could have taken more venture capital money earlier,
but then we would have been more beholden to have to maximize profits as per their goals. And we
really wanted to do something that we could really control with what our own capacity to fund was so
that we could keep making the highest quality things. So like for instance, our cost of goods,
just the raw material cost for us on this is more expensive than the retail price of most
notropics. And it's because being like, you know, we have a versions of each ingredient like
benphotimene version of B1 for the effect on peripheral neurons that we wanted is something
like a hundred times more cost per kilo than thymine that is the normal form of B1 that you could
put. But we have those kind of expensive forms because those are the ones that actually do what
we wanted. Now we're trying to get the cost down through economies of scale. But that was longer
than two minutes. That was the gist of what we were trying to do with quality. And it's really
is clearly a super complex. I mean, even beyond the super complexity of the ingredients in there,
it's a very complex and deep thinking approach that you've taken. So it kind of already sidesteps
a lot of the the reservations that people have about biohacking and new tropics where there
tends to be some sort of downside, some kind of burnout element, which you've already said this
is, you know, from the foundation up is not what quality is about. But I also wonder when, when I
think and people I know who who try to take supplements to enhance their performance one way
or another, it does seem to still matter what it is that they want to do when they they take it.
So I mean, a crude a crude example can be you could take medaffinol. I had a pretty unhealthy
relationship with medaffinol for much of a year, a few a few years in the past. And after a time,
I realized, but I still kept doing it that I would take it because I would feel like I was
on and I felt like I'm great. I'm doing great stuff. I'm really focused. But if I really broke
it down and looked at it, I wasn't achieving anything, you can take it to get the sensation
of being on it, but then do nothing. So yeah, is there does this still play a factor in taking
quality? Because if you if you're just taking it, but without any sort of purpose in mind,
is that enough? It's a tool, right? Yeah. And there is right use of tool, somebody can use a hammer
wrong and break their thumb. Or they can use a hammer right and buildings. And so. And to the
other point, somebody can build things that aren't worth building. So those medaffinol towers that
I built. I bet I bet, right? I mean, it's a classic thing where somebody is using meth and
is just cleaning their grout with a toothbrush because they have a tremendous amount of energy
that needs to do something, but they're not really clear on what a super useful thing to do would be.
So if someone already is sleeping well, is exercising well, is meditating, is dealing with
stress well has a empowering outlook on life is clear on what they want to create. And then they
add quality to that. It's going to be a much different experience than if someone is
thinking in ways and living in ways that have them aggressive and scattered and etc. And they
take quality like that. They're not going to instantly just know what to do with their lives
because they have some neurochemical support. So in general, I would encourage people to do
the foundational things before I would have them do any kind of more advanced biohacking.
That said, there's an exception to that that I've seen, which is
there are a lot of people who just can't do the things they know will make a difference for them.
They're the habit patterns, the addiction patterns have just been too strong. They beat
themselves up for not exercising, but they just, you know, many years of wanting to and it's still
not happening. And we've had a lot of people and I can't make any claims about this, but we've
had many people tell us that they took qualia and then after years of wanting to exercise and not
they started exercising or they started eating well or they started doing things that they actually
felt that they had increased energy and motivation and capacity to do that they they were just overwhelming
and daunting previously. And so yeah, my general recommendation would be do the foundational
things first, unless there's difficulty with the foundational things and you want to see if
this is an experiment that can increase your capacity to do it also. Yeah, it sounds a bit
like some of the effects of a regular meditation practice where you certainly in my experience,
I end up finding that there's more sort of space and energy and capacity in myself to set about
doing things that I want to do, but usually provoke a kind of it feels like fear, I think,
quite often the onerous task or it's like the the kind of paradox of procrastination in a way,
the thing that is causing you so much stress and grief, you keep looking in the other direction
because it causes stress and grief and yet the only way to change that is to go and do the task.
It's kind of the opposite of our instinct is. This is related to that topic we were mentioning
earlier about delayed gratification. So there's the other side of that is
facing difficult things now. And in general, the degree to which we can put off
easeful and pleasurable things till later and face more difficult things now,
we will have a more meaningful, higher quality and actually more pleasurable life.
This is actually an important point. Let's let's touch on this one a little bit. Sure.
Okay, so I take the chocolate cake in the moment and I'm getting a
flood of dopamine, allergic response. The chocolate cake tastes so good. It feels awesome.
And I'm not actually feeling myself increase inflammation or store body fat or have dysregulated
blood sugar or whatever in the moment. I'm just feeling awesome, right? Tasting this.
And so in the moment, the chocolate cake is absolutely increasing my pleasure.
But it is doing those other things that I said. And so it's going to
if I'm eating the chocolate cakes more often, I will have a life with more inflammation,
more unstable blood sugar, which means lower energy and mood issues and etc.
All of which will lead to a life that has less pleasure when you factor the entire cause and
effect set, right? Right. And because having shitty energy and unstable mood and inflammation
is less pleasure. But then when your pleasure is low, you and you're feeling really shitty,
then you crave anything that will make you feel better again in the moment. So that that's the
addiction cycle, right? And so in blood sugar is a classic example, you take something that
spikes your blood sugar, you feel really good, but then it also crashes your blood sugar. Then
once your blood sugar is crashed, you're kind of desperate. And so you will go for sugary things
that will raise it again. When had you eaten something that wasn't sugary earlier, you would
have never had your blood sugar crash in the first place and been stable. So the addiction cycle is
a cycle of hyper stimulus that dysregulates baseline that leads to more desire for hyper stimulus.
Right? Yeah. And it's possible to to have some of that attitude towards exercise if you get on
the exercise wagon, but then that also can lead to an addiction that you over exercise because
you're getting your your kick but probably still avoiding something. Okay, so I'll get to that in
a minute. But let me run the other part of this food analogy, because then we'll be able to relate
it. So let's say instead of the chocolate cake, I'm looking at eating a salad. The salad is not
going to give me the same dopamine flood in the moment the chocolate cake did, even if it's a
good salad, right? For the fat sugar salt reasons we mentioned earlier. And that said, as I'm doing
the salads regularly, I will have a body that is more mobile that has more energy that has less
fatigue that has less blood sugar crashes, that has less excessive weight, and that all translates
to a body whose baseline pleasure is higher. Right? And so the opposite of the addiction
cycle is something that does not spike your pleasure, but that doesn't destabilize and decrease
your baseline and that leads to slowly up regulating baseline. And so here's the the
difference addictive things spike your pleasure, and then crash it and then it spikes and then it
crashes. But the baseline lowers two things you both get more highs and lows and progressively
more lows in the addiction cycle. In the healthy cycle with anything, you get less extreme highs
and lows and progressively more highs. Right? That's a kind of key difference in the relationship.
And so what's interesting is, while the addict is controlled by pleasure, they actually have much
less pleasure in their life. Right, because the baseline is very different. Right. And so
when we're talking about what is healthy, we're actually also talking about what is more pleasurable.
Now, you mentioned exercise. And you mentioned it as an addiction and also as an avoidance.
Can someone exercise because they hate their body and they're fat and disgusting and they
need to exercise as almost like a form of bulimia, right? Yeah, totally. I can eat and throw up or
I can eat and then go exercise with body hatred. Now, is that radically different than being grateful
to be alive and get to create and have experience and that all of that only gets to happen because
I have a body and so I want to take good care of this vessel that I'm in. Yeah, it's a totally
different motivation. Right. And one of them happens after binging and one of them happens just
because it's a good thing to do and one might happen so that I can avoid feeling certain things
and the other one is happening just to support feeling good in my body. So the motivation and
how one relates to anything can determine sex can be addictive or it can be healthy and healing.
Meditation can be actually a way to avoid dealing with real shit in one's life.
Yeah, some people just get that and float tanks as well. They can be incredibly powerful tools,
again, tools or if you spend like 10 hours a day in a float tank, what exactly are you doing that for?
Well, I see so many people who will pray for world peace and not do
anything that actually tangibly makes the world better and
in a way that is worse than not doing because if they didn't do it, the pain of not contributing
to what they cared about might make them find something actually tangible they could do.
But the reason they do that is because they don't know what the fuck to do about climate
change or about species extinction. It's too painful and they can't do nothing and so that's
something they feel like they can do. But it is then importantly kind of a avoidance of something,
right? The bypass of something. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I'm wondering when so individual motivation
is important too, but then we also have individual biology and I wondered even if you've tried to
create the most rounded product in qualia, are there still certain person specific rhythms and
biology that we can't overcome such as times of day where we enter flow state? So I know from
what I've read on some of your profiles online that you're definitely a night owl and right now
we're talking at quite late night where you are early morning. I feel like I'm definitely a very
low capacity when I end up in the late night. Is that something that can just an example,
I guess, of something that we can't really change at the individual level?
All right, that was a few different questions that I heard. One is is qualia appropriate for
everyone or do we need personalized chemistry and then are there things that we can't change
with our physiology and that need to be personalized? So on the topic of personalization,
first with regard to qualia, is qualia the right chemistry for everyone? Totally not.
It was the best that we could do at making something that worked well for the most people
interested in that thing and it was actually much better than I thought we'd be able to do because
my background in starting to explore it was based on full personalization. So working in
integrative medical clinics with different kinds of integrative doctors, helping design
customized chemistry and neurochemistry support, but we got to actually see people's labs,
see their QEG, have deep medical history and so I got to see how much we could actually help people
feel radically better, not just in terms of cognitive enhancement, but in terms of their
psychological well-being and yeah, all of that. I wasn't sure what we would be able to do
without personalization and I was really curious because if there were things that we could do
that were meaningful to wide audiences, that obviously would allow us to bring support to a
lot more people and the cost of the personalization work was still prohibitive. So we were able to find
that with there are certain axes that are so sensitive one person to the next or a different
kind of genetic clusters, different phenotypes, that I just don't include them in qualia and
won't use them in any of our products. Like for instance, you'll see we don't have folic acid
because whether you use folic acid or you use some version of methylated folic acid is there are
so many people in each of the groups and it makes such a big difference whether they are
over or under methylating on that particular axis that it's just something without personalization
I don't mess with because I couldn't actually do it for a wide audience effectively and so we work
with axes that are pretty commonly supported by the same things for everybody the right
Krebs cycle intermediaries that upregulate ATP production in that being pretty great for everybody
and for the people that are seeking cognitive enhancement supporting their acetylcholine
processing and supporting their dopaminergic processing and then also supporting neurogenesis
and synaptogenesis ends up being pretty effective across the board and so those are the ones that
we work with now there are still you know there's something like 80% of the people that have tried
qualia that had a good response and felt that it was meaningful for them and something like
half of those that it was like life-changingly positive for and other ones it was just you know
enhancing and then of the 20% that don't have great experiences they're mostly no experience they
just don't experience much of anything and that's usually either because they have sleep issues or
digestive issues that we've found in the tens of thousands of people that have used it and given
those feedback so far and there are a few people that don't and neither of those are true and and
just not chemistry they need so we regard to personal personalization is right for everybody
know but a lot of people that's why we offer a you know people can try it if it doesn't work get
your money back kind of thing now we are working on rolling out a doctor program right now where
for people who either do have real medical issues that they want to address or real psychiatric
issues because we're not treat we're not doing medicine we're just you know providing enhancement
