generations, to whatever, that if you had to say, hey, burn coal, but just don't leave the
environment worse as a result, so whatever it takes to clean up the effects in real time,
do that, and if it costs some money to do that, you have to include that in the cost of coal,
coal would go up by- the price of coal would go up by hundreds or thousands of times,
and solar would have been at grid parity the moment it existed, so the same is true in healthcare.
I can eat shittier foods that are cheap, but there's a cost and it's- a cost that's being
externalized to the decreased health of my future, and so then I'm going to have to pay the medical
and or just have a shorter or shittier life, and so it becomes important to think about
what does cost really mean and what is actually worth investing in.
Right, yeah, so cost we can think of, it's not just a financial cost, but there can be the other,
until I think it's a- it's a funny human thing that we tend to ignore that sort of personal
cost until it actually hits us, even though we have all the evidence to see you see someone who
smoked their whole lives and didn't think about it, then the cost becomes evident later,
we see it over and over again, but seem to have trouble when it comes to ourselves.
Humans suck at this topic everywhere, and it's why we are so close to self-induced extinction
as a species, which is short-term gain and long-term expense, and there's some reasons why we suck at
it, is in our evolutionary environment, pre-advanced technological capabilities, we just didn't have
the ability to affect our own future negatively that much. It's kind of- this is actually an
important thing to understand. In our evolutionary environment, 250,000 years of being homo sapien,
something like 8 million years of hominid history, before the plow and, you know,
grains, refined carbohydrates, etc. For that whole time period, there was not
an easy way to get sugar, fat, or salt, right? Sugar, every once in a while you'd find some
berries, but the berries that we see today are radically hybridized from the heirloom berries
back then that were like a few on a very thorny bush for a very small amount of time in urine
competition with the birds, right? And honey is a super hard thing to actually deal with the bees
in that kind of world, so are there sugar? There's such tiny little bits of sugar, the same is true
with access to salt in most environments, and the same is true with access to fats, because,
you know, getting game, every time you go out after a big game, you can die in the process of
hunting with spears, and it's mostly pretty lean meat, right? So whenever we did have access to
those things, they conferred so much evolutionary advantage in terms of the caloric density of
fat and sugar made it easier to live through a famine, and the ability of salt to replenish
electrolytes and help us keep water on in hot environments. So we had a major, we evolved to
have a strong dopamine response when we would eat those foods, meaning, and it's actually important
to get that those that had a stronger dopamine response, meaning a pleasure reward circuit,
actually survived better, because they worked harder to go find those foods, and then they
made it through famines better, right? So we're the descendants of the people that had the strongest
dopamine responses to those foods. Now post-industrial revolution, we have made so much abundance of
sugar, fat, and salt, but our evolutionary genetic response to those hasn't changed.
So now we're dying of obesity rather than starvation. And so it was important to get that
evolutionary response of getting this major pleasure hit when you eat sugar, fat, salt, and
ideally all three together, right? Like imagine almost every fast food meal, if you do the whole
meal is all three of those together. And you get such a dopamine flood that you become addicted
and you can't not eat it, even though you know that you are decreasing the quality of your life
in on every metric, your social life, your sexual life, your health life, your ability to
generate finance, your emotional life, everything, as you are doing that more.
And so we actually had an evolved set of responses that were appropriate to an environment,
and then we became these amazing tool makers and we changed our environment faster than we could
be genetically adapted to. So we have to actually know how to navigate this built world that we've
made that is actually not a natural environment to us, still being the genetic creatures that we
are. And this is why those, you know, the two marshmallow experiment of the kids that had
better delayed gratification and impulse control doing better in every area of life.
Impulse control ends up being a really, really big part of the whole picture here.
But when you look at the fact that natural selection mostly selected for things that were
adaptive in the moment, whoever could, you know, not lose at that fight made it through, etc.
That's a short term orientation. And we mostly couldn't do things that damage the long term
that much, meaning over fish the entire ocean or eat foods that would make us totally ill
chronically, or, and so we're in a position now where when you look at people's health, and
whether it's the smoking situation you talked about, or the getting to exercise later and
it never happens, or climate change, or the fact that we knew Fukushima was going to have
a earthquake five years before it happened and nobody wanted to spend the money this
quarter on buffering against it. Our orientation towards short term ease and short term gain at
a probable possible long term expense is one of the main things that if we want to survive as a
species, and if we want to have a good quality of life as individuals, we have to get past. So
if you if listeners want to hear, you know, biohacking secrets, there's heaps of biohacking
secrets that we can share, what ends up mattering like more than any of those is being able to
get good at making decisions that are good from a long term focus.
Yeah, I think there's something about the tyranny of the quarterly financial report that
has kind of mirrors and maybe feeds back into on the individual level that we think about
what I want now rather than what I want in the future. And if we we want to get into
making better choices, I want to I want to talk about qualia the neuro hackers flagship
product. So real quick one one more thing that I just want to share that I think I think you
guys will appreciate is absolutely one application of VR tech that I thought was really beautiful.
And it's it's in development. I don't remember the name of the company that's developing it. But
they're doing VR avatars. And so you can have cameras get the right pictures of you to render
you as an avatar, then you can go into the VR space, see yourself as an avatar. And one of the
things that was done was age progression, where you could see a version of yourself as an older
person, while you're a younger person, but it's actually you right, like you're looking in the
mirror, you lift your left hand and you watch your hand move. And so you get a look at yourself as
this older person be like, Whoa, that's me. And then it will do the age progression based on how
you're eating, how you're exercising, if you're smoking, etc. And you can actually watch
the 60 year old version of you look different habits, the yellowness of its teeth, the skin,
the health of vitality, everything look different based on the lifestyle habits based on real data
of how those things statistically work. And one of the things that happened in some of the research
was that as people were relating with the older version of themselves, because right now the
idea of ourselves as older people is just a completely abstract topic, but us now is totally
real and visceral. And we feel our hunger now, we don't feel our fatness as an older person,
right, or our body pain or whatever it is. And so it's easier to make decisions based on something
concrete than something abstract, something that we're feeling in real time versus something that
you know, it's hard to actually even imagine or relate with. So as they were doing it,
these people started making concretely, tangibly better choices for their long term
life, because they had a clearer relationship with that being. One of them was actually financial,
that the people today who are younger started saving money more as they were relating with their
older avatar. And another one's health decision. So even if you don't have access to that VR,
just just thinking about it, hearing it can be useful. Yeah, I think that that personal
confrontation sounds really interesting. And I'm finding just in myself, really,
it's making an impact on me to be in my early 30s to realize my body is not working as well as it
used to. And to not just kind of despair and accept that. As I think, I know a lot of older
people who just go, Well, you know, that's how it is, you get older and everything hurts more
and things don't work so well. But we can actually make some differences, we can make some changes
which can actually affect us positively. And I guess one of the main ones is that the conscious
input of better things into our bodies in the way that you describe just in terms of food. But
when it comes to the world of biohacking, which is ever more widespread, seems to me there's
was a lot to talk about biohacking. I'm like trying to formulate three questions at once. I
guess it'd be better to start by saying, ask for like your two minute description of what
qualia is, and then we can really dig deeper into it. Yeah, so qualia is a notropic, which means
some chemistry that enhances cognitive function, different aspects of cognitive function,
beyond one's previous baseline, without causing negative side effect. That's the
general best accepted definition of notropic. The different classes of chemicals are the primary
classes of notropics that are generally well studied. And so this is a notropic stack,
meaning a blend of different chemical supplements that affect different neurotransmitters,
different pathways, different aspects of neurochemistry and biochemistry to enhance the
underlying physical substrate that supports cognitive process. And so why did we create it?
It's the first of a bunch of products that all have the same design philosophy and methodology.
The next ones will be launching early this next year. But when we started this, we saw this kind
of meteoric exponential rise of the use of smart drugs, and specifically even illegal off-label
smart drugs. We're talking about Adderall, Medaffin-L, Riddlin, Vivantz, Wellbutrin, and mostly
dopamine heretics, but some other categories. And we saw Adderall do an estimated $5 billion
in illegal sales in the US per year. When we started smart drugs as a whole to about $15
billion, this just domestically, right, so internationally a lot more. And this is because
people had such strong pressure to perform and produce and really wanted to while simultaneously
having so much that it was damaging their ability to focus from all of the social media
kinds of distractions to gut brain access being out, like we talked about, where 50%
of dopamine is produced and the nutrient and deficiencies and toxicity and etc.
And other than people going to off-label smart drugs, we also saw energy drinks
where people were doing 300 and 400 milligrams of caffeine. And caffeine is a cool molecule.
Quality has a very small amount of caffeine in a unique form in it because it's a really
neat central nervous system stimulant. If we have caffeine bound to an antioxidant from
blueberry skin called terostilbine that affects the pharmacokinetics of it, so it releases much
slower so you don't get a jolt and then a drop, you get a very slow central nervous system release
over a longer period of time. But that is, it also helps the uptake of some of the other more
specifically active neurochemistry. But at those kinds of doses, this is really not a healthy
relationship with caffeine and you start getting, you know, you'd get increased focus and attention
and alertness to a certain point and then the jitteriness and inability to focus starts getting
a negative response curve and a central nervous system stimulant like caffeine or a dopamine
enhancer like Adderall are really only affecting a very narrow range of the total
aspects of chemistry that are important for cognitive enhancement.
And so one of the things that you find is when people are going to those kinds of solutions
is that they work, right? Like people are taking them for their midterms or their finals or their
tech startup or for their gaming or whatever because they actually can focus better, longer,
concentrate and they have more motivation. But one of the things very interesting is
some of the other cognitive capabilities that you'd want online at the same time,
there are studies that actually show they go down. So different aspects of memory like total
working memory goes down on Adderall and creativity goes down and the ability for fluid
intelligence and task switching goes down. And it happens to be that empathy goes down
for most people and irritability, anxiousness, depersonalization go up. And so that's one problem
is that it's a very narrow set of positive effects. The other problem is that your body
regulates dopamine, right? Your nervous system regulates dopamine in a very kind of complex way
and you don't want fixed high dopamine levels all the time. You do want your body to be able
to upregulate its dopamine when you're doing a dopamine or a kind of task like working on a
project and then you want it to be able to chill when you want to go play with your kids or cuddle
or something else. And so rather than take a chemical that externally exogenously over rides
in endogenous regulatory process, and in the process of doing that, it actually creates
dependence and addiction, which most medicines that affect the brain and mind end up doing.
We're much more interested in understanding how the regulatory processes worked and providing
chemistry that supported the regulatory processes to be able to regulate better so that you could
actually upregulate endogenous regulatory capacity. Because we can actually define health, and we were
talking about these earlier, we can actually define health as the robustness of the regulatory
capacity of the system, which means that any kind of issue can come up, any kind of deviation from
homeodynamics in the system can actually respond to it. And so we wanted to work on
increasing the regulatory capacity of the system so that rather than causing addiction,
meaning the person's on it for a while, they get off and another screwed, we wanted it to be that
if someone was on any product we made for a while, then they got off that they would actually have
lasting benefit in terms of elevation of some positive functions from the baseline before
they started. And that's true for quality and it's true for all the other products that we're
making, it's the design methodology. And so with quality, the way we started was we said, okay,
when people are seeking cognitive enhancement, what are they really seeking? It's not just cognitive,
it's usually emotional cognitive, psychological, energetic together, right? They're seeking focus
and concentration and attention, those dynamics and memory, the ability for working memory to hold
more in their memory and their speed of recall, verbal fluency, etc. And they want increased
analytic capabilities and synthesis capabilities and creativity. They also want increased motivation
and drive and emotional resilience. And they also want some complex things that are like
the dialectic of pretty opposite things, which is I want the ability to concentrate really hard on
one topic and not get distracted, while simultaneously having the ability to task switch
from one thing to another thing when I need to do that.
It's like we're asking for a magic pill to fix everything here.
Well, it has nothing to do with a magic pill, it's that a well regulated system
is good at shifting modes, right? Like that's what adaptiveness is. And an adaptive creature can go
from sleeping to waking, can go from very different kinds of states. And the quicker that one can go
between different modes and the better they can be in those modes is the adaptiveness of the creature.
And so what we wanted to support was the overall adaptiveness. So if we were just driving the
chemistry of focus and concentration, it would make tasks switching worse. We could drive things
that would support task switching make focus worse to make both better. You have to not be
exogenously driving the chemistry in one direction or the other, but supporting the
regulatory processes. And so this was, you know, this is kind of at a high level, but this is our
design philosophy for how we wanted to approach anything in the health and well-being space is
let's make sure that we are well, and specifically in the enhancement space, biohacking so often
isn't looking at the disease model, but the enhancement side. And again, modern medicine,
that's one of the other differences is that it is a disease model process. So it's really not looking
at optimization. So why we mapped all those things to start was to say, you know, people really
don't just want increased focus while being more irritable and less creative and with less good
memory. They want this whole suite of things together that means that they have increased
creative, productive capacity and flow. And so then we said, all right, well, what do we know
in any of the various biosciences, human biosciences about the physiologic processes that
mediate those cognitive and subjective dynamics? What do we know about the neurochemistry that
mediates focus that mediates task switching, memory IO, etc. And so we started to map those
processes. Some are acetylcholine mediated, right? Some have to do with the NMDA complex,
some have to do with how catecholamines process, some have to do with sodium ion dynamics. So we
were mapping these and then saying, how does the body regulate those on its own? Can we draw the
regulatory processes? And then why does the body get less good at regulating? Because of course,
kids actually have this ability to focus on something they're interested in and also task
