It's not something that's governed by laws since the beginning of the universe.
There's no continuum.
So there's no there's nothing described by real numbers.
It's all described by integers.
Everything's done in finite dimensional spaces.
And finally, and most importantly, there's no space time box in which things happen.
So think of how radical this is means there's no big bang.
There's no big rip.
There's no bouncing universe.
All of those ideas are out the window because they're classical and they're about space time.
And what the new physics wants to do is derive space time out of basically users experiences.
So the the the agents here are all observer participants in Wheeler's language.
But what that just means is agents that that want to communicate and it's their communication that gives rise to physics.
So now we'll go back to classical physics.
And what was happening or one thing that was happening in classical physics at that time was a lot of thinking about stochastic clausal networks.
And Pearl realized that if you have any stochastic causal network that's unidirectional, then around any node, you can draw what he called a Markov blanket.
And a Markov blanket is just the set of nodes in the network that absorb all outside causation and then transmit that causation into whatever you call it.
Whatever node you're interested in and that absorb all causation coming from the node you're interested in and transmit it to the rest of the world.
And so we can redraw that in part B here.
And it should look very familiar.
Markov blanket is just a classical physics way of talking about a holographic screen.
And the number of nodes in the Markov blanket or in particular the number of degrees of freedom times the number of nodes is just the number of bits that flow across that Markov blanket.
So it's the number of it's the entropy of the effective holographic screen.
So so this this all these ideas were reinvented more or less independently within classical physics.
And it was from this classical physics background that our call for us and came up with the idea that a Markov blanket defines a persistent.
At least from an active inference institute point of view, everyone is familiar with because it's the foundation of the idea of active inference.
Any system is that persists through time does so by making sure that it doesn't dissolve into its environment.
What does that mean?
It means that it persists through time by maintaining the integrity of its Markov blanket or the integrity of its boundary.
So this, of course, is just a tautology.
But it's a very it's a very interesting and very productive tautology because it says that any system is using the information it gets on its boundary from its environment to build a model of how its environment behaves.
And then it uses that model to act back on its environment to test and refine its model.
And again, as Papa told us, this is just what science is.
So what the free energy principle really tells us is that all systems are agents that are doing science all the time.
So physics is effectively not just the study of communication, but it's the study of agents doing science with each other, pairs of agents who are trying to figure each other out.
By their communication, communicative exchanges.
So that's the history of how we got from 1850s thermodynamics to the free energy principle.
And how the free energy principle connects to these very deep and extremely radical, especially within context, ideas in quantum theory and quantum cosmology and computer science,
all of which tell us that the world we see is a projection that's being written on our boundaries by a process that we have no access to except the procedure of active inference or the procedure of science,
which is to formulate predictive models and test them by doing things in the world and seeing how the world responds.
So that's it for this session.
The first discussion session, which Anders is going to lead, will be the third of June at this same time, i.e. five o'clock European time.
And then my session number two will be in mid June.
And if you look at the course website, there's this subsidiary website for interactive Q&A.
And I invite everyone to post questions and discuss them and hope that we'll have an interesting exchange.
And that everyone will come to sort of an understanding of what was talked about today through discussion.
And we'll be interested in being back in June to see how to formulate this in quantum theory.
So thank you very much. And thank you again, Daniel, for organizing this and hosting it and putting together all the technical things necessary to pull this off.
I could never do that on my own.
Thank you. We're really excited here.
Any closing thoughts or, or Andrew, I'd love to hear your reflection just briefly.
How would you have told that history or how does that history reflect on the areas that you're familiar with?
Well, I don't think I have much to add.
I've been mainly interested in the weak rotation part.
I'm excited to hear more about that, Chris.
But no, I mean, I promise to be a very, very nice summary.
I don't think I, I'm less familiar with the, with the staff on computation, formal computation, despite being a mathematician by training.
And it was a little more familiar with, with all the physics stuff.
But yeah, I thought it was great.
Thank you. All right.
Thank you. I will close it.
So in about two weeks, we'll have the first discussion.
Everyone's welcome to join.
I will share with honor and Chris the questions and we can develop that and we'll have that on the course front end before the coming discussion.
So thanks again, fellows. See you next time.
Thank you.
