that they should drop their obligations
and get rid of the word should entirely from their vocabulary.
He asks, if there's nothing that you felt like you should be doing,
then what would you really be wanting to do with your life?
The point being that should is,
this word that people use to kind of beat themselves up
or a false like motivator,
I need to do this thing because I should do it,
because Lil, who's saying that you should,
is it like your mom's voice from when you were a child,
or is it your boss,
but like you don't actually care about, you know,
like trying to figure out what your
in the first chapter, what do you actually care about,
and then calibrate towards,
is this thing that I feel like I should do,
actually pushing me towards that?
I really like that,
and I can't reflect an articulate thought on that in real time,
but that sounds actually really powerfully resonating.
I think it's common in the rationalist community, too,
to look at something like traditions of,
I don't know, surrounding funerals,
or solstices, or weddings,
and say, okay, well, that's what people are supposed to do,
or what, you know, the script says,
and then not reading from the script.
This sounds like a more generalized version of that.
I'm going to, I cannot,
this, I guess, meta note,
this is part of the reason I think I was disliked so much
by my teachers through like primary school,
up until about high school,
because I would do the same thing I'd ask,
and get all these clarifying questions,
and suck up a lot of class time.
It wasn't until high school where I got teachers that appreciated that.
That I can do basic algebra.
Like, why do I have to do this whole worksheet?
Yeah, it was more just like,
oh, that's really interesting.
Can we talk about that for 10 minutes?
Like, not really letting them get away from it,
but the good ones would say, you know what,
we got to get through the lesson plan,
but soon after class, or after school,
let's talk about it as much as you want.
Those are the teachers I got in high school.
Cool.
I will cease interrupting,
but no, I won't, let's be honest.
But I'm enjoying this, that's really cool.
You'll cease feeling guilty about interrupting.
I am occasionally an etymology nerd,
and I really enjoyed the etymology of the word should,
in that it's actually just the past tense of shall,
which kind of helps me think about this,
because it feels like, when I say, like,
I should do this thing, it's like saying,
like, I am declaring that at some point in the past,
I already decided that I, like, should do this thing.
I have pre-committed to do this thing.
But a lot of the times, like,
you didn't do that before, you're doing it right now.
Like, you're pretending that you already pre-committed,
and like, acting like you already have the weight
of that pre-commitment on you.
And you...
That is, that's an interesting thing to learn.
Yeah, I personally have had a tap,
even before I read this, of if I say,
I have to do this, or I need to do that,
trying to just always reframe that as,
I want to do this.
And part of the reason is,
if you say, I have to, or I should, or I need to,
it kind of feels negative, like some outside pressure's making you do it,
and that sucks, whereas if you make it seem like your own choice,
then it feels better.
And then also, you can gut-check it.
Because if it doesn't, if you say,
I want to pay this bill today,
I don't know, maybe that's a bad example.
Well, when I was, like, renovating this place,
I never thought of things that, like, I should be doing right now.
It was always like, this needs to get done,
and I want to get the place done so I can move in,
so gonna go to it, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah, or even for me, like,
so I have a lot of anxiety about explaining things to audiences.
And I was, like, going back and forth a lot about
whether to even be here on this podcast today.
And when I, like, looked at, like,
okay, do I want to do this?
Like, if I say, like, I want to do this thing,
the next thing, the next thought is, like,
okay, why do I want to do this thing?
And there are actually reasons that I want to do it.
There's reasons that I don't want to do it,
but it turns out, like, the reasons that I wanted to do it
outweighed those of, like,
I want to be the kind of person that can do this thing.
And actually examining, like, why you're deciding to do a thing
can go a long way in feeling intrinsic motivation about it
instead of guilt.
All right.
Yeah.
The third arc,
Sorz introduces techniques for building intrinsic drive
without the need for a guilt as a motivator.
He points out in these chapters,
working yourself ragged is not a virtue.
That's actually the name of one of the posts.
And that the work too hard and then rest a long time narrative
is a dangerous narrative.
Oh, what's that?
Working too hard, you bring yourself out.
And then when you're resting a long time,
then you're not being productive
and then you're feeling shitty about it.
You can also lose a lot of momentum.
Yeah.
There's also,
this is also where he talks about the resting in motion thing.
That a lot of people think of rest as, like,
just sitting doing nothing, like recuperating.
But he makes the argument that, like, really restorative rest is
more like, actually, you're just doing whatever you want
and not being constrained by other people
or systems or whatever.
And that, like, if you really feel like just getting up
and going on a hike, that can be really restful,
even though you're, like, doing active stuff.
Yeah.
I absolutely find that true.
There's definitely a different feeling between,
I still have energy to go for a hike
and I'm kind of recuperating from this versus,
I've burnt myself out at work
and all I have the energy for is to scroll Facebook
and drink a beer and be kind of low grade,
like, dissociating or kind of miserable.
That's not a rest.
That reminds me on, there's a subreddit that I like,
that isn't as, like, pejorative or mocking as it sounds
called White People Twitter.
For example, Julia Gaeliff was on,
I saw, not on, like, the front page of it,
but it was the, this was,
I probably saw this on Facebook like three years ago
before I stopped being on there,
like a picture of her tweet that was, like,
she went and saw a dog or, like,
she went to go try and pet a dog that, like,
then didn't want to pet her or didn't want to be pet
and then as she was leaving, the person said,
you always do this, you never make friends
or something to their dog.
And so there was one that I saw on the yesterday
that was, quote,
tired of explaining that I don't have time,
doesn't mean literally every second on my schedule
is accounted for, but rather,
I'm giving as much of myself as I'm currently able to give.
And I like that a lot.
I spend a lot of my time, and I'm not,
that sounds like I'm more, like,
stretched out than I am,
but, like, most of my time at home is just, like,
relaxing and doing nothing productive,
which I like to be productive during
a several hour chunk of the day,
and then I like to go home and, like,
watch reruns or, you know...
Yeah, like, wind down.
Yeah, yeah.
Exactly.
And I do a lot of that, so...
Anyway, I, that was
somehow relevant, I've forgotten how,
but then, I guess, nicely reframing things, and...
Tied into their whole resting and relaxing.
Yes, thank you.
I knew it was, I knew it wasn't out of nowhere.
Yeah, somewhere in here,
I forget which section there's, um,
a concept to sort of managing
different streams of work
or things you have to do,
and, like, there's job work.
Man, I should stop cracking my knuckles.
Like, there's job work,
like interpersonal relationship work,
and, like, one of the things that you have to do
is, like, take time to
recover and, like, rest,
and, like, if you don't do any of that,
you'll have bad results.
Yeah.
