I'm so used to social media.
A lot of people just having their identities.
And like now there's people that just have like a snake as their avatar.
I preferred that, I think.
A consistent identity so that you still have your rotational effects, but enough anonymity
that you can say things and you aren't worried about people burning your house down.
I don't know if I preferred it.
I think like when I was very socially anxious all the time, I preferred it.
And like now that I'm less that, I find it a bit like, man, I don't know who any of
these people are.
And then they can just change their avatars and names all the time.
So even if I kind of started to associate personality with them now, it's like, no,
I don't know.
Who's that?
Is that person that person?
Is that the same?
Ugh.
But if they change their avatar and personality, then that's just a new person with new reputation,
right?
I guess.
I mean, unless they're saying like, hey, I'm the same person I was before and then you're
like, such injured your name, a douchebag.
Yeah.
No, that's what I'm talking about.
I like that thing that's kind of annoying.
Okay.
It's super annoying.
Very much an inconvenience.
I don't have much of that experience, I guess, in my online life.
I think people I knew generally stuck with their handles because that's important.
You have continuity of personality.
Yeah.
I mean, I use my real name on here.
I'm probably in the phone book.
So this one wants to burn my house down.
They could.
I'd ask that you don't.
But I try not to be inflammatory enough to have anyone burn my house down.
So.
Yeah.
To be totally self contradictory and considering changing my name.
Okay.
Like.
Okay.
What the hell?
Are you trying to have a tattoo?
Actually, yes.
That's a transgender joke.
I was, yeah, I was lining up.
I'm glad it worked.
And now I killed the joke.
So.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
That's a good reason, though.
I don't know why people do it online.
I don't.
I guess like if you're changing whatever stuff, I don't know.
I'm actually generally pro people being able to change stuff that they want.
It's just annoying for the other people to have to keep updating.
Yeah.
So like, I get it when people get annoyed at you.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm actually generally pro people being able to change stuff that they want.
It's just annoying for the other people to have to keep updating.
Yeah.
So like, I get it when people get annoyed at trans people, change their name and their
pronouns and stuff.
It's like, yeah, it is kind of a pain.
You don't even have to be trans.
You remember the person in high school?
It was generally a girl.
I hate for there to be a stereotype, but it was generally always a girl that would change
her name every semester.
You'd be like, oh, hey, hey, Rose, how are you doing?
She's like, no, I'm candy now.
I'm like, oh, okay.
Hi, candy.
And you know, a year later, hey, candy.
Well, nice to see you again after some vacation.
No, now I'm Catherine.
I'm like, oh my God.
If I talk to more people, I might have had that problem.
Okay.
Yeah, maybe that, maybe I just didn't talk to enough people to meet that person.
Well, I forgot all the other things I was going to plug with.
I got the Draco Alpha and the practice rationality.
So that was the big one.
Cool.
And you mentioned the audiobooks of what lies dreaming, which is super exciting.
Yeah, it's really cool.
I feel like I'm forgetting something, but it's important to come back up.
So.
Back to, should we go on to the restaurant posts?
Okay.
So the first one is making beliefs, pay rent.
And then in parentheses in anticipated experiences.
And this is a very famous post.
This is the, like the one.
If I had to, if I had to share one as one, one post with somebody about like, what is
this rational?
What, what is rationality?
What is like a, what's an example of a technique?
What do you mean?
You like use cognitive science to buddy or thinking, like this is the one I would point
them to.
Huh.
This isn't the, like my favorite post.
It's up there, but it's not the one I get.
The most personal meeting out of, but I feel like it's one that really quickly summarizes
like, Hey, look, here's a thing that you can notice in your head.
Maybe, you know, and this is an example of the, of a technique and it's succinctly readable
in five minutes.
Excellent.
Yeah.
I think I agree.
This one kind of is the core of the skills that you would build on for the rest of the
rationalist, uh, techniques.
Oh, I hope we can do it justice.
Uh, should I summarize the first intro part?
Uh, sure.
So in the beginning, uh, Eleazar, uh, relates the old question.
If a tree falls in a forest and no one's around to hear it, does it make a sound?
One person says, yes, it does for it makes vibrations in the air.
Another says, no, it does not.
For there's no auditory processing in any brain.
Uh, there's a little bit more said, but I'm skipping ahead to though the two argue one
saying no and the other saying yes, they do not anticipate any different experiences.
The two think they have different models of the world, but they have no difference with
respect to what they expect will happen to them.
Their maps of the world do not diverge in any sensory detail.
And he said things like, would they expect for if a recorder was put there to, for it
not to pick up anything?
Or do they expect if similar sound waves hit an ear, would it not make any, uh,
fireings in the brain?
That sort of thing.
So there wasn't, there was, I think it was some internet thing that I missed.
But my coworkers a couple years ago were talking about like the is water wet questions.
Right.
And I relayed this exact argument.
And I'm like, you know, first of all, well, I skipped, I, I, I dove into the argument with
them for a couple minutes.
I was like, wait a minute, let's just take a step back.
What would be the difference if it was or wasn't like, are we having different like
predictions here?
And they're like, no.
And I'm like, then what's the point?
They're like, that's not the point.
I'm like, that is the point.
People seem to often confuse factual arguments for semantic arguments.
The whole, uh, tree falling is kind of like, well, how are you defining the way it's
sound?
Is it, uh, is it the vibrations in the air existing or not?
Or whether there's someone listening to the, it is just, you're making a semantics
argument.
What are you actually trying to predict?
And then.
I never realized that was the other side of it.
That, uh, it's, there's auditory processing, which is what sounds like.
I just was like, of course it makes a sound.
What are you talking about?
How is this a co on?
You know?
Yeah.
Um, Eliezer says a foundational skill in the martial art of rationality is the ability
to spot inside your own head, psychological signs that you have a mental map of something
and signs that you don't.
So in the example of the tree, uh, how are you defining sound?
And, uh, do you know that sound is vibrations in the air and then could you test that?
Could you record it?
And is it going to show sound waves?
You know?
So that's where the, I guess, anticipated experiences part comes in.
Yeah.
Like basically it's kind of saying, change the question to do these two people walking
through the forest anticipate having different experiences of hearing a tree fall and like
the answer is no.
And he points out a little bit later that the experience, different experiences are not
necessarily always like, uh, anticipations of different sensory experiences.
Like he said, when you, uh, if you're trying to determine when a ball hits the ground,
you got to use beliefs like Earth's gravity is 9.8 meters per second per second.
And this building is 120 meters tall.
And those aren't anticipations of a sensory experiences.
They're verbal propositions in your head.
Uh, but these two beliefs have inferential consequences, uh, that are direct sensory
anticipation, like when you would see the ball hit or when you would hear the thing
on the ground.
So your beliefs can change what you anticipate, uh, being your experiences.
Yeah.
It was saying also it's tempting to try to eliminate this by insisting that the only
legitimate kind of belief is the anticipation of sensory experience.
But the world actually has a lot of data that we can't sense.
Like we can't see atoms.
There's sounds past our range.
There's colors we can't see.
We can't see math.
But yeah, you could use math to calculate when the ball is going to hit the ground.
Humans are better than any other species at learning to model the unseen.
And then Ellerser says, this is both our great strength and our great weakness.
