It's like, look, if you really believed in this, and you'd be saying this, right?
And it's like, well, I'm not saying that.
So I must not really believe this.
Yeah.
Also, back when I was getting into atheism, when new atheism was a new thing, that was what a lot of the forum stuff was.
It was basically, it wasn't street epistemology, because street epistemology is friendly, and it like uses the Socratic method to make, to trick people into questioning their own beliefs, right?
Whereas the forums were a lot of like, boom, checkmate atheists, or boom, checkmate theists, you know?
I just proved the logical contradiction in your own claims.
If people evolved from monkeys, why are there still monkeys?
Checkmate atheists.
Yeah.
Yeah, that was fun.
So for next, next time, we will be covering the less wrong posts, professing and cheering, and belief as attire.
And there will be links to those on our website, thebasenconspiracy.com.
I think I've also related to both of those in examples, either, I think off the air to both of you guys that have seen it happen in real life.
And I'm in these situations and I'm like, oh man, this is applause lights, which I think is a separate post, but it's the same thing as professing and cheering.
It's like, I'm watching this happen.
It was very disconcerting.
Yeah, great.
Cool.
We have one listening feedback and one question from the podcaster.
All right.
So is it okay if we indulge me as I ask a question?
Please.
So for the past, I don't know, I think three months now, past six episodes or so, we've sort of changed our editing strategy to where before.
Actually, it's not important to describe the difference.
I actually kind of want to describe the difference briefly, because I feel really insecure.
Before we like would go through the entire thing like literally re listening to every minute of this, and we would cut out a lot of the likes, you know, is ums, long pauses, that kind of stuff, which, first of all, I thought was very important in a social good kind of way,
because that would cut the time of a podcast from like two hours to an hour and 50 minutes, just cutting out all that stuff that literally conveys no information.
It's just giving us time to think.
You know, when you're talking with two, three other people in a room, that's no big deal.
But when you're being listened to by thousands of people, you add up 10 minutes every two weeks.
That is a huge amount of human productive time that is being lost for nothing.
And so I felt like a virtuous, virtuous person for doing this, right.
And I wished all podcasts would do that.
Nothing annoys me more than just shit wasting my time.
Can I point out that there are podcast apps like Overcast for iOS that automatically skip dead air?
Yeah, but they don't skip like, you know, and such stuff.
That's true.
Yeah.
I should also point out that before you make the rest of this point that the last episode I did kind of go through and crawl through.
I'm not exactly sure why.
So this, if you're thinking how the, how's the episodes previously sounded, the last episode, the Jesus, what was even the topic?
Secretar success? No, no, those two episodes go at this point.
Last episode was Are You Jesus or Hitler?
Right.
Yeah.
So that one I did crawl through and kind of edit slowly.
I'm not exactly sure why I did that.
I was just, I think it was the first time I edited on my new monitor and it was nice and easy.
Cool.
So yeah.
All right.
But the other thing is that when I listened to podcasts, I always listened to them sped up and that makes everyone in them sound smarter.
And I was always kind of happy like, yeah, people are probably listening to us sped up.
So we sound smarter.
And now that we're cutting out all the OMS and you know, as we sound even smarter.
So now I'm like also what we've basically done is stop doing that.
We're just taking way too long to edit every episode.
It takes about four minutes a minute.
Yes.
Yeah.
Three to four minutes per minute to edit that way.
Right.
So a two hour podcast would take us six to eight hours to edit.
Yeah.
And it was just, it was too much.
And we kept hearing about like friends that have their own podcasts that they put online a half hour after they record them.
And we were like, we got to get in on that action.
So basically we jet now just here and there cut out some major flubs when we noticed them happening and put it up as is.
I'm basically wondering, please, if our listeners are willing to give us some feedback, does it sound a lot worse now?
Do you, do you notice a drop in quality?
Do we sound stupid?
Do you have any recommendations for free audio processing software that we could use?
That's an option too.
If there's software that will cut out that sort of shit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think I don't know if it exists or not.
It'd be super cool if it did.
It might just be the thing that you need a human to do.
But I mean audacity if it was all on one track can cut dead air.
Right.
It can cut dead air but it can't cut stuttering and such.
Right.
Yeah, I don't know.
There's some kind of audio version of like Photoshop filters that would just take a lot of the work out.
If anyone needs a side, needs to work on a, needs inspiration for a side project, go ahead and make that.
The problem is Photoshop isn't free.
Well, even if it's modestly expensive, we have patron support to buy it.
That's true.
If it makes us sound better and reduces wasted human productive hours.
Yeah, mainly it was just that it would take, yeah, six, six to eight hours to edit and then, you know, another hour for, you know, uploading, downloading, adding the intro and outro music.
And so it would take like 10 hours to do, which is the other main reason that we weren't doing this every week.
Hopefully I can replace the guilt of not doing this anymore with something else.
For what?
I guess two other meta points on that.
One, I like Sam Harris doesn't chop those out of his conversations.
Sam Harris is naturally genius level talking person.
See?
This is the kind of shit I gotta edit.
No, no, I think.
Please leave it in.
You make, I think the, I mean, he has ums and stutters and so does everybody.
I think that's just, that's part of what makes speech natural.
Where the first like dozen of these we went through and we would cut out every stammer, every this and that.
And that took like 12, 15 hours.
Yeah.
And then I, you know, I listened to like, you know, rationally speaking or really every podcast and people talk like they talk.
And a podcast sounds conversational.
And so I don't burn a lot of fuel worrying about does this sound like it's scripted?
Like we're, you know, we're reading this from, you know, a, I'm doing these things.
I'm pausing and I'm on all that stuff, right?
Yeah.
Um, that and I'm told city city listening to podcasts to speed up.
And I seem to be the only person who likes listening at regular speed because I gives me chance to like actually think in the normal speed of human speech to process what I'm listening to.
But I'm told by at least one person that they don't listen to this, but up because of my speak, my speaking rate.
I have, you should have talked to me 10 years ago.
I was incomprehensible this.
I, and right now I'm making an effort to be extra slow, but I think I've gotten a lot better at talking slower.
So maybe, maybe you can't listen to it at 1.15 speed, but one.
Yeah.
It would be really interesting to hear you 10 years ago.
I could go really fast.
Like this, I was able to talk at a pretty, pretty fast pace where people can understand it.
I can understand them and it would be just more or less fine.
Okay.
That was sort of an example.
Yeah, that wasn't bad.
It wasn't bad.
That wasn't maybe as bad as it could be.
It's been a while.
It's a practice habit that I do in the rest of my life too.
Probably requires your listeners to be like, you know, alert though.
Yeah.
Or to not care what you're saying.
I just pretend like the listening.
Right.
The podcast, JN Miles explained the X-Men.
They both just naturally talk at 1.5 X speed.
And just all the time.
They sound so excited about everything.
It's actually really adorable.
That's a good podcast.
I love those kind of people.
Like Mr. Peanut Butter.
Oh, he's the best.
Who?
It was Mr. Peanut Butter.
Mr. Peanut Butter from Bojack Horseman.
The adorable name dog friend.
Yeah.
Okay.
Listener feedback.
What is it?
Rockham on the subreddit says, this is actually something that we got a number of people.
A number of people saying not just Rockham and it was mentioned in the discord a few times as well.
So I'll go ahead and say it regarding the risk free assets, the post risk free, risk free bonds aren't or would I don't remember the exact name.
But Rockham is the one I pulled says regarding risk free assets.
It's not that financial theory is too stupid to realize that there is no such thing rather the opposite.
But it's still so damn useful that we take the next best thing.
And for US based based writers, it was used US government bonds.
And a bunch of people said the same thing that like, yeah, actual finance people know that there's no such thing that's completely risk free.
And this is just the closest thing in the world to what risk free would be.
So they use that term to mean like lowest risk you can possibly get.
And I think that I think we overemphasized the part that these aren't risk free from the post because especially the last.
The peak end theory, which I'm sure you're familiar with the generally what you remember from experiences the highest point and the end right, which is why Eliezer always ends his posts with something really punchy and generally the thing that was his most driving theme in the post.
And at the end of that one, he basically said it's terrifying that this risk free thing that we have we consider the most solid thing in the world is this fucking risky when you really think about it.
That what are the chances that US is going to be around for the next 300 years.
And doesn't that mean that there's a 10% chance every 30 years or 10% of that chance every 30 years that it's going to collapse.
I think the point he was making that was that the world, even when we use the term risk free is remarkably dangerous and risky.
And it's just a bad term to use because there there's so much inherent risk in just living in on this earth.
And that sucks. And we have to fix that shit because holy crap.
Totally. I saw that comment and some of the discussion on the discord, which we should plug because people are on there all the time. It's great.
If you're already on discord, it might be a fun place to hang out.
There's actually there's enough chatter that I can't keep up with it anymore.
They're now dropping and read like 50 messages.
But I just I can't stay current.
Yeah, same.
But I guess there's no way to make like to solve that problem other than maybe making more channels or something.
Us can discord experts.
I just occasionally comment on things that I do see and hope that they still are relevant when people see them.
Yeah.
Yeah, or I've just gone in and been like, here's a random thing I found unrelated to anything anyone's talking about right now.
Right.
I'm not going to pretend that I'm like chatting synchronously.
No, that's that's sort of my strategy too.
But I think in the post that this was responding to it Husky wasn't saying that, you know, economists are talking about risk free things and they're missing it.
And I'm the one who notices that it's risky.
I think he was specifically calling out Talib's use of the word a risk free investment like government bonds, right?
Oh, because Talib should have, especially given the context of that book, not use that term.
Right.
Yeah, I think that was basically the point.
Okay.
Maybe I was being too literal with it.
Maybe I was making a more general point that these people are responding to.
But the way I read it, he was saying, I mean, it's not like him to make a post complaining about one thing one person said.
Right.
So maybe it makes sense that he was talking about a broader problem.
That's why I read it as we have to make the world less prone to collapse and death.
