And that like it is actually better and more effective for everyone in like in the long run to leave some things up to other people and just choose not to worry about it yourself.
I like the books like this that are just really packed full of ideas and concepts and tools that you can use, subtle art not giving a fuck.
Probably I don't want to like shit on it or anything. It wasn't a terrible book. I think that for a person who's never really thought about any of this kind of thing before it could be really illuminating.
If you already have though, like Steven you were saying I already kind of don't give a fuck, then like it's probably not the book for you.
Good. I'll save myself all the time. The only self-help book I read was during a hard few years.
Geez, probably, I don't know, seven to ten years ago. My autobiographical memory is all over the place.
And I can't remember the name of it, but I bet it's the only self-help book that Richard Weisman wrote.
And he's a psychologist who he came to like, like skeptic meetups and stuff.
And he was, I think he still is a big figure.
It was kind of like influence, science and practice in that it was like, here's the things that like science has done to actually help.
And I tried that and I don't know if it helped or not. I guess I don't know how much. That's the thing that sucks about all of these.
Like I don't know how much worse off how to benefit and do these things.
But things like a gratitude journal or, you know, just spending, you know, a few minutes a day like meditating on gratitude things that you're happy about even if you're not writing them down, but to write them down if you can.
I'm trying to get some other techniques. Oh, I guess like the, the wag the dog's tail thing. And it's like, if you, if you're, if you're slouching your, if you're slouching your posture and kind of dragging your feet,
you know, like just try and like stand up straight, walk more confidently and like project positive body language that actually does turn inward.
I hate to tell you this, but that's the first chapter of 12 rules for life.
Except with lobsters.
That's where the lobsters come from.
Really with the Jordan Peterson lobster memes will leave that to Google.
Yeah, I have either of you read the self authoring books by Jordan Peterson because I was recommended those by somebody.
I haven't read them. My roommate bought the course online and got a lot out of doing it.
Yeah, I had a, I was talking with David Youssef who defends Jordan Peterson's like stuff that he's good at writing.
Yeah.
I guess pre-dark internet and intellectual dark web stuff.
Well, maybe.
Well, I'm not sure when you wrote these.
I think 12 rules is pretty good actually.
Yeah, I've heard that too.
Maybe, maybe his books are just better.
Maybe his books and is not really just books are better than him talking about stuff today about random crap.
The books are still very long winded. I think we've been over this.
If you could skim the books or read a distillation of them.
But I'd considered buying the self authoring program. Is that worth, I think it was 50 bucks?
I feel like you might be better with the CIFAR although I think they're kind of geared more now towards trying to steer people into AI research.
So maybe there's the, what's the Monastic Academy?
Oh man, yeah, you could just go be like a project based monk for a couple months.
I mean, or you could read Replace and Guilt.
That sounds like it's an entire novel length of stuff there.
Yes, if you're ranking these, would you put this one as one of the most valuable things to read on the subject of just like feeling better if you feel like your life sucks?
Yeah, I put it pretty high up there.
I think if you have any kind of even slightly bad relationship with Guilt, you absolutely should read this.
That's the kind of endorsement I was looking for. I didn't mean to interrupt, but that's the yes, perfect.
Yeah, I also would say that, I mean maybe especially for you Aniyush, that part in the beginning about addressing like the nihilistic kind of mindset of like why do I need to care about anything or why should I care about anything
or can people even really care about anything is a really useful part.
Okay, I will also give a look.
A lot of self-help doesn't have that kind of why do I care about helping myself part.
They just assume that like, well, of course you want to get more money or whatever the book is about be more productive.
But like this is like, like let's take a step back.
Why do you want to make more money or be more productive or whatever your goal is?
And then like is this the best like if you don't have a goal, here's a way to find a good one.
If you have one, is this the best thing you could be doing?
Are you doing the things that you're like that will lead you toward that goal correctly?
A lot of stuff that you're not going to hear in your normal self-help books.
Well, alright.
Yeah, that sounds outstanding.
Should we go on to the last wrong post?
Before we begin, I wanted to mention the book club thing that's happening.
Yes.
Okay, so we have a discord.
Yes.
And in the discord, like some people wanted to start a book club, which is cool.
I like book clubs.
I go to a book club myself, right?
And apparently they're going to be alternating fiction and nonfiction and stuff.
And there was a big old vote as to what the first book would be.
And I don't know.
I was kind of hopeful that at some point somebody would be like, hey, we should have leery of what lies dreaming.
But it was the very first book picked.
And I was like, holy shit.
Out of like eight on the list, it won enormously.
Yeah.
So I guess starting when this episode airs is when the book club begins.
So go to our discord if you want to be in on that.
And they're starting with the first four or five chapters.
And then I don't know how frequently they'll be discussing and reading and stuff.
But yeah, that's the first one.
There's a special channel for it in the discord if you're into that sort of thing.
Yeah.
Online book club sounds like much more my vibe too.
I think it encouraged me to read more, like dedicate actual, like that's probably part of the reason that you do a book club that like it actually forces you to read stuff.
Yeah.
And like the social commitment, right?
Rather than just like a personal commitment to finish a boring book.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, if it's a boring book, I don't finish it, even if it's for book club.
Well, that's not entirely true.
I'll sometimes hate read a book.
So I can talk about it in book club.
Hate reading books is pretty fun sometimes.
It's what it's not being fun for me for doing it solo, but doing it when I know I'm going to talk about it.
Like the reason I go to book club is because I really love reading.
But then when you're done reading, you have like this whole thing you've gone through.
And you can't talk about it with anyone else because no one else has gone through.
You can try, but like you could just bore the shit out of one of your friends.
Like, Hey, let me tell you about this fun book I read.
Okay.
So in chapter one, there's this guy and they're like, uh-huh.
That's why I think that's my popularity is so big because you can talk about other things.
That's like why when the Harry Potter train gets rolling, like everyone gets on higher
Potter because you can actually talk about it and the Marvel Universe stuff.
Once you know other people are doing the same thing, you can share the experience.
And so yeah, the book club is like, I read a lot more books than people then get popular
in a year, you know, and so having this other dedicated core people that will read the same
books and we can all talk about it afterwards with is really cool.
So there are like five things that I want to touch on.
Okay.
I'll try and be as fast as possible.
All right.
And I'll probably forget at least one or two.
So one, this is the fastest and least, least relevant.
When things are popular, you want to talk about them.
So Netflix, when they do a series, they do all the episodes at once, which means go home
and watch all of Stranger Things in one weekend.
So you can talk about it with your co-workers on Monday.
I can't.
I can't either.
Many people can't.
And so that's hard for that.
So Disney, when their thing launches in November, they're doing episodic weekly releases for
their original content.
Thank God.
I really think Netflix should go to that too.
They hopefully need to make some changes.
They're losing money.
Because I mean, binging was really big when it was introduced, but now it's like people
want more content every weekend because they've gone through all of your season eight or season
whatever in a matter of a few hours.
Yeah.
I think Netflix has been down in profits and new customers for the last quarter or two.
So they're going to be updating their model if they want to stay in business.
It's like actual healthy competition now, right?
So reading things and boring people by talking about them when they haven't read it yet.
So I'm going to do that to you two and to the listeners.
Oh God, a real time again.
I finished, no, no.
I finished Draco Malfoy in the practice of rationality, which I think I plugged.
If I didn't, I meant to.
I think you did.
I believe you did.
So it was fun.
I enjoyed the whole thing.
I do recommend reading it, although I am not as like vehement in my recommendation as
I was in the first third of it.
It changes kind of what it seemed like it was going to do a bit.
And then it is.
And he opens the book with like, you know, heads up, people complained about the ending.
And I'm like, how can they complain?
This is going to be great.
I'm loving it.
And the, this isn't a spoiler, but the author said that it was a deliberate artistic choice
to make the reader feel as ambushed as the characters because the end is confusing.
There's, there's this complex plot that comes together and you're like, what the fuck is
happening?
And he's like, I wanted you to feel that way too.
And I'm like, okay, well, he succeeded.
So there's that.
And then there's a semi satisfying three chapter epilogue that he apparently released like
a year later, but since this was three years ago, it was all at once for me.
So I do recommend Draco Malfoy and the practice of rationality.
It picks up at year two and it's just a continuation thick of methods of rationality.
It's not another diversion of this and that.
So let's see.
Feel the things you mentioned.
Oh, I didn't mention that apparently some of the people in the discord, they do audio
books like most people do, especially people who listen to podcasts because this is our
preferred medium.
And there's a bunch of people who are just like, or at least one person might be expanding
now.
It was like, sure, I'll read this into a microphone and upload it.
So yeah, if you wanted what lies dreaming in audio form, I guess you can get it on the
discord and I'll probably be putting it up at my website as well.
So people can get it there.
Sweet.
One chapter at a time.
Yeah.
I think they've recorded the first four chapters now.
Yeah.
The fifth one is coming up.
Yeah.
The guy doing the audio book is Steve, who was on episode 14 of our podcast.
Oh.
Which one was that?
The Street Epistemology.
Okay.
Yeah.
That was such a good episode.
Yeah.
And he's a fun guy.
It seems exciting and he is the guy doing the thing.
He's the philosophist on our discord.
Yeah, that's him.
Okay.
I was not...
I don't know if that's who Steve is.
I'm 90% sure.
Okay.
It is.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's weird going back to a medium where people are anonymous by default.
