Yeah.
In my case, when I do it, it seems like I'm self-signaling.
I think that this, and this might just be like pop psychology,
but like my impression is that this is a habit that you learn from your parents or from other authority figures
that when you mess up, you have to apologize and maybe grovel.
Like basically be like, I messed up, I messed up, I'm so sorry.
I'm really proving that I know, you know, I understand that I made this mistake and you do it to yourself.
So you're like internally signaling to yourself that you were a good person.
I kind of wish we had Matt Freeman here.
We can interrogate him on whether that is the various aspects of your sub-agent signaling to each other.
Oh, well, I think I can speak to the fact that it probably is, right?
I don't know.
I don't know what he would say, but that's how I picture it.
The way that I kind of bifurcate in my head, like if I'm having something like this,
this wasn't a technique I had back when I was having this guilt issue that I'm thinking of.
But I mean, you can have the part of you that's like really beating yourself up
and you can just kind of talk to it as a separate person and be like, look, it's okay.
We can get through this and I know why I feel this way, but we can do this instead.
And sort of like treating your sub-agents as if they're different people in your mind.
I think that's maybe not what Matt would say, but that's how I would do it.
But I'm interested to hear what you would say as well.
There are a couple of models about this.
One is that growing up people tend to know other people who apply guilt at them,
like often it's one's parents or teachers or whoever.
And the way we internalize this is that we sort of build up a model of those people,
maybe sort of glom them all into one sort of pseudo person in our mind.
And then we just sort of run that in the background as just like part of us.
And so I think the sort of parts thing of like one part is sort of guilting the rest is pretty accurate.
And that this is, I think the reason that it works this way is so that like,
if you do this preemptively to yourself, you actually,
assuming that it's accurately modeling the way the world is going to interact with
and like possibly punish you, preempting that sort of reduces the external harm.
Where like, if you can self-flagellate before getting actually flagellated by someone else,
this is protective in a way.
I think that makes sense though.
If you remember it by all means, just shoot it out.
But I was thinking, I think you help me resolve the distinction.
Like, it's not social signaling necessarily because I just imagined as, you know,
the hypothetical audience that I might draw attention with that.
Like, I'm not signaling to anybody.
Fuck that.
This must all be wrong.
But self signaling makes sense.
This all reminds me a lot of like the best way to lie to other people is to convincingly lie to yourself first.
Speak with George Costanza.
It's not a lie if you believe it.
And that like, maybe the best way to like really signal to other people that like,
you're sufficiently punishing yourself is to actually punish yourself.
So speak with Robin Hansen.
I think that's perfect.
Yeah.
No, that's a good point.
I like it.
All right.
Thanks for letting me dig into that a little bit.
No, that was good.
So one of the posts that we, from section three that I want to talk about earlier,
don't steer with guilt is, um, so if you imagine like,
if you have like a graph of like, you're in this current state and you have like actions that you could do,
and there's like this whole big branching graph of like paths you could take,
and it argues that the correct way to use guilt is to set up guilt on like some of these states where like,
you really want to avoid these where like, you don't like,
you really want to avoid accidentally like killing someone with your car.
And so you like place on like the path where like,
you get really drunk and then drive your car, like a big pile of guilt like waiting there.
Like you aren't there yet, but it's like there and you can see it waiting for you.
A problem that a lot of people have is they just put it in way too many places.
And that if you're hitting like the guilt branches very often at all,
then you're wasting a lot of energy on hitting these like self punishment outcomes
to try to like, to try to steer where you go.
And this is really inefficient.
And that he makes the argument that instead of like steering through these paths with guilt,
you steer with intrinsic motivation instead.
And you save guilt for like the really negative outcomes that you like really strongly want to avoid
and that are like worth punishing yourself for like if you hit those
and like leaving the threat of self punishment there as a way to like avoid them,
but not just using that all the time.
Makes it much more potent when it's used to.
Yeah, like I feel like the example of driving drunk and hitting a child
probably is one of those times where guilt would be appropriate
and you don't want to use the same amount of guilt to steer yourself away from the cookie jar.
Really hitting any person, not just a child.
Yeah.
What if it's Hitler?
What if it's baby Hitler?
Okay, in that case, he'd be proud.
Yeah, we solved WASP 101.
I think there's something to be said too about like,
if you just feel guilty all the time, it's not even doing anything anymore.
It's not effective.
It's not even steering at that point.
Yeah, then it's just driving with the parking brake on.
The analogy to pain there still fits.
Like if your foot hurt all the time, whether or not you just banged it on furniture,
then it's not giving you a useful signal.
Yeah, that's a good analogy actually.
I'm really glad that you thought of that.
I'll see how many more times I can shoehorn it in.
So the thing you just said about driving with the parking brake on,
that's one thing that people find if they're driven by guilt is that it can be paralyzing.
Where like no options look good.
And you just like, you just can't do anything because everything looks bad.
And I think this happens for a lot of people.
Yeah.
God damn.
My brother just borrowed the Neon Genesis Evangelion series from me.
And I think that's basically one of the primary emotional themes of that series.
Is that you hear people that feel terrible about everything they do and there's no good options.
Have guilt, friend.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The end of the fourth arc talks about that when you're given the choice between bad and worse,
you can feel good about choosing bad.
That sometimes there are a lot of bad choices, but you're still allowed to make value judgments.
It also talks about coming to terms with the fact that you might fail and discusses how in this process you can turn guilt into resolve.
And you can feel fulfilled with struggling to make the future as bright as you can make it without beating yourself up about it or taking on more than you can realistically handle.
So it's kind of the techniques of not needing to do the absolute best thing all the time, just doing a better thing.
Yeah, basically beating yourself up about something is inefficient if you want to actually achieve something.
Another thing that applying guilt to certain paths, another effect that that has is you can make certain paths unthinkable because,
well, I can't do this path because then I would be a bad person.
And if a path is unthinkable, then you can't actually work with it and try to find the optimal outcome.
If actually all of the options are somewhere between bad and worse, you need to be able to think about them.
And if you just write all of them off immediately as like, this makes me a bad person so I can't do it, then you can't do like...
Literally anything.
Yeah, you can't do math about which one is actually better.
Yeah, I'm reminded of a conversation that I had with a co-worker who makes an effort to not just eat a suffering friendly diet but an environmentally friendly diet.
He tries to buy ethically sourced clothes and all that stuff.
It's not a rebuttal to the vegan to point out that they kill mice when they harvest the grain, right?
Yes, that sucks, but that's like a reality of it, right?
Unless you're finding some safe way to grow this all yourself and carefully hand or move each bug or something before you harvest it, some suffering is going to be involved.
But that doesn't mean that you're not doing a good thing.
It might not be the perfect thing because the perfect options aren't on the table, so you choose the last bad one.
Yeah, exactly.
I feel like this sounds like a Scott Alexander style nuance.
Was he the one that talked about maybe eating vegetarian one day a week being a lot better than eating meat all the time or something?
He's definitely said something like that.
I think he personally has some kind of role where he doesn't eat meat unless he's going out to eat, if I remember correctly, and then he almost never goes out to eat.
I'm pretty sure it's not original to him, but I think he's mentioned that, yeah.
Yeah, at least I heard it from, I think it was late star codex, the idea that you can make an improvement and if you're not ready to make the commitment to doing something all the way, you can still do a bit.
You know, it's like giving 5% to charity and it's like, look, could you afford to give 30%?
Probably if you pinch depending on who you are, but like, yes, maybe you could theoretically afford to give 30%.
But like, that's not a sacrifice you're willing to give a 5% sounds totally manageable and it's way more than most people you're still doing a really good thing.
So, all right, I like it.
And then in the last dark source introduces some mental stances that make guilt seem like an alien concept.
A particularly good article here is one called confidence all the way up that I wanted to particularly pull out.
I highly recommend reading this one. If you don't have the time to read the whole series, I think we can link to that one and the other two that we mentioned.
Confidence all the way up teaches the skill of being confident in your ability to make a difference and be effective while not being overly sure of anything.
He also discusses the concept of desperate reckless defiance, each of which is a link, which is a kind of reframe of the general less wrong methods of rationality kind of ethos of doing the impossible
or having the heroic mindset. And it's very inspiring.
Well, I've actually had a quote pulled out from confidence all the way up, which was,
Insofar as I'm uncertain of my content, I'm confident in my analysis, except I'm not fully confident in my analysis.
But insofar as I'm uncertain of my analysis, I'm confident in my reasoning procedures, except I don't put faith there either.
But insofar as I'm uncertain of my reasoning procedures, I'm confident in my friends and failsafe mechanisms that will eventually force me to take notice and update.
Except that's not quite right either. It's more like every lack of confidence is covered by confidence one metal level higher in the cognitive chain.
The result is something that reads socially as confidence, regardless of how much empirical uncertainty I'm under.
And that I remember that one also really helping me where I was kind of trying to figure out what confidence is, or maybe more specifically assertiveness that's something I struggle with a lot.
And I was coming at it from totally the wrong angle of like, this is a way that you pretend.
Like, it's a way that you do tone of voice and body posture and facial expressions to convey that nothing upsets you.
And I like this take much better, which is kind of a much calmer idea of confidence.
Yeah, instead of trying to fake it, there's actually a way to get there.
Yeah, and that's to actually be confident in, well, I'm pretty good at what I do.
And if I screw up, there's my co-worker who can help me.
And if he screws up, we could go to the boss and then like, if no, but none of us can figure it out.
Like, there's always ways to cover your ass.
There's a thing that comes up a lot when people are talking about confidence of like, on some level, you know that like, no matter how bad you are at this thing, you're going to do like, you're probably not going to die because of it.
And that like, even if you fail at doing the thing, even if like, you fail at the mental processes that would like, let you maybe try to figure out how to do it.
Like, there's still other layers of being able to handle existing that is always sort of fallbacks that if you can notice all the layers of fallbacks there, you can feel confident that on some level it will work out, even if not necessarily completely on like the immediate level.
Alright.
Yep.
And is that the entirety of the thing?
That's what I got.
Cool.
And so how has, I guess, I'm going to start with how has this helped you overall?
The parts that helped me were the replacing guilt thing, the recognizing it when I'm, let me back up a little bit.
I went through a couple periods of, you know, having like, lost my house in a fire, being unemployed, and one of the things that I was struggling with was a lot of depression and feeling bad about not working full time during the periods where I was in school or when I was unemployed.
And it led to having just whole days where I just felt bad about myself the entire day and reading this helped me to kind of look at that feeling and be like, well, what, is there any purpose for me to feel bad right now?
Is this actually helping me in any way?
And mostly, no.
Like I was still motivated to finish my classes and then go apply for a bunch of jobs and then like do all that stuff and in between it's like, that's what I'm doing right now.
It's, it seems so obvious and it's a bit frustrating to talk about because coming from where I was before it was the least obvious thing in the world.
Having been raised in an environment where it's like, yeah, you need to feel guilty all the time.
I mean, I was raised Catholic.
For what it's worth, I think everyone can relate to a time in their life where they felt that way.
Most people probably.
Yeah, at least most.
I mean, I can certainly think of times where I started doing around or sat around doing very little other than just like, again, feeling guilty or feeling like I fucked up or something.
And sure, now I can look back and say, man, you could have just not wished all the energy.
But at the time, you don't really see an option.
But what you're saying is that if you had been armed with these techniques beforehand, you might have seen that option almost immediately or at least sooner.
Yeah, you can catch yourself.
And then there was something that I forgot to actually clarify or follow up on.
The first chapter talked about the listless guilt and that was the idea of being guilty about not doing anything in particular.
And then the second type of guilt was the pointed guilt, which was the guilt about not doing one particular thing that you feel like you should be doing.
Yeah, I was going to say what I've gotten out of this, especially, is there's a lot of little mental habits that once you start seeing these patterns and seeing the good and bad versions of them,
even if you're generally pretty good at this, there's still a lot of little ways that these can sneak in.
And this has gotten me a lot better at noticing when I'm doing that and being able to consciously intervene.
And eventually it sort of, like, percolates down and becomes a little bit more automatic.
Another thing that I got out of is, especially just like being in the rationalist, the AA community, especially in Berkeley,
a lot of people are trying to save the world.
And I learned that literal world saving is not actually that intrinsically motivating for me.
