You have to, like, balance all of these things
and, like, taking time to
do something not productive
is actually important.
I think that's why I've only had,
I've only worked at two different tech companies,
and the one I have, the one I met now,
doesn't actually have a ping-pong table available to us,
but their main office does, and I don't play ping-pong.
But the point is, like,
I think at a good workplace,
if they have things to do, like, that aren't work-related,
no one should get upset at you for, you know,
if you use it for 15 minutes a day.
Like, a couple weeks ago,
me and my three co-workers went out into the alley
between the buildings via our office
and, like, threw a football around,
and, like, that was actually really got, like, just moving
and, like, the acts of, like, having to coordinate
and, you know, throw stuff.
Like, that was actually good to get the juices flowing again, so...
That's, like, team-bunding.
That, too. Yeah.
Like, actual team-bunding,
as opposed to the forced company event.
Right. But I guess, like, 15 minutes of, like,
completely not doing anything for the boss time
actually leads to more productive last four hours of the day, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah, they've actually shown that in workplaces
where they do expect you to be at your desk every minute
that you're on the clock and, like, my last job
where you can't go on Facebook for two seconds,
you're only allowed to be doing work stuff on your computer,
you can't use your phone, you can't take breaks,
unless it's, like, your half-hour mandated lunch break.
Uh, even brains don't work like that.
Yeah.
No matter how hard we try to domesticate them with, you know,
15 years of schooling, that's just not how it shakes out.
Oh, boy. Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, people will get much more work done if they,
I guess the Pomodoro method is kind of
work for 25 minutes, take a five-minute break.
There's a reason that they have you do that.
You can't just keep working in these uninterrupted blocks.
Not four-hour uninterrupted blocks.
Yeah.
Anyway, back to the third arc.
Instead of giving it to society's urge to work
unrealistically hard or long, or giving up
and believing that it's not even worth trying,
SORs instead suggest that we can change our behavior
by approaching obstacles from a mindset of experimentation
and creativity, instead of attempting to berate
and guilt ourselves into submission.
And I really like that approach.
I found that this is especially good
when you're doing something boring or repetitive
and you can't get up the motivation for that reason.
You can kind of like make it a game and be like,
well, how could I actually make this harder?
Or like, how fast can I finish doing this thing
and then like time myself or, I don't know,
can I do this backwards or something?
And he also argues there's no such thing
as a bad person in the third arc
and includes some helpful reframes for self-compassion.
So there's a lot going on in this middle part.
Is that no such thing as a bad person in like the
Mr. Rogers slash, I don't know,
or is it just like the unconditional acceptance
like psychologist's point of view?
I'm not sure. I don't remember what Mr. Rogers says.
I think it's more of a, you are like, I don't know.
There are bad actions and not bad people.
Do you remember Phoenix?
The way I remember it is basically like,
the concept of a bad person is not helpful
and it's just a way to apply guilt.
And that like, you can just like go
with the concept of people being bad.
Basically everyone is trying to do
whatever they're trying to do and like,
just like how like the concept of evil
is kind of silly and unrealistic.
Right. No, I love it. That's perfect.
And that ties into last week's less wrong post
about all your enemies innately evil.
And it's like, no, they're just like, you know,
yeah, people, I love it.
That's basically what you said,
but that's a phrase that I like a lot
that people are just trying their best.
You know, even if they're being a dick,
even if they're, so that's the thing,
is they're being a jerk. They're doing mean things.
They're not jerks. They're not mean people.
They're just, they're people doing those things, you know.
Yeah. And this focus is more on your self-concept.
The idea of, so we're just kind of bringing up
in the first three sections, objections people might have.
Like, well, how do I know what matters?
And this one, it's kind of, what if I am just a bad person?
So this seems not so much to be looking at the outside world
and trying to judge other people,
but the tendency people have to be like,
I didn't do this essay on time. I'm a bad person.
You can just be like, I didn't do this essay on time.
And that sucks, but I'll try harder next time.
There's no reason to yell at yourself, especially after the fact.
It sounds a lot harder to do if you are always reminded
that you have hurt a person.
If you've hurt someone? I don't know if that applies
because this is more of like kind of failing to live up to your own expectations.
I could see maybe if you failed to live up to, say, your mom's expectations
and it feels like you're hurting her.
So this is for like a very specific type of guilt.
I feel like now's a good time to talk about Update from the Sucker Punch, though.
I'll go for it.
So this post is one of like ten posts in this section,
which is in particular about like if you've done something
that's harmed someone else and like the...
There's one path that people often take where it's like
you realize that you've hurt someone else and then you spend the next like week
just sort of like punching yourself in the brain about it
and just like applying guilt to yourself over and over.
And it makes the argument that instead of guilt,
you can do a thing that like one might describe using similar words,
but as long as like if you say you just have like sort of a pretend like agent
that like doesn't have emotions and just tries to do things well,
like it's easy to imagine this thing would like just learn what it did wrong
and then like try to do the right thing in the future and then be done with it.
And it makes the suggestion that you can just, you can do that.
You can allow yourself to not like punish yourself with guilt
and just try to figure out what went wrong, what the mistake was,
and how to change one's future behavior to not make that mistake again.
And then once you've done that, that's actually like the only like duty you really have
in this kind of situation is to try to be better.
And self-flagellating is really just a social signaling kind of thing
to show people that you cared.
But like other people probably don't want you to be self-flagellating
if they like care about your well-being.
And so like if you and other people are on the same page about this,
you can just both agree to not self-flagellate about these kinds of things
and just try to update instead.
I think it's very hard to wrangle emotions like that.
All of this is very difficult, but it works if you like practice it.
Yeah, the update from the sucker punch.
I remember distinctly after reading this like the next day,
I think I ended up using it and I caught myself in the pattern of
I fucked this thing up.
Wait a minute.
Okay, what did I do wrong?
That was this thing.
What did I learn from this?
That in the future you should do it this way.
Okay, now I get to stop feeling bad.
It's like I've committed to not doing this in the future.
And it actually worked.
It didn't completely get rid of the guilt or the bad feelings about having messed up,
but I kept remembering like every time I would catch myself starting to feel bad.
I would be like, oh yeah, no, we already went through this.
I know what I learned from that and then like it would alleviate it pretty considerably.
Yeah, basically like you're allowed to not get stuck in a negative self-talk loop about it.
Yes.
Which is like whatever a therapist would tell you.
The fourth arc has more techniques for building intrinsic drive.
So I suggest drawing on the ways the world around you is broken
and figuring out if there's anything that you can do to make it less so.
That's a good one.
Yeah, well what I liked about this is that
he specifies your intrinsic drive doesn't have to necessarily be save the world.
Or like build a galaxy spanning human civilization, but it could be
I want to help this one specific person.
Or like I want to help dogs.
I don't know.
You just look for a way that the world's broken.
Man, there's lots of stray dogs.
What could I do to fix it?
And then you have a goal.
Go ahead.
And like the really important qualifier here is that it has to be something
that you personally actually care about.
Not something that you've been convinced by other people is like a good thing to care about.
Yeah, or not doing it for signaling purposes or whatever.
Unless like, I don't know.
I guess I could see a scenario where I'm trying to be a politician
so I'm going to do stuff for signaling reasons because it leads to this main goal that I have of power.
Like alright, whatever.
Generally, you probably don't want to do stuff for signaling purposes though.
Speaking of signaling purposes, I'm still kind of hung on the last,
it was from the last chapter, but the like that self-legulation is largely like social signaling.
But I've had periods in my life where I like would wake up and have like a few seconds
where I like immediately felt like shit before.
Like I remember the thing I was feeling bad about the day before.
And like nobody knew like that was just me like having this problem, right?
So that's not, I wasn't signaling like anybody but myself.
