Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Eniash Brotsky. I'm Steven Zuber. I'm Jess Dickey.
I'm Phoenix Elliot.
And today we have Phoenix Elliot with us as you just heard.
This stuff is my special interest when I learned some more about y'all's podcast which Jess is doing. Also Jess is one of my partners.
I was like, oh man, this thing is too high value. You can't not do it.
That's why I'm here. Why this is happening. It's just got to do replacing guilt.
I also feel a little bit like that about the courage to be disliked.
You feel that it would make your community better if everyone in your community was familiar with this stuff.
Right. This is the kind of thing that I think literally everyone should read.
And no one can see the arm pumping unless you could hear it. That was a serious physical emotion behind that too.
Alrighty. Well then, let's get into it.
Actually this is a really good week for me and Steven because we didn't have to do reading and preparing or anything.
We were promised that we would be taught things today. So no pressure or anything guys.
Not only are we going to teach you things, we're going to replace an emotion of yours.
Wait a minute.
With a better emotion.
It sounds like a hack.
It is kind of a hack.
I mean, it's a hack that takes like a lot of work over a long time.
Sounds more like learning something.
Am I going to want to have this emotion replaced? Because I'm kind of attached to most of mine.
There's a section about that.
Okay.
Yes. But yes, the emotion is guilt and tends not to be a pleasant emotion.
This is the web series called Replacing Guilt.
It's a series of blog posts by Nate Soares, who's the executive director of MIRI, which is the Machine Intelligence Research Institute.
How long ago was this written?
That's a good question. Is there a date on it?
The first post was in 2015.
Okay. It's a few years old, but relatively new.
The whole series can be found at Nate's website, which is mindingourway.com forward slash guilt.
That's why that name was familiar.
Yeah. He's got some other stuff on there too, but the series is self-contained.
The objective is to help people who are driven primarily with guilt-based motivation.
It contains some helpful reframes and techniques for, quote,
building and maintaining a powerful intrinsic drive without the need to spur yourself with guilt.
As someone who personally has been driven hugely by guilt in the past, and this is also something I currently struggle with a lot,
I think a lot of people in the rationalist and EA communities could get a lot of value out of this series of posts.
It's not just addressing guilt, but I found that reading it also strengthened my resolve, helped make me more effective,
and it did a lot of work towards alleviating some of my depression and anxiety around specifically productivity.
So that's my recommendation for why you should read it.
It also makes some really cool moral arguments that kind of hide in the beginning of it.
I kind of skimmed past that part in the beginning, but when I re-read it, I was really impressed by some of the parts about just philosophy and moral questions.
Yes?
Yeah, so I guess I was going to say it sounds like you're about to get into the large chunks of the series of posts,
and what I'm excited about and kind of wanted to subprime the audience for was that since I didn't want to...
Well, not that I didn't want to. I wanted to read it. I just didn't want to find time to read it.
It is long.
No, no. It's a little long, but the benefit of doing it this way is that you two have read it at least once each,
and it's going to be more of a learning experience for me and Yin-Yosh,
and thus we can kind of proxy the audience and ask questions and do the learning at the same time.
So I'm excited about it.
Yeah, I like that format.
How long is long?
Well, it's about book length if you go by word count.
And we won't be able to cover all of the specific ideas.
Like there's about 30 blog posts in it, but there's like...
Can like cover the themes and like some of the ideas.
Yeah, there's five chapters each or sections, or I'm not sure what to call them,
but they're made up of a bunch of blog posts and there's kind of an overarching idea.
It's still worth going and reading the individual ones,
but yeah, there's generally like here's the overarching theme that we're going to do for like these five blog posts,
and then these are the little sub themes.
I bet by the end you can sell me on this.
The one thing I will say is that this is like, for something that is book length,
this is very skimmable because he tends to repeat his points because it's actually a blog.
So he'll like repeat things from previous posts so that people have context.
So if you're good at speed reading, you could read this pretty quickly.
I'm not, but I kind of like how the Yudkowsky sequences are kind of skimmable
because they link to old stuff and he might have a whole post devoted to making,
say the idea of making beliefs pay rent,
but then later he'll just use that one sentence and like it a hyperlink because it's like,
all right, if you need context, click this.
So you're saying it's that sort of format too?
And he'll re-explain concepts sometimes.
Cool.
So you can usually just like skip ahead.
It also, yeah, it connects to some other posts and less wrong and to some other blog posts.
So if you did want to get deeper, it has the little clickable links like less wrong.
I feel like a good way to read this.
I mean, unless you just face the whole thing like me would be a maybe reading one post per day.
If you're going to try to make it into kind of a meditative habit,
I could see that being a cool way to try to absorb the material.
And then it's also not so daunting of a big old chunk of words.
And that'd be a really good month.
That'd be a good month.
All right.
So I'm going to attempt to summarize some of the key points and feel free to ask questions as we go.
Chapter one is, or section one, whatever the first series of blog posts are,
are about distinguishing between two different types of guilt.
The first section addresses the restless guilt, or I think he said listless guilt as well,
that people feel when some part of them thinks they're not doing what's important.
So if you're someone who struggles with morality and spends a lot of time
wondering what the right thing or the best thing is to do with your life,
I recommend not skipping this part or like skimming through it,
kind of waiting to get to the better stuff later on.
Because this part was, it actually contains some really powerful arguments.
And this was the part that I kind of overlooked during my first read through.
This sounds like really interesting. What are some of these arguments?
Mainly it addresses common arguments about whether anything really matters,
or do people really do anything because they care about stuff or because of morality,
or are people just selfish and doing everything for signaling?
And what are the answers?
The answers are, well, it gets a lot deeper in depth,
but the TLDR version is that, A, it is possible to care about things outside yourself,
and B, that things larger than yourself are important,
and you're allowed to care about doing something about them.
So I think this was a question you asked earlier of like,
but I like guilt. It's useful.
Yeah, maybe not. I like it.
Well, yeah, but like I need it.
Yeah.
And the idea across all of these is to replace guilt with intrinsic motivation,
and that like having things that you care about that drive you towards those,
instead of like driving yourself with like self-punishment.
Okay.
Yeah, so I think like this was, first of all, it's called replacing guilt,
not eliminating guilt.
Something's going in its place, but so when you first,
when we first talked about it, I don't know, a couple months ago,
and I got the 92nd version,
the first thing that came to my mind was like physical pain,
and it's like you touch a stove top or something hot or get poked,
and you're like, ow, that hurts.
That serves a very important evolutionary purpose.
Like you don't want to eliminate that,
but it would sure be cool if you could replace it with something else.
Like in, probably was the God delusion, I think.
Richard Dawkins talks about like the evolutionary origins of pain briefly,
and how it's like physically imaginable that you could have like,
just kind of like an alarm in your head rather than like this fucking hurts,
and it would sure be nice if like you could,
I mean, for me, it's the kind of thing where,
I don't know, you hit your toe on something,
and you're like, okay, ow, yeah, that hurt.
Like I noticed I hit that, I won't do it again, brain, you bet.
And then it hurts for like 10 more minutes.
It would sure be nice if you could just tell the part of your brain
that's screaming at you that this hurts,
that hey, I'm aware of it, we're good now.
Do you think you'd be as motivated if the pain went away quickly?
Like as motivated in the future, I mean.
Maybe it wouldn't be just like an on-off flag,
it could be like an internal siren with different volumes, I don't know.
This is a quick side tangent.
You can totally train yourself to do that,
and to like to react to pain this way.
It's, you then have to like do some of it on manual,
where you have to like make sure that you don't actually die
from things that might are hurting you.
But like, this is like how Wim Hof stuff works,
or you just like, you learn to interpret stuff as signals,
instead of like automatically convulsing.
How what stuff works?
Wim Hof, he's the guy with the ice powers.
The ice man.
Oh, okay, after him, yes.
It applies equally well to pain.
Okay, yeah.
No, I mean, I, yeah, I know there's levels of doing this
that go way above what I can do,
but I mean, I'm at the point now where,
if I do wang my foot on something,
I tend to just to like, I notice it,
I don't even react before I feel my face like grimacing in it,
I just, I can catch it at that point most times.
But then there are people, you know,
that I've seen on whatever videos of,
I guess back when cable was a thing,
like the martial arts experts who could stand there
and like just take a full kick to the nuts,
or like a slap to the face and not flinch.
That sounds like, yeah,
that sounds like a human attainable skill then.
That's pretty cool.
So if you can do that with pain,
it sounds like we could do this with guilt maybe too.
Yeah, there's a few posts that I think I'll comment on
after we get through the initial summaries
Update from the sucker punch has something to do with that
and don't steer with guilt.
We'll talk about those later.
Yeah, those are two good ones to pull out.
Neat.
You mentioned briefly also the,
the idea that does anything matter,
I think you said, or something like that.
Did I hear that wrong?
That was what it is,
that's what like the first chapter is addressing.
Is that something that can be addressed in like a single chapter?
Because I think human,
I personally have been struggling with existential angst
for a long time.
Yeah, no, I'd suggest reading it.
Nate solved it, bro.
You waited this long to tell me?
It's over.
Next chapter is, or arc,
Sory is convincing the readers
