And I kept trying to use it in this way and kept failing and kept just not really doing anything with it because of that.
And this is really helpful for letting me reorient around the things that actually drive me.
Honestly, I'm still working on some, but I don't constantly feel guilty about feeling like there's this thing that should be motivating that just isn't.
We're feeling bad that you're not personally trying to save the world single-handed.
Yeah. I was just going to say, I feel like I'd be much more personally motivated to save the world if I felt like I had any reasonable avenue to doing so.
Like if I was Superman, and instead of being out there saving people or whatever, producing infinite energy for the planet,
I was just sitting here recording a podcast and holding a day job or something, then I think Superman should feel guilty for having a day job, right?
But the fan fiction metropolitan man covers all of that.
But yeah, I went through something like that too. I think shortly after I discovered the rationalist community, I'm like, oh my god, there's all this stuff out there,
but I'm just not smart enough to do it. I don't know how to even get started. What could I even possibly contribute?
And I guess years ago, I finally was just like, you know what? Nothing. I'll try and have fun, make some money, and maybe throw some money at the people who are doing this.
I also like to focus on smaller things that I can help with, local things, people near me that I care about, that kind of thing.
One of the best candidates of a thing I really care about looks more like helping people be more emotionally and internally healthy,
which is why things like this are my special interest in not solving AI.
You need psychologists and you need people working on the community level.
If the entire population of the earth were all trying to save the world, focused on the bigger goals and not focused on helping your neighbor who just fell down the stairs,
then your neighbor would be laying there on the floor. It's important to cover all your bases.
If the entire population of the earth was focused on saving the world, some of them would have to be allocated to these other things,
like keeping the community running and helping the old lady down the stairs.
Then they would be really upset that they're working on that instead of saving the world, so it's good to have a diversity of interests.
There was a really good post, I think. Gosh, I'm trying to remember the name and I'll say who wrote it.
I think Graham and Arnold wrote it and it was about the village and the mission that had a really good analysis of the ways in which this kind of balance is important,
and that if everyone is laser focused on the mission, then no one has friends.
No one's cooking the meals or cleaning the bathroom. It's important.
How long did absorbing this and implementing it in your life take?
How much effort? What's the process like?
I'd say it's ongoing.
I'm still doing that. Every now and then I go back and look at it and then remind it of some things.
It's like, yeah, I haven't done that in a while.
I would like to describe or to compare stuff like this to CBT, where it's an ongoing therapeutic process where you're constantly catching the bad train of thought and then reframing it.
Over time, you get faster at catching it, better at preempting it, better at quickly coming up with a reason and then believing it.
Wait, quickly coming up with a reason and then reframing it?
Like a reframe. I'm trying to think of an example.
One that I had a lot was my friends don't really like me. They all think I'm annoying and they're just tolerating me to be polite.
And then I would be like, no, I'm going to get a less wrong meetup and have a good time.
And then update in favor of the last two times I went to less wrong, I had a good time.
The last three times I went to less wrong, I had a good time.
And then finally it's been like, I've been going to these less wrong meetups for three months.
And now when my brain tries to tell me nobody actually likes me there and I won't have a good time, it's going to suck.
And I'm like, no, all of my data shows the opposite and you feel much more confident in it.
And for some data you didn't have the last one that you missed, many people asked me where you were.
So I think this seems like analogous to like, you know, how long did it take you to absorb and implement the sequences and the methods of rationality and benefit from them?
Right, still happening.
Exactly. It's like, well, I don't know, seven years ish and on, you know, plus.
And you can still get stuff out of rereading them.
I'm like, as we're doing the sequences on this podcast, I'm like, oh, yeah, that was a good one.
Yeah, like going back and rereading this was really helpful for me because I had totally missed that beginning part about like the part where it was saying, here's how you can care about something,
find something to care about and then believe that it's worth caring about.
It's actually like a really important step that I'm really surprised that I kind of just like breezed past the first time.
I guess I already felt that way or like didn't think I had anything to learn, but I was wrong.
Yeah.
And when I first read this, that was like back when like I was constantly feeling kind of aimless because of like being surrounded by people trying to see the world and not quite knowing what thing I actually wanted instead.
And sections four and five were like kind of hard to internalize back then, but I've gotten more to a place where like I can actually do anything with this.
So if a listener, if you're going to live a listener one takeaway now that they could implement before they dive into this and start reading, what would be a thing they should take just to make immediate cool life improvement?
Oh man, I have to choose.
I kind of think that like the one I said earlier about replacing the word should try to if you catch yourself saying I should do this or I ought to be doing this or I need to do this.
Try I want to do this because and if you have a reason.
Good, then it probably feel much more aligned and much less like someone's trying to bully you into doing something that you would have done anyway.
If you don't have a reason, then maybe you don't really need to do it.
I'm thinking there was like some mundane ways to like practice that habit that, you know, you don't have to start on hard mode with, you know, resolving conflicts of guilt.
This afternoon, I had the thought I should eat something for lunch because I'm not hungry, but I know it will be later.
And so I can, I think I'll try and set a flag in my head for whenever the word should comes up in my stream of consciousness and just say, Stephen, you want to eat lunch now because if you don't, you're going to be really pissed and hungry at two.
Right?
Yeah.
Okay.
I can definitely see that that that particular post should considered harmful is by far the one of these that I've seen passed around the most independently of the whole series.
Yeah, it's a good one.
What was the couple is that should is quote should considered harmful.
Gotcha.
Yeah, I think we've named four specifically at this point and we'll link to those ones.
And you can read the whole thing if you want, or you can kind of just read the best of.
I'm looking through these and trying to find anything that I'd recommend more, but I think that one is it's very is very nicely encapsulated or a lot of the other things sort of require some context around them to use more.
But I think that one's like a nice easy tap to implement.
Like, notice you're saying shit about something and then think about why and whether you actually want it.
Now I'm just trying to think of, you know, someone's listening to this and they're the sounds all very appealing and, you know, that sounds great.
I'd love to feel that way.
But in somewhere in their head, they're like, no, I really should feel like crap about this because I've just fucked up.
Like, is there a way that you would respond to that if someone came to you right now and was like, said that?
Um, I would say that if they said I really deserve to feel like crap about this, I would say why?
Like, how is it helping you to continue to mentally beat yourself up about it?
How is it helping the situation?
Like, does this make you more effective?
I think a lot of people have an internalized sense of justice, though, that perhaps would be violated if they didn't continue feeling guilty for whatever they think their appropriate period of time is.
I would tell them to do the exercise of update with the sucker punch.
Notice that this thing hurt and then what did it teach you?
And then what will you do in the future?
And I think that you can absolve yourself of guilt if you've, in good faith, gone through each of those steps and, like, committed to trying to fix the thing that you did wrong or to do it better next time.
And I think you and I, you know, I start talking about two different kinds of examples.
Like, you're talking about somebody who hurt somebody and feels bad about it or, you know, their fuck up caused actual harm or something.
Whereas I'm talking about the person who might just feel like, you know, I don't know, I...
I'm doing nothing with my life. What's even the point?
Yeah, or, you know, I, um, I can't think of a good example.
Like, I should have tried harder in school or something.
Yeah, like, I got an asthma test or...
Or I should have gone, you know, to get a master's degree or, you know, I should have, I should have gone to higher education and like, you know...
I should have spent more time working out over the past year.
Yeah. And so, you know, the, the waiter, I couldn't, that's, that's an easy one for me to solve having just learned what I've learned in the last hour, which is like, all right, cool.
Instead of saying, yeah, sure, you should have, you can move past that line of thinking and just think, all right, cool, we'll start now.
You know, like, I've got a friend who is, I think he's going to have his last, or his last, he's stopping smoking.
And he's like, yeah, I'm going to quit when I'm 30. And I think that's like the middle of September.
And so, like, he's, this is like looking for another way, but this is a way that I like to think of, of that kind of, like, retrospective, I should have done this.
I can just say, all right, cool. In five years, what will I be thinking that I should have done?
And like, there are boring answers, or there are boring ways to frame that question, but then you can look at like a thing you're doing.
And it's like, yeah, I start every day with, you know, two donuts or something, and I don't walk more than I need to to get to work or something.
It's like, all right, well, where are the odds that in five years I regret doing that? If you feel like they're pretty high, you can just stop that now, right?
I know that I'm, I'm on the tip of like being able to put that in a more interesting way.
But yeah, I think Harry puts it best in chapter 10, maybe, or nine of methods of rationality, where he realizes that, that 10 years from now, he's going to just go back looking at this moment thinking,
if only I had done this differently, my friends would still be alive and the world wouldn't be burning and oh God and like, oh yeah, it's, it's, it's, this is that moment from, for that I'll be regretting in 10 years, wish granted.
Oh, right after he got sorted.
And he was like, I should have told them.
Yeah.
Wasn't that the, or maybe this came up a few times.
I remember he was trying to get McGonagall, like let him buy a first aid kit, like a really intense one that had like blood coagulant and.
Right.
No, that was, that was a few chapters before what I'm talking about, because in that one, he was like preparing for, for things going bad.
Whereas this one, he was, he was realizing that he had a chance to go back in time and stop himself at the path of divergence into evil.
Except instead of going back in time, it was this time right now.
Like your wish is granted.
You are at that period.
I like that.
And that's, I remember like Sam Harris does this section on some of his podcasts that's like the least interesting where it's like a grab bag of like generic interview questions.
And one of them is, you know, what are you doing now that you suspect in 10 or 20 years you'll regret not doing or like, you'll regret doing either like not spending enough time on or doing too much time doing this.
And Robin Hansen had the best answer.
And he's like, if I was aware I was doing something like that, I wouldn't be doing it.
Right.
I would.
I think Robin Hansen is one of the few people who have that answer to give though.
It's true, which is weird, because that's also my answer.
Like, I mean, yes and no, like maybe I would have wished that I read more in 10 years or something, you know, but like I'm currently not like kicking myself for not reading enough books.
It's not like I never read, but I should probably read more.
But like, I don't know.
You just used that should word.
Oh, shit.
I shouldn't use that word as much.
It's funny.
Two years ago, I was in that exact same position where I was really happy with everything I was doing, you know, and now less so.
Now I could answer that question with something.
That's worrisome because I thought I was on the upper track that was going to stay up.
Well, you know, I mean, nothing goes up forever, right?
Everyone has their dips and valleys and then it comes back again.
I have just sort of a tangent about using the word should and that I think I think like once you understand like what the problems are with the word should, you can just start using it in a way that means the right thing to you.
And then he sort of gets to that in the later sections of like, I like here's here's like what should there for you can use it to mean like, Oh, that's the thing I want to update on.
And they're like, Oh, I made a mistake there.
Or like, maybe it's a good idea to do this thing.
And like as long as you like mean it mean that to yourself internally, like it is actually very difficult to stop using the word.
Yeah, there's a I get like you're using it in the spirit of the like the intended way that frames it well for you to say that you shouldn't use the word should like that's a tongue in cheek thing.
That's not like that's not a knock down anything.
That's that's that's missing that that's missing the spirit of what it's getting at.
You could also not use the word should and presumably keep making the same mental mistakes.
Right.
So yeah, yeah, like the point isn't don't use the word should the point is notice when you use it and find out what's driving that.
Right, exactly.
Like notice that you use the word should and then like check if you're using it wrong internally.
All right.
All right.
I don't know that I have very much more to add.
I mean, I'm sold.
I'm going to start reading this.
Yeah.
Like immediately.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
This this this I got exactly what I wanted out of this which is a a crash course.
Yeah, I guess just one one one thing a crash course to prove to me that this is worth reading in whole.
So yeah, I guess my my last thing that I'd say is that like, we probably covered like less than half of the concepts in it.
And they're explained in much more detail in it.
There's a lot of stuff in here.
Like, I don't know, I was going to say probably like better than going to the library and reading like the most popular five self help books.
Yeah.
I would, I think I can confidently with fairly high confidence say that like you'll probably get more out of reading these blog posts.
We live in a weird time man, where people just like go on the internet and spend a lot of effort and time into making these helpful things for people, as opposed to putting them in books.
And the books they'll help books are usually crap too, because people are doing it for money, I guess.
Whereas this is like something he wanted to do.
Yeah.
Well, I'm really tempted now to name drop like the last three books I found really valuable.
Go ahead.
The Six Pillars of Self-Esteem, which ties together a bunch of different things I've been studying in this area, like really well into one framework.
And the courage to be disliked, which how do I even characterize that?
I would say it almost like it kind of is in the title, but it's also not because it sounds like a way to not feel bad about like or to not give a shit about what other people think of you.
But like it's a lot more about kind of the idea of the intrinsic confidence, I think.
Yeah.
And it relates a lot to the guilt thing, I think we're like the courage to be disliked is about how to interact with the world effectively without self-flagellating in like a lot of various ways.
And he's got a lot of things going on, but like how to not self-flagellate unnecessarily and also why you should.
Also what you should.
Or why you should not self-flagellate.
Oh, okay.
All right.
Has anyone here read the book, The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck?
I have.
Is this like that?
I, this might be an unpopular opinion.
I didn't really like The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck.
I mean, I haven't read it, but I've had people recommend it to me, but I feel like maybe something got to get out of it, but I feel like I already don't.
Yeah.
And so maybe they just not like you would like this because maybe it jams with how you're already acting or something.
I think I didn't like it because it doesn't really tell you why you, or like it didn't make a convincing argument to me for why I shouldn't give a fuck.
The Courage to be Disliked has this idea of vertical and horizontal relationships, which was a useful model that I could use to realize when either you're engaging with someone in a way that kind of makes them your superior or that you're talking down to them.
That, in combination with one of the other major ideas from that book of task interference, where like some tasks are your tasks, some tasks are other people's tasks.
One of the somewhat harder to internalize things is that other people's emotions and dealing with them are their task.
And that like it is actually, you actually just get worse outcomes if you take other people's emotions as your own responsibility and other people's tasks as your own responsibility.
