Totally.
That reminds me of my awesome life insurance agent who got me hooked up with Crownix, Rudy Hoffman.
He works for Kansas City Life, which apparently is like the most secure insurance company on the planet.
They are, they have no debt.
They own all the properties where they have offices.
They don't just rent office space.
So he's like, yeah, basically, so, you know, I talked to him, you know, because he's also signed up for Crownix through Kansas City Life.
And he's like, yeah, I want this to work.
So that's why I choose them.
He's also a great salesperson.
I think that's part of it too.
But he's like, yeah, I mean, barring anything short of like a zombie apocalypse like Kansas City Life will be the last life insurance company to fall.
You know, they'll survive floods, natural disasters, all that stuff because they've got, they own their property and it's all insured.
I want to see the zombie movie where like the last bastion of humanity is this insurance company and they've got their shotguns and they're protecting all the uploaded consciousness.
Awesome.
Brains in a jar and the zombies are like brains in a jar.
Already desculled.
So convenient.
I think I mentioned actually being a premise for a fun short story where it's like, I can imagine, you know, armed altruistic rationalists protecting the the tanks in Michigan full of full of
cry protect people.
Like, no, they're going to make it.
writers steal this idea.
Okay.
Yeah.
Let us think our patron.
Yes.
I don't remember whose turn it is to do the thinking.
I did last week.
I'll do it.
All right.
You volunteered this time.
I did.
Um, Smriti Ja is our patron this time.
Thank you, Smriti.
I hope I didn't just butcher your name terribly.
And if I did, I'm sorry.
But we still like you anyway.
I don't even know what I'm saying.
I'm tired.
I'm just trying to thank this person.
We are thankful this will that people do this thing.
Help us keep going and help us.
You know, I never mind.
I keep hammering on how I feel appreciate when I do this.
And I should stop doing that because it gets tired.
Well, it's hard every time.
It's hard not to, but this is the part of the podcast of other
podcasts that I skip.
Right.
Like, I'll get to the part where they say the name and then
they'll give 90 seconds how much they appreciate it.
But that doesn't.
If we're cut if we cut down on the time that we emphasize
appreciation doesn't mean that we appreciate it any less.
Right.
It means the world to us.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
If it was, if I was the person who was being thanked, I would
listen to that part podcast and be like, that's me.
I get to one person who's listening to this part being like,
that's me.
Yay.
Also, man, they mispronounced my name.
I wouldn't.
I wouldn't plug this on prompted, but you reminded me.
Brian Dunning sent out like an email because he's recently,
I guess in the last year or so, started thinking people who
are at the show and he sent an email out like a month in
advance.
Hey, on episode, I forget which one I'll be thinking your
name.
Do you care how I do you care how I attribute it?
And I probably listened to him say, you know, like it was,
it was very nice and thoughtful and it appreciated it.
So that was nice.
So I can confirm that when you, when you get a shout out.
In fact, every podcast that I've given money to that,
I've heard my name said and it makes me smile.
So, um, and I don't have a hard name to say.
So Smriti, if we did ruin it, by all means,
write in and we'll do, we'll fix it.
Uh, but if not, if we got close enough, then still,
we really appreciate it.
And everyone know that that's important to us.
Hell yes.
All right.
Thanks y'all.
We'll see you in a couple of weeks.
Awesome.
Night everyone.
Okay.
