Because humans often believe in things that are not allowed to be seen.
Because humans often believe in things that are not only seen but unreal.
Yeah.
Like, uh, he brought up again the alchemists, uh, concept of Flaugistan being something
that creates fire causes heat.
Like what is it?
I don't know.
It's the thing that does it.
Yeah.
Obviously it must exist if it happens.
Right.
I anticipate that when I put heat on this wood, Flaugistan will come out and that'll
make bright lights and more heat, I guess.
But it wasn't tied to anything real.
Yeah.
It's tied to the kind of inferential chain there.
Well, something causes the fire, so I'm going to call it Flaugistan.
Or, um, yeah, this seems like it should be a thing that is true.
Um, or kind of ideas about things like ghosts.
Because we've evolved to model things as being agents.
Like, we're evolved to model other human minds.
So we see lots of things as either having been made by a human or having some kind of
human-like sentience and agency and a reason that it's doing what it's doing that like
follows anthropic principles.
Yeah.
He mentioned a good way to, well, let me just read the poll then.
Uh, the rationalist virtue of empiricism consists of constantly asking which experiences
our beliefs predict.
Or better yet, prohibit.
Do you believe that Flaugistan is the cause of fire?
Then what do you expect to see happen because of that?
Do you believe that if a tree falls in the forest and no one hears it, it still makes a sound?
Then what experiences must therefore befall you?
It is even better to ask what experiences must not happen to you.
Do you believe that Elan Fatal explains the mysterious aliveness of living beings?
Then what does this belief not allow to happen?
What would definitely falsify this belief?
And no answer means that your belief does not constrain experiences.
It permits anything to happen to you.
So, yeah.
If your beliefs don't actually disallow things from happening, they don't do much of anything.
Yeah.
There was also, do you unreal things connect to any sensory experiences?
No.
I'm trying to think like, I'm remembering, what was that show Ghost Hunters where they were trying to,
they're using carpentry tools incorrectly and then trying to say that it's evidence of ghosts.
If a ghost were a real thing, you would anticipate some kind of sensory experience,
maybe a cold drop, maybe sounds, maybe you could capture something on video.
Except for all of those, and this is, I don't think Brian Dunning was the first one to put it this way,
but he put it this way most succinctly when I came across it, that like,
everything that the Ghost Hunters do, all their tools of low frequency vibrations, cold spots, etc.
It's like, they use all of these, and you're like, look, ghosts,
and it's like, we haven't established that ghosts do that.
So, like, ghosts have no known properties.
So, to say that this cold drop is indicative of a ghost means that,
would necessitate that we've already established that ghosts make things cold.
Which like, why on earth should that be the case?
Supposedly there's a bunch of, a lot of anecdotal reports of people seeing ghosts,
and they say that there's connected phenomenon, phenomena.
But if people were actually able to consistently measure the same phenomena
in places where people also experience psychological disturbance,
then maybe that would be something interesting.
But pretty much what we've shown is that no one cannot measure anything like that.
Or like an old basement with creaky hinges,
like, you know, maybe you get light carbon monoxide poisoning down there,
and you start hallucinating stuff, like that would explain all these things as well, right?
What we need is like a ghost in a box that we can hold a thermometer to,
that we can poke with a stick, that we can put a microphone next to, and all that stuff.
Well, lots of times they say that what causes these things to happen is ectoplasm.
Right.
Which is basically flogiston for ghosts, right?
I don't know if the ghost hunters say that.
I know the ghost busters did.
But like, not to say that ghost hunting is a sophisticated field.
I don't think they're quite that unsophisticated.
They're not literally cartoon caricatures of themselves.
Exactly.
Anyway, how about belief in belief?
Oh, can I close out with what his ending paragraph, which is the one that I loved?
Yeah, I know which one you're talking about.
At the very end he says, above all, don't ask what to believe, ask what to anticipate.
Every question of belief should flow from a question of anticipation,
and that question of anticipation should be the center of the inquiry.
Every guess of belief should begin by flowing to a specific guess of anticipation,
and should continue to pay rent in future anticipations.
If a belief turns deadbeat, evict it.
Which is just a great thing.
If your beliefs are doing nothing for you at all, why do you even have them?
Gotta make them pay rent.
That's right, using up all that valuable brain real estate.
So, belief in belief.
Belief in belief starts with Carl Sagan's invisible dragon parable,
which briefly is like, the friend comes to you and says,
hey, I've got a dragon in my garage.
And you're like, that's so cool.
I want to see.
Oh, well, you can't really see it.
It's invisible.
Oh, okay.
Well, no problem.
I'll throw some flour on it.
Well, it's permeable to flour.
Okay.
Well, we'll put, you know, we'll measure the amount of oxygen in CO2 in the air,
and we'll watch it breathe.
Well, it doesn't actually, you know, exhale CO2.
Okay.
We'll listen for its footsteps.
Well, it has inaudible footsteps.
And so, Carl Sagan uses this as the, like, the idea that bad hypotheses do fast footwork
in order to avoid falsification, right?
Yeah.
And I like this because I'd read, or what was the, Science as a Candle in the Dark.
That's the subtitle to-
The Demon Haunted World.
Thank you.
The Demon Haunted World.
Yeah.
Which is like the, hey, what's skepticism?
This.
Read this book.
It's a cool author and create examples, and he's a smart, smart guy.
And very compassionate, too.
I know.
He was wonderful.
Some people I know didn't like the tone of the New Atheists.
I think Carl Sagan kind of, if you're somebody that's just put off by Richard Dawkins for
whatever reason, then like, I would recommend people read Carl Sagan because he's just like,
almost the Mr. Rogers of Science.
Yeah.
He-
Got the sweater vest and everything, I think.
Yeah.
Imagine, like, I mean-
No, we had a turtleneck.
Yeah, he did.
Like, Neil deGrasse Tyson's like, you know, I think Carl Sagan's shoes are so big that,
like, five people fill them now.
But Neil deGrasse Tyson fills them in some of the ways, like, for example, hosting Cosmos.
In the, ah, I could go on and on.
If anyone hasn't seen the first episode of the revamp of Cosmos, just any, if you're
not interested even, just watch the last 10 minutes to get a kind of feel for the character
of who Carl Sagan was.
I could go on, but I don't know.
Yeah.
Carl Sagan.
Yeah, he's great.
Carl Sagan, yes.
So what I liked about this post is that I, I was already familiar with it and as a budding
young rationalist come across this and like, finally, something I've heard of.
And then he goes on to expand it in a way that I thought was really interesting.
So, belief in belief.
Yeah, he says that he uses this parable to make a different point.
The claimant must have an accurate model of the situation somewhere in their mind because
they can anticipate in advance exactly which experimental results they'll need to excuse,
which is pretty cool when you think about it.
Yep.
Yeah, we're capable of holding a lot of contradictory beliefs as humans.
People are really good at compartmentalization.
I used to be really confused as to how, ah, I don't know, a biologist who specializes
in like studying the RNA of bacteria can also be like a young earth creationist.
Right.
And that's how you explain it.
It's just like, this is that my science world beliefs and this is my religion world beliefs
and they don't overlap.
It's a context that I activate them in.
And yet somehow, somewhere deep in his brain, there's something like making excuses for one,
you know, subconsciously because he can't admit that he knows.
It's still not clear.
Like I, so I understand like, yes, you can, you can take your science code off and put
your, your church code on on Sunday.
It's still not clear to me how you don't notice that you're doing that.
You don't have the self awareness.
Yeah.
Or you are aware of the cognitive dissonance and then you just always push it to the side
because you're like, well, not dealing with that.
I remember doing that.
A thing that parts of your mind can do is actively suppress other thoughts if it's useful to do so.
If you're, if you're not inclined to listen to the part of you that's saying, hey, shut
up over there.
Right.
Right.
Like you have to have like a distaste for shutting down your own thoughts to even escape
this in the first place.
I think that's what I've always had.
Like I've, I've never liked, I've always noticed when I was suppressing a thought.
And it always kind of hurts, right?
Yeah.
It's this weird stingy feeling in my, in my brain.
And I think it part of, I guess methods of rationality is raising that to like a, like
a louder noise or a hurtier hurts just to like you're, you're aware that you're doing
it.
I think I almost think that like the sequences and the methods are written for people who
already like have that.
And this is ways of how to fix the things that raise those alarms all the time.
Yeah.
And then now that you've got them and you've got all this, this ball work in place, what
you can do with it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
