Hello, you've found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and I'm sitting here
today with Vitalik Buterin, the leader and founder of the Ethereum world of cryptocurrencies
and smart contracts. Welcome to the portal.
Thank you. It's good to be here, Eric.
It's terrific to have you. Now, in general, when I see you interviewed, immediately everybody
goes straight to cryptocurrencies and Ethereum. But one of the things that I found fascinating
about your story is that in order to be a good steward of this new and emerging economics,
you've actually applied yourself a great deal to standard and regular economic theory. And
I was curious, if I understand correctly, you dropped out of college after a year, you're
self-taught in economics, but you've taken a real interest in understanding how markets and
economic theory work. Is that a fair description?
Yeah, I think so. And economics has been of an interest for me, definitely for a long time.
I mean, when I discovered Bitcoin back in 2011, and I was still in high school, it was this kind
of interesting confluence of ideas that I was already pretty attracted to. So of open-source
culture, that was something that a good friend from high school, Christopher Ola, had already
indoctrinated me with really well. The mathematical and cryptographic aspects, also libertarianism
in Austrian economics, was kind of the zeitgeist of the Bitcoin space at the day. And those were
ideas that I definitely found philosophically quite attractive at that time. And I was definitely
curious. I read a bunch of books, I read the Austrian economics canon, because that's what the
Bitcoin people were talking about all day. I read some kind of behavioral economics literature,
Arielli, Kahneman, and Chiedini, and all of those people, just because I knew that I had to read
other stuff for balance. And also economics itself is a pretty mathematical kind of subject.
Well, kind of, right? It's on the borderline, because it's kind of both mathematical, and you
got your curves, and your derivatives, and your intersections, but also humanities, right? It's
really at this intersection of both figuring out how to apply these models to specific cases,
and also trying to figure out, well, which models are really correct in the first place.
The first question, you can't answer with math, but the second question, you really can't, and you
need other kinds of thinking as well. This is an area of my own interest, because the way I see it,
economics is odd in a way that very few people, I think, have appreciated, in that if we take what
could be argued to be our two greatest ideas in scientific man, let's say, one would be sort of
the geometric dynamics of physics, and economics has been constructed to be an as-if physics,
if you will. And on the other hand, it inherits from the theory of selection. You could say that
markets are the continuation of systems of selective pressures by other means. And so what
happens when our two greatest ideas touch each other, and they do it in a place which has very
bizarre properties by my way of thinking, that is that economists are on the one hand very rigorous
thinkers, and are also very susceptible to what we might call political economy, and distorted
thinking. Does that ring true to you? Yeah, definitely. There's definitely this kind of
combination of, on the one hand, you have these mathematical formulas, and on the other hand,
these assumptions. And often, the assumptions can be pretty well hidden, and they're kind of
difficult to see at first glance. And it really can be subtle. One of the arguments that economists
tend to put forward is, basically, mutually beneficial transactions are beneficial, and so
we should not interfere with them. If I have a Klein bottle, and I want to sell you the Klein
bottle, you're willing to pay $5, then I clearly value it at less than $5, you value it at more
than $5, therefore, the transaction is not net good. And therefore, I should give you the bottle,
and you should give me the money, and that's what we would do. But the reasons why that 10
sometimes breaks down are in many ways more subtle. First, you have monopoly issues. If
I'm the only person selling Klein bottles, then I might want to sell them at a higher price than
you'd be willing to accept because I want to extract more value. And sometimes, the things that
matter most to society aren't things that we can transfer between people from one person to another,
like Klein bottles, but public goods. And the biggest public good of all is the idea. And an idea,
well, if I have an idea and I give you the idea, I still have the idea. So it's something that,
once you release it, it's out there. And there isn't this kind of property that...
So should we pause just briefly to talk about what a public good is for the audience?
Sure. Yeah.
So a public good is technically defined within economics. Many people have an intuitive idea
as something, which is, as you're stating, has this property of inexhaustibility.
And then the other attribute would be excludability, which is...
Non-excludability for public goods.
Sorry, non-excludability. Sorry, the attribute of excludability is used to define a public
good. So if something is inexhaustible and inexclutable, then it has this weird property
that even hardline economists would agree that the market may fail to price, in fact,
will fail to price the value to society of that object. So there is an admission within economics
that there are zones of failure. Right. Well, I guess the big kind of rethinking that needs to
happen is that there has long been this kind of zeitgeist that private goods, like things that
I have and if I give it to you, I don't have it and you have it are the norm and public goods
are a rare exception. But really, public goods are pretty darn important. If we didn't have public
goods, then we'd be trading sticks and bear pelts and we'd basically still be cavemen. They're
basically these things. Well, like an army would be a public good. Yeah. Well, armies are interesting
because they're kind of, to us, in a medium scale context, they're a public good and in a large
scale context, they're a public bad because if everyone's armies were forced to be cut down by
a factor of 10, we'd all be better off. So economics is really subtle that way, especially
once you have two layers of scale at play. Sure. Now, one thing that I worry a lot about that
almost nobody seems to join me in is that in our mutual world, I don't know what to call it,
of people who are experimenting with what I would say the mainstream would consider far out ideas
like radical life extension, cryptocurrencies as potentially being rival risks with
sovereign currencies. But in our world, we talk a lot about the abundance economy and a world of
abundance. And I'm terrified of a world of abundance because one of the properties that
software has had is that it has replaced physical goods and services which have these attributes
they're not public with small files. And when a small file is not encrypted, it has the attributes
of a public good and therefore value and price can, can chasm. That's terrifying because then
this weird thing of markets which allows us respite from dictatorship and somebody directing our
activities and allows us to self-direct goes away because things can't be priced accurately.
Does that have any purchase on your thinking? Yeah. So I think you've definitely struck at
a very important point. So I think my own framing of the point is slightly different.
Please. I think first of all, start off by realizing that private property and things
is not something that fell out of the sky. It's a social technology. We have these norms that
basically say, oh, we will create this kind of mapping from objects to people. And if an object
is mapped to you, then you're allowed to do basically whatever the hell you want with it.
And other people cannot do anything without your permission. And if that concept did not exist,
then physical objects would be public goods. Because if there's a client bottle over here,
the client bottle would be there, but really anyone could take it. And if you produce client
bottles, then you're not producing something for yourself. You're producing something for
pretty much the first person who comes along and grabs it. And so property rights are this kind
of social technology that helps make private good economies tractable. And we could consider
making social technologies to make public good economies tractable. The existence of public
goods by itself is not good or bad. Arguably, it's even good because it means that people can
cooperate with each other on such large scales. The bad thing is that we don't really have good
tools for handling it. And specifically, we don't have good tools for handling it that manage to
simultaneously avoid both not giving good results and basically being centralized in
dictatorial. And so this is where my interest in radical exchange comes in. So this was this
movement that was started by Glen Weil a couple of years ago when he wrote this radical markets book
and he advanced some of his proposals like Harberger taxes and quadratic voting were the ones
that are kind of the most popular. And the core idea behind the idea is basically is let's create
structures of norms and incentives that try to have the best properties that we can get out of
markets but do so without basically economically breaking in the way that we know existing property
rights systems do once you enter a world where kind of everything that you build just inherently
affects millions of people. Well, this is an interesting perspective. You, of course, are famous
for implementing this Ethereum protocol. But before we ever get to computer protocols,
there are sort of legal and structural protocols that we impose upon ourselves in the form of
government and markets that are subordinate to government. And there's a weird way in which
you may start a process by which you write down rules for how a society should function.
But once those rules are written down, you may discover all sorts of unintended properties
of that rule set. And there's a real question. Can we actually unhook ourselves from the killer
app that is capitalism or American democracy? And if we start to realize that that app is running
out of control? I guess for myself as a social technologist and I definitely don't think that
we should be kind of overturning entire countries with the new mechanisms overnight,
I think. And I wasn't insinuating. Oh, definitely. I think that's figuring out how to kind of solve
grand problems of humanity is a long term goal. But I mean, sure, some goals are there's definitely
there's little things that we can make better. Right. So, and this is actually part of why I
find cryptocurrency and blockchains interesting, because they are, in a lot of ways, this ideal
ground for economic experimentation of different types. Right. So, like to give one concrete
example, and so one of the ideas that Glenn Weil and myself have come up with and are pushing
forward is something called quadratic funding. And the way that quadratic funding works is
roughly this. Right. So, you have a central kind of pool of funding. And you could imagine this
coming from a government, you could imagine this coming from wealthy donors, you could imagine it
just being put together by some like crypto economic protocol could come from anywhere.
And then you allow people to like basically set up projects. And you let people say,
I have a project here is something that I'm doing. And if you like this, then you can donate to me.
And you let people donate to projects. And then the core of the mechanism is basically that if
there's a project that multiple people donate to, so there's some project you donate to it,
and someone else donates to it as well, then your donation doesn't just benefit you, it also
benefits the other person. And the other person's donation doesn't just benefit them, it also
benefits you. And so to kind of counteract that kind of market failure, the mechanism basically
says, well, we're going to multiply the effect of your donation by two and multiply the effect of
the other person's donation by two. And so now both of your incentives are kind of aligned with
the whole. And you extend this mechanism. So instead of supporting two people, it supports an
arbitrary number of people. And you kind of calculate these subsidies across all possible
pairs of people. And what you get is this formula that basically says you let people donate to
different projects, you look at how many people donated and how much money you've donated. And
based on this, from the central pool of funding, you give this extra subsidy. And so it basically
is like a market for public goods. And in the Ethereum ecosystem, there's something called a
Gitcoin grants, where we've basically started trying to use this mechanism to fund public goods
inside the Ethereum ecosystem. So this could be implementations of the Ethereum protocol,
it could be scaling solutions, it could be wallets, it could be educational resources.
And we've had a test around recently with about $200,000 in this central matching pool.
And it recently finished. And you can go to gitcoin.co slash grants to see the results.
And we got contributions from hundreds of people. And the results it gave were actually pretty
reasonable. Fantastic. Yeah. And so I think Ethereum could have a lot of value as in just
being a test net bed for and decentralized governance and decentralized public good
funding infrastructure of this kind. Well, I think that that's fascinating. I guess one of the ways
in which I would understand that is when my wife, who's an economist, and I talk about this stuff,
we often talk about a market democracy has these two voting systems. One is $1,
one vote. And the other is one person, one vote. Theoretically anyway, even if that's on or only
in the breach. Yeah. And like liberal democracy does this horrible thing of like treating these
as opposite poles where something is either one or the other and they're often fighting each other.
One really, everything's a spectrum. And I like that a lot. I mean, another thing that we've
been discussing recently, and this again is sort of joint with PM Elani, is thinking about the
Chicago approximation where you've got some reality that's incredibly nonlinear and complicated.
And then weirdly, in one of these famous instances where the map is not the territory,
you take this incredibly simplified world where agents have this
properties you can't even believe you would have subscribed to a human being where you
would call it homo economicus and it's perfectly rational and it has all of these characteristics
like an automaton that only makes rational decisions. And then you impose that like through
law and economics programs and suddenly you've distorted your society by taking the map as the
territory so seriously that you don't realize that you're destroying something and distorting it.
Yeah. No, definitely. It's one approximation and I mean, we're never going to have approximations
that are perfect because the world is just- I'm glad to hear that. Yeah, and the world is just so
complicated and so even rapidly changing in the 21st century. All approximations are bullshit,
but like you have to find a couple of good ones that work reasonably well and make progress for
us. And I think that one of the things that's unfairly done to cryptocurrencies is that we
expect them to solve all of the problems that already cropped up in our forms of governance,
in our forms of currency and exchange and court systems, and that what we should be asking of
them is to be improvements or to augment already existing systems. Now, one of the odd things
about governance is we could view you as in some sense starting a rival virtual country
that has a legal system because the Ethereum, I don't know what to call it, network platform
protocol. Yeah, it controls coins and it has the right to reassign those coins.
And not only that, but it has a stand in for the legal system in the form of what are called smart
contracts. Normally, we have this concept in governance, I guess it goes back to Weber,
that a government is supposed to be a monopoly on violence, which is an odd definition that
you recover the concept of government from monopolizing violence and then you sort of
unearth and unpack all of the features of government from that one generating function.
In some sense, a cryptocurrency and smart contracts derive from math rather than violence.
Well, they derive from math and social consensus, right?
Well, I love the fact that I was going to get to that, but...
Yeah, I know, because this is important, because for example, you have the Bitcoin blockchain
and then you have the Litecoin blockchain, which operates under almost exactly the same set of
rules as the Bitcoin blockchain. And yet, the Bitcoin blockchain has a $100 million market cap
and the Litecoin blockchain has a $3 billion market cap or something like that in much less
usage. So, like, blockchains are definitely not just math and technology. Math and technology
are the substrate and maybe in the same way that the military is like the substrate of keeping a
country together, but... The extended military, including police forces.
Exactly, but they're the substrate, but they're not the country. The country is the community.
Well, and this goes to what I would love to get into with you, which is the way in which
different utopian dreams collide in the space of cryptocurrencies. So, for example, there are some
dreams that may sound more like, I assume you may be active in the effective altruism community.
Is that a possibility? Which tries to figure out how to do the most good, to do good efficiently
rather than sanctimoniously. There are other people who have this idea of, I just want a
retreat from other human beings and I want to be left alone. I don't want to be taxed. I don't want
to be told what to do. Very strong libertarian perspective. Sometimes those people are the
same people. There's two kinds of libertarians. There's, well, there's many ways to spot
