Committee to investigate the FBI that pulled off this amazing heist in 1971.
Ted wrote his stuff in the 1970s, and that's also 1970s. Now we have the internet and everyone's
stuff is public who are available. We have machine learning. We have statistical tools.
Do you think it's well known who Satoshi is within a group that doesn't want to talk?
No. I think there's high uncertainty about this, but I think that it's
very unlikely that Satoshi is one person. You think Satoshi is one person?
Yeah. There isn't some very grand conspiracy. Do you think you know Satoshi?
Not that you know who Satoshi is, but do you think it's someone I know personally?
So if I had to pick one person, and I'm not asking you to out that.
You can say if you want to. I'll say it. It's not an uncommon opinion. If I had to bet my life
on one person, it's Hal Finney, basically because in Hal was around in the early days, he clearly
understood what was going on. He clearly participated since the beginning, and he also died at the
exact time, basically, that Satoshi disappeared. So there's a lot of these coincidences in his
favor, but then he's the one person I'd bet on if I had to bet on someone, but I'd also bet
against him. It's well under 50%. It's a pretty good caper. Yeah. There's definitely a significant
chance that it's someone who's still in the crypto space somewhere that I've met at some point,
or it could just be someone we have never met and never will.
He's done a really good job. Even just setting himself up as this kind of perfect
relationship. Or she or they. Yes. She really impressed a lot of people.
I find it very inspiring that one of the great intellectual feats of our time would have
anonymous authorship, and the only story I know that's comparable to that is this bizarre break-in
story where there was a woman, I believe named Judy Feingold, who was determined to take the
secret to the grave, and the other people in the conspiracy left the conspiracy after the statute
of limitations had run out, and they started talking. And then her perspective was we all agreed we
were never going to mention who did it. There's some desire usually to get caught and an urge to purge.
Yeah. Well, that does make it more likely there's one person, right? Conspiracies get exponentially
harder than more people you add. That's true. It's been fantastic having you here. I want to let
you know that you're welcome to come back and to talk about things that are unrelated to Ethereum
and blockchain and crypto, because actually, I have to say, I found very inspiring your attempt
to use this platform to rethink what can economics be repurposed to do. And I think that
that's an unheralded potential killer app for your program. Well, thank you. It's been good to be
on here. Okay. You've been through the portal with Vitalik Buterin. Thanks for joining us. Please
remember to subscribe wherever you listen to podcasts and to check out our YouTube channel
and to subscribe there and click the bell for more episodes when they become available.
Thanks for joining us.
you
