but the attacker voluntarily stopped after stealing about four million ETH from the Dell.
But in any case, this is the second inefficiency, right?
Voluntarily stopped?
Yeah.
There was a request made?
No, no, no, as in the attacker just stopped.
Okay.
And so here's the second and bigger inefficiency. The money that was the attacker took out the
four million ETH, it did not go into the attacker's wallet immediately. Instead,
it went into a ChildSmart contract, and only after 35 days could the attacker actually take
that money out. And this was...
A ChildSmart contract, you mean a...
Separate smart contract that was created through a function call of the main DAO smart contract.
So this was also not intended, right?
It was just a random quirk of fate that there was this big bug that was the biggest
smart contract theft in history up until that point, and it put the money into this convenient
box where it would just stay conveniently locked for 35 days, where everyone could stare and look
at it.
Lipo.
Yeah. And soon after this, there were calls happening between core developers and the
proposal to remedy the situation with a blockchain fork came into play, right?
So basically what happened here is the...
There was a blockchain fork and emotional issue for this community?
Yeah.
So why is that?
So I guess first of all...
What is it?
Exactly. So explain what would happen.
So in general, a blockchain fork is a normal process, right?
You have an upgrade, and the developers of the Ethereum clients implement code that basically
says, after block number 437000, stop processing blocks according to the old rules,
start processing blocks according to the new rules, which have extra features attached.
And...
Where blocks are just...
Set packages of transactions.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay.
And so before these code patches are formally proposed, there is this month-long period of
mini-month-long period of deliberation where changes are proposed, people discuss them,
people talk about them, and generally it's agreed that these changes are good.
And so people just go and download the code, and because everyone's downloaded the code,
the blockchain after block 437000 follows these difference in better ways.
This is a very warm and very human process.
It is the cold logic of a machine.
Exactly.
Okay.
And so the DAO fork was also a fork.
It was also a code change implemented by the developers of the clients that was pushed out
through a new version of the different clients that people could download, and users went ahead
and voluntarily downloaded it, and it would basically change the rules of the blockchain.
Except instead of changing them permanently, it would only do a single one-time change.
And the single one-time change basically said, during block 11920000, before processing any
transactions, take the ether that's stuck in this child contract and move it into another
contract that could then basically refund it all to the victims.
And so this was a very kind of manual intervention, right?
It basically says we all agree to run code that just irregularly takes this money and just reassigns
it to this other thing.
It's very weird because we always think in a sci-fi movie that something that you think
is human would rip off its mask and reveal itself to be a computer, and this is the reverse.
The computer face is ripped off, revealing humans behind this technological stack.
Yes.
Ultimately, people talk about blockchain immutability, and this is this idea that basically
you're not supposed to do this sort of thing.
Where does that supposed to come from?
Exactly. So there's definitely a sense in which it exists technologically,
because actually pulling off one of these forks is incredibly hard.
And for example, if it was not the case that the money was conveniently stuck there in one
nice little address for 35 days, it would basically not have been possible to do it.
Because as soon as you announce this protocol change that says we're going to take money
out of here, put it in there, the attacker could just move the money from there to a
different address. Basically, you play this cat and mouse game and the attacker could win.
But sometimes there is this possibility where you absolutely can just do these interventions
and you can just decide to stop running this code and start running this other code.
The only reason why this has not done more frequently is basically because there exist
these norms. And there exist norms in the blockchain community of Vlad Zamfier,
the researcher I mentioned before, and if calls them a Sabo's Law named after Nick Sabo.
And Nick Sabo actually dislikes the moniker Sabo's Law, but it is a pretty accurate representation
of his beliefs and the beliefs of many in the crypto community, which is basically that
even though it technically is code run by humans, we should act as though it is code
not run by humans. And because it is digital gold, right? Gold is not run by humans. Gold is gold.
And so if we want to make something that is light gold, then even though we're unfortunately
stuck with this thing run by humans, we should try as hard as we can to pretend it's not.
And this was the ideology of a lot of people in this space. And the Dell fork very much went
against this ideology. And so even though, in my opinion, having norms that you can't just
like go and edit whatever you want is valuable. But like when so much such a large fraction of the
ecosystem is at stake, it's worth rethinking things. But like other people were kind of even
more rigid in this regard. And so there was this kind of split in the community. And a portion
of the community actually did not download the updates, right? A portion of the community
did not download these code patches and implement the fork. And they just said,
we will continue running our own our old chain. And the old chain has since then been called
Ethereum classic. And it runs to this day. This is a fascinating civil war in essence. Yes. And
what I get out of this is that there's this very weird thing, which is that people
get very attached to ideologies. And then they come to understand why the simplistic version
of that ideology can't possibly work in a warm human system. I watched this. Have you ever gone
to this festival called ephemeral, which is sort of Burning Man on the water that was heard of it?
And I got invited to it, but I haven't had the chance to go yet. So it's kind of a libertarian
water world in the Sacramento Delta. And what was interesting is that one year,
in order to come to the festival, you had to have a lecture and you had to agree that you
would receive the lecture because of problems that had happened the previous year. And you
realized that these libertarians were being forced to invent governance. And rather than
just anarchy, you had to have some organized system. And so one of my questions is, is that
dream of escape from the heavy hand of government effectively not something to be pursued inside
of crypto space for the most part, because we realize that it is going to require governance
and that we can't figure out a way to turn this into a completely cold and methodical process?
It depends which version of the dream you subscribe to. If the version of the dream you
subscribe to is the dream that says that we can finally use algorithms to basically completely
eliminate humans' ability to interfere in things, then if your goal is to see that enforced 100%,
then no, you're not going to get that. If your dream is that you dislike how
existing governments and monopolies of violence have hegemony over this social function of
coordination and enforcing structures of rules and you want there to
exist an alternative, then that's something that we can talk about. So if the dream is to
augment, yes. And I'd argue that blockchains have a very unnecessary role now, especially given
modern political trends where there basically is no single traditional political body that's
accepted as trustworthy by the entire world and it doesn't look like there's going to be one.
But if your dream is to completely overturn things and have some simplistic notion of
digital property rights as the only thing that governs behavior, then that's something that
you can try for but you're not going to succeed. Let me try something else with you that I'm curious
about. You and I are both plugged into this weird alternate world that thinks very differently.
I had Andrew Yang in that chair and you saw that episode of the before.
Some people call this neurodivergence, that this is a non-neurotypical world.
I would say that both you and I exhibit some indicia of not thinking along standard lines.
The thing that occurred to me is that you brought up Slate Star Codex, which is this
website that is extremely influential in our shared world.
I was thinking about the difference between Slate Star Codex and CNN in terms of sense making.
Is there any way in which the Ethereum world can create a counterweight so that the neurodivergent
can rest the stranglehold that seemingly the neurotypical institutional world seems to have
on sense making at scale? Is there a way of promoting another blog in this world would be
less wrong? There are particular thinkers that I think of as being very important and influential.
I think you've given to Aubrey de Grey and Eliezer Yudkowski. There's this very different
world that isn't well known. In part, I view podcasting as like pirate radio, which is the
phrase I keep or some is that because you're Russian. What can we do potentially using your
technology to even the playing field between corporate sense making and this kind of home
brood sense making that seems to me to be of an infinitely superior level.
Well, not infinitely, but quite superior. Yeah. I think once again, there's two aspects to
blockchain TM that I think are equally valuable here. One is the technology itself and then the
other is the existing community around the technology. With the technology itself,
try to create institutions for even things like funding podcasts, for example. Even things like
this kind of Gitcoin grants quadratic voting, for example, that would be potentially a great way
to fund media organizations that avoids the pitfalls of both present day media, which is funded by
some combination of advertising and horrible clickbait incentives and at the same time avoid
the pitfalls of basically essentially controlled media and create a third alternative. It doesn't
even have to be quadratic voting. It could be some other mechanism for funding and blockchains
could be used as a base layer for that. There's also the blockchain community as a group of people
who care about many of these kinds of ideas. Even a lot of Ethereum people are definitely
kind of sweet star codex adjacent. I feel like I've tried my best to kind of bring these worlds
together and get them to talk to each other. Sometimes it is a challenge because there's
ways in which they're similar and there's a lot of people who are in both. There's also
ways in which they're sometimes different, but those differences can be a good thing.
I guess I'm concerned that we're coming up on an election in the U.S.
and I view Fox News and The New York Times and CNN as like watching professional wrestling.
It's got a very clear narrative structure before the facts even come in.
Yeah, this is actually one of the things I've only really started noticing maybe in the last
like one to two years. Narratives are something that don't seem like you're there when you're
fully inside of them, but once you kind of step outside and you start seeing that like
wait these people are missing something and they're making predictions that turn out to be
materially incorrect. Then there's no memory, like there's no cost. Yeah, you want to there's no
accountability at all. Then it's something that you just actively start thinking seeking out how
to move beyond. I think figuring out a better funding model for media organizations in general
in some ways. What I'm concerned about is that something like podcasting is almost a public
good. Well, it's fully a public good, but advertising is the one thing that I keep.
I call it the business model of last resort. Yes, and we are going with an ad supported
model because I don't want to disguise. Somebody offered to endow the podcast,
not my employer. I decided against it because I think what I really want to do is to try to
figure out how to improve the business model. We've talked about a couple of different variations
on advertising in order to make sure that controversial, but very sensible and level-headed
people can weather the storm that the big problem that I keep seeing is that advertisers pull when
there's a coordinated campaign to say, drop that program or else, and there's a need for something
like the blockchain or smart contract to make sure that you can't silence people who are speaking
decently just because they've pissed off a very large activist community. Do you see any way in
which the blockchain, for example, like I might give up advertising if I could figure out a way
to fund not only this program, but allied programs? In 2011, when I was starting Bitcoin
magazine, it started off with this one anonymous person whose name I'll never know, aside from
Key by his internet handle, who was just paying me five Bitcoin, which back then was $4 per article
to write articles for him. This was five times lower than a minimum wage, but I loved it because
it was the highest wage I've ever had. Eventually, despite paying me five times less than a minimum
wage, Key by ran out of money. He told me, hey, maybe Bitcoin week, we will have to shut down.
I came up with this business model that actually ends up saving it for a few months and basically
saving it all the way until I got good of poached by Bitcoin magazine. The business model is basically,
I write two articles a week and we'll publish the first paragraph of each article publicly,
and we'll say the rest of these articles is hidden for ransom. Here are some Bitcoin addresses,
and if people can collectively come together and pay 2.5 BTC to these Bitcoin addresses,
then they're free for everybody? Yes. That's nice.
Yeah. It actually worked well, and it actually started raking in much more money than Key by
had paid before. It's not saying that precise model is going to save.
It's a clever exploit. Yeah, exactly. To me, more clever experiments as what smart contracts are
all about. Let's try lots of different things, and we're going to have come up on some steps
forward that are interesting. Talek, I'd love to have you come back and talk to us about other
things and other points, but let me just close by asking you a couple of questions about the
mysterious origins of decentralized computing, the blockchain, and all of this stuff.
Sure. What the hell? Why don't we know who Satoshi is at this point, where Satoshi seemingly
came up with the first really viable version of this idea. We can prove that
I guess those blocks have never transacted that are under Satoshi's control, one would think.
That's a very mysterious origin story. Yeah. It surprises a lot of people.
Does it surprise you? It does. There's definitely not many people that have
managed to stay anonymous through that level of prominence. Even Silk Road,
first big crypto anarchist outlaw project on top of Bitcoin. After about two years,
Russell Burke got caught. The tools for just continuing to look at things that you say until
eventually you slip up and you use some word patterns that match word patterns that you
used under your name and then you correlate things. It's difficult to get around.
Unibarmer got away with it for a long time. I don't know if you know about the Citizens
