intellectual problem that you're touching? Sure. So the idea is that there may be something that's
very perceptible to us about the real world. But we might naively think, well, the computer
should be able to tell whether that happened or it didn't happen and that that's a surprisingly
difficult thing to code up reliably so that the interface between the world of bits and bytes
and the world of otherwise physical reality, which often we don't realize we're thinking about
subjectively, that it's hard to maintain that interface so that the way in which the things
that have happened in the real world can be definitely agreed upon without any kind of adjudication
inside of the digital world. I don't know how to say that well. Blockchain's are a fundamentally
programmatic medium. All they see is data that gets fed into them and what they can compute
as a result of that data. And so if you want to create a smart contract that says if someone
figures out what the prime factors of a big number are, pay them a reward, you can do that
because prime factors are something that you can multiply together and verify. But if you
want to have a smart contract that says if there's a hurricane in Sri Lanka, then pay 500 bucks,
then you can't do that on the blockchain itself because computer code has no idea what hurricanes
are. It has no idea what Sri Lanka is. In that case, you could have a designation that the
national... Correct. You can get data from third-party sources and this is the thing that...
Somebody else turns it into data. Exactly. This is the thing that a lot of applications are doing.
But the thing that's important to keep in mind is that as soon as you do that, your smart contract
is no longer fully trustless. Right. Right. So there's this concept which is like a utopian
concept of a trustless legal system so that you don't have the messiness of humans anywhere
in the system and you can have complete faith and confidence in the contract that you've struck.
Yeah. Right. And outside of basically giving bounties for solving math problems, so it's
not something that you can 100% achieve. So I can't necessarily ensure my vacation that if
I go all the way to Argentina and the weather is terrible, it pays out because we can't agree
what terrible weather is. Right. You can create structures made out of individual participants
that can try to align incentives to get people to give correct results. You can have complicated
kind of contraptions involving people giving different answers and policing each other and
rewarding people who give the same answer that other people have committed to and things like
this. But you can only try to approach the ideal of kind of correct truth. You can never 100%
reach it. Now, you started Ethereum in 2014, 2015? Started, started end of 2013. I mean,
launched in 2015. Okay. Would you say, let's use launch date as an artificial date. Sure. Would you
say you are more or less excited emotionally than you were when it started? You've now been through,
you've logged some miles here. I've definitely excited. More excited. I think the main difference
is kind of more definitely excited in the sense of like four years. Well, definite as opposed to
indefinite. Four years ago, it was about like, hey, let's make this platform to kind of try
a bunch of really cool things. We have no idea what's going to happen and let's just stick it out
there. And now we know things about things that people are already doing. We know things about
things that people want to do and we also know more about what the limitations are.
And so instead of just being this kind of extremely fuzzy dream of like, let's stick smart
contracts and algorithms and kind of trustlessify everything, it's something that's kind of both
more moderate, but also kind of more like seeming much more like it actually has a big chance of
kind of transforming the world kind of precisely because it's kind of moderated to some extent.
So are you more, if I gave you a false three choices, and by the way, smart people always
hate these things, so feel free to break the model. If I gave you a choice between saying,
are you mostly excited about the technology and the amount of innovation? Are you mostly excited
about the business opportunities for yourself? Or are you mostly excited about the way in which
this could transform human life? Would that be an easy call or would you say, I reject that
decision tree? Some mix of the first and the third. I don't know. I guess like the framing of
business opportunities is definitely kind of never, like this is weird. I mean, despite
kind of even- I get the sense that you don't love money enough. Yeah, this is true. Okay.
I mean, it's weird because for a long time- You have a lot of it.
Yeah, well, I have a lot of it and it's also even weirder because like for a long time,
I subscribed to this kind of branch of economics that basically says that like love of money is
like the best motivation for people to have. Sort of an Iron Randian. Well, I'd say in that area.
But I don't get that. I'll be honest. I just don't get that vibe.
Right. I mean, there's- I've definitely kind of shifted a lot over the years. I think my
experience even within the crypto space itself has kind of turned and given me a lot of new
information to work with. Is there more? Like basically, and this goes back to this kind of
cryptocurrency as a microcosm of wider society thing, right? Like if you're basically any
movement regardless of what the movement is for, what its goals are, to be succeeded needs to be
sufficiently big. And once something is sufficiently big, it needs to have internal structure to
coordinate and achieve its objectives, which means that it suffers from governance issues. It suffers
from public goods issues. It suffers from conflicts with adjacent movements. It suffers from
conflicts between its own values and its own desire to succeed and so on and so forth. And
like it needs to come up with ways to answer like basically almost the same kinds of hard
problems that the world as a whole is working on. Well, you know, it's interesting. When I look at
this sort of world of people, maybe it had an epicenter in the Bay Area, though I think it's
less true now. We're trying to figure out what is the future and how do we get there. There's a
very clear sense that people's creativity and their intelligence is correlated with their
financial success, but it's not very tight. And so there's like an embarrassment that, well,
that person is super amazing and they're not doing all that well. This person somehow metabolized
a tremendous amount. This is something that I've definitely kind of realized just from
my travels. I've interacted with a lot of kind of super famous people in different kinds of
positions, which includes some world leaders and includes some kind of leaders of fields
and cryptography. And you realize that people in these positions, they are impressive, but
they're not like super amazing, godlike, impressive, right? Some of them are. Some of them are,
but then there's also super amazing, godlike, impressive people that just like don't care to
get that much recognition at all. That's sort of what I'm trying to get at, is that I think about
like if you hang around with musicians, very often you'll have somebody who's a super famous
musician and say, you want to know who's really good? And they'll tell you something you've never
heard of. You say, well, that person's a musician's musician. Exactly this, yes. Right. And so,
you know, if I gave the name of people who are famous for being, let's say, physicists,
they're very often the people on television as physicists, but they would all point to some
guy who doesn't give a lot of interviews and say, well, that's the top guy. Exactly. Basically,
social status is predicted by competence multiplied by basically publicity skill,
and that's half correlated with competence for obvious reasons. Those people also know
the people that have the real competence. And that's one of the things that I've always found
really interesting about people who have this diehard belief that markets produce justice,
which is, I do think that success in markets is somewhat correlated or has been with
things like productivity, but it's also correlated sometimes with how predatory somebody can be or
how lucky they happen to be at a particular moment. And one of the questions that I have is
if you're really interested in innovation, which is what I sort of pick up is one of the main
things. How does something like Ethereum give us a possibility to revitalize innovation after
what many of us consider a period of relative stagnancy outside of the areas of computation
and communication, which everybody knows have exploded? Do you think about how Ethereum can
mediate a new renaissance, a new generative age? You sure talk about it a little bit?
Definitely. And I think there's Ethereum as a platform for experiments in
governance and public goods funding is one thing I mentioned, and education is another thing that
I talk about and obviously do. I have a lot of these blog posts on Vitalik.ca and other forums.
There are one of the big challenges that, for example, is that in internet educational resources
in general, there's basically two kinds. There's papers and Wikipedia and basically things that
are technically accurate, but they're just horribly not understandable at all. And we
forcing people to even try reading them. And then there's Popsite Literature, which is very
accessible, but it's often just actively wrong in really horrible ways. And I personally, even
before Ethereum, like I did Bitcoin Magazine, for example, I've always tried to find this kind
of middle gap, this way to take concepts that are technical and expand them to a broader audience
so that they are more accessible. And this to me has been important in part because I view
accessibility of information about the technology as a precondition for even the decentralization
of the space. If the thing technically runs on 50,000 computers, but only 42 people know how it
works, then your decentralization index is in 50,000, it's 42. It's a very nice point.
Yeah. And so trying to improve even how we, in the Ethereum community, work on innovation
internally. But so those are things that happen in blockchains as a lab for trying out new things,
kind of first for the blockchain space and then potentially exported to other things.
And then we can also look at kind of blockchains as something that can be used to improve and
create better institutions. So like one of the Ethereum Foundation's researchers, Vlad Zanvir,
he actually got into Ethereum because he was looking at how to improve academic publishing.
And like he saw things like the existing peer review mechanisms and how they were
just very flawed in a bunch of ways. And he thought that, hey, here's potentially a platform
that we could use to build something that does better. And that's one of his core interests
and why he's even continuing to work on the technology.
You know, I hadn't understood how insiders viewed peer review in an academic context until a
finance professor got drunk at a party and said, you know, that guy who's harassing you in your
research and finance, you don't know why he's doing it. I said, well, why do you think he's doing
it? He said, I know, he says, we've created a system where our fees are sky high to consult.
And we do this by making the number of professors in our field small by controlling peer review.
And so that effectively we are at conspiracy and restraint. And like this guy's just telling me
straight out that this is a gating function to keep their consulting fees high and that this
guy is going to do everything that they tell him to do, because otherwise he can't come into the
club and charge these rates. That sounds about right. Right. So that one of the another killer
application, so you have one potential suite of applications, which have to do with facilitating
illegality. Some of that might regard result in net reduction of harm, because you could replace
violence with math. On the other hand, a place where you could have a really positive effect
is political economy, where by removing the human ability to act badly,
you effectively create a much fairer, more representative world. Exactly.
Yeah.
What do we do? So you have an interest in the two fields that I find Wikipedia can't explain to
any normal human being are theoretical math and physics. Even biology, you can sort of guess
what's going on because you have something concrete to think through. Yeah, but like even
biology, like you've got to learn math to deeply grow out here, because otherwise you're just
memorizing names of chemicals. I have a PhD in math. If I try to read a math paper one or two
fields over from my own field, I will do less well with it than if I read a biology paper,
even though I've taken no class in biology. That sounds right. Yeah. There's a difference between
the level of math that you have to know just because it's important for you as a philosopher.
That's about the level of math that I think you need, even to be good at biology, to be good
at economics, to be good at a lot of things. It's understanding principles, even things like, for
example, if you have a trade-off between X and Y, and right now you're optimizing entirely for X
and it's a smooth curve, then if you want a little bit of Y, then you can get your first bit of Y
at almost zero cost of X. That's just a property of continuous functions that from the maximum,
the derivative starts at zero. If you just deeply mentally grok about a couple of hundred of these
facts the same way you deeply mentally grok how to walk, then you get a lot. But then from there,
there's also the frontiers. Often the frontiers are less important.
Here's a weird thing I don't know how to bring up. When I try to understand crypto as a space,
I'm always confronted by how incredibly Byzantine and impossible it is to understand all of the
acronyms, all of the sub-pieces of history. It's an incredibly fragmented experience in which I
spend a long period of time just feeling moronic. Isn't it odd that Ethereum itself suffers from
this problem? It's hard to know what's going on. Yeah, it's definitely something that we
want to fix. If you ever have suggestions on what specifically we could make more understandable,
I'm always happy to hear those. Fantastic. Now, one thing that I think is really interesting is this
episode that occurred in the Ethereum space in which you were faced with a very serious question
of leadership having to do with an emergency that you could have either allowed to follow the rules
that had been previously specified in some sense or where you could interject a certain
amount of human intervention, but thereby letting people know that this was, to some extent,
not mediated only by rules and computers. Can you say a little bit about this famous incident
and describe it? Sure. In 2016, there was this smart contract that a group called Salakit launched
called the DAO. DAO stands for a decentralized autonomous organization. Ethereum, I came up
with about three years before, and it basically means that you can have a smart contract, this
computer program that controls digital assets, and if encode a set of rules for an organization.
You can use this kind of smart contract basically as a replacement for things like companies.
Salakit decided to launch a DAO. Their DAO was intended to be basically a decentralized VC fund,
so people could apply. The DAO would vote on which projects were worth investing in.
So, leaderless, rule-based, and virtual. Exactly.
Hit all the cipherpunk notes that are in the right place. The thing launched, and we were all
expecting it during its initial fundraising phase, which was also an open public blockchain process,
to maybe get $5 million, but then it got $5 million, and it got $10 million, and it got $20 million,
and it got $50 million, and $100 million, and then the price of ETH went up, and it got $200 million.
Then, when I was sitting at a friend's- Was this at all alarming that it was so successful?
After the 50 mark, I definitely switched from excitement to deep apprehension,
but it's a contract. Did you let on that you were feeling that way?
A bit. On June 17, 2016, when I was in Shanghai at a friend's apartment, and it was about
15-30-something in the afternoon, I saw a message in one of the Skype chats that I was in,
and someone basically saying, hey, guys, look at the DAO. It seems like there's some money coming
out of it. I checked on the public block explorer on the blockchain, and I saw, oh, look, it seems
like about $2 million ETH has actually already been removed from the DAO, and more ETH is slowly
being drained over time. I pinged the core developers, and I asked, hey, is this normal?
At first, I was thinking, okay, the alternative is unthinkable. There has to be a reasonable
explanation for this. So you were locked into some sort of denial?
For the beginning, yes. The developers looked at it, and over the next half hour, as more and more
people came online and started chattering with each other, it became clear that the unthinkable
has actually happened. I actually burned about 20 of my own ETH, basically just
dossing the Ethereum blockchain itself and just spamming it with transactions to try to
kind of slow the attacker down. Dossing denial of service?
Yeah, just spam the blockchain with transactions. Not all of my listeners will know the terms.
So that the attacker's transactions could not get in as quickly, because the attacker could only
withdraw something like a couple hundred ETH with every transaction, so it was a slow process
in the hopes that the developers would find some way to plug the whole...
Was that an intentional inefficiency, or was just that...
It was not intentional.
So in some weird way, the inefficiency was a good thing.
Yes, it gets even weirder. There was an even bigger inefficiency that would prove to be an
even better thing. But then the developers, however, did not find a way to plug the whole,
