libertarians, the two kinds, but there's the leave me alone type and then there's the kind
of conquer the world type, right? The kind of relishes seeing fiat currencies be destroyed
and replaced by Bitcoin. And it's kind of creating a thousand a year kind of reign of sound money
that and I mean, I generally have this kind of instinct that like when someone says that like
we should impose a lot of short-term disruption and harm on the entire world for the sake of
some nebulous, a long-term gain, that's something to be skeptical of. But so I'm going to line
the word skeptical. You're using an extreme form of understatement.
Yeah, yeah. And I guess so I'm definitely not in the camp that actively relishes fiat
currencies being destroyed. But I definitely don't think that all Bitcoiners do. There's
some that do see it as something that's supposed to coexist and something that's supposed to
provide a check and balance against the government's monopoly on issuing money
without ever placing it entirely. So there's definitely enough different visions within
individual communities. There's different visions between different communities and
it's not just visions about what cryptocurrency should do to the world. It's also visions about
how cryptocurrencies should work internally and what they should do to each other.
So in that sense, I guess cryptocurrencies are interesting in blockchains not just because
of what they can do to the world but also just as this microcosm of the world all into themselves.
We talk about country, virtual countries, but there's many virtual countries now.
There's over 1400 on CoinMarketCap and they have some analog of...
You do think of them as virtual country.
It's... I mean, all models are bullshit but some are useful.
Well, to the extent that a country is a sensible thing to play. So in that world where we're dealing
with often very radical individualism and a very strong sense that there is something
wrong with the coercive aspect of a government, do you worry that something that you have given
birth to may start to behave in very different ways than you would ever want?
Definitely. I mean, probably the closest that we've seen to things like this happening already
would be the initial coin offering boom in 2017 and 2018. And basically what happened there was
that people saw that cryptocurrencies are something that could potentially hit a very high value and
so people started saying, oh, I'm raising money, anyone come and give me $50 million and I'm going
to build a cryptocurrency and I'm going to make it great and I'll turn your $50 million into $50
billion guaranteed. And it's complicated because on the one hand, the possibility of raising money
and using it to fund cryptocurrency development, it did a lot of good. And in general, the open
source community, it acutely suffers from this public goods challenge that we talked about
because an open source software is a very public good and we saw some very public kind of splats
involving open source software being under maintained like the Cloudflare and of issues
a couple years back when it turned out that an open SSL library was really, really under maintained
despite billions of dollars of value depending on it. And with cryptocurrency, suddenly you
can make things that are completely open source that through coins do have a funding mechanism.
And this has massively accelerated the development of many kinds of cryptography,
zero knowledge proofs and peer-to-peer networking, a lot of other things. But on the other hand,
it's also given rise to this kind of speculation. And in many cases, the projects turn out to be
outright fraudulent, right? But it's a really delicious and weird situation. I haven't asked
you about it yet, but I presume that your net worth crashed a great deal, got run up and then came
back down. And were you happy in any way about that?
Relieved.
Yeah. So right at the top of the big bubble, like in December 2017,
when Bitcoin was hitting 20,000, ETH was hitting 1400. I made this tweet and a series of tweets
and that kind of became somewhat famous within the space where I basically said,
the cryptocurrency space has reached half a trillion dollars. Does it deserve it? Do the
things that it's actually accomplished like hold a candle to the promises that the market is ascribing
to it? And I mean, the subtext of my answer is not yet. And that was proven very right fairly
quickly. But you didn't short it, did you? So I did get the Ethereum foundation to sell about
70,000 ETH like basically at the top and that's doubled our runway now. So it was one good decision
that had a lot of impacts, but it did not short.
I should say that I was weirdly somewhat relieved as well. I viewed that the innovation of
decentralized transactions and the bit... It's hard for me to say because I actually
convinced that the blockchain should be an intermediate state and should not be the permanent
version of decentralized computing. I agree. Okay. But I thought that that was such an amazing
innovation that you could have a locally enforced mechanism without a centralized authority,
but with a global ledger, which I see of it as a point of intellectual failure, that in some
sense you're mirroring the transactions of the physical world. So for example,
for those listening at home who don't have a visual here, Vitalik has several glass bottles
next to him. Were he to give one to me, which he shouldn't do right now, but
the idea would be that it would no longer be in his space and it would be in mine.
That property of atoms has been somewhat mirrored in Bitcoin and blockchain and Ethereum transactions.
This is the concept of money as a thing, right? The scarcity of the 21 million limit. If I give
you five coins, I have five less and you have five more. Right. And so the idea is that what
you're doing is you're porting conservation laws from the physical layer into the logical layer.
Right. And to some extent, it reflects the very deeply of Austrian economic libertarian
origins of the space way back in the end of 2009 to 2013 days. And creating digital gold
was pretty much the, and a digital payment system was the first use case. But I definitely think
that we can and should be thinking about point systems that work in ways other than money.
Well, I agree with that. And I also think that it isn't digital gold because
as the saying goes, gold or money has no stench and that the blockchain is this bizarre
difference with the physical world and that it is a distributed ledger that may be somewhat
anonymous, but it still gives the history. Like if I hand you a dollar and you don't have access to
any particular means of analyzing whose DNA is on that dollar, you have no idea where it's been.
And that is violated by the current blockchain type implementations.
So it isn't a complete port of the physical world into the digital, but it is an astounding one.
And I guess I get very frustrated with the economics questions. Like, well, what's it good
for? Where's the killer app? I mean, we have all of whatever's left of human civilization to figure
out what this thing is meant to do. And I'm not very worried that we're not going to figure it out.
I mean, we're going to figure it out sooner or later because a conservation law in digital
space is just too valuable. Is that wrong? You worried at all about the search for...
Like, I just hate this question. Where's the killer app? And I'm thinking,
chill out, man. This is an astounding intellectual achievement. Is that wrong?
Yeah. And I think there's definitely a long time to go. And I think the apps will come.
The ones that are coming right now are basically kind of financial. But I think,
I mean, that's kind of true just in part because the existing financial system is just like
so ready and waiting there to be disrupted. But in the long term, there's...
There's... It's disrupted in polite term for destroyed.
You choose.
Well, but I mean, there is something interesting here. You're 25 years old. Every bit of your adult
life is post-2008. And to be 25 years old and in charge of a financial ecosystem to the extent
that anyone is in charge of a theory. I mean, I don't want to claim that you are sitting there
running and making all these decisions. That's an astounding thing that this has fallen to somebody
who's adult life is post the crash. Do you think about that at all? That you don't have
the same associations the rest of us do with markets when they were claimed to be working well?
Like during the era of the Great Moderation supposedly when volatility was banished,
you were what, 13, 12?
So one thing that I kind of only realized recently that I found interesting is that there
aren't kind of two tribes here. There's three tribes. And what I mean by this is that there's
the tribe that says markets are great. And there's the tribe that says markets are bad.
And like we should move to more things that look like political mechanisms. But then
if you look at kind of the zeitgeist that's kind of fairly popular in the cryptocurrency space,
definitely even still now to a big extent, it's that markets are great. But the thing that existed
and exists like isn't markets. And so I guess like there's people who are pro-market and who see kind
of the existing financial system as being that. And there's people who are pro-market and who see
the existing financial system as being like yet another one of the perversions of that that needs
to be overcome. Well, it's odd because I would love to fix our democracy. I'd love to fix our
markets. But I'm I have to say, I believe that I have grown up in a an approximately 50 year bubble
which the silent generation and then the boomers presided over. And my own read is that
because of their inability to figure out sufficient innovation to take over from the previously
innovative system, that the world of human expertise has been almost completely contaminated
by special pleading and political economy. So that many of us who don't have a particularly
Austrian or libertarian bent are just sick to death of being lied to by people claimed to be
Nobel laureates in economics. Do you have any emotional connection to you?
Like I feel like I'm lied to about almost almost, you know, the doctors are lying,
the lawyers are lying, the accountants are lying, the extraction companies are lying.
And it's not because of a million different reasons. It's because growth ran out and our whole
society is predicated on a need for economic growth. Yeah, no, there's definitely a lot of
things that are that have changed in this and a system that's just not keeping up and doesn't
and doesn't understand that there is such a thing as keeping up. And it's like,
hmm. So like one, like even Glenn talks about this, right? Like he talks about kind of the
markets as social technology mentality versus the like, basically end of history mentality.
And I guess like the way that I kind of, and I definitely saw this kind of,
is I guess 10 years ago that said kind of even more broadly than like markets versus other
mechanisms that's like things are 80% efficient and let's work to make them 95% efficient. Whereas
the thing that's really going on is that things are 3% efficient and we should work hard on making
them 6% efficient. Like if you kind of move away from the narrow context of like, I'm,
I have something to sell and you have something to buy, which is pretty well optimized already,
then there's lots of these kind of very big things that are happening that have just
completely been missed. And in technology and then of network effects and all, and just generally
kind of migrating from atoms to bits are definitely all a big part of it.
So let's talk about something that's a little bit funny, which is if you're start to replace
government as we were talking about, and you see it as a monopoly on violence,
you notice that very often there's a very funny role played by organized crime. Now,
of course, when we think about organized crime, we tend to get emotionally excited by it for
whatever reason. We make lots of movies about it. It occupies the mind as something terrifying and
alluring. And there's sort of two weird aspects to organized crime, one of which is violence as
a contract enforcement mechanism. In other words, you're gambling so you don't have access
to the regular court system. Now you have a gambling debt. And so just the way our government
would put you in jail if you, you know, started doing things, you couldn't fulfill all of your
obligations and you were doing harm to lots of people and you couldn't be stopped. Organized crime
has to do, somebody can't maintain jails. So it can put the hurt on somebody for means of contract
enforcement. So it's not looking to do violent things. It's looking to run illegal businesses
for which there's demand. And then it has a problem of enforcement. Then there's another
part of it, which is violence as the product. So for example, extortion would be a shame if
anything were to happen to this lovely business that you're running is a veiled threat, pay us
or we're going to do harm to your business or, you know, contract killings and the like.
Are you worried that effectively by introducing parallel structures, both in the form of currency
and in the form of contracts, smart contracts that are the
Sinequanon, I guess, of the difference between Bitcoin and Ethereum, that the killer app that
is most likely to happen while the technology is still clunky and cumbersome and difficult,
is in the parallel space that either you are going to replace organized crime as a place to do
contractual business outside of the normal scope, which could be a benefit because organized crime
still exists and is a bad thing because it uses violence and you would use math in place of it,
or that it could actually be used to facilitate violence by, you know, using,
let's say prediction markets or something else to induce people to commit crimes where the
the committer of violence has unusual information about where the violence will be committed and
therefore can profit from it. It's definitely a worry that I and lots of people in the crypto
space have had since the beginning, though I do feel like at least so far I've been surprised,
like it feels like less of it has happened than we had expected. That's the thing.
Now, what do you, what accounts for the idea that something that can be dreamt has mostly not
occurred? I definitely have a, maybe it's a great thing about humans that we didn't realize that
we're not nearly the horrible people we thought. Yeah. And I definitely have a couple of theories
about this. So one of those theories is that like basically a lot of things that people do and
especially a lot of things that people do in the infosphere because like public goods are kind of
chronically underfunded and all that rely really heavily on goodwill. And so, you know, you have
goodwill that if someone, if you pay someone to write some piece of software for your website,
it's not going to include some, yeah, some bug that'll steal people's money or tell the FBI where
you are. If you create a system for enforcing agreements that they'll actually get enforced and
even like on internet forums, they depend on kind of a lot of volunteer labor for just things like
moderation. And if you create a group that just goes like fundamentally against like the vast
majority of people's values, then it's just going to be a hard to find volunteer effort for that sort
of thing. And like this, so like that's probably the big, the big reason I think why so far we
don't really see kind of, you know, complicated decentralized structures being created to facilitate
like black markets for killing people and so forth. Because we'll start off with something more mundane
like a numbers racket. Right. So a numbers racket would probably be a much simpler application
so what do you mean by numbers racket here? Well, something that takes the place of a lottery
where some, let's say some naturally occurring number that would be printed in a newspaper and
presumably nobody has the influence over what number gets printed, constitutes the lotto draw.
Yeah, and lotteries have existed on blockchain since the beginning. Yeah. Even there's definitely
been this kind of sub community of people that created these kind of provably fair Ponzi contracts
where they have a smart contracts and you can throw money in and as soon as if you're the
end person to throw money in as soon as soon as two end people throw money and you get like
1.9 back or something like that. And like this was just a fun game that people have made and
like participated in even fully knowing what the economics of the thing are. So yeah, and
things like that have definitely happened. Though gambling is the sort of thing that
there isn't this kind of 99% plus consensus that it's really horrible and evil, right? Because
on the one hand, like lots of people want to ban it, but on the other hand, people do it.
And it's something that people see negative consequences of, but at the same time it is
something that people participate in and enjoy. Whereas the extremely bad stuff, there's definitely
this kind of barrier between kind of things that are edgy versus things that are just so far over
the edge. And for things that are kind of so far over the edge, it is even with smart contracts
and even with all of those things, it's still hard to coordinate those structures. And I think
the blockchain's inability to directly read facts about the real world could even be a
saving grace here because a blockchain can't directly read whether or not something in the
real world happened. It basically means that if you want to have some application, whether a
prediction market or something else that does make... So can we say a little bit more about the
