Even though the new wells are not performing as well in terms of how much oil they'll make over
their lifetimes, their daily rates early on are much, much higher. And so we're getting
a whole lot of that production early on. That's what technology has done for us. It's like
I'm sucking on a milkshake and suddenly you gave me a wider straw that has a bigger diameter.
I could suck more faster. It doesn't add anything to the well.
I'd like to welcome my friend and colleague Art Berman back to the podcast. I think this is his
fifth appearance on The Great Simplification. This is a very important and serious topic we
discussed today, which is the fact that shale oil responsible for most of the growth in world
oil output in the last decade has been hydrated and cannibalized other wells.
And we just hit a new peak in U.S. production, but Art will explain this is coming at a cost of
massively declining well productivity, where wells are producing 50% less per well than
they were just three or four years ago. And that this will manifest in both shale oil peaking
and global oil peaking. Art says that we have effectively used a larger straw and are much
closer to that slurping sound at the end of a milkshake. Of course, we're already a couple,
three million barrels below the all-time peak in the end of 2018, and the world economy has
continued to grow. Stock markets are near all-time highs, so a few million barrel decline in oil
does not portend the end of civilization. But it has major implications for coming decades if
oil supply, even if we wanted it to grow, is no longer able to grow and will be in
effectively permanent decline starting about now. Very important conversation,
please welcome my colleague, Art Berman.
Art, great to see you. Nate, always good to see you too. This is our fifth podcast together,
I believe. Wow. And what you may not know, but my phone told me today is this is our
three thousandth time of talking. Is that all? No, I'm kidding. I think it did. Well,
it's probably about right. So you have been hard at work on some new, very important
oil-related research, which we're going to unpack today. For those people that have
not heard our previous episodes, let me do a brief recap of assertions and please chime in
if I'm missing something. So we talked about what is oil? It comes from ancient oceans and seas
buried under geologic time and pressure. How important it is to our economies? Energy is
incredibly important and oil is effectively the hemoglobin of our modern system.
We're nearing metaphorically the bottom of the barrel because we found all the conventional
plays and now we're adding unconventional, including shale oil. There's plenty left,
but the ability to extract it and grow what we have now is at issue and how fast they decline
might be another issue. We also talked about how in a barrel of oil, there are many other products
in addition to gasoline, including an especially diesel fuel, which is one of the most important
products in the global economy, and that we have to refine those products off sequentially.
In other words, you can't just divvy up a barrel, every barrel, into all the pieces and extract
less per se. We also talked about how increasingly what we call oil by the energy information
agency and other analysis is not really oil and in the United States, our growth in production is
increasingly have a larger fraction of what's called natural gas plant liquids, which get
processed into you use the term baggies quite often. What we call oil is not necessarily the
oil of the past generation and lots of economic implications of all that. Is that a fair two
minute recap? Excellent. Yeah, that's perfect, Nate. When we talk about how much oil is there,
we talk about global oil production, which of course is a misnomer because it was produced
long ago. We're extracting it and refining it and turning it into products that humans use.
Is it fair to say that that is a composite of three things? One is all of the wells that
have been drilled in the past and the technology that's still getting oil from those wells and
fields stacked on top of that is the new wells that are drilled and then the technology that's
involved in that. Then the third would be what is this stuff we're getting out of the ground?
What is the composition of it? How useful is it? Is it a lot of sulfur? Is it heavy? Is it light?
Is it natural gas plant liquids? Do those three things tell the story of how much oil we're
extracting? They do and I would simply call category three oil quality. Oil quality, good, good.
Tell us about your new discovery that you've been working around the clock to analyze
the past month or so and we're going to unpack it together. Sure. I was asked to help on a project,
a mutual friend of ours up at the University of Texas asked me if I would help him put together
a US oil and gas production model going back to where the data begins for convenience around 1950
and to give him the necessary parameters that he could use to model that for a much bigger macro
analysis. Now I should be embarrassed but I'm not that I have never gone back that far and done
anything more than just look at production but what I had to do for Kerry King was to actually look
at how what was the well-performance like in 1950 and 1960 and 1970 and having done that
it gave me some really new perspective on the peak oil movement if you want to call it that,
that you and I were both involved in in the early part of this century. And are still involved in.
Well and we still are, right, you know, some of us don't give up. We continue to believe that a
finite resource eventually will become scarce. Well if someone's hair was on fire we would
feel compelled to continue to tell them their hair was on fire which is a metaphor for our
preparation as a society for coming decades but go on. For sure. So what I learned first of all
was how right we were that the productivity of the average well in the United States and let me
just say I'm not being U.S. centric here but I mean 1950 the U.S. produced something like 70 75
percent of the oil in the whole world. So I mean particularly back then it was really important
and we are still today the largest producer and it is our recent production increase say from 19
or 2010 to the present that of which all of the growth in oil production has come. So
the United States is not just important it's kind of critical in the mix but what I what I
discovered was that back in the 1950s and 1960s the average well was a pretty darn good well in
the United States you know it was 150 200 000 barrels per well on average by the late part of
the 20th century that had dropped down to about 20 000 barrels a day. Now 20 000 barrels a day
sounds like a lot of oil and it is as a consumer but there's hardly a company in the world that
can afford to produce a well that only makes 20 000 barrels in its lifetime and I didn't
realize exactly the magnitude of of how urgent it was to find new reserves and so
that was an aha and then when when the tight oil and the deep water and the the offshore
Gulf of Mexico started coming on those average wells were from you know five to fifty times
more productive than even the really good wells back in the mid part of the 20th century
and the shale wells were in the same category so so on the one hand what it showed me it it
it really emphasized how dire our situation was in 2000 2005 we were living off of wells that were
that weren't commercial to produce for all intents and purposes and it also emphasized all this
unconventional oil offshore deep water shale how what what a step change it really was
on a per well basis I mean it was it was huge and back in the peak oil days I was one of the
people that was saying oh this stuff is you know it it it it's never going to be commercial and
and if it is it can't contribute all that much well I was very wrong we were all very wrong
that was kind of the problem with peak oil but the real the the real jaw dropper in the study
I guess was looking at US production today it's declining at a at a very precipitous rate and
the shale plays again the average well performance is declining at a really concerning rate so what
that says is we're heading back to where we were in the 1990s and early 2000s unless I've got something
very very wrong in other words the unconventional plays bought us about a decade or a decade and
a half and now we're we're probably looking at something well nothing's ever the same as it was
but something a situation that's potentially similar to when we were worried about peak
oil the first time around lots of questions first of all you just said US production is is
declining didn't we just hit an all-time new slightly new high well I didn't say US production
was declining I said the performance of US wells is declining but you're absolutely right the US
just barely exceeded 13 million barrels of crude oil and condensate a day which was the pre-covid
peak back in early 2020 and so some of us probably did not expect that to happen I didn't rule it out
but I was a little surprised when it did and what's more surprising is that the experts in the US
government the Department of Energy believe that the average production for 2024 is going to be a
little bit more than 13 million barrels a day and they may be right I'm not saying they're wrong
I'm simply saying that if I'm right about the per well performance dropping off and it's not
just dropping off it's been dropping for several years it's going to be increasingly difficult
to maintain that level of production so I want to underscore I'm not saying that the EIA the
energy information agency administration is wrong I'm just saying that there there are some challenges
that that go into that forecast or projection that I wasn't aware of until I did this work
so so what does that actually mean US well performance does that mean the total amount
of oil that has ever gotten from a well or the per day or can you explain yeah so there's there's a
lot of ways to measure it but the simplest way is what we call estimated ultimate recovery
which is how much oil and gas of course an average well makes over its commercial lifetime so at
some point I mean the well might go on making three barrels four barrels a day forever and
ever but at some point you don't get enough revenue from what's being produced to even break even
on your operating expenses so I mean you have to operate a pump you have to run electricity
you've got to pay staff to you know in the office and in the field and so at some point you reach
a level where you just say okay you know that's it at least for our company we can't afford to
produce this well anymore and so that's what it is it's simply a projection you take the all the
production history that you have the data and and you and you project it out at some defensible
rate that's consistent with the previous historical data out to an economic limit and you add it up
integrate under the curve and that's your e you are estimated ultimate recovery and so what I was
to go back to where I was before if an average us well let's just say in 1990 made 20 000 barrels
of oil in its lifetime the average us well in 2020 made 325 000 barrels so so 15 times as much
more oil per well per well and so the the better your individual well is the fewer new wells you
have to drill in order to maintain the level of supply that the country and and and the world needs
so that's good news it is good news it's excellent news the bad news is is that that that well
performance that average lifetime production per well is declining now there's another
component and I'm going to I'm going to circle back to your question about how how come us
production is at a new peak and the answer is is that there are two parts there are rates
and reserves reserves are the estimated ultimate recovery for all practical purposes
how much the well is going to make or the field is going to make or the state is going to make or
the country is going to make over a certain period of time the other component is how fast
does it come out of the ground and what I saw and and this doesn't surprise me at all is that even
though the new wells are not performing as well in terms of how much well oil they'll make over
their lifetimes their their daily rates early on are much much higher and so we're getting a whole
lot of that production early on that's the that's what technology has done for us it's like uh I'm
sucking on a milkshake and suddenly you gave me a wider you know a straw that has a bigger diameter
I could suck more faster it doesn't add anything to the well uh the well still you know uh produces
the same amount as before but I get it out sooner and faster and that's what's responsible I believe
for the 13.1 million barrels a day is even though the wells are going to perform more poorly in terms
of their lifetime recovery they're front end loaded and we're getting extra exceptionally
high rates early on and that's what's boosting us production so the disconnect here between this
view and the conventional extrapolate today forward into the future financial view is that
um this new high production brings us much closer to the slurping sound of um of depletion in in these
in these wells whereas looking nominally at busting through 13 million barrels a day again
people could just extrapolate that forward look at the growth from 2020 to now and extrapolate
that forward to 2030 and that's not going to happen well that that that's my sense of it um
I've been wrong before but it's as I said a little while ago it just gets increasingly difficult to
do that and we add to that the fact that um investors are not too keen on drilling on giving
oil and gas companies money these days back not very many years ago in 2015 2016 investors were
lining up to throw money at the oil companies that's not the case today and there are a lot of
reasons for it but mostly the oil companies are having to get by on on the internal cash they
generate which is substantial at the moment because oil prices have been up to a hundred
dollars hundred and twenty dollars a barrel but uh it's very difficult to grow any business
without getting some money from the outside and and right now investors uh just I mean nobody's
lending I shouldn't say nobody but effectively nobody's loaning oil companies money and maybe
that'll change if the urgency starts to to get more severe but for right now that's not the
case and I think most people the market particularly thinks no we're we're transitioning to an electric
economy you know we're going to hydrogen and nuclear and renewables and you know that's what's
gonna that that's what's gonna power the future not not oil and gas do oil and gas companies
want money need money for drilling and and upstream investment oh yeah they desperately I mean it's
you know a well an onshore well and in in Texas or New Mexico and the Permian basin and we're talking
you know six seven eight nine ten million dollars per well depending on how deep it is and you know
how how if if we need six seven eight nine ten million dollars what would be the kind of minimum
EUR estimated ultimate recovery of a well to make that financially plausible again it's a
combination of rates and reserves but to give you a simple answer today we need pretty nearly
300 000 barrels per well at around a hundred dollars spot price to break even and that includes
all the operating costs and you know the overhead and the interest on debt and everything like that
plus an eight percent discount out into the future and and is this known in the industry I would assume
yeah I think absolutely I mean you can't book a reserve unless you can show that it's commercial
at current rates at current prices and that it includes I think the SEC actually requires a 10
percent return to book a reserve how much of that 300 000 barrels can you just give me a rough
estimate of if that well is drilled how soon with conventional technology and the current kind of
well performance do we get like 70 or 80 percent of that out in the first year or two or is it take
20 years to get it or what's that like now most of the most of the if the well hasn't paid itself out
in three or four years it never will so these wells are again front-end loaded they're gonna
they're gonna decline you know 40 50 60 percent over the first year or two and that's not a bad
thing I mean there's a lot of people that that criticize shale plays because they have high
rates of return well unfortunately you know I've got news for them and that is that you know all
the really commercial plays in the world have high rates of decline you want as much cash early on as
you can get to pay out your gigantic upfront expense it's the time value of money so there's
nothing intrinsic from a financial standpoint high rates of return are fine it's just for the
for the rest of us looking forward to a what are we going to do for an energy supply in 10 years or
15 or 20 years that it starts to look a little bit concerning so let's look at some of the graphs
you sent me some slides which we will share to the viewers can you walk me through what we're
looking at in slide number two yeah slide number two this was actually a slide that you asked me
to make and I've updated I think it's real illustrative of what's going on but please
explain it so this is this is us production going back you know to 1900 pretty much and and what
I've done here is to divide it into the green is is conventional you know like onshore bread and
butter kind of oil production that peaked in around 1970 peaked for the first time and then
Alaska came on mostly Prudhoe Bay that's the the yellowish orange and that brought us up to pretty
much the same level again by you know the the mid 1980s and the offshore then then started actually
after the war that's the blue the second world war and and and all of that then was in fairly
serious decline by the time period I was talking about you can look at 2008 on the on the graph
we were down from nearly 10 million a day to half that amount 5.1 million barrels a day
and that's when shale came in that's the you know the Mount Everest in red that says tight oil
and that boosted the us production up to where it is today pretty nearly 13 million barrels a day
and so what this graph shows is just how incredibly dependent the us supply is on this relatively new
source of oil called tight oil or shale oil and everything else with a few additions here and
there is still on the same depletion trajectory that it was beginning in 1970 okay let's let's
stay in this graph I have I have several questions first of all the yellow which is not a contiguous
