That reminds me of the Wallace Stevens quote that the most beautiful thing in the world is,
of course, the world itself. And I'll just have to pair that with one of my own,
which is that life is too short for aphorisms. The thing I care most about in the world,
that's a really hard one. But the thing that's most alive for me is-
I know you, in our interactions, I can, I know that you care about a lot.
Yeah. I really care about finding things worth caring about. And intentionally making meaning,
acknowledging that every ideology is wrong, but you still have to live within one and that you
should choose your ideologies and how you move between them intentionally. And that
you do not change when you speak, which you change when you listen. It's an awkward thing
for me to say, having just spoken a whole bunch. But I really care about learning to listen better
because that supports all the other things. It's like the conduit through which care flows.
You can include some of the things we talked about on this call because there were plenty
things to worry about or not. But what are you most worried about in the coming decade or so?
The continued reverse engineering of the human mind is the thing I most worried about.
You sort of zoom out, great filter. Why do we not see other alien civilizations?
Maybe it's because every species, every technological species sufficiently advanced
will eventually turn the telescope of its own intelligence back on itself, reverse engineer
how it works, learn how to open up its metaphorical skull and pull its own puppet strings.
And that loop of pulling your puppet string, which jerks your arm more,
which pulls the puppet string more and you get into this infinite chaotic feedback loop,
sort of like when you point a camera at a screen and you get in that loop.
That I think is terrifying and maybe why other species didn't make it in part.
And that's also the thing I'm most hopeful about is in a clear-eyed, compassionate look
at who we are as a species, in so doing, we can fit our technology around us and our societies
like sort of an exoskeleton glove and serve and support us versus exploiting us.
And whether it is, this is as Buckminster Fuller says, whether it's utopia or dystopia,
we go will be a touch-and-go race and back to the initial conditions to bend the arc of technology
towards the good and the just and the compassionate and the clear-eyed seeing
is, I think, our collective work. Amen to that. Amen to that.
If you were, here's a new question that I'm adding. If you were benevolent dictator
or could make one wish for humanity in our present circumstances, what would it be?
If I could wave a magic wand, I would help people let go of all of their insecurities
because it's our insecurities and our fears that they're the map to our freedoms. They're
the thing that fuses stimulus to response. You want to have that space for reflection where
awareness gives the opportunity for choice. I think it's our insecurities that drive
our ego. If we could let go of our insecurities, we would see exactly how we were showing up
and the way we could change our individual action and our systems to support everyone
and all of our beings because so much of our bad behavior is just insecurity-driven.
Yeah, and I think that dovetails with your comment early about listening
and quieting the ego. It's really hard to do. My friend, thank you for this whirlwind
conversation. I definitely want to have you back. You are a good human being. You know a lot of
crap that I have no idea about and I wish you luck on your journey. Do you have any closing
words of wisdom, advice, closing thoughts? One, Nate, thank you so much for having me
on your show. It's been a real pleasure. As I said, I have learned so much from you.
You've really opened my eyes to a much broader world of how to be less energy and less material
blind to think about the carbon pulse. If there is one final piece of advice or wisdom or thought,
and that is just love to leave the listeners with a Brian enoterm, which is seniors.
So, the genius of an individual, seniors is the genius of a scene of people. I love this as a
concept as the thing we should be optimizing for because we live in a world of increasingly large
interconnected hyper-objects that we cannot fit into one human brain. The only way for us to tackle
these things is through, you know, collective load balancing these problems through our collective
brains. And so, I love walking around with the lens of seniors in my mind.
Excellent. Thanks so much, Aisa, to be continued, my friend.
Thank you so much, Nate.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification,
please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit TheGreatSimplification.com
for more information on future releases.
