in like sort of 3D sound holograms, because these tools that have been talking about like Dolly
let you translate across modalities. It's not even just we're translating from one language
to another, we're translating from images to language. And that gives me hope that even
something as distant as a dolphin or a whale, we can begin to map because we can do cross modal
translation. So dolphins don't have the added benefit as the whales, right? One, just I think
this is mind blowing, humans have been around communicating vocally for 100,000 to 300,000
years. Dolphins and whales in their current form have been communicating vocally, passing down
um culture for 34 million years.
34 million years passing down culture, how do you know that?
Yeah. That's when they like the current form of dolphins and whales that use
echolocation, etc. That's when they evolved. And then you look at their behavior, you know,
like humpback whales have pop songs, they will, there'll be a song that'll begin off the coast
of Australia, that whale will travel up and soon it's being sung off the coast of Ireland,
and it'll spread like wildfire to the rest of the population around the world.
And that doesn't always happen. It just depends on when it's particularly catchy.
What is your grand hope with this project? What are the objectives of Earth's species
project? And in a perfect world, if everything aligns and you get sufficient funding and backing
of scientists and data, what do you hope to accomplish?
You know, I think I and everyone on my team is really, and I should just stop for a second
and point out that like you're hearing just me speak, but I'm really just like the fruiting
body of like a fungus network, which is many biologists, many institutions. We have an incredible
AI team. I have two other co-founders, Britt Selfletell and Katie Zakarian. And the ideas
you've here developed here, actually for both Center for Humane Technology and Earth's species,
comes from a big network of people like talking with you, Nate, Daniel Smoggenberger, Tristan,
Jonathan Hay. Anyway, I just, I just, it's, I think really easy to confuse that like one person
speaking is the sum totality of it. And that's not the case at all. But you are the fruiting
body that I have on my podcast right now. And you've taught me a lot about this. And I, I am
energized and really motivated by what you say. So what do you, what, what can you envision this
accomplishing? No, all those other people involved noted. So 1968, Roger and Katie Payne
released this album, The Songs of the Humpback Whale. And it's the first time we as a Western
society have heard the art, the communication of, you know, whales. And it has a profound effect.
It creates Star Trek 4, right? Go back in time to save the whale. I grew up never knowing that,
I always knew that humpback sang. It goes on Voyager 1 to represent not just humanity, but
all of Earth. It's the very first thing on the golden record after human greetings.
And it's played in front of the General UN Assembly. And it's sort of the galvanizing artifact
that ends up banning deep sea whaling. It's sort of the reason why we have the humpbacks today.
There are these moments in time that become movements that shift our perspective so we can
see ourselves from outside of ourselves. And in so doing, that shifts our identity, who we think
we are, and our place on the planet. You know, the other classic example of this is
the space race going to the moon. You know, Earthrise and Blue Marble are still the two,
I think, most viewed photos in world history. They sort of dose humanity with the overview
effect. We realize we're at this tiny pale blue dot floating in a mode of light, a speck of dust
and space. It's why William Shatner freaked out after he got back a few months from that outer
space thing. He's like, oh my God, I'd never thought of it this way. Exactly. It just shifts
your perspective on what is meaningful and what did it do to our political environment?
Well, when there's a human being standing on the moon, the EPA was born,
NOAA came into existence, Modern Earth Day was founded, the Modern Environmental Movement
got going, the Clean Air Acts was passed, and that was in the Nixon era. So, and I should point
out, it's not just that one thing, right? It's not like just standing on the moon did all of that.
It came in the context of a larger movement. There was Silent Spring. There was increased
inclusion. We were beginning to understand the ozone hole. So, it's these moments though that
happen within movements that create political will. And that's really a major part of what Earth
Species is about. Well, I think it's almost deeper than that. We talked earlier about antagonism and
hatred of outgroups is one of the prime triggers for our phenotype and what the
overview effect of the moon and some of the things you just said is it allows us to feel as if we're
all one. It expands the boundaries of our in-group. For instance, if there were an alien race to come
and attack Earth, we would do all the things that we need to do now to protect our oceans and to
prepare for the end of growth because there would be a common entity outside of our one Earth. And so
maybe recognizing the brothers and sisters that we share this lonely planet with in all the universe,
all of the known complex life who is self-aware are on this planet. And most of them are in the
oceans. So, carry on with what you hope you can accomplish. Well, you know, I really think of
these new AI technologies as the invention of optics and specifically the telescope
in the sense that the telescope let us look out at the patterns of the cosmos and what did we
discover? We discovered that the Earth was not the center. And I think these new tools are going to
let us look at the patterns of the cosmos. And what are we going to discover? That humanity
is not at the center. And it's that kind of shift to human ego that I think is the core problem to
be solved. That is, even if we invented a technology tomorrow that could draw down all the carbon,
which would be amazing if we should do that, it wouldn't solve the core problem that we would just
invent the next runaway system that would tear apart the world. And, you know, I don't have any
illusion that Earth species is like a silver bullet that's going to make that happen. But I
think it's part of a portfolio of things that can shift our relationship to ourselves. And along the
way, you know, we went to the moon, we got out Velcro, we are inventing a number of technologies
which can help conservation right here, right now and help biologists.
And I can talk about some of those. So I think it's that pairing of, you know, human beings,
like we pride ourselves on language, like the Christian tradition, the universe, like in
the beginning, there was the word. And the Ayurvedic traditions, the universe begins with
own identity. Our identity is wrapped up in language. It's why it's such a political issue.
And so my hope is that by working on this project, and by giving people hope that
communication is even possible, that lets us shift our mythopoetics, change the stories we
tell ourselves, which then shifts our identity shifts our behavior.
I'm fully on board with that. I think we are a can kicking species from the time of Thomas Malthus.
We didn't have fossil fuels from the time of Paul Ehrlich. We didn't have debt and globalization.
We continue to kick the can of what growth is possible. And it's my belief that the next can
to kick is not a physical one. It's not a technological one. It's in our brains. And it's
in our understanding, our connectivity. And what is sacred? Is it traditional religion?
Is it economic growth? I believe it is the natural world that it resides on this planet.
So what would be the intermediate steps if you were to have success with
bonobos or crows or humpback whales or dolphins? First of all, is there a readily available
data to be able to apply AI to start constructing these galaxies of points in AI?
What are the bottlenecks? What's keeping you back from success? And what would be the first
couple or three hurdles to cross? Great question. So generally, we're all little data starved and
especially data that has been annotated by biologists to include whatever behaviors we care
about. So like all the context. Luckily, there's been a big push in the last couple of years as
sensors have gotten cheaper to put tags on wild animals that have video, that have microphones,
that have gyros and accelerometers. So you can start to reconstruct like what say a pot of whales
has been doing for the last 24 hours. A guy named Ari Friedlander who works in Monterey Bay and down
in Antarctica. He's a professor at UC Santa Cruz. Yeah, I met him at our dinner.
That's right. Yeah. What were your impressions? Yeah. I mean, if I wasn't worried about the
great simplification, I would love to have his job. What a fascinating and important thing to do.
Yeah, I agree. And so a lot of our early work is starting to work with biologgers as they're
called on top of whales. We're also working with Christian Roots who works on tool using
crows and putting sensors on many crows in an aviary so we can reconstruct like the motion
paths of every crow turn that motion into meaning. Like what kind of behaviors were they doing?
We have a big project right now on that. Then listening like once you have many animals speaking
at once, the most interesting thing is generally being said when they're in big groups, it would
be really helpful if you could disentangle them. That is to say go sort of imagine like you're
listening to a band. It'd be great if you could like take the vocalist and the guitar player and
the pianist and separate them out into their own individual tracks. It'd be great if you could do
that for say pods of whales or aviaries full of crows because then you can have the individual
stream by which you can start to build these shapes. One of the things I wanted to do if it's
okay. I'm curious if it will come through. It's just play you a little bit of my current favorite
species communication. Yeah, go ahead.
I assume it's some cetacean but it almost sounded like a hyena. I have no idea.
This is a beluga. These are a couple belugas communicating.
When you hear the high fidelity version, it sounds like an alien modem.
It turns out dolphins have contact calls, names that they call each other by,
that they learn the first couple of months, but that's a whistle. It sounds like
belugas when they have contact calls, their names are broadband more like modem packets.
What's interesting about this data one, we listen up to 20 kilohertz maybe.
Belugas are speaking up to 150 kilohertz. That Valeria Vergara who is doing research on to
beluga names and dialects in her study, she had tags on whales that had microphones,
but because the whales are moving around so much and they can speak into somebody else's
microphone, she doesn't know who's speaking or can't disentangle them. In her research,
in trying to understand beluga names, she had to throw away 97% of all of her data.
That's to me incredibly exciting because the oceans are 5% explored. Beluga communication,
at least for this kind of data set, for this reason is 3% explored. This is the next frontier.
A thing we've been working on is if you could listen to say blue communication or elephant
communication or pro communication and separate them out into their own individual tracks,
that would give you access to the super majority of communication data. We just had published in
Nature Scientific Reports, our first paper showing for the first time you can do this in the biocoustic
domain. Not only could you decode or create a map of beluga communications, but over time,
you could see how belugas and crows and elephants and bonobos communication maps like
German and Japanese and Swahili sort of thing. The first thing we worked on was solving this
cocktail party problem so we could begin to open up these data sets. It works right now
in lab-like settings. There's still significant work to be done to get it to work in the wild,
so whether there's noise and lots of other complicating factors.
The other projects we're currently working on are one, the ability to generate novel calls,
can we have a computer learn to speak like a humpback whale or a beluga or a raven and use that
in playback experiments? Could we end up where? You would need a huge data bank
for which AI could access to then make inferences in the same way that we have a
synthetic human that's our friend. You would want to get at least somewhere in that direction to be
able to converse within other species, yes? Yeah, exactly. You could imagine that way before we
understand what any of it means, you could have a whale in dialogue with an AI that are going back
and forth saying something, but we don't know what it is yet. That in and of itself, I think,
would be fascinating. What if the very first thing a whale said to us was, what in the
fuck are you doing to the oceans? What would surprise you if that's what they ended up saying?
Actually, they probably wouldn't swear. They've been around for 34 million years. Either they
have the very best swear words that we've never thought of or they're beyond that.
Here's my biggest fear about your project is that if you massively succeed and you can demonstrate
that other species have other languages which are mappable and we even can begin to converse with
them using some hybrid computer interface, that society will just shrug and go back to their
synthetic humans and energy consumption and that it all worked, but that we shrugged
and missed this opportunity for a change in consciousness. That's my fear.
I think that's a reasonable fear to hold. Then I think it's about how do we bring enough people
along on the journey so that they're invested, that we can create those moments of collective
action and political will to do something. I think the next 10 years are going to get
increasingly bad. The next 35 are moving into exponential suck. The landscape into which
this kind of knowledge lands is changing. I think more and more people are ready and receptive
to make a change. They're just looking for that final straw. I think there are many different
types of final straws of which I hope this is a powerful one. Given what you know about your field
and the broader human amoeba situation, what advice would you or do you give to young people today
who are discovering and understanding the human predicament writ large with energy,
climate, the oceans, other species, everything? What sort of advice would you give to young people?
Three things. One, read D'Nelamedo's Thinking and Systems and Places to Intervene in the Systems
that I wish I could come to much earlier. It really is an important lens to look through
and it teaches you that embedded in our language is sort of the adversary, the thing that keeps us
from seeing things as they are. The book makes the point that in the term side effect, we're already
hiding the thing because it's not like here is the world and we have climate change and systemic
inequality happening to it. It's that we've built a machine that when you peddle the machine,
it will programmatically create these outcomes and so to cause them side effects is to already
diminish their view. They're just as principal as an effect as every other effect. I think, one,
read D'Nelamedo's. Two, acknowledge that we are living in a time of increasing chaos. What is
chaos? Chaos is that you cannot predict what happens next from what is happening now and that's
scary and also hopeful because in chaos, initial conditions matter and that's worth fighting for
is that little changes now can make huge changes soon. I love that. That's what I'm trying to do.
Yeah, exactly. You don't know what your ripples are going to be.
The last is this. In my youth, I don't know how young I am, but when I was younger,
I really idolized rationality. That being rational, I thought was the most rational thing.
And as I've gotten older, I've realized that to be perfectly rational is in fact not rational at all.
What do I mean? I mean that every model of the world is wrong because the world is highly
dimensional. Every model is a dimensionality reduction. So to see the world as closely as you
can, you want to have many different models whose errors cancel out. So we have many ways of knowing.
We have a rationality, which is good at some things and bad at others. We have our emotional
way of knowing. We have our embodied way of knowing. We have our pattern match way of knowing.
We have our social way of knowing. And the best thing we can learn to do is to integrate across
all of those different systems of knowing so that we can get closest to seeing the world as it is.
And as part of that, I strongly recommend building yourself an intentional movement
practice. For me, it's surfing and a strong yoga by investing in your full spectrum being
is the best way to be most effective. What's intentional movement?
Oh, it just means something where you are intentionally moving. So like, like I went
for a bike ride before this podcast, like that. And so as long as you're putting your intention
into the bike ride versus say zoning out and like thinking about something while you're doing it,
you want something which saturates your being and takes you out of your mind and back into your
mind and back into your body. You know, surfing is an example for that for me because now it's
muscle and breath pitted against unnegotiable physics. And I have no choice but to be saturated
with presence versus that thing that when I say presence is the abstraction of my runaway mind.
It's that practice of getting out of my mind that gives me the perspective to come back, right?
There's that phrase staying home versus leaving and returning home are two very different things.
I like that. Thank you for that. So I'm curious how you're going to answer this.
Aisa, what do you care most about in the world?
