Yeah.
His body.
This is a really great comment from Westward 101.
I don't think that any species should be eradicated,
mosquitoes, sharks, or leopards.
Individual species are a result of millions of years of evolution,
a natural process unguided by intelligence that battles entropy on a local scale.
A process humans cannot replicate on time scales that matter to us.
Natural complex...
I know.
Natural complexity.
Natural anti-entropy, which exists in every living thing,
is super cool and super and cool are capitalized.
On the complexity spectrum alone, that leopards exist is cool.
The mosquitoes exist is cool.
Smallpox is cool.
The list is cool than mosquitoes.
Judgment so much.
I'm sorry.
Are we defending smallpox?
The killer of hundreds of thousands?
Hundreds of millions, right?
Throughout history?
I would say that...
On coolness?
Yeah.
Compared to mosquitoes.
Let's put it like this.
It's smallpox, are they Hussain of the infection world, right?
Yes.
You know, sure, they're cool and it's not their fault that they're killing everybody
and they don't do any good for anything other than themselves,
but for that reason, you've got to go.
Sorry.
So, you know, I totally disagree with him.
I would be more than happy to eradicate both the common contagious species of mosquito,
the one that carries all the diseases, and smallpox.
I don't care how cool they are, they're too much negative utility.
Agreed.
Well, they haven't finished their...
I haven't finished reading their comment yet.
I'm sorry.
Unless they say J.K. Lowell.
No, I'm kidding.
Because then they immediately say,
and no, I don't think we should release variola back into the wild.
Individual humans do have moral value too,
and I think we should weigh the level of species complexity
against the consciousness quality.
Plus, I give more weight to my own species,
as well as creatures that resemble me on those other qualities.
But I don't think we should completely eliminate the stored smallpox samples either,
not from selfish standpoint.
Some day we might want to examine them to benefit humanity,
but because smallpox itself, or the species of leopard,
have inherent value independent of humanity.
I think just because you managed to lock your way into not going extinct over a few millennia
does not mean that you have any right to keep on existing.
I agree.
I think...
I don't think that rights are a real thing.
Right.
We should have a more episode on ethics,
because I agree with you that rights are not actually a real thing at all.
So I...
Well, I think I used an analogy.
Or inherent value.
I said that on the episode that things have inherent value,
things have inherent value.
Just like I don't think rights are a real thing,
I don't think inherent value is a real thing.
I think that things should be valued for themselves.
Like would you value smallpox just for itself?
Probably to research.
Right.
That's the only reason I can imagine keeping it around,
because it is...
It might be...
It's genetic code might be useful to us for something,
but he's saying...
Or she...
Oh my goodness.
Sorry.
They are making the claim it sounded like,
that just the fact that it has managed to evolve and exist for this long is cool,
and that's a good enough reason to keep it around.
I think to...
I agree.
I think that's a bad reason.
Sorry.
I mean more than anything else,
just because there's a tiny chance it might get loose someday.
And the benefit to smallpox of propagating again
wouldn't be worth the deficit of it killing lots of things.
So I used an example,
you've been in the last episode of the one before,
I think abortions are a bummer.
Like for some of the same sentimental reasons,
like the odds of any one embryo ever existing
are astronomically implied out there,
you know, so much that they might as well not happen.
And yet here's this thing,
it'll be a person,
but I mean there's so many...
There are many circumstances in which it's not worth the cost
to bring that embryo to determine become a person for a list of reasons.
So I think you can say,
yes, let's destroy smallpox forever,
as long as we can confirm it's not going to be useful.
And it's kind of a bummer.
Like it was cool,
but it's not worth keeping you around.
You know?
I think it's okay to say,
it's a bummer,
but it's worth doing anyway.
Just like it might be a bummer to kill a dangerous murderer.
Well, to turn that around,
should, would it be a good thing to make as many infectious diseases
that are similar to smallpox,
but dissimilar enough that they're their own unique thing?
Because it's less of a bummer to have,
to have a universe where they do exist?
I don't know if I meant bummers in that way.
If it's a bummer to get rid of smallpox,
then is it a positive to create something similar to smallpox?
I see what you're saying.
Maybe, then we could understand more about infectiousness
and disease and pathogens.
But for their own aspect, as coolness in and of themselves
as the product of evolution,
I don't think so.
And I don't know if that's necessarily what I was getting at.
Honestly, now that I'm thinking about it,
might even be cooler than having evolved,
because this is something that we made as humans, you know?
To kind of like show off.
Yeah, the mystical stuff.
No, I'm too wrapped up in my own species now, I'm sorry.
No, you're good.
Well, I guess-
She was giving me an incredulous look.
Yeah.
I just wanted to clarify something.
Step back for a moment about inherent value.
What I mean is that non-humans should be able to also
determine if something has value.
Like, that should count.
Huh.
Like, I'm not the only person who should be bestowing value on things.
Right.
Right.
But you're saying like a beehive should be able to say
that this field of flowers has value to them
and so we should respect their value judgment.
Yeah, at some point, yeah.
At some level.
Well, I think if-
They have made their value judgment.
Now let us see them enforce it.
Yeah, that was a weird enforcing thing.
But, uh-
You're channeling Stalin again.
That was actually a US president.
All right, you got a name.
You got a name in shame.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
What?
Uh...
Jesus Christ was never a president.
No, no.
Oh, I don't remember which one it was specifically.
It was when the Supreme Court was not yet a powerful institution
and they were beefing with the president
and the Supreme Court made a ruling
and the president said,
well, they have made their ruling,
now let us see them enforce it.
Baller.
Yeah.
I mean, bad, but-
Ah, now I wish I had memorized that quote better.
Is there some salty admiration going on?
Jackson was one of my favorite presidents,
just for how hilariously bad he-
Like, he was kind of like a villain,
but he was just funny about it.
There was that anecdote about how someone tried to assassinate him
and when the gun didn't go off,
he was beating the fuck out of the guy with his cane
and the president's own retainers pulled him off of him
so he wouldn't kill him,
just from beating him to death.
And I'm like, that's the president,
you know, winning a fight against an assassin.
How cool is that?
Yeah, so...
All right, thank you so much for your comments
and we love reading them and trying to respond to them,
so please continue to send them in on Reddit
