if you're just doing a cost-effectiveness strategy, right?
Fighting it in the courts will cost you millions of dollars.
Paying the fine will only be a few thousand.
It's the same thing as trying to fight the mafia when they come in and say,
hey, lovely story I got here, be a pity if it burned down.
Like, all right, here's your hundred bucks for the week, don't burn down my store.
That's how they talk because they're from the 19th century.
Yes, exactly.
But it's a lot more expensive to burn down the store to try to fight the mob.
But if you get angry enough, you say, fuck it, I will absorb those costs and fight these people.
And if everyone in society got angry enough, those people would not be able to extort
others because all of society would be fighting them, you know?
So this is why I try to stoke that rage sometimes.
Bring it up.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
I feel you.
I think, hey, that was funny, I feel you.
Thanks for pointing out how funny that was.
Well, it was an accident, then I realized that it was funny.
I think I want to clarify on wrong emotion.
You know, like, Ali Eiser, and there's a, well,
this is probably the first link in the post was the less wrong link,
or they're less wrong as a feeling rational.
You mentioned the sad thing, you know, so he has the stream where it didn't happen,
and he woke up feeling great.
Well, that's a wrong emotion.
The bad thing did happen.
So that's, it doesn't make sense to feel as if it didn't,
because you want your feelings to line up with how the world actually is.
So I do have a question, though.
How do we realistically block out the people who are just trying to appeal to emotions
without having rational argument, without deadening all emotional appeals?
That's a good question.
Just be skeptical.
Just, yeah, just be critical.
Think about it.
My, yeah.
Ask yourself a few questions.
I remember one of our earlier episodes when we were in Stephen's closet,
or Zubra International Studios, rather, we were discussing a John Oliver show,
and I was, I was kind of sad that I was not enraged by what I heard,
and I just, I felt like I had run out of emotional reaction, you know.
And really John Oliver wasn't doing his job.
I guess.
Yeah.
That's because it's not his job, it's John Stewart's.
Whoa.
So what was I going to say?
You were going to say how we can pull this awesome magic,
where we only care about the things that have good rational arguments behind our caring.
I think you said it, Katrina, it's be, be skeptical.
So, you know, if you, this is something that I try to do,
if I find myself nodding when I'm reading something,
I'll, when I catch that, I'll stop and go back to where I started nodding,
and then try and rip it apart.
Because I, I find that if I, if I'm, if I'm, well, I guess not necessarily nodding,
you know, but like if I find myself getting like, yeah, that, you know,
feeling, feeling good about it, that's awesome.
I want to make sure that I'm not agreeing with it just because it makes me feel awesome.
I want to go see if I can stand scrutiny.
So then.
If you have a strong emotional reaction to something, that's a signal to you
that you should be a little bit critical of it.
Agreed.
Just give it another look.
And, and the truth can withstand that, that, that scrutiny,
and then, but then go forth and feel.
If, if there's truth behind there, then your emotions will stay.
Exactly.
Nice.
So, you know, if it's a, you know, a moving political talk from a candidate that,
you know, you don't find just gut-wrenchingly disgusting,
you can, you can find yourself enjoying the thing.
And then you're like, wait, I just moved by a political thing.
That's, that's gross.
Let me actually think about what they said.
I think one of the best things you can do is seek out dissenting opinions.
I, I just earlier today shared on Facebook a, a post that made me sad about a church
that refused an atheists, an atheist group's money for, for their charity.
It was like some orphan kids thing.
And the church was like, no, sorry,
your atheists group names associated with the money will not take this money.
And I was very disappointed by that.
And then Julia Galeff pointed out,
there's certain people that we probably wouldn't take money from either.
Like if our politician took money from the Koch brothers, we would be like,
what's going on here?
What, you know, and I, I, I personally think that a lot of
scientific organizations should not take money from the Templeton fund because,
or the Templeton foundation, because it gives them false legitimacy.
They're like, yes, we are funding all this great scientific research.
So we should be having a voice in the scientific conversation.
And they're just people trying to, you know, make apologetics, apologetics
for why God created physics.
Is there anybody who you wouldn't take money from?
Really good.
The Templeton foundation is an organization that will basically give scientists money for
saying nice things about religion.
Thank you for clarifying that.
That's an interesting point.
I just came back from WorldCon last week and WorldCon,
it's, it's World Science Fiction Convention,
they give out awards for the best novel of the year and so forth there.
The past two years, this group of alt-right people who call themselves the either sad or
rabid puppies, depending on which particular group is doing the trolling.
The puppying.
Yeah, the puppying.
Yeah.
That's way too cute.
That has been, has been trolling the awards and nominating basic, for the most part,
terrible stuff, but in every case, stuff that is very far to the right politically.
They nominated space raptor button invasion because they thought it would be funny to have
gay porn in the short stories, which hilariously backfired on them.
But that's besides the point.
If I viscerally hate these people for what they are doing to the science fiction and fantasy
community right now, because I love the community, I love science fiction and fantasy,
and having these alt-right assholes jumping in and having their tantrums all over it is annoying.
So if they were to give me money, I would very happily accept it.
That is money they don't have to pursue their goals, and they're giving it to me,
and I can pursue my counter to their goal goals.
So I would gladly take money from them.
But on the other hand, there is a publisher that is leading the charge for one of these groups
called Castilla House, and they publish some sci-fi authors.
And if they wanted to publish the book that I am currently writing, I would say no.
Get the fuck away from me.
I don't care how much you're paying me or what royalty rates you'll give me.
I do not mod my brand tarnished with your name.
That's an interesting thing.
So if you, since you have an actual brand, but like...
I mean anyone who has a name has a brand, right?
Yes.
There's the Katrina brand that you submitted to your friends and family.
There's the Steven brand that you showed to your friends and family.
So yeah, I guess it would be funny.
Julia Galev, by the way, runs the Center for Applied Rationality.
She will, if you look in the comments, or if you look in the episode description for this episode,
she gave a talk on the straw Vulcan, which will be linked to, because we talked about that earlier.
I wonder, when she turned down a $10 million check from the head of the KKK,
you know, given how much good her organization could do with a spare $10 million,
that sounds, at some level, you'd be like, fine, a billion, whatever, right?
So like at some point, you're like, yeah, I'll sell out for a billion dollars.
There's very little I wouldn't go on TV and endorse for a billion dollars.
Especially because with a billion dollars the next day you could buy
$100 million of advertising saying, just kidding, guys.
I only did it for the billion dollars.
True.
Look at all the great things we're going to do with this billion dollars.
That's right.
Including Tony Stark style Iron Man suit.
Nice.
Yep.
I mean, how much could it cost?
Not a billion.
I don't know, doing the research in basic physics to get to the point where we can make one
could easily cost far more than a billion dollars.
Shit.
Well, I'll sort of factor my plan then.
I would like to very briefly touch on anger.
I just because I found this interesting, I'm not sure how relevant it is to our discussion,
but it was fun.
Someone recently postulated when they were trying to figure out what the fuck anger is
actually useful for, that anger is nature's way of pre-committing.
When we were talking about what was it three episodes ago, game theory?
That chicken.
Chicken, yes.
It's throwing the steering wheel out the window.
Anger is like nature, because every time you get angrier, you just get stupider and make
worse decisions and have less control of yourself.
Anger is nature's way of letting the surrounding people know if these things continue to happen,
I will lose control of myself and make bad things happen to everyone around me.
It is like having your steering wheel thrown out the window.
And I, yeah, it's a very interesting analogy.
And you can see how some people, like those people who were very large naturally in their
youth would find good results from having anger.
And so it gets reinforced and they just start throwing the steering wheel out the window
every five minutes, even in situations where it would be a really bad idea.
Don't mess with her, she's crazy.
Right.
And other people who managed to tamp that down always stay in control of themselves,
but sometimes having that sort of pre-commitment can be good in certain cases,
because it'll dissuade people from doing the things that make you actually lose control.
It sounds like a puzzle to try and figure out when you ought to pre-commit,
because if you're angry, you're not in the best position to make that judgment call.
No.
So maybe like you get pissed and then you cool down and think about it,
and then you decide, is this worth getting pissed about again?
I don't know, I remember when I was a little kid and I would throw in tamper tantrums,
I would consider it beforehand.
We would.
Oh man.
Until a certain point, at which point I was no longer able to,
because I had done too many tamper tantrums.
But yeah, when you're a really little kid, you're like,
is this worth tamper tantrum?
It's going to be a lot of energy, it's going to be a lot of time.
Yeah, you can choose yes or no.
Wow.
I don't remember being a child that well to know if I had anything like that,
but if so, I either, I now need to give children more credit,
