Oh, sure.
So I understand the usefulness of envy.
You know, it can push you.
Like I want to be as admired as that person is.
So I will go forth and try to do admirable things.
But jealousy, just I want that person to not be admired.
Like I don't want to better myself.
I just want to worse than them.
Just it's an ugly emotion.
I agree.
It's an ugly emotion.
I'm trying to think, you know, other than like the situation where, say, if, you know, I wish
Saddam Hussein wasn't in power, you know, if this was 15 years ago.
That sounds like an, but that sounds kind of like you can separate it.
You're not jealous of him in this station.
You just, you don't want him there because of his negative utility.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I see what you're saying.
Yeah, that sounds like another good candidate.
I was thinking in more than two, they address jealousy.
Of course, that's the Polly Emory book.
And they talk about it as a, I have no idea if they know what they're talking about, but they do discuss it as a composite emotion
or emotion that springs up off of other emotions and other things that are going on.
And they see it as an indicator and an indication that you need to look at the root causes and figure out what's going on there.
So in that way, through that lens, it can be useful.
I have found rationality to be really useful for, for regulating emotions.
I mean, sometimes you can't help what you feel, but I have learned that.
So as I've mentioned before, I, I'm somewhat depressive.
I've had bad times earlier in my life and I've, I've come to the point where I realized that I have to work out regularly.
I have to get eight hours of sleep regularly and every now and then I can skip a day or stay up late.
But I really got to make sure to take care of myself because if I don't, things start going bad and I really love depressive art.
I love grim dark, but I make a point to always watch or read something on a regular basis that is just relentlessly optimistic.
The early parts of Harry Potter and the methods of rationality, the death for me.
There was my little pony for a while.
Right now it's Steven Universe.
You just need something that is the world is great and look how awesome everything is because otherwise you bog yourself down.
I don't know if I have any input like that in my life currently.
Relentlessly positive.
Yeah.
I mean, I get things that are relentlessly entertaining, but not like, because they're positive.
Do you watch Steven Universe?
I tried a couple of episodes.
I'll give it another two.
Positive.
Okay.
Couldn't handle it.
I can do, I can do adventure time.
Okay.
I really, really enjoy adventure time.
That's hardly like all positive though.
That shit's grim.
It is intense.
So I was, but it's cartoony.
It's true.
I was ambushed by Steven Universe.
There was a recent episode.
There is a tragic backstory in the past of it.
There was a recent episode that focused on it.
And it was just the worst time in the world considering what's going on in my life to see that episode.
I was like, you betraying son of a bitch.
This is like Seymour the dog in Futurama.
That Futurama was like 12 seasons and they threw in like three or four crazy sad episodes out of nowhere.
It's Jurassic Park.
I cried.
Oh my God, right?
Yeah, that was devastating.
Don't watch it.
Almost here.
I want to trip down the field, Lane.
You know, go for it.
The other one that got me was, I forget the name of it, but it was the, what?
Fuck it.
It's Futurama.
I wanted to get back on a point with empathy.
I'll link to this episode in the podcast description of Sam Harris's podcast.
Waking up, he was interviewing, I guess, discussing that wasn't much an interview.
It was a conversation with Yale psychologist Paul Bloom, who either just wrote a book or is writing a book, either titled or subtitled
Against Empathy.
That's the point of it.
I forget what it's called.
He's careful to argue in the book and no one who argues with him in real life about the book has read the book, just like can happen with misleading titles.
His book isn't against compassion.
It's against empathy.
And he says that, you know, people that we think of as psychopaths can have great empathy as far as being able to model other people.
Imagine what they feel and, you know, that sort of thing.
And they danced around this idea for like 10 minutes and no one used the word ender-wigan empathy, right?
So in the beginning of.
So he drew a sharp line between empathy and compassion.
And compassion is the one where you feel what other people are feeling.
Well, even that, I think that that would work as well.
No, no, I should have been more clear.
Compassion is more caring about what other people feel.
And there's some respects to where it's important to have an empathetic capacity for, you know, say somebody you care about if they're mad.
They might not just want you to like agree with them, but they might want you to actually feel what they're feeling.
And so that sounds important.
But what he's talking about is not just, you know, the tool used by bullies and psychopaths everywhere, manipulating people's emotions by modeling them correctly.
But you can you can ruin people's rationality.
And I guess we can talk about scope neglect and stuff during this episode.
Someone asked about it in one of the comments.
Scope neglect is the bias that people basically it falls down to the fact that human brains don't multiply on a on an emotional level.
So otherwise called genocide neglect, where we're more moved by the little girl in a well than we are about a drought killing millions in the third world or something.
To quote a famous mass murderer, one death is a tragedy.
Tragedy, a million deaths is a statistic.
Right.
Which murderer was that?
I believe that was Stalin.
Oh, nice.
Yeah, you're right.
Yeah, the but part of nice going Stalin.
Thanks, man.
That was awesome.
Thanks for that quote.
So the one of the aspects of bad or of empathy leading you astray is you can be more moved by, you know, the girl that, you know, lives in your town who fell on the well.
And you could give $10,000 to aid her recovery for broken leg or something from falling in a well, whatever, because, you know, she she's close.
So you can relate to her better, but that's so that's a bastardization of what you should really, if you were thinking about it more fairly, what you should be doing with that charity money if you're interested in helping people.
So I think that that was more of his point, but it was a it was a good discussion and it was fruitful.
I'm pro empathy in interpersonal relations.
Right.
I think so too.
And I think that he saw the merits of it.
I don't know if he came right out and said, I think it's a great thing, but I disagree with him on that point.
I think that there's absolutely a perk to having empathy in an interpersonal relationship, but not use it as your goal for not to use it as your metric for what you're going to give your charity money to.
It sounds like two different things that we're talking about.
Right.
So there should just be two different words.
I think empathy is too big of a word.
But anyway, there was my my five cents on empathy.
I think that was that's one of those conditions where you can use rationality to guide your your reaction to your emotions.
Absolutely.
Like you can feel your reaction to hearing about one girl being down a well and then use that to think of, well, these 10,000 people are dying of of what's what's the latest Zika or Zika doesn't kill people.
But 10,000 people are dying.
It's always malaria.
Okay, let's go with malaria.
10,000 people are dying of malaria right now.
So I should try to imagine the feelings that I have for this one girl and multiply those by 10,000.
Realize that you can't and then just take your maths work for it and not your emotions work for it.
Exactly.
And yeah, I mean, so they can do studies where, you know, they pull different groups.
They'll show you, you know, one picture of a girl in the third world and say, you know, look for, you know, how much money would you give to help her go to school and be fed in clothes, and they'll give X amount.
Another group, you know, and then they can, they can manipulate these things in the way that you'll give less to her and her brother and less to her and her family of eight, which is weird because you think that if you care about her, you'd care about her brother.
You think you're feeling to double.
I don't think it might be sort of the helplessness feeling like I can help one person.
But if you show me a picture of a village of a thousand people, I can't do shit about a thousand people.
Throw your hands up in the air and walk away.
Yeah, that was the idea behind crowdfunding.
I worked for a crowdfunding website for three years.
And the thing that worked when you're looking for small donations from people who maybe don't usually give is to give them something small to donate to where they can really make a difference and see the outcome.
Individual animals were far more successful than other projects on our website.
Yeah, and I think that's another aspect to it.
You know, if you're just writing a check to Oxfam, you're never seeing where it goes or what it does.
That sort of emotionally unsatisfying for people.
People would rather give money to a single homeless person on the street and feel like I did more good with that, even though the money goes less of a distance helping one person in the United States than it does helping somebody.
Which feels like exactly what the argument that guy was saying, that your emotions are leading you astray.
Exactly.
Well, what feels like transparency and your ability to actually check up on what the on what the outcome is, yes, it may absolutely be leading you astray.
So I'd say that organizations have to try really hard to do well in transparency and to really well at showing what people's charities dollars are buying.
Yeah.
Also.
Do you want to?
No, go ahead.
Oh, it also works very well on just a personal basis between, for example, in my personal life, there's often times where I am really frustrated at something like, say, my significant other has done.
And I just I want to fucking storm out of there and be like, I am done forever.
And instead, you look about the rest of your life.
This this works better if you've had some life, you know, lived in the past.
Look at the rest of your life.
And you're like, you know what, every time this happened before I got over it in a few hours.
And then afterwards I felt like an idiot.
I'm just going to suppress this emotion and ignore it.
And after a few hours, it blows over.
And the next day I am very happy that I did not storm out and that everything is fine.
This is exactly where I want to be.
Ignore that emotional spike for a little bit and you're good.
That's one of my tricks for dealing with or similar trick for dealing with things like grief, where I can say to myself sometimes out loud or just in my head and be like, you know what, previous times you were you were full of grief.
And then, you know, you wonder, is it going to get better?
What's happening?
But then things did get better.
And so all you have to do now is realize, hey, this is, you know, not that dissimilar to before.
In a year from now, you won't be this upset about it, probably not in a month.
And so, I mean, you're not just, you're not destroying the emotion, but you're, you're taming it, maybe is the right word for it.
I think that's one of the reasons it sucks so much to be a teenager.
Oh, man.
You haven't had those experiences where where you stopped feeling that way.
You're like, the rest of my life is going to be like this.
Yeah, I mean, I imagine that's why little kids are crying all the time.
Because, like, you know, if they drop their toys, that's literally the worst thing that's ever happened in their entire life, right?
They will never get the toy back if past experience is any guide.
Every new bad thing is the worst thing that's ever happened to them.
And they just have no tools for dealing with it.
It's tough to be a kid.
Oh, yeah.
It's so tough.
There's another tool.
In fact, this came up last week again, when we were talking about the salty admiration thing.
So part of, I think, feeling rational is, yes, letting yourself accept that having feelings is completely rational in so far as what you're feeling reflects what's
actually happening.
And that's one key thing that's hard to get across sometimes is that you should feel the appropriate emotion for what's actually happening.
Not for what you imagined.
I think we discussed this briefly talking about one of my high school professors dreams or something.
Yeah, or his wife's dream.
