and they're now better recipients for being genuinely disliked for their behavior.
I used to just treat them kind of like animals,
or non-human animals, where it's like, oh, you're basically some mindless,
non-reflective person.
You have to give them better incentives.
Yeah, but it's just interesting that I'd never considered the idea that some kid could be,
who's old enough to get away with the tamper tantrum,
could think, what if this is worth the trouble?
I always sort of just assumed that it happened spontaneously,
that they were just like, I'm pissed and I'm going to freak out for 15 minutes.
I think it also does happen spontaneously.
I know as I got a little bit older, I did lose my ability to control it,
but I have very strong memories of being very young and choosing.
I don't, I don't remember pre-school.
Holy shit.
That's crazy.
I have no memories of sitting in my room and being like, well,
I am exhausted.
I have been tamper tantruming for a while now.
Is it worth it to go on?
I'm like, I'm in this for the marathon.
That's amazing.
You are a rationalist from day one.
That's crazy.
Of course, that would be some cost fallacy too.
Maybe not a strong rationalist at pre-school, but on the path.
I think that's everything I could think of for this, for this particular topic.
I'm sure there's more.
We'll have a discussion if anyone wants to get more into it,
either via email or in the subreddit or comment on the website.
And if you guys are down, we can move to the-
FeedBazingConspiracy.com.
That's right.
We can move on to the feedback section if you guys would like.
Sure.
Emotions.
Feedback section.
Section, section.
Would give four out of five.
Would feel again.
I guess I should probably clarify about the beaver poop thing.
This is the question that people were unsubscribing over.
Wait, what unsubscribing?
No, not really.
Oh my gosh.
She doesn't even know her shit, literally.
I'm out of here.
Well, while you guys are looking that up, I will say we had a comment that
vday, I believe vveryday after our episode on street epistemology aired,
blab.im or io.
What is that?
It's a site where people would go to chat with each other
about whatever topics they wanted to chat with
and other people could watch them chatting.
It's shut down.
Vday after.
So you cannot go there anymore.
I contacted Steve about that,
and he said they're looking for another forum where they can chat right now.
And if they find one that they all like, he will get back to me.
In the meantime, I guess talk with friends and family?
Yeah, or, you know, willing strangers, classmates, or something.
Friends is probably the best.
Start this with your dogs first.
Dogs are very forgiving of mistakes.
That's right.
Mr. Oliva says,
we do have a high fondness for charismatic megafauna like dogs or whales
because that way they look like us.
This seems to me like a bad function to base moral weight on.
We must be careful not to accidentally use that as a factor.
Yeah, you mean because they look like they're smiling?
Dogs and dolphins.
Dolphins have permanent smiles,
so people think that they're having a great time
when they're really super stressed out.
Dogs have eyebrows that are very expressive.
Yeah, that makes us empathize with them a little better.
But they like, I mean, that's good for dogs.
Right.
But like, well, I mean, like a good counterpoint,
I think it was George Carlin joke,
which was like, if lobsters looked like puppies,
there's no way we would drop them into boiling pots of water to eat them.
But because they look like science fiction monsters,
we have no problem with it.
So I agree with Mr. Oliva that that is not the best metric to use.
And I think none of us even implied that it was,
but it is something that we ought to have expressed outright that,
you know, something could be gross and ugly
and still be absolutely worth moral consideration.
That ought not to weigh into it at all.
Because as humans, we are motivated by beauty quite a bit.
We didn't link at all to Three Worlds Collide in that episode, did we?
We did not.
That might be a good link for those episodes or this one.
There was an eight-chapter short story written by,
you guessed it, Eliezer Yudkowski.
Had eight chapters.
It's not a short story anymore.
It would be a novella.
He's the expert.
Thank you.
How short are short stories?
One chapter.
Short stories are generally 7,500 words or less,
which can be up to two chapters in a normal book.
Well, of the two of us, he's the published authors.
He wins that argument.
No, that's fair enough, a novella.
It's an exploration of a somewhat distant future where super AI never really took off
and humanity bumps into not one, you guessed it, but three worlds collide.
Humanity is one of the worlds, though.
That's right.
So there's a clash of values that plays on the beauty aspect that Mr. Alibaba brought up,
as well as what is it okay for us to feel,
how important our stuff versus their stuff.
It's really cool.
It's not that long.
Check it out and we'll link to it in this episode's description.
Yeah, great.
Honesty is for the birds.
Wrote a few things, and one of them is honestly Katrina,
how can you be so blasé about eating beaver poop,
referring to the first animals episode?
Well, I explained this on Reddit,
but I'm happy to explain it on air as well.
My professor actually said that we could purify out the Giardi assists
from the feces and put them in a capsule,
and then I could swallow them, just those little cysts outside of the poop.
So hopefully that seems a little bit more clean.
If it doesn't seem less unethical to you, then I agree.
I think that it's possible that he and maybe I would have gotten in trouble
for deliberately infecting myself.
What would be unethical about it?
Unethical for a college professor to help a student
infect herself with a painful intestinal parasite.
I suppose I can see that.
Yeah, I don't think that would pass any ethics board.
It also wouldn't really add to science, probably that much.
They're like, okay, we're going to do one thing where we see if we get a disease
from beaver feces.
And he was your professor, right?
He was my professor.
So he was responsible for your grade as well.
Yes, that would have been problematic.
But the kind of happy story is that when that didn't work out,
I still wanted to do extracurriculars because I love parasites,
and I wanted to learn more.
So I went around and I swabbed a pigeon's throat.
Pigeons are infected with this really gorgeous parasite.
Yeah, like all pigeons-
I'm making a disgusted face right now because
I do not consider parasites gorgeous in any way.
And it's related to trigomonas vaginalis.
Oh, sounds even worse.
It's a very similar parasite, but it lives in the crop of pigeons.
So that was super interesting.
And because of the way that birds feed their babies,
it's passed down from mom and dad to chick.
So that was cool.
So hold on.
You didn't say what beautiful means in the case of a parasite.
Like what made it beautiful to you?
It has a kind of spiral swimming pattern and kind of spiral flagella.
If you look at it under the microscope,
I think that as far as parasites go,
it's a quite nice looking parasite, very graceful.
And then the other thing that I did in that class
was I was a dog walker at the Humane Society.
So I took fecal samples from the dogs that I was walking when they went potty.
Kept that in alcohol, brought those in,
and we found out that there was one puppy that had a sign on his cage
that said he had Giardia.
And he did not have Giardia.
He had Strangeloides, which is a worm,
and it's treated by a different medication.
So I was able to report that back to the Humane Society.
Very nice.
And our entire class room smelled like shit.
It was awful.
But we did a good deed.
So that's the end of that story.
Two things on that.
One, we let our decision to be based too much
on what we find personally aesthetically pleasing.
The most, the prettiest parasite could be the worst, who knows.
It could well.
And science has a long tradition of individual scientists
doing stupid things to themselves for the betterment of science.
So that's...
Also, it's a little different when it's a student under the gas of a professor.
If they did it to their students, that would be a lot less cool.
If my professor did what many parasitologists did
and infect themselves with a liver fluke
in order to get it from Egypt to the UK.
That would be a different story and still probably not a good idea.
Well, you know.
Third choice, though.
Right.
