Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Katrina Stanton, I'm Mimi Ashbrodsky, and I'm Stephen
Zuber.
Our topic for today is going to be introduced.
It's a topic that's been coming for a while.
I think we alluded to it a couple of weeks ago.
One of our listeners wrote in with a prompt that finally pushed us into getting around
to talking about it.
So Katrina is going to read that email.
This email is from Kelly.
So, in the past, you've discussed rationality and how it could or should relate to emotion.
From this, I've gathered that emotions are not the enemy of rationality, rather that rationality
is a tool to guide how a person experiences their emotions.
You've also discussed how emotional disorders, such as depression and anxiety, are treated
and that treatment will improve in years to come.
Treatment for the most part gives a person tools to manage their emotions.
However, this is not helpful for people who are apathetic on a general basis, as you cannot
force people to care about things.
Anyway, you've also discussed happiness and how everyone should aim to help themselves
and other people be happy, I'm sure.
Your podcast, On Kill All Humans, is actually what got me to write to you about this topic,
as it was largely focused on the value of emotions.
In that podcast, a heavy weight was placed on the value of emotions.
To the extent it was debated on the value of emotions in comparison to the value of life.
With this in mind, how do you factor in people who just don't care?
What is the rational approach to apathy?
I distinguish this from apathy as a result of depression, which can be managed.
Does an apathetic person have less value because they may, for the most part, only have theoretical
knowledge of emotions?
And as a result, can only establish objective reasons for doing things, rather than subjective
ones, which are probably much better at driving a person into action?
How could a person rationally challenge an apathetic view on life?
Or is this a debate that could never actually be won, therefore making it illogical to even
attempt?
Well, we're definitely going to attempt it.
There's a lot to unpack there.
I sort of want to take it in order.
Well, I'm going to start with questioning how apathetic someone can be, because I know
there's lots of subjects you can be apathetic about.
For example, I do not give a damn about most sports.
If someone asks me what sports ball team I wish would sport the hardest, I would say
I don't really care.
But I know other people do.
But a general apathy about everything in life is, I think, a sign of some sort of deeper
disorder, which probably should get some sort of medical treatment.
Either depression or possibly a fascinating episode I heard once of This American Life.
Some people just stop producing testosterone at some point in their life.
And due to studies done on these people, testosterone is sometimes nicknamed the hormone of desire,
because they stop wanting anything.
One person had trouble ever even getting out of bed, not necessarily because he was depressed,
but just because you couldn't think of why he should desire to do anything.
That sounds very zen.
Another person spent way too much time in the toothpaste aisle looking at various toothpaste
to the point that it was impacting their life, this was ours, because they were just analyzing
all the different things, price comparisons, what's in this one, what's in this one.
And there was so much to process and no desire or emotion pushing them one way or another.
They were gridlocked and couldn't come to a decision.
So I think we rely a lot on our emotions to propel us to work towards something.
If there's really a general apathy about everything in life, I think that's probably a sign that
medical intervention may be a good idea.
It's hard to imagine living a healthy life if you're literally not motivated to get out
of bed to use the bathroom or something.
They would go use the bathroom.
Oh sure.
I mean some people might just be like, well fuck it, bathroom, bed, here, whatever, right?
Some people do make that decision.
As far as the toothpaste thing, that sounds fixable with just bringing it to I with you.
But that's obviously not the point.
Apathy is a harder problem I think than just rationality in relation to emotion, but it's
tough.
If there's a catch-all way to combat apathy, I think it's not super obvious.
There's certainly levels of apathy.
You're not going to engage in Yash on sports, but you can engage on other topics.
So I mean, if it's fully general, it sounds like you've got a big problem.
If you've got things that you just don't care about, one reading of your email might
be who doesn't care about rationality or the truth or things like that.
We've kind of touched on that before, and if someone just isn't driven to care about
that, I tried for a while to talk to people and convince them that they really do care
about that, but they just don't think they do.
They care whether or not taking a left turn here will get them to work or not.
On some level, in many most regards to their life, they care about what's true.
But as far as a duty to epistemological rigor, that's a good work for it.
Not everyone has that, and I don't know how to push that into somebody.
Or let people want what they want and care about what they care about.
That's how we specialize in society, and that's how civilization works.
So he had an interesting question, though, which I don't know how to answer being.
Do people, Oshii, right, say, he or she, they...
Kelly's, Kelly's names.
Yeah, had the question being, is someone who does not have strong emotions of less moral
worth?
And I don't know, I think it's an interesting question, because in my opinion, emotions
is kind of what humans do, right?
That's our thing.
That's, we can make a machine to do anything that we can do physically better.
Eventually we'll be able to make a machine that can do any of our intellectual tasks,
cognitive tasks, better than we can.
We can make a machine to do emotions better.
Suppose they could, but at least an emotion is something that I feel is intrinsic to me.
If someone can do accounting better than me, then that's, they're just better than me
at that, but no one can feel what it's like to be me and to have my feelings better than
I can.
Challenge accepted.
I mean, that, semantically pushed back on that point, you could be modeled perfectly
and have something that could just feel what you feel times five.
But I mean, that, that sort of defeats the point, I think, of what you're trying to qualitatively
get at.
I think as far as let people care what they care about, for the most part, I agree.
I do want to push back a little bit on, you know, if you really care about the wrong things
and the wrong things being defined by dogs, not happy with you caring about the wrong
things.
He's growling at the door.
You know, we kind of talked about with that episode of Steve on street epistemology, the,
I don't know, if you're, if you just don't care about the truth at all or something,
you know, really the safety of the, the structural integrity of your car matters a lot to your,
the people riding in it, right?
And if you just don't care whether or not it works, right?
Well, then the people that are in the car with you will could come to harm.
Yeah, you're being morally negligent.
Yeah.
But I mean, you know, just somebody who just, you know, say their local sports team is the
most important thing in their life, eclipsed by nothing and just, you know, way above their
love for their children and their wife.
I feel like they're missing out on something, but it'd be hard for me to find a point to
say, you know, you're, you're having feelings wrong.
Yeah.
Well, the, the sports teams are meant to be as a hack of the human tribal emotion to
really stimulate that.
Yeah.
But I mean, that's like, you know, if you cared more about, and so I get where it's going
and what it comes from.
But, you know, if you care more about that, then you care about like literally your own
children or something.
I feel like you're doing something wrong, but I would have a hard time pinning down in
an argument with you about what that could be.
We spent a lot of time when we were talking about animals and the moral worth of the animals,
you know, assigning different moral worth.
So I thought, and Yash, that if you're going to assign moral worth to another being, that
it was based completely on intellectual ability.
Well, intellectual complexity.
And that is, that is also one of the reasons that I would answer in the negative to his
question.
I think that people who feel different, their questions, thank you.
I think that people who feel emotions at different levels should be treated the same way.
If I mean, if nothing else, partly for game theoretical reasons, you don't want the people
who have the most intense emotions and screaming tantrums to be the people that are most important
in society, right?
There's something to be said about the last line here.
Is this a debate that could never be actually won and therefore making it a logical, even
attempt?
The person you're engaging with is simply not motivated to interact with the conversation.
It'd be kind of pointless.
You know, if they really just, if they're not moved to care about it or if they don't
see any motivation whatsoever to reanalyze, I think we've talked about motivation before.
And that's that's sort of, you know, a related issue.
I feel like I'm coupling whether improperly or not the concepts of general apathy and
lack of motivation is, are those things discernible?
Am I missing something?
I think they're basically the same thing.
I mean, I think for most things that matter, I think they're close enough.
But as far as the quote from this, I've gathered that emotions are not the quote enemy unquote
of rationality, rather that rationality is a tool to guide how a person experiences their
emotions.
Yeah, that's a good one.
We agree.
I think.
Katrina, would you agree as well?
Absolutely.
Yeah, I've never talked about it before, so I knew that that's cool if you want it.
Making this post made me think about empathy and some of the rationality practices to guide
emotions and increase empathy and increase understanding and communication with others
that they do, for example, in the Columbus, Ohio Rationality Dojo.
Yeah.
So.
What do you do?
Can you give us an example of what they do?
I wish I could.
Ah, okay.
But we're getting started with one here, so hopefully we'll be able to get into some
of that practice ourselves.
Sure.
Yeah, and I think that's something that a lot of people misunderstand about rationalists,
because like the prototypical rationalist is Spock, right?
He's the guy who has no emotions and thinks through everything is always very common logical.
And yes, I mean, in some ways he's sort of a hero and an aspirational model, but he was
really abused on Star Trek and is not the way any real rationalist would act, especially
because none of us are half Vulcan, especially for that reason.
Although the first half Vulcan that signs up to be in our rationalist group would be
welcomed with open arms because that would be awesome.
So two things on Spock really quick.
One, the Hollywood archetype of rationalist is sort of Spock and the term that I think
TV troops coined was straw Vulcan, and that's sort of where people picture the rationalist
in that sort of sphere where Spock is calm at points where it would be radically irresponsible
for him to be perfectly calm.
And mainly, I wasn't a huge Star Trek watcher, I don't know if I ever saw it complete up,
but I just see one of the new movies, or two of them, and what I saw is that he doesn't
not have emotions, he has them and feels like he has to suppress them out of some stupid
duty.
The new Star Trek isn't as good though.
Okay, fair enough.
It's really not, I'm not this big fan of any ones.
I've had my boy Benedict Cumberbuck in it, so, you know, Cumberbuck, Cumberbatch, what
