did I say?
Cumberbuck.
Cumberbuck, whatever.
He's not German.
Benny comebacks.
Yeah, and that's kind of bullcrap because I like, first of all, emotions give us meaning
because it's a purpose, you know, they're fun to have, right?
But, and really, if something isn't fun, why are we doing it in the first place?
But emotions are also a tool that tells you how the world is and how you can, how you
should be reacting to it.
If something is unjust and you feel that righteous anger that is telling you that there's something
wrong with the world and you should fix it.
I liked, Ellie, I gotta start saying his name right.
I met him at WorldCon and had dinner with him and he, I asked him, if I've been saying
your name right, and he's like, I don't know, how do you say my name?
So I said his name, like I normally do, and he's like, no, it's Eliezer.
Yeah.
Just like it's spelled.
Amazing.
Eliezer and Eliezer?
Does the difference?
Eliezer.
Yeah.
Just like it's-
What are we saying?
Eliezer is what you told us to say.
Well, I assumed at some point he had, in the past five years of doing the podcast, he
had heard me say his name and would have corrected me or something.
Really quick.
It's Inyash, not Enyash, right?
Either one will work, but I generally introduce myself as Inyash, yeah.
That's how I heard it on the HPMOR podcast.
Okay.
So, read by Inyash Brotsky.
Yeah.
E.
E works.
He's a good one.
Inyash.
I wanted to jump back really quick.
This is a little out of order, but, or-
Should I finish what I was saying that he was saying?
Please.
Okay.
They-
Well, Eliezer does go by he.
Oh, sorry.
I thought we were talking about Kelly again.
So, he, he once mentioned a dream he had where a sad thing that happened in his life
was no longer true in the dream.
And so he was happy.
And then when he woke up, he was sad again.
And he quoted the line that that which can be destroyed by the truth should be.
And since the dream happiness was opposed by the truth, it was right for it to be destroyed.
And his sadness upon waking was rational.
And there is no truth which destroys that sadness because the state of the world wasn't
that suboptimal position that he didn't like.
And he said that this means that becoming more rational and having a better estimate
of how the world is sometimes can make feelings more intense rather than less intense.
And sometimes we try to run away from the feelings by flinching away from them.
But if you study rationality and train yourself not to deny facts, then your feelings can
become stronger.
And this should be because they tell you, you know, a thing about the world.
They are a tool like any other.
Do they tell you a thing or are they a result of a thing?
Both.
They will tell you that the world is not the way you want it to be and maybe you should
go out and do something about that.
Yeah, we're, we are a program that takes environmental information and processes it.
And then works off of, off of our feet out, right?
Yeah.
It makes sense to me.
Every day.
Are there any emotions that if you had the opportunity to just delete them from your
program, you would choose to do so?
Yes.
Which one?
I think this is one that you can do a software update on yourself and delete for the most
part.
We can do free will in another episode, but my, my stance on free will makes the emotion
of hatred more or less nonsensical.
And it's hard for me to think of a, of a world in which that specific emotion is necessary.
It's like anger and outrage and, what if you ran into Voldemort, like not, not rational
Voldemort, but cannon Voldemort, who was just evil for the sake of evil.
I feel bad for him.
That's exactly, my, my, my favorite real world example of Voldemort is Uday Hussein.
Okay.
Um, psychopath, uh, to drive that home, uh, Saddam Hussein's son, we, we, we should just
let people use their machinations.
It's pretty shitty.
This thing's, I doubt it's good enough, but that's all right.
So take my word for it.
If you, if you want, write me on the subreddit and I'll, I'll, uh, I'll link to some of
his, his, uh, dastardly deeds, but I don't hate Uday Hussein.
I feel really bad for him as dad was Saddam Hussein.
What if he did those things to someone you loved, your mother or your brother?
I think I would.
So there's, there's a couple of ways.
I don't know.
I mean, I might hate him for it, but at the same time it'd be kind of like hating a force
of nature.
Right.
He's not really the ultimate author of who he is.
He's a victim of who he is.
You can't change, uh, nature by raging against it.
And you can, at least in theory, change people by raging against them.
You can alter their incentives by letting them know that you will murder the fuck out
of them if they do that.
And you can also signal to the rest of society, Hey, if you act like that guy did, I will
also murder the fuck out of you.
I think that murdering people should probably be divorced from hate.
I think it's more in more in tune with it has to be absolutely necessary.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For the continuation of other people's lives and happiness.
I think that's exactly it.
You can completely divorce the two is, you know, if I, if I saw a day he's saying, I'd
probably kill him if I, whatever it was on the battlefield or something, you know, it's
not his fault who he is.
It's just, it's an unfortunate thing.
But because of, because of who you are, the world will be about a place without you.
And there's, since there's no way, since there's no other way to fix you.
But hatred is the thing that makes you hunt the six fingered man for 20 years until you
can revenge your father's death.
Right.
And that's not helping anybody.
Actually, you had a great little, there was, there was an amache on the
vengeance for however, for 20 years.
You come on, it makes a good story.
It makes a great story, but it also, at least in theory, dissuades that sort of action.
There was a, an amache on somewhere in the latter half of HPMORR, HPMORR.
Right.
And it was just little short, short story snippets from people.
And I quoted this one to somebody in a class once and then I was reading through it again
and it was actually you who submitted this one.
And it was, do you remember it exactly?
It was Rashless Moby Dick.
I don't remember it word for word, but I remember what it was.
It was, I think it was two lines.
It was revenge against what?
A whale?
No, thanks.
I'd rather get on with my life.
Right, right.
And so getting revenge on a whale does not change anything.
The whale doesn't know why you're killing it.
Other whales will not be dissuaded from eating people's legs.
There's no point at all in taking revenge on a whale.
I think Katrina's point that was solid, that you can divorce the necessity of
killing bad people or bad or dangerous people if you have otherwise no.
And you really should.
And you really should.
That's a safe way to do things.
Especially if you, if you, if you're a person who is full of hate and you want to
be able, you know, it might not be the best guide as far, as far as who needs to be
quote, killed, I guess not, not quote, but, you know, killed or otherwise fixed.
So there's no other way to fix them.
And there's not really yet, maybe other than good incarceration.
But that's just hatred.
Band-aid.
Hatred probably would be a good one to get rid of.
So that would be my motion to get rid of.
There was a great discussion.
Wait, we got to ask between what her emotions to get rid of.
I've been thinking about that.
I agree with hatred.
There are a lot of negative emotions that I would get rid of actually.
The other one that came to my mind had some other utility, but I'd be curious to see
what other ones you're thinking of.
Like sadness in general.
There are a lot of emotions that I would at least turn down the volume on massively.
Like do the little, oh, let yourself grieve.
And then instead of having that go on for years, maybe just, you know, switch it off
after a couple of weeks, wouldn't it be nice?
Especially for people who have emotional disorders.
I think that's a good point that there's a lot of emotions that are useful and you
wouldn't want to get rid of them at all or entirely, but you'd want to be able to
moderate their effects.
Hatred, I'd get rid of just entirely.
There, I don't want that in my life.
Sadness, anger, pain.
I'd like, I think I'd like to get rid of jealousy.
Oh, jealousy is just, I've never met a situation where it's been a good thing.
So I'm trying to think of, I was actually trying to hash this out last week.
There are some people in my class who were just excelling way above the rest of us.
And jealousy wasn't the right word for it.
And then we finally settled on salty admiration.
What, jealousy versus envy versus salty admiration.
What, what is jealousy down to that definition?
So jealousy is when you don't want someone else to have something.
Which is why, versus you want to have something that someone else has also.
Yes, that's envy.
Envy is wanting what someone else has.
Jealousy is wanting someone else to not have the thing.
Like you don't want someone to be smart.
You don't want someone to have the good things they have.
Or in the case of Jehovah, you don't want different gods to have the worship of your people.
Jealous God, got it.
Yeah.
Thank you.
