And high school professors, huh?
Yeah.
Usually you call them teachers, but you went to a place with professors.
He was anyway.
He was a professional biologist at all this cool stuff.
He actually, him and a group of six other people put together something that you could put into, it was a gene that they could put into potato plants that made potato eating bugs, not want to eat them.
And they had this perfect setup.
It worked out perfectly.
They went to go patent it and some major corporation had gotten around to it literally two weeks before they finished.
They were scoops.
Pre-royal.
That was the worst.
Pre-royalties.
This would have sold for like $24 million.
And so that'd be, what, $6 million each?
They were a little bummed.
And then they all wished that they had just stayed over nights at the lab.
And just works a little bit harder.
Right.
But part of what you can do, professor might not have been the right word.
I don't know.
I admire this guy.
So that's maybe why I elevated his station.
So some of, like I said, the trick about dealing with things like grief or stress sometimes or, you know, whatever it is, you can work and take kind of a future site look at it.
Right.
Another way to do, I'm not sure if this is what you, an appropriate use of the terminology of outside of you.
No, it's actually not.
So scratch that.
That's another topic.
You know, it's like this kid who's doing really well in the bootcamp I'm in.
Pre, you know, 10 years ago, I might have been jealous or envious.
Maybe there's envy, but it's more, like I said, salty admiration.
Like, that's awesome.
He's kicking ass.
But, you know, previously I might be like, well, I wanted to be the best.
But then, you know, all it takes is kind of just one moment of reflection to be like, did I really think I'd be the best at this?
You know, whatever it is you're doing, you know, if you go to the Olympics and you're running and you say in bolt is owning you, you can't feel bad about that.
Did you really think you're the best runner on earth?
Knowing that you share a plant with the same bolt.
What if you say bolt hadn't run yet, though?
Right.
So maybe, but I mean, I guess, yes, the Olympics, not the best idea, but whatever it is you're at, right?
So somebody is, you know, more successful at something, you know, you have to just, you ask yourself, you know, when you're feeling bad about it, my technique is to ask myself the question, did I really think that I was the best in the world at this?
And the answer is usually no.
So that, that, that sort of helps the emotion really taper down when you realize that it made no sense to feel that way.
I have a new technique.
I just finished reading nonviolent communication, which I have mixed feelings about, but something that I thought would be really useful from it.
And I've, I've used a couple of times since then to kind of talk myself down is to stay needs focused.
So maybe Steven, in your situation, you can think about what are my needs?
What do I, what do I need?
Like, so, so what would you, when you're feeling, you say, I'm feeling, I'm feeling jealous.
I'm feeling jealous because this person is doing better than I am, is doing very well in this class.
What are, what are my needs in this situation?
I can see that.
Do you need to feel like you're doing well?
How can you, how can you tell yourself that you're, you're doing well or that you're, you're giving it your all or,
and kind of stay self focused in that case?
I think that's a good avenue for dealing with it.
I don't think I even really get to the point where I say I'm feeling jealous.
It's more just like this, this technique of-
Feeling frustrated, maybe.
But, but even, yeah, I guess, but I, I guess maybe, I don't know if that was right word for it.
It really was just like, man, that's great, but I wish we were all doing that great.
And it really was like, I'm happy for this person, right?
Or whoever these, you know, all these people, it's a, it's a good situation for them.
And that's awesome.
This isn't really the best example for my life as far as an example of that, just because I,
there's really not any, the saltiness there was kind of just for the funniness of it.
If it turned out where this person hadn't put in a bunch of extra work beforehand,
wasn't pretty much dedicating his entire life to kicking ass at this.
And they just showed up and they were just some crazy savant who, you know, first exposure,
just understood it like the rest of us pick up English as children or something, you know,
whatever, right?
Like it was just, it came to them as naturally as walking.
Like that would be really annoying, but no, he's actually working hard.
Why would that, why would that feel annoying to you?
Because why can't it be that easy for me?
So what are your needs in that case?
My needs don't change.
Okay.
You know, my needs are to get what I can out of the program and, you know, so that doesn't change
anything as far as-
Well, maybe that helps you take your attention away from this person.
It does.
Who's amazing at that and focus more on being the best that you can be.
That's true.
That's actually real, that's, that drove it on really well.
Yeah.
So, you know, a good example might be people with co-workers who suck at their jobs,
but get paid the same or more than you do.
Well, how does that work?
Well, how does that really affect you?
It doesn't, it just kind of affects how you feel, right?
So this is kind of like the stoic, you know, I can't change what's happening,
but I can change my reaction to it.
You know, you're still going to do your best and kick ass at your job and do what you need
to do there, because that's just who you are or something.
And the fact that you've got a lazy co-worker doesn't really change you.
Although-
Maybe that's an indication you should ask for a raise.
Yeah.
If you're getting paid the same amount, but you're doing more work, that's a very good sign
that you should be feeling a little bit of that unfairness and go to the boss and be like,
hey boss, you should be taking a little more my way here.
Do you feel the other person be like, this person sucks?
They're constantly on Reddit?
Or-
I wouldn't want to throw the other person under the bus.
Maybe you could measure, maybe you could measure your output and be like,
see, my output is 50% more than everybody else in the office.
And so therefore I should get 50% more money.
I'll cut your break, boss.
How about only 35% more?
And you never know, it could be one of those situations where the boss is like,
oh yeah, but this guy, which you don't notice that he comes into work five hours before you do,
does most of his work then and then just doesn't want to go home to his terrible
bitch of a wife, so he stays surfing Reddit.
You never know people's situations, but the point could be that maybe he's not doing
less work than you and your boss would bring that to your attention.
True.
Yeah.
And then you'd feel better anyway, maybe a little guilty.
Yeah, you're like, oh, I'm not a much better wife than that guy.
Maybe try really hard not to throw people under the bus, but just point out what great work you're
doing and maybe it's higher.
I think that's a good technique too.
Stay self-focused, yeah.
There was another one that sort of related to, I guess, gauging how you ought to react on things.
There was a comment on the post on less wrong emotional tools for the beginner rationalist,
and Kaj Sotala mentioned cognitive behavioral therapy, which when I studied psychology in college
was not, was the only kind of psychotherapy I thought was really interesting.
The rest kind of seemed all hokey, but psychotherapy, or excuse me, cognitive behavioral therapy,
CBT for short, focuses on the activating event from what's happening in the world,
your belief about that event, and then the consequences of it.
And your belief is really the thing that you're in control of.
The consequences flow from whatever you believe, and the event happens out there.
So for example here in the comment, if someone smiles at me, I might either believe that they
like me or that they're secretly mocking me, two interpretations that lead to very different
emotional responses.
And kind of once, once you're mindful of that, when you're, when you're mindful of, you know,
a powerful emotion that comes out of somewhere, you think, wait, why am I feeling this way?
And you look back and you say, wait, why would I, why do I actually believe that?
So you can kind of start asking yourself questions like back to the quote here.
Okay, what belief is causing me to have this emotional reaction in response to this
observation?
And does that belief seem accurate?
That seems like a great way of dissecting a possibly wrong emotion.
I would say, I think wrong emotion is a loaded term, but I would say an emotion is wrong in,
in as much as it flows from a wrong belief.
Or potentially it's a less than fitting or less than compatible emotion.
Right.
I, you know, I think that's one of the reasons that a lot of rationalists tend to be wary of
emotions.
I read something along the lines, I don't, I don't know who to attribute it to.
I'll attribute it in the links.
But someone pointed out that we've learned to distrust emotional appeals.
Because in our environment, usually if someone is making an emotional appeal,
that's a good indication that they don't have any good rational reasons for this.
They're just trying to sucker you with like the, the let's, let's make America great again,
sort of appeal, not to take this in a political direction.
But there, there are, there's some rational arguments to be made, but this guy isn't making
them.
He's going straight for the gut.
And so we've kind of gotten to the point where we brought, and God, you ran to this in church
all the time, right?
Jesus loves you so much.
He died for you.
Are you going to betray that love?
It was, oh, it's brutal emotional manipulation.
Yeah, that sounds really guilty.
It is extremely guilty.
As for politics, every political message is appealing to emotion.
Hashtag jaded.
Right.
So I'm so sorry.
Is that a natural hashtag right now?
It should be.
It really should be.
Yeah.
You can hashtag anything.
Maybe have a Twitter account, I guess.
Yeah.
So I mean, we tend to, we tend to block out emotional appeals, but, but that is kind of
not the best thing necessarily, because then you block out not just the harmful people who
have no rational argument and are only going for your appeals.
You also block out the actual good arguments that have rational reasons behind them, but
are also trying to motivate you.
Because that's how anyone is motivated, right?
By their emotions.
When you see a patent troll going after people with complete bullshit claims and ruining businesses,
you get pissed off.
And if you ignore that pissed-off-ness, then you will not be motivated to fight these things,
and you will lose the commons.
I hear you.
I think that is...
Is that your cause, by the way?
This is the second time that we've brought that up.
That is not my cause, no.
It is, it is a thing that infuriates me sometimes.
And the only way I can see to fight it is to, because it is not rational to fight it
