limits, or probably exceeded the sustainable limits of our society, and we have social evolution
that's going exponential, and we still have a rising world population, last I saw projected
to top out 11 billion, with many of those people expecting a increase in their lifestyle, quote,
unquote, towards the American and European one, looks like to me a train wreck coming at very
high speed. Right. And so again, this idea that we didn't start over hunting an environment, and
then it became harder to eat and breed. So then we came into sustainable population with the
environment, we just moved to another environment. There is this kind of rebound effect that we
see with humans. And we see it in all of evolution, right? Like our friend Brett Weinstein will say,
if there's an evolutionary niche, it will get filled with something, right? So in the similar
sense, though, with humans, we don't have to wait for a genetic mutation, we can have a memetic
mutation to figure out how to exploit some new niche. And so this is where we get rebound effects
where increases in efficiency don't lead to us being more sustainable with the environment,
they lead to us figuring out how to have profitable exploits on more area. And so,
you know, when you look at something like the Jevons paradox or other abstractions of it,
if I get a 20% increase in energy efficiency, we don't just use 20% less energy, we find whole
new markets that weren't open based on now what's going to be profitable, we go exploit those and
end up using more net energy as a result. And so when you look at like trying to figure out a steady
state population, steady state population doesn't actually work. It doesn't work the way that we
like to model an evolutionary biology with the way that humans continue to advance increases in
capacity and efficiency and then exploit all of them. Yeah. And you've spoken quite a bit about
you combine exponentially increasing technology with the core rival risk when lost dynamics of
at least our economic system and a goodly part of our social system. Could you talk a little bit
about how the coupling of those two together are spectacularly different than either by itself?
Yeah. So this is, I mentioned earlier that all the catastrophic and existential risks have
underlying generator functions. What I mean by that is that so like, let's say we're looking at
wanting to stop particular kind of environmental destruction or war or whatever it is, well,
we can look at why are those things caused and we can find some things that seem special to
specific instances, but some things that are part of a causal set that are true across all of them.
So obviously, we can look at something like perverse incentive. And so with the environmental
destruction, if the wild birds aren't worth very much to us in the wild, but domesticated ones
and farms where the farms take over the wild areas are, if cattle are worth something to us when
domesticated and then killed and not when they're free, then of course we have an economic incentive
to exploit everything. And the same would be true if we have a for profit military industrial complex
where war is more profitable than pieces. And so the underlying idea here is that you can't prevent
to harm while there is a very strong incentive to cause it because that incentive is kind of an
evolutionary niche for a particular way of getting ahead and it will end up getting filled. So we
try to make law to bind that, but as we know, strong economic power ends up being able to influence
law pretty heavily. So the thing that is designed to bind the problems of the incentive system ends
up getting corrupted by the incentive system. So we can get into that more later. But this is an idea
of something like perverse incentive that isn't unique to one issue. It's underneath lots of
issues. So if we want to abstract and say, what are the generators that give rise to all of the
possible existential risks in the future? The first one is the one that you just mentioned,
first one I would identify is that if humans are running rival risk games, and by rival risk games,
I mean some in group that is seeking to get ahead in a way that can occur at the expense of an out
group and or the commons. So whether that's a person or a company or a country, if it can beat
someone else via a war, or it can exploit an environment and get ahead or it can corner the
market or whatever it is, it's playing a game where its win is going to require or at least
reserves the right to be at the cost of something else. If we run rival risk games, but we're not
limited in our rival risk capacity, the way animals are, because we can innovate new ways of
winning at rivalry via abstraction, i.e. tech. But then the moment we deploy some new asymmetric
tech, everybody sees it, reverse engineers, it makes mutations on it. And so we keep ratcheting
up power, then we get an exponential power equation. But we're using power in ways that
inexorably cause some harm to the total system. When you you can't actually run exponential
harm in a finite playing field and not have more entropy than the system can handle. So
rival risk games multiplied by exponential tech self-terminate. And right now, exponential tech
is inexorable. We cannot put the cat back in the bag. We can't stop it. So either we figure out
rigorously anti-rival risk systems or the human experiment, as we know it, is finite in duration.
But the thing is to say rival risk systems, that's a big deal because separate nation states are the
basis of rival risk systems. And so are private balance sheets. And so the changes that we're
proposing are very, very fundamental ones. They're ones at the level of the axioms of what we think
of as civilization. But that's why we have to start by saying all previous civilizations also
failed. We actually have to change things at a deeper level where we're not talking about just
making a new civilization where this is similar to the Enlightenment or the Renaissance or the
founding of America or the beginning of Sumerians. It's actually different in kind in each of those
changes because each of those changes have been an upratcheting of rival risk capacity. Some new
coordination capacity or technological capacity that led to more capacity to win rival risk games
against an outgroup. I'm basically saying now humanity as a whole with no outgroup has to
figure out how to do not rival risk games. As you know, I'm interested in this and have worked on
some of it and thought about a little bit, but I'm going to play the cheerful skeptic here for a
moment, if you don't mind, and offer a possible argument that says, maybe we don't have to go
that far. And again, I'm not going to say this is my actual belief, but let's say this is a well
established argument for a less radical approach, which we might call democratic liberalism.
And in passing, talked about the fact that our legal system, our political system has been hijacked
by our economic and financial systems. We couldn't, in theory, fix that. It may require an amendment
to the Constitution and some other things, but it could be fixed. Secondly, the depletion of the
commons, the democratic liberal argument is if we priced the externalities correctly, we could
defend the commons. We also look at Ostrom's theories of managing the commons, and those are
assumed to take place in a world with rival risk economics around them. How would you respond to
those who say rather than changing the jet engine on the airplane while it's in flight, we'd be better
off attempting to be smart about fixing our democratic liberalism by breaking the hack between
money and politics and by rigorously and probably initially very conservatively, meaning
expensively pricing externalities. I will say that that is formally impossible. And I'll explain why,
but there's a few aspects to it. So like this will take a minute. Take as much time as you like. This
is really important. I would start by wanting to just be clear on the fundamental difference between
a market and a government and the relationship between those because what you're talking about
is a government regulating a market. Yes. In fact, that would call that the modern democratic
liberal synthesis that started in the 1920s was fully in existence by the 1930s and was locked
in in its modern form in 1948. Right. So what I would say is that there are certain architectures
within markets that lead inexorably to certain issues, other ones within governments. And I'm
going to try and abstract this at the most abstract level that works, which is this will be true for
any form of government, whether it's a two-party system or a three-party system or has a parliament
or doesn't due to simply the nature of it being a top-down imposition of law via monopoly of force.
And the same is true for whether we're talking about any different version of how one might think
of a market. So if we think of a market, you can actually think about theory of markets like pure
laissez-faire theory and try and model it via evolutionary theory. And people do. And this is
where social Darwinism kind of comes, right? Which is these three things, mutation, survival
selection, and then mating, mating selection are what define the success of markets. So you have
an environmental niche, which here would be called demand. People need real stuff. And so then that
creates a impetus to try and figure out how to fit that niche, which is supply. People make some
product or service to try and do it, but they'll make slightly different versions that equals
mutation. The one that actually meets people's needs best of the best values, the one that will
make it through survival selection. And then if a few of them have different properties that are
all really desirable, they might mate and meaning, you know, emergent acquisition or IP trade or
whatever. And you get a recombinatorial dynamic and that's mate selection. That's the idea, right?
Except as we mentioned, that's true. But you don't get the metastability of an evolved system
because of the asymmetries that are going to be intrinsic to abstract replicators that aren't
there for instantiated replicators. So if we think about a market as a bottom up coordination system,
and bottom up meaning that we don't have long term central planning of what we're trying to do,
everybody's not trying to agree on something, we're just interacting with each other via supply and
demand dynamics and stuff gets up regulated. So basically the society is all emergent properties
of the bottom up interactions. So that's one kind of thing. And we can really think of it as having
certain characteristics of just the bottom up math of it. One thing I would say then, and this is a
critique of libertarian ideology, free market kind of ideology writ large is that without regulation,
markets are going to have multipolar traps that they cannot resolve. And by multipolar trap,
it's a generalization of whether it's a tragedy of the commons or an arms race or any kind of race
to the cliff or race to the bottom. These are scenarios where somebody can do something that
is bad for the whole over the long term, but very good for them over the near term and provide so
much competitive advantage that without law to bind it, people will still buy the thing they will
still be able to get employees right like the market forces won't stop it. And so then everyone
else has to compete to do the same thing, or they will just lose by default in the short term. So now
you have everybody competing to get the cheaper material that is comprehensively damaging the
environment or racing to cut down the trees faster than they actually need them because if they don't,
the other guy will cut down the trees anyways, or one guy makes the AI weapons, so everybody has to
make the AI weapons where they're going to lose by default. And so multipolar traps in the past,
when we had limited power, could lead to boom and bust cycles, where we start polluting the water
because say everybody else isn't polluting the water, my pollution of the water doesn't make
it that much worse, but not having to deal with my pollution properly increases my margins because I
and externalize some of the cost. So I'm getting ahead, then other people say fuck it, that guy's
getting so much more ahead. Everybody starts doing it eventually the water is so polluted that everybody
is doing worse because the fish are all dead. So then there's now a new market for selling
water purifiers. And so we start doing that thing until you know, then there is a new scenario for
the pollution to occur. So you get these kind of at best, you get a race to the bottom and then
some new market opportunity race to the top. With exponentially more people and exponentially
more power per person, more over, you have situations where the bottom can be so bad that
it's unrecoverable. Let me jump in a little bit here. You're drawing the classic 19th century Adam
Smith quasi libertarian model. I suppose though we take a more modern social democratic perspective
where we assume it is the job of the legal political government side as instantiated through
democracy to put limits on the market. And what I've called in the past parametric social democracy
where instead of a bunch of fine grained regulations, you use the dozen or so very powerful settings on
the gravitational attractors within the game itself. I'll just throw out two examples, which I've
talked about in the past in some detail. One would be a high and rapidly rising carbon tax,
let's say $50 a ton to start rising $10 a year for 15 years to $200 a ton, which would send a
magnificently powerful signal to stop using carbon would empower alternative energy production in a
very major way. A second one, much simpler. One of the hacks we know that our current system does
is use psychologically informed advertising to invent demand. Suppose we put a 200% tax on
all advertising. I have 10 more I could throw out there. So why can't a list of powerful parameters
tame the market without having to undergo the radical shift that you're talking about?
Forgive me, I was starting with an unregulated market because I wanted to establish something
about theory of markets, which is why we can't do just the libertarian thing and why there is a
good case for a regulated market. Now, I want to then do a construction on what's wrong with
governments. And then I want to do a construction on what's wrong with them together, because I
have to refer to what's wrong with each one individually before I can do the combined thing.
All right, you go right ahead. Okay, so basically anything that has bottom up coordination only,
but abstraction mediated capacities like markets is going to fall to multipolar traps,
multipolar traps with exponential tech will be catastrophically bad. That's that. Then this
is at least the story of a major reason why we justify creating states, which is, okay,
we don't want everybody to cut down all of the trees. Just a storm is lumber because if they
don't, the other guy will and we're left with no trees. And yet how do we deal with this? We have
a real coordination problem. Well, we need to create some entity that has the ability to stop
everybody from doing it. And so that entity needs some kind of monopoly of force to be able to
actually uphold an agreement. So we want something like rule of law, we want the ability to come up
with good laws and we want the ability to enforce those laws. So we agree to bequeath to a government
a legitimate monopoly on violence, which internal is a police force without which law doesn't actually
exist, right? The thing that we think of as law doesn't exist. And then externally a military
force so that the freedom for us to do this thing is upheld against other groups. Now,
we can say why do we create states? Well, one reason is to unify groups to be able to win wars
and defend themselves. And the other is to solve multipolar traps. I create rule of law so that
we can coordinate better. And arguably the actual reason is to consolidate power even more. But that
is not the answer that is given when justifying it. So if we think about a government, a government
is now not a bottom up system, it's a top down system, meaning that there is some centralized
rather than decentralized body that can actually make choices, whether it's a monarchy or a oligarchy
or a democracy or whatever. So it's one person or it's a majority of people, there's some process
to be able to say, okay, this is the law we're going to do. And here's then how that law will
be upheld via the agency of that central body and its monopoly force. Now, we can identify
things that will end up going wrong with top down systems. And we're trying to bind the problems
associated with incentive. And yet the agents who are mediating because the government isn't
actually an entity in and of itself, even though it's acting like it, it's run by people who are
all still agents within the economic system that all still have incentive themselves. The judge and
the lobbyists and the lawyer and the politician all still have their own fundamentally still
largely rival risk basis for wanting increased status power, whatever it is. Yeah, the famous
economic problem of agency risk, right? Every company has that problem, right? Every employee
in theory is out for their own good. And so they have to build structures so that at least
to a first order approximation, the company achieves some level of good for the shareholder.
So yeah, this is a commonplace of any social structure. Yeah, because a corporation is also
a top down system like a government is. And so we can see similar issues that occur. And so this
is public choice theory is basically the critique of the wrongness of the incentive structures of
government agents associated with markets. And it's a classic libertarian critique of the regulatory
process on markets. But so let's look like this, some examples. So unless I have a fully global
government, I'm going to make a law at the level of say about a carbon tax or whatever at the level
of say a nation state. And if anyone doesn't make that the nation states are still caught in a
multipolar trap with each other. So I can have multipolar trap at the level of individuals or
corporations or countries or trading blocks. And so then anybody doesn't do the thing and they
economically get ahead in the short term, even if what they're doing is totally unviable for the
long term, then people in the other group don't want to be bound to the law that everybody is not
bound to. And yet they don't actually have the capacity to enforce the law on everyone else.
And this would be true for things like AI arms races. This is why we tried to make a UN after
World War two is recognizing that national only governments won't stop World War. So we wanted
some super national force to be a monopoly force for everyone, except when individual nation states
have catastrophic level capacity, i.e. they have nukes. What we find is that there is no monopoly
force that can be exerted over them because to have the monopoly force work, you have to be able
