we can mutate them, we can open them, close them.
Or, and this is basically synaptic,
the controlling synaptic plasticity,
or we can control the various ion channels opening,
again, opening and closing them
to actually set the voltage of the individual cells.
And this would be the equivalent
of some sort of intrinsic plasticity
if this was neuroscience.
And again, we can use dominant mutations of channels,
we can use drugs, we can use optogenetics, light and so on.
And so when you do this,
something very interesting happens now.
When I first, this was, you know, back,
while around the year 2000,
I was first setting up these tools
and we wanted to control these bioelectric states.
It was thought that resting potential
is a housekeeping parameter.
And basically the standard assumption
was that if we perturbed the cells would die
and you would get uninterpretable toxicity,
that was the thought.
So I'm gonna show you that,
in fact, that's not at all what happens
because these bioelectrical states are not just readouts
and they're not just,
just yet more molecular machinery,
but they're actually the information bearing medium
for these large scale modifications.
So one thing you can do is you can take some cells
in the frog that are going to become gut.
So they're endodermal cells
and you can inject one of several types of ion channels
that will set up or in this region
that's going to be part of the gut,
will set up a voltage pattern, a distribution of voltage
that's very similar to what happens
when the native eyes come in.
And sure enough,
if you recapitulate that pattern somewhere else,
the cells are using that pattern
to decide what they're going to build
and that pattern tells them to build an eye.
And here they go,
they will build an eye out of endodermal cells.
Now in the textbook,
we'll say that only anterior ectoderm is competent
to become eye up here.
And that's true,
if you use canonical inducers like PAC-6,
the master regulator transcription factor,
but if you go upstream of that
and actually re-specify the bioelectric pattern,
then you can induce these eyes anywhere on the tail
and the gut anywhere you want.
And if you make these tails, these eyes rather,
they can have all of the same components
that normalize have.
So they'll have lens and retina and optic nerve and so on.
And here's an interesting thing.
If you label the cells
that you've directly injected with the scion channel,
let's say we'll label them with beta galactosidase,
so they're blue.
And this is a cross-section through a lens
sitting out in the flank somewhere.
What you'll see is that there are two inductions here.
The first induction is by us
putting in imposing a particular bioelectrical state
that causes these cells to decide to become a lens.
That's the first induction.
The second induction is that these cells
with their aberrant voltage potential
actually recruit their neighbors.
The brown cells here, which are not labeled,
which were never directly modified by us,
recruit them into this project
of building this larger scale structure,
this nice round lens.
So it's a non-cell autonomous effect.
And when we see this again and again,
that there's this ability of these bioelectrical signals
to not just to specify cell fate,
but to actually specify organ type and position
and things like that.
So we can make eyes, we can make ectopic hearts.
Here's a secondary heart.
We can make limbs and brains and some other things
and then many things that we can't yet make.
Now, let's look at another example.
Here's a planarian.
And one of the most interesting things
is that if you chop off the head and the tail,
this middle fragment knows exactly
how many heads it's supposed to have.
It puts one head here.
It puts a tail here.
And the way it does that is because as soon as you amputate,
there's this voltage gradient that's set up
where the red, the depolarized region tells the worm
how many heads it's supposed to have.
So what we can do is we can go in and target this region
using drugs, using basically ion channel modifying drugs
to depolarize this region.
And when you do that, you get a two-headed animal.
These cells are perfectly happy to make a head.
The information of how many heads you're supposed to have
comes from this electrical gradient.
If you change the gradient, they'll happily make two heads.
You can make two-headed animals.
You can make no-headed animals.
All kinds of interesting behavioral experiments
to be done that we can discuss if there's time.
But what's important here is that there are much like...
There's no genomic editing here.
So this is purely physiological.
And not only can I ask this animal
to make a second head of the correct type,
I can actually ask it to make heads belonging
to other species.
So here's we started off with a triangular-headed worm
like this, amputate the head per-turb
for about 48 hours, the ability of cells
to talk to each other electrically.
And what happens is the electric circuit is unable
to settle to the correct attractor.
And when they do settle stochastically,
sometimes they settle to the correct shape,
but sometimes they make round heads or flat heads.
And in doing so, they recapitulate the state
of flat-headed species like this Pifolina
or round-headed species like this S-Mediterranean.
It's not just the shape of the head,
it's also the shape of the brain
and the distribution of stem cells
that is exactly like these other species.
Again, no genomic editing here, perfectly wild-type genome.
And these animals, once the electric circuit settles,
there's a good chance that it'll settle
into an inappropriate attractor
that's actually associated with a completely different head
shape that in fact other species are using natively.
Now, you can also knock the system into attractors
that are not being used to my knowledge by any system.
And you can really get far from the normal planarian shape.
You can make animals that are spiky like this.
You can make animals that are cylindrical like this
or a combination of a flat animal
with a tube growing out into the third dimension.
Now, I'm gonna show you in a minute
that what this is all about
is predictive control over large-scale anatomy.
This is not about making weird aberrant teratologies and so on.
The idea is that we can show how much of this
is actually under bioelectrical control
and then use computational techniques
to gain good predictive control over it.
And so this is a good time to think about the role
of the genome in the anatomy of this whole process.
The typical metaphor that we hear is that
the DNA or the genome is the software
and that the cell is the hardware that interprets this.
And that's not a bad analogy at the single cell level
when you're thinking about phenotypes of proteins
and pathways, but at the level of anatomy,
I would suggest a different metaphor.
And the different metaphor that works better
to understand anatomical control is this.
Actually, what the genome does is specify all of the hardware
that the cell gets to have.
So all of the specific ion channels that are here
are determined by the gene expression.
But we know from basic neuroscience
and also from computer technology
that if you make a very simple circuit,
this is a flip-flop circuit right here,
if you nail down the hardware,
what you can have is a circuit
that can store multiple different pieces of information
depending on the current flow through the system
and store it stably, which is a memory,
a flip-flop is a basic kind of memory.
And you don't need to move or change any of the hardware
in order to store a zero or a one
in this very simple electrical circuit.
So in fact, with our modeling,
you can see that the same thing is true
if you set up a field of cells with a particular
where every single cell is expressing
exactly the same set of ion channels,
what you actually make is an excitable tissue
where very rich patterning can take place.
It's a little bit like touring patterns, right?
There's self-spontaneous symmetry breaking
and self-organization,
but all of this happens with a completely constant proteome.
You don't need to change these ion channels
because they can open and close.
And so now all of the dynamics
