So if they're amputated, they will grow back.
And what's cool is that not only
is this process incredibly flexible,
meaning if you amputate at the shoulder,
you grow the whole thing.
If you amputate at the wrist,
you start here and you just grow the parts you need.
But then it stops.
And that's the most remarkable part of all of this.
And so lots of people work on trying
to kickstart regeneration,
but actually how does it know when to stop?
Because when it stops is when it has built
a correct salamander arm, that's when it stops.
How does the system know
when it's built a correct salamander arm?
Now, it's important to note
that this is not just some weird quirk of salamanders.
So the human mammals can do some of this.
The human liver is highly regenerative.
That's been known for a long time, unclear to me
how the ancient Greeks knew that, but they clearly did.
The human liver is regenerative.
Deer regenerate huge amounts of bone
up to a centimeter and a half of new bone per day, okay?
Every day over a centimeter of bone growth.
So bone, vasculature, innervation, skin,
and even human children can regrow fingertips.
Usually it stops at a particular age,
but if you just keep it clean,
the amputation will give rise
to a cosmetically perfect finger.
So the champions of this process
are these guys, these are planaria, these are flatworms.
They have a true brain, central nervous system,
the same neurotransmitters that you and I have.
And the amazing thing about them
is that you can cut them into lots of pieces.
The record is 275.
And every piece will regrow exactly what's missing,
no more, no less,
to give you a perfect tiny little worm.
While the new stuff is growing,
the remaining tissue is actually shrinking
so that they will as quickly as possible
get to correct proportionality.
And the other thing about them is they're immortal.
There's no such thing as an old planarian.
So if you're interested in aging or these ideas
that things inevitably wind down and accumulate errors
and so on, planaria are telling us
that that is not absolutely required.
Here's a life form that's basically immortal.
And the thing to understand about all of this
is that we really are,
not despite all the amazing progress in molecular genetics,
we're really not very far along
in understanding how the cellular collectives
make decisions.
And one of the easiest ways to see that
is to just think about chimeric organisms.
So here's a simple example,
which we're making in my lab right now.
Here's an axolotl larvae, axolotl larvae have legs.
Here's a frog larvae, a tadpole, tadpoles do not have legs.
And one can ask a simple question.
If I combine axolotl tissue with early frog tissue,
so in early embryogenesis,
I make a chimeric embryo, they're perfectly healthy.
These are, we call them frog allotls.
We have the genomes, we have the axolotl gene
and we have the frog genome.
And now we ask a simple question
to frog allotls have legs, right?
And even though we have all this information,
we actually have no idea how to predict in advance
whether frog allotls will have legs.
And if so, will they be made entirely of axolotl cells
or both types of cells or what?
So these are the kinds of things
that we would actually like to understand.
And one thing that's very important
as part of this process is specifically the algorithm
that enables robustness and the handling of novelty.
And I'll show you a simple example of that.
So we discovered this a few years ago.
So here is a tadpole and it has eyes here,
it has nostrils and a mouth down here.
All of these things have to move around
in order to get to a frog face, okay?
So during metamorphosis, the face has to deform.
The jaws have to come out, the eyes have to move forward,
everything has to move.
So it was thought that somehow what the genome did
was to give each piece of the face a particular direction
and amount of movement.
And that way standard tadpoles become standard frogs.
What we did was we created what we call Picasso tadpoles.
So everything's in the wrong position.
The eyes are on top of the head,
the mouth is off to the side, everything is mixed up.
I'll show you in a minute how we do it.
But the amazing thing is that these animals become
pretty much normal frogs
because all of these different organs move around
through unnatural paths and sometimes they go too far
and actually have to back up,
but everything moves around until it gets
to a correct frog face and then the remodeling stops.
So in fact, what the genetics does specify
is not a bunch of hardwired rearrangements,
but a system that executes
a really flexible error minimization scheme.
It's able to start off at incorrect or abnormal positions
and still get to where it needs to be.
This apparently matches William James's definition
of intelligence, which is the ability to reach
the same outcome despite perturbations
and starting from novel, starting configurations.
So how does this system know what a correct face is
and how do we get there?
So we've been thinking about this problem
and we would like to, my background is computer science.
And so to me, all of this looks like a problem
of information processing at different levels.
And what I would love to know is could we go beyond
the hardware and operating at this level
and ask about the algorithms?
How are these decisions being made?
What do the cellular collectives measure?
What are their modules or subroutines?
How are these global patterning goals specified and stored?
And in particular, how reprogrammable
is any piece of biological hardware?
So in computer science, there was this really interesting
journey that we took from, this is what programming
looked like in the 1940s and 50s.
In order to get the computer to do something different,
you physically had to rewire it.
You had to rearrange the hardware,
you had to move the wires.
But what computer scientists realized is that
if your hardware is good enough,
and I'm gonna argue that biological hardware
is definitely good enough,
what you can do is something really interesting.
You can reprogram the machine without touching the hardware
basically by giving it stimuli or experiences,
basically inputs.
And that will allow you to program
in a much higher level language,
where you're not drowned in the details of the hardware
or even the machine language,
which are actually able to take advantage
of some really high level types of programming strategies
to get very complex kinds of outcomes.
And I'm certainly not arguing that living things
are computers in the sense that they're,
of course they're not built to the same architectures
that our current computers are.
But this idea of reprogrammable hardware
and of controlling a system by inputs and stimuli
as opposed to physical rewiring is very powerful.
So what we try to do is to come up with a scheme
where there's more feedback here.
So that basically when the system is deviated
from its normal target morphology,
be that with injury or teratogenic drugs
or pathogens or whatever,
when the system is deviated from this,
feedback loops kick in,
both at the level of genetics and physics,
and we're gonna talk about this physical one here,
that try to minimize the error,
the delta between where we are now and where we need to be.
This is a classic homeostatic loop.
It's what the thermostat in your house does.
It measures against the set point.
And if error is beyond the tolerable amount,
it will undertake corrective action.
So several things to note here.
The first is that, of course,
feedbacks are not new in biology.
Everybody knows we have feedbacks.
But there's something different here.
The first is that the set point of this process
and every homeostatic system has to have a set point
towards which it tries to reduce error.
The set point here is not a single number
or a scalar like pH or a metabolic hunger rate,
is a hunger range or something like that.
It's actually a fairly complex set of information
that in some rough course-grained way
describes what a correct anatomy should be.
So it's kind of a complex piece of information.
The other thing is that
this is very much a goal-directed process.
Now, when I say goal-directed,
I don't mean something magical or mysterious.
It's goal-directed in the cybernetic sense.
