are at the electrical circuit level,
not with the proteins underneath.
And so the prediction of this way of thinking about it
is this, you should be able to edit the software,
meaning change the information stored in the system
while keeping the hardware constant.
And in particular, just to remind you,
the piece of information that we want to change
is the set point.
We want to change the set point towards
which cells are working in this error minimization scheme.
So let's think about how to do that.
So here's our normal planarian.
We've cut off the head and the tail.
We got the middle fragment.
We perturbed the electric circuit
according to this model that we've developed.
And here's your two-headed animal.
Now we ask a simple question.
Here's our two-headed animal.
We give it a couple of weeks to get everything settled down,
cut off the primary head,
cut off this crazy ectopic secondary head.
Some people think, oh, you somehow epigenetically reprogram
this posterior tissue.
Fine, we'll cut it off, we'll throw it away.
All that remains is a normal middle fragment here
that didn't have any head tissue in it.
We do this in plain water,
no more manipulations of any kind.
The genome is wild type.
We haven't edited the genomic sequence at all.
So surely the prediction would be that you should have,
but you should get back to a single-headed worm.
Once you cut off this thing,
you should be back to a single-headed worm.
Now the interesting thing is that if you actually model
the state space of the electric circuit that's involved here,
what you find is that there are multiple stable points.
One is here, a very stable point
around the single-headed shape like this,
but there's another stable point
around the double-headed shape.
And so that suggests an interesting idea
that is it possible that when you amputate this thing,
the bioelectrical circuit will still remember
that it needs to make two heads.
And sure enough, that's exactly what happens.
When you amputate these in perpetuity,
as far as we can tell forever,
two-headed animals will continue to give rise
to two-headed animals,
even despite their wild-type genome in plain water,
no more manipulation.
And we can, in fact, if we want to,
we can set the bioelectric circuit back to normal
and it goes back to being a single-headed animal.
So a normal planarian body, as you're going to see,
is able to store a couple of different,
at least probably more,
but we've nailed down to ideas
of what a correct planarian is supposed to look like.
And this is how you can see this.
So here's a single-headed planarian.
And if we look at the molecular markers,
the anterior marker is here in the head, not in the tail.
And if you amputate,
you get a perfectly normal single-headed animal, fine.
Here's another anatomically normal animal.
Again, molecular markers are all normal,
anterior in the head, no anterior back here,
that no anterior marker back here.
But if you amputate this one,
suddenly you get a two-headed animal.
Why would you get a two-headed animal?
Because in the meantime, what we've done
is we've bioelectrically changed the stable pattern
to say, no, now you need to have two heads.
Now, here's the critical part of this.
This electrical map here
is not a map of this two-headed animal.
This electrical map is a map of this one-headed animal,
meaning that the bioelectricity distribution
is not simply a map of whatever the anatomy is doing.
The same single-headed anatomy
can store at least one of two different
stable representations of what it's going to do
if it gets injured in the future.
If you're interested in neuroscience
and how counterfactuals are remembered in the brain,
this, I think, is sort of the evolutionary precursor
to being able to remember things that are not happening now,
either things that happened before
or might happen in the future.
It's a counterfactual memory.
It's the ability to store a representation of a worm
towards which the fragment is going to build
if it gets injured.
So it sits perfectly comfortably
as a single-headed animal with this pattern until you cut.
And at that point, that memory is no longer latent
and it's actually becomes functional.
And that's how we get this propagation
of these two-headed worms.
So we are building some very sort of quantitative,
molecular, biophysical models
to really understand the state space of the circuit,
to understand how the circuit minimizes free energy
and eventually lands in one of these attractors,
hopefully the right one,
but not necessarily the right one,
and tying it into exactly the same formalism
for how people in machine learning think about networks,
electrical networks that can store patterns
and can actually repair those patterns
when pieces of the information are missing.
This is all very well-trodden ground in machine learning.
And we think that some of these same strategies
that we use now were discovered by evolution long ago.
And beyond worms, this is the beginnings of our roadmap
for regenerative medicine.
Because what we found is that, for example,
if you have a frog and the frogs do not regenerate their legs
the way that salamanders do, you amputate the leg.
45 days later, there's basically nothing.
There's no blastema and there's no regenerate.
What we can do is we can apply a cocktail
of ion channel drugs that serve as a stimulus
to kickstart a very complex cascade.
So what you see here is immediately the MSX-1
blastema marker becomes turned on.
The leg starts growing.
Already you have the toes and here's a toenail
and eventually you get a very respectable leg here
and it's touch sensitive and motile.
Okay, so the animal can use it.
There's a couple of interesting things about this.
One, is that much like when we created an eye
or induced a second head on the planarian,
inducing this leg, we don't provide all the information
to micromanage the process, right?
We have no idea how to build a planarian head from scratch
or how to make an eye or how to make a leg.
What we have found is a trigger for a subroutine
that this tissue already knows
how to do and the decision for what it's going to do,
scar or produce various types of organs can be,
is part of an electric circuit that we can guide.
We can manage.
So that's the first interesting thing.
The second thing is that in keeping with this idea
from the beginning that one of the hallmarks
of the collective intelligence of these cells
and responding to novel situations is that they can get
to the final outcome through novel paths.
And if you actually look at this intermediate stage
of this leg, this is nothing like what frog legs look like
when they're developing in the first place.
So it eventually gets to a very good frog leg shape here,
basically indistinguishable from the control,
but the intermediate path through morpho space,
the ability of the system to navigate
that anatomical morpho space is amazing
because it does not follow the same path
that frog limbs normally follow where they make a paddle
and then they, you know, there's apoptosis
that kills off the space between the digits and so on.
It's not what they do.
They grow, it's almost like a plant meristem
where you get the central stalk with this nail
and then off to the side, you get these toes
and eventually the whole thing remodels into a leg.
So the remarkable ability to get its job done
in a different way.
So now we, this is not just things that apply
to frog and worm, we've done some work with David Kaplan
and Lauren Black and others on human mesenchymal stem cells
and cardiomyocytes.
And you can control the kinds of things
that you can see in vitro differentiation,
proliferation, wound healing,
but I think that's not what the bioelectricity is for.
What the bioelectricity is really for
in terms of why evolution uses it
and why we should be interested in
is because it allows us to exploit the modular nature
of the anatomical decision-making
because we can control very large scale outcomes
not micromanage the details.
And here I have to do a disclosure.
So David Kaplan and I are both co-founders
of this company called Morphosuticals Inc.
where we're trying to take the things that we learned
about frog leg regeneration and move them towards mammals.
So our goal is where we're now in rodents
trying for limb regeneration using the same strategies
and using these wearable bioreactors.
And the idea is to again, kickstart regeneration,
not micromanage it, not try to babysit all of the
different cell types and growth factors
