Thank you for the opportunity to speak to all of you
and to share some work and get your feedback.
So if anyone would like more details
or to get in touch with me, all the papers,
everything else is at these websites here.
And so there are four basic points
that I would like to get across today.
The first is that there are really
some very significant knowledge gaps
about the control of large scale anatomical homeostasis.
And this is roughly, it encompasses our understanding
of the relationship between the genome and the anatomy.
And I'll show you why things are quite puzzling there.
And I will claim that fundamental advances
and new biomedicine are going to require
not only understanding the molecular mechanisms
that are required for this process to happen,
but actually also the decision making
by cellular collectives that is sufficient for it to happen.
And that a key medium for computation and living tissue
is something that is called non-neural bioelectricity.
Now we've developed some techniques
to manipulate this layer of basically physiological software
and I'll show you why I say that.
And fundamentally looking towards the future,
I will argue that cracking this bioelectric code
that will enable a kind of novel approach
using electroseuticals for applications in birth defects,
regenerative medicine, cancer and synthetic bioengineering.
And boiling down the whole talk into basically two sentences,
what I'm going to tell you is that like the brain,
your body tissues form electrical networks
that make decisions.
These are decisions about dynamic anatomy
and that we now have the ability to target the system
to control large scale editing
that can even override all kinds of genomic default states
with lots of advantages and opportunities
for regenerative medicine and synthetic bioengineering.
And I show you one of our five-legged frogs
to just point out that you're going to see
all kinds of weird creatures today.
None of this is Photoshop.
These are all actual living things
that represent our attempt to test some of the models
that we have.
So let's look at these knowledge gaps.
If we think about what is the end game of our field?
Where are we going?
At what point can we all go home?
What we would like to have is something
that we call the anatomical compiler.
The deal is that you ought to be able to sit down
and draw the animal or plant that you would like to have
at the level of the anatomy.
So not at the level of pathways,
but at the level of final anatomy,
the way that we do with machine parts and things like this,
then you would be able to draw this three-headed worm.
And if we knew what we were doing,
we would have the capability of having the software
which would then compile this anatomical description down
into a set of stimuli that would have to be given to cells
that would cause them to produce whatever it was
that you just drew.
So here's this three-headed flat worm.
Now, the reason that this is fundamentally important
is that almost all of the problems of biomedicine,
so except for infectious disease,
pretty much everything else, birth defects,
traumatic injury, cancer, aging,
all of these things would be solved
if we had the ability to tell cells what to build.
If we had the knowledge to control what it is
that cellular collectives cooperate towards building.
So all of these things are in some important sense,
problems of information processing.
How is it that cells work together to build these things?
And so, of course, we are very far
from having anything like this.
And only in a few very special cases do we know anything
about how to make specific shapes come up.
So let's think about why that is.
So where is anatomy specified?
I mean, we all start life roughly like this.
So this is a collection of embryonic blastomeres.
And then shortly thereafter,
you get something like this.
This is a cross-section through a human torso.
So look at this incredible invariant order.
All of these organs are the correct shape, size,
position, orientation, everything is next to the right stuff.
It's absolutely staggering amount of order.
And so we would like to know, first of all,
where is this information coming from?
We're tempted to say DNA,
but of course we know what genomes specify.
The DNA specifies proteins.
There's nothing directly in there
that specifies any of this.
So we would like to know how is it
that cells use the genomically specified hardware
that they have to know what to make.
And when to stop.
In regenerative medicine,
we would like to know if a piece of this is missing,
how do we get the cells to rebuild it?
And as engineers,
we ask what's actually possible to build
given any particular default genome.
And so the reason that in my group,
we frame this thing as a basically
a collective intelligence problem
is that individual cells are extremely competent.
So here you see one cell.
This is a single cell organism.
This is called the lacrimaria.
And there is no brain.
There's no nervous system.
There are no stem cells.
There's no cell-to-cell communication.
Just one cell handling all of its local goals.
So it's handling its physiological goals, anatomical,
control, metabolic, behavioral.
Everything is handled by this one cell in real time, okay?
And so the amazing thing is that these cells,
which are extremely competent in their local,
very small sort of environment,
when they work together to make a metazoin body,
they can work on much bigger goals.
So what you see is an inflation, not only of body size,
but actually of their ability to pursue states
in various kinds of problem spaces,
including anatomical morpho space,
physiological space and so on.
So a single cell can give rise to a collection of cells
that self-assembles into some incredibly complex morphology.
And we know that simply understanding
stem cell biology is not going to be enough
because here we have a teratoma
and this thing might have hair and teeth and bone
and muscle and skin.
And so the work of the stem cells has proceeded fine.
You have all your derivatives.
You have your various tissues.
What you don't have is this three-dimensional structures.
We need to understand how this works.
And in a standard developmental biology,
the story that we're told
is a kind of a feed-forward open-loop system
which is very much based around emergence.
So the idea is that there are gene regulatory networks,
so genes turn each other on and off.
Some of these genes are effector code for effector proteins.
So they are sticky or they diffuse
or they exert force or something like this.
And then there's this physical process
where all of these things interact with each other
and then through the things that are studied
by the science of complexity and so on,
outcome these amazingly complex results.
So like the salamander here.
So this now, the story is certainly true
in the sense that these things all happen,
but it's incomplete, I think,
and it has a fundamental difficulty
which is this inverse problem.
The idea is that if we're committed
to this feed-forward emergent story,
then making changes here require us
to exert our interventions down here
at the, for example, at the genetic level.
And that means that we have to try to invert
this process of emergence
which is fundamentally insolvable.
So most of these inverse problems
are just too difficult to solve.
How do you know what genes to tweak
to make desire changes
at the three-dimensional anatomy level?
So the current state of affairs is basically this.
We're very good at things like this,
at figuring out the lowest hardware level
of which genes and proteins interact
with which other genes and proteins.
But what we'd really like to understand
are things like this,
the ability of planaria to regenerate from pieces,
the shape of the hand and the shape of the foot
and why they're different
and what you would have to do
to get these specific shapes back.
It's very not obvious what you would do at this level.
So the amazing thing is that
some animals are very good at this
and their bodies show remarkable plasticity
in this kind of collective activity of the cell.
So for example here, this animal is a salamander.
It regenerates its limbs, its eyes, its jaws,
its portions of the brain and the heart.
