and everything else has to go in.
But kickstart a trigger very early on
and convince the cells with an aqueous protective environment
that it's basically that regeneration can proceed
in the way that it would in a salamander
or in an embryonic mammal during this adult phase.
So that's kind of where one of the research programs is going.
I should point out this that it is already known
how it is that voltage change impacts
the transcriptional machinery.
People often sort of say that it would be great
if we understood how voltage controls gene expression.
We basically do, we already know about six ways
that voltage change transduces down
into second messenger pathways and controls gene expression.
And this has typical mechanisms like calcium,
which neuroscience is very familiar with,
other things like voltage sensitive phosphatases,
neurotransmitter transporters.
We already know how this works at a single cell level.
This transduction machinery has been dissected.
In fact, also some of the downstream targets
have been identified.
So the genes that are controlled by this,
all of your favorite BMPs, sonic hedgehogs, FGFs,
all of these kinds of things are in fact,
the redistribution of morphogens
and the examples that I showed you.
All of this is known both from specific candidates
and through unbiased, let's say RNA-seq
and the microarray types of things.
We know this, but what's interesting is that
these answers as to how it works on a single cell level
have been fairly unhelpful in understanding
the large scale picture that we're really interested in.
And it's very much analogous
to this multi-scale problem in neuroscience.
You can track the pathway and we do.
And in every paper, you have to sort of go
from the channel to the transduction machinery,
which genes are downstream, so you can do all this.
But that actually leaves open some much deeper questions
about how the collective makes decisions.
And so for that reason, we've made the simulator,
and this was created by our center member
and collaborator, Alexis Pytak.
And what allows us to do is to build models
of both molecular networks like GRNs
together with the various biophysics steps that happen.
And you can simulate every cell having these various circuits.
And then you can try to build a full stack model
that integrates from the molecular steps
to the tissue level physiology,
like every cell has various channels.
What is the electrical pattern
and they're gonna be in this tissue?
What does that look like on an axial polarity level?
You know, where's the head, where's the tail?
And then can we extract from this
the actual rules of the decision-making?
Can we turn this into a kind of algorithmic description
that looks like this that makes it much easier
for us to control the process?
Because now this is almost to like
a high level programming language where we can see,
okay, here are the measurables
and here are the decision points that the circuit is using
to control large scale patterning modules
like make a head, make an eye.
And so what we're doing is literally integrating
every part of this so that you can build it up
and then exert all your manipulations at this level.
So you could have your simulator and ask questions like,
why does the head-tail gradient rescale
when you cut the planarian into four pieces?
You know, how does that work?
And you can't see that by drilling down into single cells.
You have to come back out with that information
and build these collective kinds of models.
And the other nice thing about these models
is that they are the perfect fodder
for machine learning approaches
to do two things, to infer better models from data.
Okay, and we've done some of that.
And also then to interrogate those models for interventions.
And so here's some software that anyone can play with
if you want to download and kind of simulate all this.
And we've shown that you can actually use machine learning
to find models that are really good
at explaining functional data sets.
In other words, you know, you did something to the system
and then something else happened.
What is a model explains that?
And then find these kind of needle in a haystack interventions
that are ways in which you could perturb it
to get it to do what you want.
Okay, so that I think is the kind of the future
of using this for regenerative medicine.
So let's talk specifically about a couple of applications
in the last few minutes.
The first thing is again, the cancer issue.
So I've shown you that you can track the
shrinking of these kinds of computational boundaries
from data for the organ or whole body scale to single cells.
And you can use this as an obvious application here
as a kind of diagnostic modality, right?
It's screening for cancer and so on.
But functionally, what's really important is that first of all,
you can induce basically a conversion of normal melanocytes.
So here they are, these little black dots
are pigment cells, they're melanocytes.
If you depolarize a very specific cell population
in the animal, not the melanocytes themselves,
but a different cell population,
we call them instructor cells for an obvious reason.
They, those cells tell the melanocytes what to do,
in particular to stay nice cooperative melanocytes
under control, if you block their ability to signal,
what happens is basically metastatic melanoma.
These normal melanocytes convert to these crazy
really, really kind of a long stringy things
that start to crawl away.
They dig into the brain, they dig into the neural tube,
they start to invade.
Here they are all through the blood vessels.
This is basically exactly like a melanoma type of behavior.
And you can see here, these blue cells,
these are the ones that we actually depolarized.
They are the ones that are now failing
to keep the normal melanocytes behaving correctly.
And the melanocytes are just at this point,
they're going on their own.
So it's a voltage change in the environment.
There's nothing genetically wrong with these animals.
There are no oncogenes.
There were no carcinogens, nothing like that.
But this voltage change is a physiological switch
away from the cooperation of cells toward embryogenesis
and towards single cell behavior.
Now, what's cool is that you can override this.
So if we inject an oncogene and they make these tumors,
of course they're labeled with the red fluorescent protein,
what you can do is co-inject the channel
and you can force these cells
to stay electrically coupled to their neighbors,
despite what the oncogene is trying to get them to do.
And here, while that dominant negative KRAS P53,
whatever, while they're blazingly expressed,
there's no tumor, it's the same animal.
There's no tumor because these cells
are coupled to this electrical network
that forces them towards a proper tissue fate.
So that's where our sort of cancer applications are going,
and we've done this with light, with optogenetics and so on.
And now we're in human cells to try to use this
to target carcinogenic behavior in human cells.
The other thing that is important is, again,
to think about the level of control
that's possible with this.
Here is a normal tadpole brain.
So you see forebrain, midbrain and hindbrain.
And what you can do is if you, for example,
introduce a mutated notch protein.
So notch is a very important neurogenesis gene.
You can mutate it and introduce a dominant mutation.
You can see forebrain is basically gone,
midbrain and hindbrain and just a bubble.
These animals have no behavior to speak of.
They, you know, they lay there, they do nothing.
You can do the same thing with alcohol, nicotine,
various teratogen exposures.
What you can do is build a computational model.
And again, this is the work of Alexis Paytak,
Pay, who's a staff scientist in my group
and a few collaborators.
What you can do is you can build a computational model
that asks a simple question.
What determines the shape and size of the brain?
And there's a particular bioelectrical pattern
that's required for the brain.
And then on these backgrounds of teratogens
or even notch mutation, you can ask the model a question.
You can say, if this pattern is disturbed,
such as it is here, what channels would I have to open
or close to get back to the correct pattern?
And the model told us and it said,
there's a particular channel HCN2,
which can help us sharpen these boundaries,
even though there are massive defects in the notch signaling
and, you know, with these various other pathways,
you can still reinforce these boundaries by opening HCN2.
And sure enough, if you do it with drugs,
or if you do, or if you just mis-express HCN2,
you can get back to a normal brain shape,
a normal brain gene expression, and in fact, normal IQ.
These animals get their behaviors back
and their learning rates back.
So here's what this is.
This is using a very specific computational model
to rationally manipulate the electrical signaling
