to get back to a very complex organ morphogenesis.
And so the whole sort of roadmap
looks a little bit like this.
If we already have expression data, profiling data,
on which tissues in the body express which channels,
so that's already known.
This needs a lot more work,
which is if you knew what the voltage pattern
was supposed to be in various healthy tissues
under various conditions,
so basically physiomic profiling is needed.
Then we have this computational simulation engine,
which is able to say if you want to go
from the incorrect pattern to the correct pattern,
which of these channels would you have to open and close?
Okay, and that tells you immediately
what cocktail of ion channel drugs you would need to use.
And so we've developed this pipeline.
You can, again, you can play with it here
and choose your tissue and so on.
And the idea is that something like 20% of all drugs
are ion channel drugs.
And these things form an incredibly convenient toolkit
of what we call them electroseuticals,
because if you have the right computational model,
you can repurpose these,
which and the human safety data is done on these things.
People already take them for all kinds of uses
and they have a massive applicability
in tweaking the bioelectrical signals.
Now, another nice thing about this kind of approach
is that once the bioelectric circuit has made its decision,
the downstream steps that are in second messengers,
then gene expression, everything else,
you can be as long as you want.
So for example, in the case of the frog,
a one day 24 hour application of a particular cocktail
gives you 13 months of leg growth, right?
And you don't have to micromanage that whole process.
It's just figuring out what electrical state
is gonna shift the tissue towards a particular goal state
that all of the cells are going to work towards.
So I'm just gonna close here and summarize as follows.
There's this really important layer
of physiological decision-making
that sits between the genotype and the anatomy.
And it's becoming a really tractable target for biomedicine
and also synthetic bioengineering,
because we can now see how the electrical dynamics
that are operating in that tissue encode
particular anatomical layouts
towards which the cells continue to build.
And evolution apparently discovered very early on
that this electrical signaling is a really convenient medium
for computation and global decision-making.
It's not an accident that all nervous systems use it
and all of our computer technology uses it.
Ion channels, especially the voltage-gated ion channels
are basically voltage-gated current conductances.
They're transistors, right?
And that's a very powerful architecture
that evolution found long before we did
for forming feedback loops, memory circuits, and so on.
And we think that cracking this bioelectric code
can help reveal how cell networks
make decisions in large-scale anatomy,
not just how individual cells decide
what type of cell they're going to be,
but actually the real question of growth and form,
where do these complex patterns reside?
And we can now rewrite some of these patterns,
such as, for example, in the planarian or in the frog.
And new machine learning tools are coming online
to help us design strategies
for all kinds of applications.
So I would like to thank the people in my group
who did the work.
These are all the postdocs and students.
And others who did the work that I showed you today.
Here are some of our collaborators
who are working with us.
Of course, the model systems that we work with,
all kinds of animals.
And our funders, very grateful to them.
Again, Disclosure, Morphosuticals Inc.
is the company for our frog limb regeneration work.
And just in the end,
I always like to show a video of these two-headed animals.
The first time I reported these data at a meeting,
someone stood up and said,
that's impossible, those animals can't exist.
And so now I make sure that I bring a video.
