We've had devices that are goal-directed agents
for since the 40s and 50s.
And all it means is that it's able
to execute this error minimization loop.
But the cool thing about systems that work like this
is the following.
When you want to change what they do,
you don't have to be rewiring the hardware back here.
If you understood how the set point was encoded,
you could change the set point
and get the exact same cells to build something different.
And that's the amazing thing about any system
that utilizes this kind of architecture
that you can actually make changes
without even necessarily knowing
how all the parts of the loop works.
All you have to do is rewrite the set point.
And so our strategy for some years now was this.
We tried to identify some of the mechanisms that work here
in particular, understand the homeostatic set point.
How does the tissue store the pattern
towards which it tries to remodel?
And let's rewrite that pattern and let the cells build.
And that's part of trying to decode this aspect
of the collective behavior of these cells.
So let's talk about how we've been doing it.
So we have started looking at something called
developmental bioelectricity.
And what I'm going to show you now are,
first of all, the methods.
So how do we do this?
And then show you some proof of principle application.
So why is this interesting?
And I want to point out at the beginning that,
all cells in vivo sit within this complex morphogenetic field
of information that tells them what to do
as part of a larger unit.
This information comes in many flavors.
So chemical, extracellular matrix,
tensions and stresses or biomechanics,
all kinds of things.
And of course, bioelectricity.
So bioelectricity doesn't do this alone.
It works with all of this other stuff.
I'm just going to focus today on bioelectricity
because I think it has a particular aspect to it,
which is that it's not just another piece of physics
that you need to know to understand anatomies.
It's actually a computational layer
that gives some privileged access
to the control of complex anatomical features.
It is the medium in which the computations are being made
to make decisions about the length and the size
and the shape of things.
And so accessing this bioelectricity
gives you a remarkable insight into what's going on
beyond bottom up molecular mechanisms.
So the kind of inspiration for how to think about this
we took directly from neuroscience.
In neuroscience, this story of course
will be familiar to everybody.
The hardware is simple.
You have a collection of cells.
Each cell has ion channels in the plasma membrane.
They set voltage values across.
That's the resting potential, which can go up and down.
And it can propagate to the neighbors
via these electrical synapses.
So that's what's there.
And those kind of networks underlie this amazing software.
And here you can see this physiology
in a living zebrafish brain as the fish is undergoing
whatever cognitive activities zebrafish can do.
And you can see here the electrical activity.
And the commitment of neuroscience
is that if we were able to decode this,
if we understood how to read this information,
we should be able to, through a computational approach,
we should be able to figure out
what the animal is remembering,
what it's thinking about,
what decisions it's making.
The semantic and functional cognitive structures
are to be read out from the electrical activity of the brain.
That's what we believe.
Well, it turns out that actually all cells do this.
All cells have ion channels.
Most cells have electrical synapses
known as gap junctions to their neighbors.
And we have undertaken this project
to try to do the same kind of decoding.
So here's an embryo.
And we would like to read all the electrical conversations
that bind the individual cells into a collective
that can undergo anatomical homeostasis
towards large states like build a limb,
build a kidney and so on.
And on the one hand,
it's strange and surprising to many people
to think about somatic cells
as having this kind of neuroscience-like aspect to them
as if they're processing information,
they're having goal states and so on.
On the other hand, if you ask where did neurons come from,
of course, they didn't just appear out of nowhere.
The evolution just speed optimized
things that cells have been doing for a really long time
since around the time of bacterial biofilms.
All of the components of neurons
that are really important for this,
the channels, the neurotransmitter machinery,
all this stuff existed even before multicellularity.
And even bacteria were using this
to coordinate information across the film.
So we developed some tools to study this.
The first is just how to detect and model them.
This is a voltage-sensitive fluorescent dye,
which basically just reveals in the living state,
non-invasively, so you don't have to poke the cells
with electrophysiological tools.
Every cell is now reporting around its membrane,
all the voltages.
This is an early frog embryo in time-lapse sorting out
which cells are gonna be left and right
and dorsal ventral and so on.
And in addition to that,
we do a lot of computational modeling.
So try to say, well, if we know what ion channels
and pumps are in the membrane,
can we explain why the voltage is the way it is
and why it changes as a function of time the way it does?
And so let me show you a couple of native bioelectrical patterns.
This is what we call the electric face.
This was discovered by Danny Adams in my group
and she used voltage dyes to look at the frog embryo
putting its face together, okay?
And so this is, of course, is a time-lapse.
And what you can see, this is one frame taken from that movie.
What you can see is that long before the genes come on
to regionalize the face into the eye, the mouth,
and everything else,
all of the bioelectrical properties set up a pre-pattern,
a scaffold that tell you where everything is going to be.
So here's where the animal's right eye is going to be.
The left eye will come in shortly.
Here is the mouth, here are some placodes.
This bioelectrical pattern
is a native instructive pattern for gene expression
and for anatomy.
And the reason we know it's instructive
is because if you go in, let's say with optogenetics
or with other tools and change this electrical pattern,
not move any cells, but just change the pattern,
then you can get, for example, those Picasso tadpoles.
You can move organs around at will.
And I'm going to show you that in a minute.
So this is a normal pattern that is necessary
for correct craniofacial development.
Here's a pathological pattern.
So this embryo was injected with a human oncogene.
And so something like a KRAS mutation
or something like that.
And here it's going to form a tumor, right?
And the tumor is going to start to spread.
But before that happens,
before it becomes histologically apparent,
you can already see with this voltage dye,
here are the cells that have depolarized
and shut off the electrical connections to their neighbors
in a way that's going to basically revert them back
to their unicellular ancient lifestyle.
Once you're electrically disconnected from this grid,
the rest of the animal becomes just external environment,
that computational boundary,
whereas before it was large,
it was a group working on a liver or a kidney
or something like that.
It now shrinks to the level of a single cell
and all your goals become single cell goals,
proliferate, migrate to where life is good and so on.
And this ends up being metastasis
and conversion of metastasis.
So this is a pathological pattern.
So what we then developed was a set of tools
that were designed to allow us
to manipulate these bioelectrical gradients in vivo.
So if we thought they were functional,
we ought to be able to control them
to get the collective to do something different.
And so this is important to say
that we do not do any external field application.
We don't have any electromagnetic components here.
There are no electrodes, there are no waves,
there's no magnetism.
It's all molecular physiology
and the way it works is you can,
you have two things you can control in any tissue.
You can control which cells electrically
coupled to which other cells.
And so we target these gap junctions,
