Hi, welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy.
This is Eneosh.
This is Katrina.
And this is Steven.
And today, we are interviewing Eliasar Yadkowski.
Eliasar is a decision theorist and AI researcher who basically kickstarted the rationality
movement when he founded LessWrong.com.
Let's jump right into it.
Hello?
Hello?
Can you hear me?
Yes, we can hear you.
Can you hear me?
I can hear you.
How about me?
I can hear you as well, but your voice is softer.
What if I speak into the microphone?
Is he connected to the microphone at all?
Yeah.
Okay.
How about this?
I can now hear you better, though your voice is still slightly less loud than Eneosh's.
How do I actually pronounce your first name, by the way?
Oh, yes.
I am Eneosh.
Eneosh.
Yes.
And now I know.
I know.
Hurrah!
I'm Katrina.
Nice to meet you.
Pleased to meet you as well.
Yeah.
Did you just hear a clicking sound, by the way?
No.
Good.
Because I just switched off my phone and I was wondering if the iPhone clicking sound
was being echoed over the connection or if it was just in my headphones.
Oh, okay.
I think it was just on the headphones.
It sounds fine.
Okay.
Great.
And we also have Stephen here.
Oh, hi.
Who's kind of in charge of the podcast.
It's a group effort.
Yeah.
So,
Hello, Stephen.
Thank you very much for agreeing to be on the podcast with us.
We are really excited about this whole, this whole thing.
Katrina, would you like to start since we don't have all that much time?
And thank you so much for spending your time.
Yeah.
So basically we already introduced you before we answered your call.
So.
Should we do it again to make sure that he's on board with this?
Oh.
Yeah.
Sure.
Why not?
Okay.
So I introduced you as an AI researcher and decision theorist who basically kickstarted
the new rationality movement when you founded less wrong.com.
Would you say that's an acceptable summary?
Sure.
I mean, like there was this whole thing with previously overcoming bias and it became
less wrong.com.
But you know, that's enough for government work.
Okay.
Excellent.
Great.
Okay.
So if you're cool with it, we're just going to jump into some questions for you.
Alrighty.
Okay.
So can you talk a little bit about your rationalist origin story?
Are there any real standout moments that you remember from your youth that made you the
rationalist you are today?
If we're talking about like big influences, then surely you're joking, Mr. Feynman, a
step farther out by Jerry Pornell, a large amount of science fiction with just sort of
pro-good reasoning ideals quietly in the background.
If I'm looking for like single standout moments, then there was this one point in my life where
I noticed the feeling of sort of knowing something wasn't true, hiding it away in the corner
of my mind and managed to generalize over the feeling and be like, aha, this is what
it feels like to be hiding something away in the corners of my mind, I'm going to look
for everything now and try to sweep out all the hidden corners just like while I was walking
down the street one day.
Do you remember what it was?
Or you feel comfortable sharing what it was that was hidden in that corner?
It was a, like there had been a childhood game some years earlier where, which basically
involved kids from a summer camp hitting each other with small plastic bowling pins.
And I refused to participate in this game.
And what I told myself about that for some number of years was I'm refusing to participate
in this game because it's a negative sum game, like as a matter of ideals, I'm not going
to like trade being hurt for the chance to hurt others.
And like some years later, I looked back and realized, like, no, I just hadn't wanted
to be hurt.
And like that was the actual reason I'd refused.
I made up the sort of idealistic story afterwards.
And I'd known somewhere in the back of my mind why I'd actually done it.
I'd known the idealistic story was false.
I just had these two beliefs going at the same time.
And I was like, aha, like I see this belief.
I see these, like the truth that I always knew in the corner of my mind being pushed
aside by this thing that I'm saying.
Now I understand this feeling.
That is fantastic.
How old were you?
Probably something in the range of 8-ish during the original bowling pins episode or
actually maybe it was closer to 11-ish.
I'm not sure.
I can't remember if I actually did know about game theory at the time or not.
And like what a positive thumb or negative thumb game was.
If I knew what game theory was, then I was probably closer to 11.
And when I first, like, noticed that feeling of hiding something in the corner of my mind
and generalize and go over it, that would have been age 14 or 15, I think.
OK.
Was I got the feeling from reading the less wrong sequences that you had a very religious
upbringing, which I found is not uncommon among rationalists to break away from that
religious upbringing.
Did that have a big influence, too?
It probably had a sort of initially getting it wrong influence.
Like, I'm not sure that I would say I had a very religious upbringing.
I had a very Jewish upbringing.
It's not quite the same thing.
Like modern Orthodox Judaism.
So there was probably like another watershed moment when I was five or six
when they were telling me to pray to Daven.
And I was like, I don't understand these words.
This is not going to work.
And they're like, no, no, like as long as you, Daven and Hebrew, it's OK.
If you don't understand the words.
And this was so stupid that I figured that there had to have been something lost
in the translation between like God and my being told this thing.
So like from that moment on, I was a heretic.
There were things that I was officially supposed to believe, but I did not believe.
So I still believe in God.
But like I already didn't believe in the exact Jewish religion version of God,
though I wouldn't have like self identified as a heretic out of just been like,
no, they clearly got this wrong somehow.
So I think that the effect this had on me was indeed something of the same thing
that I've seen other rationalists get from growing up with one crazy parent,
which is it breaks your trust and authority.
And there were like larger life traumas than that, which like how to break my trust
and authority. But like if you were to like ask of the like sort of earliest
life memory of rejecting what is being presented to you as the authoritative
adult view of reality, it would be that moment where I was like,
that can possibly be what God wants.
Yeah, although if praying to God is like a function call,
you technically don't have to know what it means as long as you execute the contract.
Well, well, if the modern Orthodox Jewish God existed,
pretend would not be like a function call.
I stand by my younger self.
I mean, it might be a bit of a vacuous truth, but I like stand with my
younger self on this one.
Like a good effort made for good reasons.
Do you think it's very important for good rationalists to have that break
with authority figures?
Because I know that I've I've, I guess.
Seeing you, seeing you talk a little bit about how it's important to trust
people with a great deal more experience than you.
Or when you don't have the information that you need.
I think that is there's a difference between sort of trusting people because
it's an option versus why I trust people because you're scared of what happens
to people who don't trust authority.
And sorry, just a second.
My headphones just told me battery low.
I guess if I guess if that gets worse, then you might have to call me back and
you might have to call me back and I might have to call you back on regular Skype.
But hopefully we'll be all right.
Okay.
That's not a problem.
If we cut out, then we'll just await your return call.
Yeah.
So the, to get back to the previous question, the, I think that it's that
there's an important formative experience wherein you challenge the
authoritative view and turn out to be right so that you get some positive
feedback for it.
You understand that you have the right to try to write your own opinion about
things like, you don't always have to exercise that right.
But like a sense of like, there was this one time I tried to form my own opinion
and it didn't go horribly wrong.
Awesome.
And it's, and religion is a pretty good place to get that formative experience.
I mean, it sure beats trying to do it with a fucking physics, you know.
Right.
It's my experience that religion is a good warm up exercise for basically any
rationalist or skeptic technique.
So I, moving on, there's something I've been wanting to ask for a while.
So there's been a bit of a diaspora in the rationalism sphere since you hung up
your blogging hat.
And I was wondering, have you ever considered taking a blogging again?
And if so, if there's like any topic you'd really be interested in giving
another in-depth sequence about.
So to do my, so like to do the less wrong sequences, like I was doing nothing
else for two years, like other other projects, such as the events singularity
institute did suffer as a result of, like my attention being elsewhere.
