And like it, and I was like doing one post every day, rain or shine is
sometimes giving myself little vacations by posting rationality post collections.
But like basically just, just keeping up the case, keeping up the volume.
There was a time of my life when the rest of the world wasn't paying very much
attention to me and I didn't have to take meetings with people.
It would be pretty hard to get up to that momentum again, I think.
I would also want better tools, some of which are underdeveloped.
What do you mean by better tools?
So like if I was doing the less wrong sequences over again with the tools
that I had available at the time, then I would be using both a wiki and a blog.
And when I like wrote about a new concept, I would create a wiki page for it.
And then like link future blog post to the wiki page instead of the
previous blog posts.
So it's like untangle the giant spaghetti mess of dependencies that rapidly grew up.
And today, like there's a friend of mine named Alexi is working on a project
called Arbital, which will be sort of like that only even better.
So if I do blogging again, it will probably be there.
In fairness, the giant Tangle spaghetti mess was one of the fun aspects of it
that really got me through it.
Well, yes, but there's like a right way or wrong way to do the giant
Tangle spaghetti mess in the right way, there's TV tropes where you're
bouncing back and forth between the tropes and the shows.
So like the correct way to do the giant spaghetti mess would have been to
like bounce people back and forth between wiki pages about concepts that
listed blog posts, talking about the concepts and blog posts will look
linked to wiki pages and that would have been the right way to do it.
Okay.
Do you like, I know you don't have the time right now, so you're not going to,
but was there like any specific topic that you'd really just want to get
your teeth into if you had the time?
I mean, I think my, my priorities for blogging, if I was in a blogging
environment would be to just like massive brain dump all the stuff about
the alignment problem.
Cause like bless wrong didn't go very far into that.
It's like only going there far enough to like tell you that there is
such a thing as this problem and not logical decision theory and tiling
agents problem and how we know the earth and like how we know what the
orthogonality thesis is true and introduction to a XI and ideal analysis
of unbounded agents and epistemic efficiency and instrumental efficiency.
And then there's this enormous body of knowledge that's basically being
passed around verbally between people who are actually working in the field.
And I try to block that.
That does sound fantastic.
Uh, did you, did you want to jump to yours or should I do the methods of
rationality question?
Oh, okay.
Uh, well, uh, since I'm expecting to get some listeners, maybe from the methods
of rationality podcast, we, we got to get a couple of questions in about that.
So, uh, I know you've written the original universe works before, since,
you know, I read a lot of them and, and podcasted some of them, but so, uh,
why a fanfic and why Harry Potter in specific, as opposed to some other universe?
Well, Harry Potter in particular, because I had been reading a large amount
of Harry Potter fanfiction online.
And so when this story spontaneously burps itself into existence inside my mind,
it happened to burp itself into existence as a Harry Potter story, like not in the
same form that you saw, but the very first version of the story that popped
into my head had Harry washing in horror in the philosopher stone chamber as
snake, cruciate the face from the back of coral's head into insanity.
Like that was, that was so like, there was a whole lot of, uh, free mind outlining
and like changing things around and adding plot elements and so on.
And the like, the version that you will probably sound a little bit more
familiar to people who have better to watch death note is, um,
Yagami light is older and smarter and has 300 core cruxes, one of which is
the pioneer plaque headmaster L is pretending to be insane.
And then into the middle of their dual wanders, the young miles were
coasting and starting Hogwarts.
So, so like that, that, that version probably sounds a little, a little bit
more familiar, but I thought I should mention the like early, early version,
just to sort of like establish the fact that that plan to change.
And like, you shouldn't think that the original vision for the story is
anything that has to survive.
And why Santhic?
Um, because it was easy to write at the time, like it stayed easy to write up
until the end of the Azkaban arc and then stopping easy for reasons I wouldn't
start to figure out until many years later.
But I was working on an attempted nonfiction rationality book and writing
what's going really slowly.
So I was like, okay, can I write faster?
This is this like completely goofy, just for fun thing.
Like there are these people now making up stories about how HPMOR was an
elaborate plot, like from the very beginning and et cetera, et cetera.
And like these people don't understand how writing works, you know, like it was
just like, okay, I can write this thing really quickly.
Okay.
It's good enough that I, that's worth throwing up on fanfiction.net.
Okay.
It seems to have accumulated 1000 reviews very quickly.
I will put more effort into this and eventually the nonfiction book ended up
going nowhere because I was like forcing myself to write it.
And the thing that I wasn't forced, forcing myself to write ended up being
the super popular thing.
And, you know, this is a story that one finds repeated many other times in
another context.
What, if you don't mind me asking, what was the thing that you found out
many years later was really hard and it slowed you down after Azkaban.
Um, so many years later, I worked out that there were a couple of things I was
doing wrong.
Um, one of the things was that by writing a story consisting of entirely
foreshadowing, I was adding on more and more constraints that had to be
satisfied by the later sections.
Um, and the other thing that I was doing wrong was I had started promising
my readers to post at particular times and dates after, um, finding that
people were frantically trying to refresh the, the story page, but every five
minutes, they wanted their hit of H-C-M-O-R, a phenomenon I would later
compare to being a heroin dealer about to knit all of the heroin out of his
own eyelashes.
So I was like, okay, I will like only post at this particular time of day.
And that was, and that was a mistake.
That meant that I had to rush to get the stuff done by that time.
If I wanted to post it that day, instead of this like calm, relaxing,
relieved, gay feeling of, all right, I finished the thing.
Now I get to go post it.
Now I would finish and be waiting 30 minutes for the reward or I'd be rushing,
rushing, rushing and have to like post it at that time if I wanted to get it
up that day.
So that was, um, that was like the, the small thing that like changed the
reinforcement dynamics of what happened to me when I was writing and was just
like me being clumsy, not understanding how the human reinforcement system worked.
Right.
I just want to jump in really quick on that.
Speaking of, I guess the positive experience of writing it, uh, on a scale
of one to a hundred, how much fun was it from your end to watch the subreddit explode
after the final exam?
Well, I mean, like some of the explosions prior to that were a little bit more fun
than the explosion for the final exam itself.
Like it was, so I mean, like maybe 80 or something, because on the one hand,
it was like nicely evil.
And the other, the other hand, I was sort of like horribly aware of the fact that
this puzzle that I had designed as before chapter one had been published, like
the solution is there in the like, in the like first three lines of HPMOR.
Right.
So it was this puzzle that I had designed with like five years worth of
negative writing skills.
And this, again, subreddit was trying to solve it and coming up with better
solutions that I'd envisioned.
And it was too late.
All the first shadow moves already in place.
I couldn't use their solutions.
I had to use the people for shape on.
Okay.
Well, I, all right.
I've got a little bit of an ego to school question because I've always really
been curious about this, but I never actually asked your permission before I
started the podcast and I still kind of feel guilty about that.
And I was wondering what you thought when you first heard that some random
jerk was podcasting your fanfic and, and if your opinion has changed at all now
that it's done.
Um, probably something like a, um, a flash of pride, a sense of being honored
and some amount of banging my head against the wall about how much easier it
was to get people to like put in large amounts of paid uncoordinated volunteer
work on things related to Harry Potter fanfiction than to saving the actual world.
I mean, like, like we're doing a little better on the second metric nowadays.
Like, um, we now have like better volunteer coordinators, but I was like, sort of
like, gosh, it's like easier to get people to do the sort of like fun, humanly
comprehensible stuff that, that carries immediate emotional rewards.
Then it is to like work on the longer range stuff, isn't it?
Yeah.
And, you know, to this day, I suspect that we that like, I like sometimes wonder
whether like there are friendly problems that could just be solved.
If I could get the same number of mathematicians working on it with the
same intensity was trying to solve the final exam.
So the volunteers that you're looking for, are they highly skilled mathematicians?
Um, those are people coming to workshops.
Like again, remember, like stuff has changed over time.
Like at the time I was thinking of these like sort of various failed attempts that
the then singularity institute had made to get volunteers to, I don't know,
translate stuff or, uh, like clean up after a singularity summit or something.
And like nowadays we are like better about volunteers on that score.
Um, and so like, uh, like we have systems in place for like various volunteer
things where I unfortunately don't know the details or what type of volunteers
we're looking for currently.
But if you happen to be a highly skilled mathematician, then you go to
intelligence.org and go to the contact section and are like, Hey, can I come
to one of your workshops and then you come to one of our workshops and
that's like start down the pipeline for contributing to the research area.
Thanks for the tip.
Yeah.
So, um, taking this in a little bit of a different direction, some of the
audience that we want to reach out to are people who are new to less wrong or
new to the rationality community and maybe know only a little bit about it.
Um, so if someone were to adopt only one or two rational skills or habits,
which do you think are the most vital?
It varies by the person and what they've mastered already.
I think that like for a lot of people, they're very critical realization
where you realize that there is this, um, our form of adapting your belief to the
way the universe is, which is completely separate from the skill of arguing.
And that just because you can come up with a argument for both sides of an
issue doesn't mean that you have like now done your duty to it and analyzed it.
And it's uncertain or undecided or even like, um, like even like the state
is it is that there are arguments for both sides.
There's like a fact of the matter.
You're trying to figure out what the fact of the matter is.
Um, for other people, the most important realization might be the one that Philip
Petlock describes in the good judgment project of like, you can be a better
predictor, like that was the thing that that Philip Petlock's, uh, super forecasters
all had in common.
They believe that super forecasting was possible.
They believe that like you could develop skills about it and that you,
you could have like better probability judgments and other the other people in
the project, uh, or there's like median percent of the project.
