And although you can see us, all of us were nodding constantly while you were
talking and often grinning like idiots.
So, um, yeah, we really appreciate it.
And we hope you have a great night.
You warmed the cold abyss of my heart.
Have a great night as well.
Excellent.
Bye.
Thanks again.
Bye.
So, yeah, I had a question for you guys because I was a little bit confused.
What was that?
All right.
Sorry.
Go ahead.
It's okay.
Um, my question was regarding Eleizer's answer about, um, what a, uh, a
perfect AI world would be, perfect general AI world would be.
And he one explained the sovereign versus the genie.
Yes.
So could you, I guess, for the listeners, explain a little bit what the sovereign
is and what the genie is.
I was actually going to ask him about the sovereign because I was not familiar with
that term.
If I had to guess, so I think don't guess, do you have a good idea?
I, I've, I've heard of what I think fits.
I've never heard it by that name, but I think that there are, uh, two different
scenarios I've heard talked about.
Are we, are you thinking about singleton?
I don't know.
Okay.
I'm thinking one is the, the machine that you can come to and say, Hey,
how do you cure Alzheimer's?
Oh, do this.
Okay.
And the other one is the one that has a more active role.
So the one, one's the genie that can give you the answer to any question you
want and other one, maybe it's the sovereign that has the, the, the heavier
hand and actually does things other than just answers questions.
Okay.
Um, and now I feel bad for the stupid phrasing on my question about you press
enter and start, and I know that you would start it with it, you know, like a,
a closed ethernet and make it think it had access to the real internet.
And then at some point, then you plug it into, to whatever else it needs to get
into, but yeah, we were coming up with questions, you know, it's best we could.
And, and he mentioned that he was disappointed and he didn't quite know
what was wrong with journalism today.
And I don't know if this is a complete answer, but I think it's part of it.
Is that online journalism is written for people who written for the audience
that doesn't know how to use ad block.
Wow.
That's fair.
I think I, I mean, I, I'm just guessing, but I think that's probably part of it.
So like, they're not going to be looking to write for an audience about, you know,
nuanced, uh, discussion of, of the paperclip maximizer.
They're going to post a picture of the Terminator.
Ten ways the world is going to end.
Number four, we'll shock you.
I get a feeling a lot of people just have one general upper bound to anxiety that
they're like, Oh God, the AI is going to take my job and I'm going to starve to
death is as anxious as, Oh God, the entire Milky Way is going to be wiped out
because it kind of feels the end result is the same either way to them.
Right.
Isn't that known as scope and sensitivity?
Yeah, that's what I was going to say.
And I think that's exactly right.
And that just like we feel, you know, just as bad about one person dying as we do
about 10 million dying because like you can only feel so hard.
Yeah.
So like I'm thinking, even if it goes up a little, it does not go up by a factor
of a hundred billion.
When I think about like how much it would suck to like suddenly be homeless
because a robot took my job versus like, man, that would suck.
You know, what stuck a little bit more is that the whole universe is destroyed.
Right.
Yeah.
Man, I loved his story about being a kid and in that game with the the plastic
bowling pins, you know, it reminded me just while he was saying that I had been
telling somebody about how I boycotted professional sports because I didn't
like I didn't like how it was glorifying violence and how people were, you know,
pretty much being paid to give themselves concussions.
And and I thought that was horrible.
And now I'm going back to the moment that I said, that's it, I'm boycotting sports.
And it was right after the guy behind me dropped an entire beer on me.
Is that the real reason it could be and not that idealist?
Maybe that put you over the edge.
So I I liked the general lesson from that, I think, is to make a concerted effort
to know when you're lying to yourself.
So like one example from someone else's life, Sam Harris talked about in one
of his books, actually, this book called Lying, how he was offered the to give
the valedictorian speech at whatever university he attended.
And he was like, no, someone who's been here all four years should probably do it,
you know, because I think he transferred there.
And it wasn't until later that he admitted to himself.
It's because he had a terrifying or he was terrified of public speaking.
And if you've been willing to admit that to himself earlier,
he had to force himself to go through with it.
And there's there's a lot of jobs where we put people through a lot worse
physical things that they get paid a lot less for.
Like coal miners in general have drastically reduced quality and length of life.
And we don't pay them shit compared to what we pay professional sports athletes.
And their jobs will be replaced a lot sooner by robots.
And their lives will probably be much worse as a result.
And like the average football player's job would be right.
But I'm saying no one's boycotting, you know, things made from coal.
Yeah, no, I was just because of the violence it does to the minor bodies.
I think that people are. Are they? Yes. Okay.
I think it's almost impossible to do that because you can't
work out electricity in Colorado. No, but you can.
You can try to get renewable.
You can try to make sure that your your energy in your home comes from renewable
resources and make those efforts.
And there are certainly people who are very concerned about environmental
justice and in what happens to to workers.
There is a really stupid movie about that, too.
So maybe it was at least partly about the violence.
I saw somebody on Reddit talking about.
I think it was called Beneath. Don't watch it. Oh, wait, that's probably rude.
We should cut that out.
OK, if it's a terrible movie, let people know. Don't watch Beneath.
Katrina didn't like the movie Beneath. Yeah, it is beneath her.
That can't be. That's terrible. I'm sorry.
So, oh, speaking of boycotting, there was a post on Reddit about that.
And someone said they were, you know, how hard it is to boycott coal mining.
Someone said they boycott Nestle because they're like,
if you did your best to be like an evil corporation, that's like Nestle.
And someone's like, yeah, good luck.
And they linked to Nestle's Wikipedia page of their products.
And it's like everything that you buy to eat and sometimes things that you don't
even eat, like water. So there's like what?
Six Uber Corps that contain 80 that are responsible for 80, 90 percent
of what we could consume. I haven't heard that, but I believe that.
I believe it's something along that line. Yeah.
So going back to the interview. Yes.
I, you know, I've interviewed a lot of people that I really admire
over the past few years or not an interview, but interacted with.
But I still get that rush sometimes.
Like coming up to here even an hour beforehand, I was like, yeah,
you know, this is cool. I'm used to this. I got this down.
And then as soon as he answers the phone, I'm like, oh, my God.
Still the eyes are, I think I was, I think I was more freaking out
two hours ago than I was during the thing.
And then every because I was just focused on listening.
And then I was like, oh, wait, this is L.E.R.
Zuckowski, that guy who like I listened to on podcast or on, you know,
YouTube and stuff. It's like, oh, that makes it.
It's like when I had that kind of flip, you know, like when you're watching
a movie and then suddenly you realize like you're watching the movie,
protected on a screen, like every time I had that switch to realize
like, oh, this is actually happening.
And like, so that was kind of exciting.
I don't know. I don't want to sit here and narrow it out about it.
There it is. We're excited. It was fun.
Were you excited?
I was so excited.
It was dead board.
Stephen had to kick me to keep me awake.
Stephen didn't kick me. He's lying.
It's true.
I did make an effort not to kick this though.
Yeah. There we go.
We have a I have a water glass next to me and we're,
I don't know if we've mentioned this before, but we're broadcasting
from Stephen Zuber International Studios.
I believe we're calling it Stephen's Closet.
And we we have this this nice little set up
where our legs are next to each other.
And we can let people imagine that we have a studio.
It's up to you guys.
I feel bad. I didn't mean to to push on the A.I.
thing. I hope I didn't come off confrontational.
But even all the time.
Stephen always thinks that he's all confrontational and pushy and everything.
We're even never pushy. No, he's like the nicest guy.
He's like, can I offer you a glass of water?
I'm sorry, that was too pushy.
We're like, Jesus, Stephen.
I felt like this.
I felt like I was the one who challenged him on an answer he gave.
I think it was fine. OK, fine.
Yeah, I mean, I he didn't say, dude, shut the hell up.
That's rude. But I mean, I was like, I did.
I did. I was the only one who said that answer is not good enough.
Can you try again?
So.
But no, and I get that's not a question that I think of
those questions that could be answered easily in five minutes.
It would have been answered easily already.
But I did. I did it.
I can check that off my to-do list of ask
Eleazar Kowsky what the post-singularity world looks like.
So yeah, cool. All right.
So when he was when he was talking about what the post-singularity
world would look like, he mentioned it would look like and then referred to,
I guess, his fun theory sequence.
What is that?
It's a sequence about what makes life actually interesting and fun for humans.
And and why most utopias that people think of are actually really shitty
if you think of them, the PDF version.
I know of all the sequences back before they were like organized.
