Okay. When you make progress towards a valued goal, let's say we inhabit a shared narrative
and we're making progress towards our mutual stated goal. And when we see ourselves making
progress, we get a bit of a dopamine hit. Could you say that the fundamental reason
for the positively rewarding effect of that movement forward is that as I move forward
towards a goal, I decrease the entropy that still remains between me and the goal. And so is even
that reward? Is even that movement forward readable as an entropy reduction?
I mean, it's almost written into the mathematical meaning of the word. So if entropy just is
uncertainty, and as I get close to resolving that uncertainty, getting my fruit juice, pleasing my
wife, or being able to watch the news, if it's an epistemic reward, it is just expected surprise,
just is the uncertainty. And the closer you get, the more and the less uncertain you are.
And all they have to suggest exactly as you say, it's dopamine.
Hello, everyone. Thank you for tuning in to watch and listen. I have the great privilege
today of being able to talk with Dr. Carl Friston as an addition, let's say,
and a signal addition to the recent conversation I had with Andrew Huberman. Dr. Carl Friston is
arguably the world's most renowned neuroscientist, a professor at University College London. He is one
of the world's leading authorities on brain imaging. 90% of the work published in fields
employing such imaging relies on methods he pioneered. Dr. Friston is also well known for his
work on many of the topics we will discuss today. Work I find even more exciting, at least
conceptually speaking, than his work on brain imaging. We will discuss the ideas that concepts
and precepts, categories, that's another way of thinking about it, bind free energy or entropy,
the idea of computation, especially the kind of computation that approximates brain function
as hierarchical, the theory of predictive coding and active inference.
Welcome, Dr. Friston. It's very good of you to agree to talk to me on this podcast. I'm really
looking forward to it. That's a great pleasure to be here. Thank you. So let me start maybe by
helping people understand this idea of hierarchical computation and the binding of entropy.
And so if you could walk through that briefly, then I'll ask some questions if that seems appropriate.
Yeah, sure. The binding of free energy and entropy, that sounds delightfully Freudian,
and I don't mean that in a sort of disparaging sense. I think that some of the truisms and the
insights of that era have now proved themselves in modern formulations of computation, information,
processing, sense making in the brain. And one nice link there is to think of free energy
as surprise. So one way of looking at the way that we make sense of our world, bringing explanations,
concepts, categories, notions to the table that provide the best explanation for the
myriad of sensations to which we are exposed, is to see that process as a process of minimizing
surprise. So binding free energy, I think, can be read very simply as minimizing surprise.
But of course, to be surprised, you have to have something you predicted. You have to have a violation
of predictions. So immediately, you're in the game now of predictive processing,
predicting, what would I see if the world out there was like this, and then using the ensuing
prediction errors to adjust your beliefs and update your beliefs in the service of minimizing
those prediction errors or minimizing that surprise or minimizing that free energy.
And you artfully introduced the notion of hierarchy in that question, which I think speaks to
another fundamental point that in making sense of the world, in making those good predictions,
we have to have an internal model, sometimes called a world model, a model that can generate
what I would have seen if this was the state of affairs out there. And that notion of a
generative model, I think, is quite key and holds the attribute of hierarchy, simply in the sense
that we live in a deeply structured world, very dynamic world, a world composed largely of creatures
like ourselves that has this sort of hierarchical nested structure that has to be part of the
models that we bring to the table to understand it. Postmodernism is tearing our world apart.
The one thing that may be able to unite us is a mass return to our Judeo-Christian roots. At the
individual level, that means developing our prayer life. There's a ton of literature out there on
the benefits of secular New Age mindfulness meditation, but what isn't talked about nearly
enough is the power of a consistent prayer life. That's where Hallow comes into play. Hallow is
the number one Christian prayer app in the US and the number one Catholic app in the world.
Hallow features over 5,000 prayers and meditations, including daily prayers to help you build a
habit of prayer and gratitude, Bible reflections with Jeff Cavins and Father Mike Schmitz to help
you grow in knowledge and understanding, meditations to help you prepare for sleep and rest each day,
reflections with Bishop Barron and much more. Use Hallow as a foundational tool to grow in
gratitude and character each and every day. Try it free for three months by going to
Hallow.com slash Jordan. That's Hallow.com slash Jordan. Ground yourself in fundamental truths
with Hallow today. Okay, so I encountered these ideas, I would say first reading a book back in
1982 by a man named Jeffrey Gray, who was influenced by Norbert Weiner and by General
Cybernetic Theory and he regarded the hippocampus as at least as part of the central part of the
brain involved in contrasting expectation, let's say, the way you expect the world to lay itself
out with the way the world is actually laying itself out, indicating that surprise was a,
what was the prodroma to anxiety and that anxiety in some sense was an indicator of the magnitude
between the magnitude of mismatch between expectation and reality. So I want to ask you a
couple of questions about that because I thought a lot about Gray and I thought about Gray for
like 40 years after reading his book and also as a consequence of encountering your ideas
much later. The cybernetic model of expectation is predicated on the idea that you lay out an
expectation on the world and the expectation is a model and then you have incoming sensory data
and the sensory data is the world and that now and then there's a mismatch between the sensory
data and the expectation and then you have to modify either the representation or the action
pattern to reduce that mismatch. But then I thought, well, wait a second, there's a weird
lack in that formulation that's twofold. Number one, it isn't obvious to me that it's expectation.
It seems to me that it's more likely to be desire and that's a useful transformation of conceptualization
because if you use the word desire rather than the word expectation, you can infer that the models
that are being contrasted against the real world are models of motivation rather than cold cognitive
computation. And so, for example, if I'm interacting with a woman who I'm romantically
interested in, I'm attempting to bring about the realization of my desire, not my expectation.
And that's under the pressure, let's say, of the demand for sexual reproduction.
And so, the motivational state grips the desire. The desire manifests itself as a fantasy and then
that motivation is the minimization of the discrepancy between the actual world and the fantasy.
And then, so it's not exactly an expectation because it's more dynamic and alive. And then
one more, I hate to hammer you with all of this right at the beginning, but one more issue on
that front is the error because you could imagine, and I'm interested in how this
matches your hierarchical concept. If I make a mistake such that I don't minimize the relationship
between what's happening and my fantasy, one of the mistakes I might make is a mistake of perception,
not expectation or desire because I might be seeing the situation wrong.
And so, it seems to me that it's more realistic to say that what you're doing
is minimizing the mismatch between a model of what's happening, not sensory data itself,
but a model of the unfolding present contrasted with a fantasy and that the mismatch is what
indicates surprise or entropy. Now, I know that's a lot of questions to answer at the same time,
but that whole set of objections makes up a pattern.
It does. And despite the fact you introduced a whole bunch of really important concepts there,
I think it was nicely introduced in a coherent way. So, I'm just trying to remember all the
exciting things you've brought to the table. So, yeah, Jeffrey Gray, a great thinker in my
memory, sort of famed for understanding latent inhibition and sort of how you use these
surprise or these mismatches or these prediction errors. And it's interesting that you speak to
his conceptual roots in cybernetics because there's a very, very close connection between the things
that we're talking about. And the early formulations of cybernetics by people like Ross Ashby. So,
there's this good regulator theorem, which I think if your listeners don't know about,
I think they'd like it. I think you would like a lot. It's just the notion and provable notion
that to control an environment, you have to have a model of that environment to be able to
couple with, to engage with the environment. The degrees of freedom of your model have to
match those of the kind of environment in which you are, in which you're operating. So, I think
there's a deep connection there. The other thing, well, many things you brought, you mentioned that
you use the word fantasies a lot. And I think that's quite important because very often
I sell the brain as a fantastic organ, literally, because it is in the game of generating the right
kind of fantasies. And these are the fantasies. These are the motivated expectations that drive
our behavior. But in noting that, in noting that, you've also made a big move and an important move.
I know it's a move you want to make in terms of our conversation, but just to contextualize why
that is such an important move. You're talking about motivation, how our perception and action
are all contextualized by motivation and what we desire and what we want and what
the preferred outcomes of our acts. That's, I think, sort of the cracks. And we're probably
the focus of much of what we're going to be talking about. But just to say that vanilla
predictive processing and vanilla predictive coding does not deal with that. It just deals with
sense making. So, it's usually in the moment. As soon as you bring decisions and choices and
actions to the table, you're immediately in the game now of making inferences about the future,
the future that has yet to be observed. So, there are no prediction errors. It's just your expected
surprise, your expected entropy or expected free energy or your expected discrepancies between
what you fantasize should happen or what you prefer to happen and what you anticipate,
given your best sense making at the moment. So, I think that inactive aspect, that choice
really does profoundly change the game and takes us from simple sense making into the world of
choice and decision making and motivation. So, mathematically, the way that I would
articulate that as a physicist would be, okay, if we're in the game of minimizing surprise and
this mismatch, this discrepancy that you were describing in the moment, then presumably I will
now choose the things that I do in order to minimize the expected surprise in the future.
And the nice thing about articulating that is that the expected surprise, mathematically,
is just entropy. So, entropy, uncertainty, and I'm using entropy and uncertainty synonymously here,
they are the mathematical statement of the surprise I expect when I haven't actually seen
the outcome yet. So, in many senses, what you can say is that we are motivated to resolve our
uncertainty and that can be sort of, if you like, carved into two ways of minimizing uncertainty.
It can either be through choosing those behaviors that resolve uncertainty in the sort of
folk psychological sense, you know, watching the news, looking over there to see whether,
you know, my fantasies about the cause of that visual flatter in the periphery of my vision
was what I thought it was, was it a bird or a butterfly. But I think there's another side,
well, I know there's another side to that technically an expected information gain,
or an epistemic value. And that's, of course, I will avoid putting myself in surprising situations,
being very cold physiologically, or being unloved, or being embarrassed, or anything that I would
find surprising about myself. I will minimize my expected surprise by avoiding those kinds of things.
And I think that's, you know, my reading of what you were saying touches exactly on that.
A shocking number of stocks are in the red. You may think you're doing all the things right,
but in this volatile economy, many of our portfolios are just not looking good. Why? According to the
largest banks and firms in the world, people aren't diversifying the right way. The average annual
return of a classic 60 40 portfolio is down by nearly 20% this year. Goldman Sachs just released
shocking report declaring the 60 40 doomed for the next decade and announcing a radical reallocation
from stocks entirely. Goldman will instead be investing in real tangible assets, specifically
fine art. The last time inflation was this high, some segments of the art market appreciated more
than real estate and even gold at an astounding 33% per year on average. That's why this show
has partnered with masterworks. Masterworks results have been exceptional. Six exits for an
average net return of 29% to investors, even during COVID and in a bear market. As a result,
masterworks has had to acquire and release more art on their platform to meet demand.
But you can skip the wait list by going to masterworks.com and using promo code JBP.
That's masterworks.com promo code JBP or click the link in the description.
See important disclosures at masterworks.com slash cd.
I think people hem them, people hem themselves in, in their actions even in once people you see
this clinically is once people develop a conceptualization of themselves, which is a box in some
sense to put their variability in. They'll sometimes simplify themselves in terms of their
range of action merely so they don't surprise themselves. And so they artificially constrain
the range of their potential behavior and that can become maladaptive if their conception of
themselves is too narrow. That would be a good example of a mis, in some sense of a misperception
of the self, right? It's a narrowing of possibility. And so I should maybe try to explain to people a
little bit more about this issue of entropy. And so there's this notion that's come out of
theory of perception that any set of objects or any object for that matter can is different
from any other object and the same as any other object in a multitude or even a near infinite
number of ways. And so you could think, I always think of two goblets standing on a table and you
might say, well, they're identical, but they're not. And you can tell they're not if you wanted to
paint them in a photorealistic manner, you'd find that the surface of one goblet is very much
unlike the surface of another and you'd have to render that at high resolution in order to
represent it accurately on a canvas. And then they differ in weight and they differ in the
regularity of the surface and they might differ in age. There's all sorts of differences between
them that you might not think are germane or relevant, but that's really the issue is why do
you regard some similarities as crucial and some differences as irrelevant. And so here's something
I'd like to run by you. So would it be reasonable to say, imagine a hierarchy of perception and
conception. So the idea is, well, two goblets are identical. If I can drink out of either of them
using the same pattern of perception and action. So that's kind of an indication of the entropy
constrained by the notion of wishing to drink. Any two things are substitutable as long as they
leave me with the ability to drink as an axiom of my current action set. And that's something like
maybe a computational definition of resemblance. Because I can't understand how you can bind
resemblance otherwise if any two things differ in a near infinite number of ways. They differ in
terms of the microstates that they might be composed of. That would be a way of thinking about it from
the perspective of entropy theory. So if they're substitutable within a higher hierarchical
conception, then they're identical perceptually and conceptually. So do you know the change
blindness experiments that Dan Simon managed at Harvard? Yeah, well, that's a good example.
So I'll just run through one of those experiments for the people listening. So imagine you put a
camera on a two-story building and it's looking down over a university yard. And now imagine that
you have tourists walking through the yard and an undergraduate research associate comes up to
a tourist with a map and asks the tourist to help him find his way. And while that's happening,
some other experimental compatriots walk between the person who's asking for directions and the
tourist carrying a door, two of them, and the person asking the question grabs the door hidden from
the tourist and continues walking with the door and the person who was carrying the door stands
there and continues asking the question with the map. And what Simon found was that the largest
percentage of people, the majority of people, do not notice that the student has been swapped
in the middle of the conversation. And the reason for that has to be that the perception of the
student by the tourist is something like generic student asking for directions. And any student
who's asking for directions at that point will fulfill that function or act as a player in that
story. And so there's no reason to be surprised by the transformation, even though, quote, it's a
different person. And that seems to add credence to this notion of a theory of identity or resemblance.
Does that seem reasonable to you? It seems very reasonable. So mathematically, I think you could
describe that exactly in terms of finding those latent states or categories or structures or
resemblance that are conserved over different contexts. And that enables you to have a simple
