but apt for purpose model of your world. So if you can find the causal structure that is as simple
as possible, that provides an adequate explanation of your sensorium, then that is the good model.
I mean, literally, as a statistician, that would be the model with the greatest evidence,
the accuracy minus the complexity. You also brought something interesting into the conversation,
again, which was what I would read as affordance. Do you like sort of Gibsonian notions of afford?
Yeah. So you were saying that this ability to extract the latent structure, the essence,
the resemblances that are conserved over different contexts, they have at very low
levels of the hierarchy, these microscopic or detailed differences, but at higher levels of
the hierarchy, they are the same kind of thing. They have the same affordance. I sit on this,
I drink this, I love that, I don't like that. What you've done, though, again, in terms of talking
about affordances, bring action to the fore. I can perceive lots of inferences in my world.
There are categories and there are exemplars of particular categories and I can unpack that
hierarchically. Many people think that's how the visual hierarchy, the cortical hierarchy
that subtends or subserves visual perception and visual synthesis is organised. But what you're
saying is this also holds true in the way that I plan to act and the outcomes of those actions and
all of these, if I get those inferences out, then they are the right kinds of affordances
that speak to my model of the way I'm going to behave in the situation. Putting centre stage,
the self model, what kind of thing am I and what will I do in this situation and is my model good
enough? Is it too rigid? Should it be more flexible? All these are crucial questions in terms of
updating not just your beliefs about what you're doing and the context in which you're operating,
but the kind of thing you are and whether you've got the right simple explanations,
whether they should be more complex or simpler. Right. The optimal simple explanation is
the least complex affordance necessary for the operation at hand. And so then we could talk
about affordances a little bit so people who are watching and listening might think that you
see the object and infer the meaning. But the theory of affordances would suggest that you see
the meaning and infer the object or something like that. It reverses it and that what you
see first is something like functional utility. But I think you can bring both those positions
together if you think that what we see in the world are patterns that have functional utility.
Now, there's all sorts of patterns that don't have functional utility or that only have potential
functional utility. And that might be, you might consider patterns that don't have specified
functional utility as something like the infinite domain of potential empirical facts.
If a fact is something like the accurate identification of a pattern that exists
stably across contexts. But then we can't see all the set of all possible facts because it's way too
large. And so we want to reduce that further to that set of patterns that offer us a grip on the world.
And Gibson, who wrote an ecological approach to visual perception, talked a lot about
affordances, tools and obstacles in particular, if I remember correctly.
But I'm wondering as well, is the domain of affordance, here's a way of conceptualizing the
domain of affordance. It's tool, those things that you can get a grip on the world with and move
forward towards a desired goal. Obstacles, so things that get in your way of different size.
And then pathways. And the pathways, so I would say the pathways are littered with tools and
obstacles. And the description of a pathway that's littered with tools and obstacles, that's a story.
And so these, these, it looks to me like those hierarchical conceptual boxes
are best conceptualized as something like stories. If they're an amalgam of affordance and pattern,
then they're not either just an object or just the subject. They're the bringing of the two together.
And the story is where the pattern and the purpose meet. That's a, that's a way of thinking about it.
And I would think maybe even when you perceive a tool, it seems to me that what you're perceiving
is something like a micro story. You know, like if I perceive this pen, say, well, that's obviously,
it's an objective fact that this pen exists. And it is insofar as the pen is a stable pattern
in time and space. But it's the function of the pen that makes it a pen and gives the unity
that it gives the unity to the perception. Because you might ask, well, why is the pen
a pen this way and a pen this way and also a pen this way? And speak, well, because, because it's,
it's objective characteristics transform tremendously when it's moved or when it's
illuminated differently, but its function remains constant. And so I think even an affordance is
a micro story. And so a tool is a positive, it's a comedy. That's a way of thinking about it.
A tool is a comedy and an obstacle is a tragedy. And, and we lay out the world like that, even at
the levels of our fundamental, even at the level of our fundamental perceptions. Is there any,
what do you think of the idea of a concept or a percept as a, as a story? Because you see,
the reason I like that, the reason I think this is so important is that there's an entire literature
on narrative, of course, the entire literature on literature is about narrative. And if it is the
case that our fundamental concepts are narrative in, in their, in their, in their origin and their
nature, then that allows us to lay the narrative world on top of the objective world. And I think
that's a, well, it would be lovely if that was a possibility. It would alleviate the terrible
tension between them. And of course, the question comes up was, what's the best narrative? But
that's something we can also talk about in terms of hierarchical processing.
Yeah, I think there's some deep truths there. And a number of ways I could sort of paraphrase
what you've just said. So this notion of micro stories and narratives, I think that is exactly
the plans into the future that we were talking about before that, you know, choosing the right ones.
And, and mathematically, you can think of that exactly as you articulated as, as a path.
One perspective on that is that of Richard Feynman, in terms of the pathological formulation of
quantum electrodynamics, where he was playing exactly the same game, finding the path of
least action, the path with the least obstacles, the path that isn't the most fluent, the most
egos, a syntonic, leading to exactly what we talked about before, either the information gain
or avoiding surprising outcomes, which, you know, I would read as the obstacles that I don't go
there. That's not the kind of thing that I'm in. So if you, if you read our active engagement with
the world or active inference, just as a process of committing to the right paths, the right plans,
the right narratives, the right micro stories, I think that is the essence of what one could argue,
sort of sentient behavior and existence. So I, I would be put myself very much,
or I would certainly find it very easy to commit to that kind of formulation.
I think a lot, a lot of other people would as well in different fields. So what you're talking
about, you mentioned before about, you know, all the facts that are noble, and yet we only
register and recognize those that matter, essential variables, for example. Change blindness is a nice
example of that. You don't see student of a particular identity, personal identity change.
It's just a student. You only see and you only model and rehearse and sample the world using the
level, the simple level explanation that is apt for getting those right paths forward.
Yes. Well, and it would be lovely if, if your hierarchical conceptualization consisted of
micro stories, let's say, that were flexible enough so that they would apply across a very
wide range of microstate transformations, because then you can use the same simple model
in all sorts of different situations. So you might say, well, if you could extract out a universal
ethic for dealing with people, then you could apply that ethic to everyone that you met.
And then, and that idea might help us triangulate in on what might constitute a universal higher
order ethical narrative. And if you imagine that my interactions with people are generally
constrained by the necessity of iterating the interactions across time, and then you might say,
by the additional constraint of iterating the interactions across time so that they increase
in their utility. And so then you might say, well, how do you have to treat someone or everyone,
for that matter, so that that reality makes itself manifest as you move forward into the future?
And I would say, well, that looks like something like genuine altruistic reciprocity.
No, Franz De Waal, I had a chance to talk to Franz De Waal about his work with chimpanzees.
You know, and chimpanzee alpha males are often parodied as dominant in a sort of Marxist sense,
power driven. And it's the most dominant male chimps, or the one with the most physical prowess,
the biggest tyrant in some sense, who gets to dominate all the other chimps, and who in
consequence has preferential reproductive access. And so it's the theory of power and social structure
and reproduction all tangled up into one. But the problem with that is it's not true.
So De Waal has shown very, very clearly that, first of all, sometimes the alpha chimps, so to
speak, can be the smallest male in the troop. Frequently, he's allied with a powerful female,
and he is generally the most reciprocal individual in the troop, very concerned with the long-term
maintenance of social relations, and very good at making peace, not war. Now that doesn't mean he
doesn't have, let's call it, power at his disposal, especially in coalitions, if necessary. But
De Waal has shown very clearly that the alpha chimps who rely on power and force are very likely to
rule over an unstable polity and to meet an extremely violent end in the relatively short term.
And so if your fantasy about the future, let's say, is motivated by an underlying motivational
state, it could be hunger, it could be thirst, it could be sexual need, it could be rage,
it could be the desire to make anxiety decrease, then you could imagine that there are ways of
interacting in the world that satisfy multiple motivational states simultaneously, and then
you could imagine that those modes of being satisfy multiple states of motivation simultaneously
in a social context, so also for other people, and then you could say, and that make that occur
as it iterates forward into the future, and then you could say, well, you want to extract out a
representation that allows you all those advantages simultaneously, and it looks to me like something,
maybe that's marked, here's some hypotheses, it's marked by the sense of active engagement that
you might have in a good conversation, it's marked by the sense of the emergence of the spirit of
play, and Yacht-Panczep has detailed out the psychophysiological structures underlying the
play circuit, it would underlie something like maximal, no, optimized stress, so you talked about
minimizing predictive error, but here's a variant, what if you optimize predictive error so that
you lay out a fantasy on the future, and then work so that there's just enough predictive error
so that you encounter something you don't expect at a micro level, small enough that you can manage
it, but large enough so that it expands the confines of your hierarchical presuppositions,
and maybe you do that, see, I was thinking about that relationship to play because if you're on a
team and you're playing against a well-matched opponent, the opponent pushes you right to the
limit of your skill, not past it, right, so it's not too stressful, but it isn't exactly in that
situation that surprises minimize, it's more like a little entropy is allowed to enter the system
at just enough rate and intensity so that you can push your development in a manner that doesn't
stress you too badly physiologically. Yeah, so you've brought in about sort of four really
important themes here, the two key things that you've brought to the table there were sort of
putting sentient creatures together, so you're talking about social interactions now and social
hierarchism and sense making when the other, the thing I'm making sense about is also trying
to make sense of me, I think that's a really important sort of and challenging sort of move
there, you've also brought to this sort of highlighted this paradox that we might be in
the game or we might be seen as in the game of trying to minimize our surprise, minimize our
prediction errors, and yet we seek out novelty, so I think there's a fundamental paradox there
that needs resolving, I think you've, in your setting up of the issue, I think you've implicitly
resolved it, there is I think a very simple way of resolving that and it comes back to this sort of
isomorphism between expected surprise and uncertainty, and I notice you also use the
word angst and anxiety, to my mind uncertainty just is a state of, or recognize as a state of
angst or anxiety, so that sort of imperative to minimize expected surprise just is choosing or
can be complied with by choosing those plans that minimize uncertainty, and what would that look like?
It would basically look like epistemic of responding to epistemic affordances
that resolve that uncertainty, so I think that's the kind of surprise that we aspire to, it's the
novelty that affords the opportunity to resolve uncertainty and thereby resolve angst, and if
that's true then taking it to your context, how would I do that if I was in a social hierarchy of
chimpanzees or I was in any social setting, in one sense the simplest way to resolve my surprise
and make the world as predictable as possible, would initially be to resolve my uncertainty
about you by asking you the right kinds of questions that allows me to sort of put you
in a particular category in one of my narratives, my pro-social narratives about the kinds of people
that I can talk about, but also ultimately I'm going to try and make you like me or make me like
you, because the closer we are that if we can share the same narratives in the same language,
then together we're mutually predictable, so that mathematically would be sort of like a
generalized synchrony from a social neuroscience perspective on dynamic interactions, it's basically
aligning ourselves so that we come to know each other and that we can dance and synchronize and
exchange, and you know after a while I don't need to ask you any more questions and you don't need to
ask me any more questions, we are now on the same page singing from the same hymn sheet,
the same generative model, the same world model, the same kinds of narratives, having said that of
course there is also in the background the putative or potential novelty of finding out what somebody
is not like me like, so I think asking questions about the right kinds of narrative that resolve
uncertainty, responding to epistemic affordance, novelty seeking, information seeking whilst at
the same time still avoiding those surprising states of loss or physiological extremists,
put that into a social context and I think you've got some really interesting questions
and possibly a structure and a framework to understand social organization and sort of
information exchange and self-organization, not at the level of just the individual negotiating,
negotiating with his or her body, but negotiating with another individual with a very similar kind
of body. I spent a lot of time studying Jean Piaget and his description of how
cognitive structures organize themselves across time and you might imagine a two-year-old as
a collection of micro narratives, each of which are driven by a somewhat independent motivational
state and so two-year-olds will cycle between being too hot and too cold and too tired and too
playful and too enthusiastic and too anxious without any real overarching integration and
they start to manifest that ability to integrate those already integrated motivational states,
which are probably in large part hypothalamically controlled, they start to be able to integrate
those into a continuous narrative through time and in different locales at two and so then they
start to be able to play by themselves and so but it's at three or thereabouts when they can
adopt a shared narrative with someone else so a little boy and a little girl might get together
and the little boy will offer to play or the little girl and say would you like to play house
and so that specifies the goal and then the little girl has to say yes it has to be voluntary
and then the little boy might say well I'll be the dad and you be the mum
and then they can integrate their two identities within that overarching
concept and so they can develop mutual understanding that way and it's partly because
you said earlier that the best way to make someone else predictable and you to them which
is also equally useful in some sense is to be inhabited by the same conceptual structure
and that's sort of what we do when we decide to play a game together it's like here's the
game here are the principles by which we're going to operate those are the rules of the game
and if you're operating by those principles and I'm operating by those principles simultaneously
then we're going to share perceptual reality because that's instantiated in relationship to the game
and we're going to share emotional response and so I can now predict you if you're playing
the same game merely by reading off of me because the same thing and I think this is what we do
when we go to a movie and we watch the hero we adopt his hierarchy of attentional prioritization
and then we can feel the same emotions because we're in the same state and we really are like
neurophysiologically we're in an inelegant state and then the understanding comes not from me
deriving inferences about the character's motivations because of his actions but by me
adopting his goal or his story and then reading off the emotions I have which are now isomorphic with
his and I think children are doing the same thing when they play a game and I would say that you
and I in so far as we're playing the same game in this conversation are very likely to remain
predictable to one another and also to occupy the same emotional states simultaneously similar at
least similar enough so we're not jarring and off-putting to each other yes I will I wanted to
