cover everything quickly. Maybe a specific fact. I wonder, I mean, if I had Richard Feynman's
undivided time for two years, could he teach me everything he knew?
About physics? Yeah. I think so. I don't know. I think he could give me a good introduction.
I don't know if I can grasp some of the high level math, honestly.
Right. If you can't grasp a math, then that's an issue.
Well, but I presumably could with enough time. I'd need two more years for that, right?
I think that's where the multiple, like, I mean, I see the point you're making that some stuff
might not take literal, you know, 4,000 hours of dedicated time to, to learn, but it might take,
you know, a couple thousand. I mean, you can, you can put in 10 hours a day
in any reasonable person could six days a week. That's 60 hours a week that you can put into
learning something. Easy, Elon. Most of us are way lazier than that.
If you're motivated, you could totally do 60 hours a week.
There in lies the rug. I think this is the difference here between, like,
you're out getting drinks with your friends and you're like, oh, I just did this cool paper on
Myelination with my, you know, right? Yeah. Mentor at work. And then, like, if you're,
your audience probably doesn't want 24 months of knowledge about this, they're like, well,
okay, so what's like the basic version of this? And then it's actually kind of hard to figure out,
like, where to start and how much to simplify it and also sort of gauge how much they care.
Like that's, I get another fun, autistic thing is like, I love how you get with other rationalists
because I almost never run into somebody who's just like, oh, I don't care. Just give me the
short version. Like that's fun. I mean, it's certainly not something you can do in a few
hours or even a few weeks. So there can be great leaps of inferential distance that just make things
impossible to explain to any reasonable audience. Like I got way off on a tangent where like someone
really dedicated and interested in something and learn something. Whereas what we're talking about
right here is just general conveying information to other people that you know casually.
If I'm writing a book or a paper or giving a talk, and I only have an hour for the talk or
something, how much do I need to cover before I can get to my point? That's where this comes in,
right? It's, I don't, I don't have the audience's attention for 4000 hours. I only have them for
one. So how much, how many steps do I need to cover before I can get there? There's a good
actually example of this. And Sam Harris's latest episode, he had Neil deGrasse Tyson on,
and Tyson wrote a co-authored a new book called Cosmic Queries, which for long time listeners
of StarTalk Radio, his podcast, they'll recognize that that's a section of the show. And they just,
it's kind of like XKCD, what if questions. Cool. Harris remarked that this book felt amazing. It
was like, it was geared for somebody without a science background. Yeah, Tyson's really good at,
I mean, I guess that's why they picked him to be the new Carl Sagan, but like conveying complicated
topics to a lay audience in a way that's not just like going over your head, but also like not
intimidating or like some people, I don't know, like also just don't want to hear about stuff
because they don't want to feel like they're being talked down to. I think they actually address that
in the expecting short inferential distances. Yeah. Where at the end, I think like Eleazar was like,
you definitely better not tell people how many inferential steps you're going back in order to
explain a thing to them because then look, I'm mad. You know, both you think of stupid, I can't
understand this. They like, well, no, you don't understand it. Both Tyson and Sagan were famously
into the marijuana. Maybe they both think, how do I explain this to me after I've had a few joints?
Could be. I didn't know Tyson was famously into it.
Isn't he? I think he's talked about it a few times on talk shows.
I don't follow him too closely, but I wouldn't be surprised.
Okay. I mean, maybe I'm mixing him up with someone else, but I wouldn't think I am because it's
Tyson.
Marijuana makes me better at empathy. Like it makes me less stuck in my own head. So I think that
it's easier to both like listen to other people with your full attention and then also kind of
think about their perspective while you're trying to talk to them. Maybe that's just me,
or maybe that's a more common experience.
I think that's basically it. And that's basically what you get on MDMA.
I mean, that's an empathic, isn't it?
Yeah. I almost never use marijuana recreationally. I use it mostly to sleep. But what's fun is take
it like a couple hours before bed, and then you go take a shower. And I've got a shower speaker
to like listen to music because being left alone with my own thoughts, forget that even for 10
minute showers.
Oh, shit.
Oh, I use aqua notes. They're like, you know, the waterproof little notepads. And I have just
bunch of them stuck around of my shower to record shower thoughts.
I actually just come up with a lot of my best ideas in the shower, which is common.
But like,
I usually rush through showers now. I'm like, I ain't got time for this. And so I don't have a lot of
brain power to devote to thinking about things.
It's like, it's weird because it's not even brain power. It's sort of like, I think it engages the
diffuse mode. That's inferential distance thing. Let's see, the brain has the active mode and the
diffuse mode. When you're consciously thinking about a thing, you're, you get your best results
generally by like crunching on it for a bit and then like going to sleep or playing a video game
or taking a shower. And you redirect your conscious thoughts to something else while in the
background, diffuse mode keeps crunching on the problem. And then like, it's, it feels like magic
sometimes where like, maybe you'll be stuck on a math problem, you take a nap and you wake up and
you're just like, Oh, I know what that is. That's so obvious.
I love that. I at least twice in the last year have woken up with like a solution to a problem
that's working on at work. Oh, awesome. And once, one time was like a week late. And I was like,
Oh, that's why this didn't work. But it just feels like this flash of insight, right? And then it's
just, it's kind of creepy, but it's actually just the fact that you don't see your brain doing like
this mech, the mechanisms in the background, but I just appreciate that. Yeah, I just appreciate
that it's doing it. But I brought up the Tyson thing real quick because he remarked when Sam
said that he says, I'm glad you said that because that's interesting. My first book that I wrote,
I'm quoting Tyson, I wrote for adults. And, or maybe I forget what audience wrote it for. The
point is, is that adults felt like they weren't adult science books, if they could understand
the whole thing. Oh, they were like, no, they're, if this is an adult book, there should be some
stuff that goes over my head. And so since I can understand this, this must be for kids.
Wow, that's fucked up. Well, not necessarily a bad, I don't know if it was like to say,
this is a kid's book, forget this is not for me, but it must be geared towards a lower audience
because I understood it all. Which yes, that is fucked up in the sense that you shouldn't feel
that way about science stuff. But it was just a, I, you know, I knew we were doing this post as
listening to this podcast yesterday and I'm like, Hey, this ties in perfectly. They're not using
the word inferential distance, but they're talking about it. Yeah. Yeah. I like this
trilemma that he brings up about in the ancestral environment, if someone said something with no
obvious support, they're either a liar or an idiot. And conversely, if someone says something
to you and they don't have, or rather, if you say something to someone that to you is blatantly
obvious, but the other person see it, then they're the other, then they're the idiot, or they're
being obstinate just to annoy you. And then to top it all off, if someone says something with no
obvious support and expects you to believe it, then they must be crazy. Yeah, you're unlikely to
think this person has well supported background knowledge that no one in my band has even heard
of, right? Yeah. Yeah. I feel like this is maybe giving, I mean, like, I get,
this is a good intuition pump for maybe the way people have experienced this in their own lives,
but like, this is sort of not giving, I think, hunter-gatherers enough credit, for example,
things like creating arrowheads or building fires are actually kind of hard. And often, like,
there would be like the one or two, or I don't know how many people like that are the experts
at that thing. People had specialization and things early on, making like the best balanced
spears or spear throwers, things like which plants are edible, how to identify them.
Tanning leathers, making them to close. This shit's actually pretty hard. And then like,
it's not even getting into agriculture, which is insanely hard.
But like, he softens it for himself by talking pre-agriculture, but what your point stands.
Yeah, maybe he just put it that way, like, oh, yeah, there's stupid cavemen, you know, like,
well, those cavemen would not straight up call out his audience or whatever,
or his specific group of friends. Yeah, but those cavemen with simpler
lifestyles, right? It might be possible as a cave dweller, whatever, 30,000 years ago,
to, by the time you're an adult, or middle-aged or whatever, to know enough to get by, you know,
everything that everyone knows, you know, how to tan leather, you know, which fruits are safe,
you know, all that stuff. And even if you don't know everything,
you're no more than one step away. Like, the guy that can nap out arrowheads can be like,
you know how some rocks are sharp? And you know how sometimes when you hit two rocks together,
one of them will break? Well, if you do it just right, you can make it break so it's sharp in
the way you want it to be. Yeah, you could like, maybe not in one sitting, but like, you could
apprentice somebody in making arrowheads. And I think most people probably could pick it up.
So yeah, anyway. But yeah, he like, he points out a biologist talking to a physicist can justify
evolution by saying it's the simplest explanation. And anyone, you know, well-versed in science knows
that that is a word of power, and it means a lot. Whereas to a layperson saying, but it's the simplest
explanation may sound like an interesting factoid, but it's not a knockdown argument because they
don't know how powerful of a tool that is. Well, and I think even one step beyond that,
it's not if you have no back, you know, take it to somebody who doesn't know what genes are,
who doesn't know what cells are. And it's like, oh, yeah, no, this is the simplest explanation.
It's like, what the hell are you talking about? The simplest explanation is that someone made us.
Yeah, that is a very intuitive and simple sounding explanation.
That's true. Yeah. I've seen people make things before I can imagine a very big, powerful person
making a very complicated thing like a human. Yeah. Hey, just scoop up some clay.
Then you blow into its nostrils. You pull a rib out and you make a female version.
Because you ran out of clay, so I guess you needed to use a rib instead.
There was a quote that I liked here. A clear argument has to, or excuse me, a clear argument
has to lay out an inferential pathway starting from what the audience already knows or accepts.
If you don't recurse far enough, you're just talking to yourself. And that's why I liked
the greatest show on earth, Richard Dawkins Evolution tutorial book so much. I don't think it
goes to like chapter four or five where he starts actually talking about evolution.
He even says, this is getting us close to it, but we're not there yet. We're going to keep
daisy training on the way to understanding this. And I think there must be some discussion of cells
and genes, but then there's a whole chapter on domestication. This is something everyone knows
because everyone has seen dogs. And so like that, but we're not domesticating. We do the
domestication of dogs, but just imagine nature domesticating them for another purpose.
Actually, dogs domesticated themselves. Yeah. Little column A, little column B, probably.
Pugs domesticated themselves. Being pedantic. Yeah. No, no, but yeah, fair point.
Seen the comic strip of the dog that the early wolf dog ancestor?
I have not. It runs up to a human or doesn't run up to a human. It cautiously approaches a human.
I think this is probably an SMBC. And the human like has some leftover scraps. And the dog says,
okay, I can eat these scraps and I'll hang out with the humans. It'll be all right.
And the other wolves are like, don't do it. You don't know what will happen. This is a bad,
bad idea. And the dog is like, what's the worst that can happen? I'll eat some of
the scraps. I'll help them a little bit with stuff they need. If we can be a good symbiotic
relationship. Please tell me the last panel is a pug. Fast for 10,000 years. It's a pug in like
one of those bonnets and shit looking up balefully at its owner. What have you done to me?
Man, I was at a bar and I was at like a sports bar, but they had like, I appreciate this about
Denver. I don't know if this is just a thing that like bars are starting to do more of,
but they don't just have the footballs on. They had like, hockey, golf, some MMA, and then just
like a dog show. So of course, me and my friends were all watching the dog show and commenting on
the dogs. And I was, I just started laughing my ass off when there was like the pug that was the
best in breed, because it was like the saddest like ping pong ball head and like potato body
and like little curly tail and I was just like most deformed by the human breeders.
They've made it non-functional as an animal. It can't walk. Its spine gets messed up because of
the curly tail. It can't like its little ears get your infections. It can't close its eyes all the
way. So it's like, it can't breathe because its face is smashed in to make it look like a little
prison vase. Wait, they can't close their eyes all the way? Some dogs that have that they bred
them specifically for having the big eyes because that's cute. Get like blindness or eye injuries
and just like issues by yeah, not being able to close their eyes all the way.
I didn't realize that was a thing too. I'd heard of all the others, but man,
this little pug just did the best at being a little pug and doing his little puggy best.
Well, it was the best in breed and it was the most puggy pug that I'd ever seen. I was like,
we did that to a dog. We did that to a wolf. I know. There's some things that like once we're
done with the factory farms and the nightmare farms they are, maybe we should start working on
not intentionally making these genetic monstrosities.
There's good people that are, for example, with pugs, like there's the retro pug project where
people are trying to breed the pug back to a healthier form that still looks pug-like, but
like it has a nose. I can dig it. Yeah, I like seeing, I don't know, I mean, some, some of your
bred dogs are fun, but like, you know, this is a common thing. The more purebred you get,
the more problems, genetic problems they tend to have, right?
It depends also on what you're breeding it for. That was kind of like,
actually like me and my bunch of nerds were talking about this, but like they have the
different categories of like sporting breeds, herding breeds, and the ones with jobs are usually
pretty functional. The ones that win the like, you know, best in the herding category have to be
functional because like the whole point is you're counting on them to guard your sheep or whatever,
and, but then you got into the toy category, and it's just like, I guess their function is to be
delightful to humans. Dogs with jobs are usually psychologically healthy or two, because you know,
they have something to do. I find it really funny that like, for example, even though they like,
look like little breads with a tail, or no, they don't even have a tail, like they're just,
they do have a tail. The tail is cut off, usually when they're puppies.
Oh, do they, they don't have tails?
It depends on the corgis. Some are bred, some don't have tails.
I've, yeah, I heard that can happen, but it's extremely rare. Almost all the corgis that you
see have had their tails cut. I don't know what percentage almost all means, because I know that
less than 10% I will double check that. Okay. Because I know that congenital non-tailed ones are,
I didn't think a one in 10 occurrence, but I also know this because I like corgis.
Corgis are an example of like a pretty dog that I think is fun when they're pure bred.
But they also look fun crosses, literally anything, because you just get that dog.
Oh my God, I love it. Yeah. If any dog mixed with a corgi just looks like a dirtier version
of that dog. Yeah. Like, especially like, I don't know, if you want to, I don't know,
if you're having a bad day, listeners, just look up like corgi mixed with like a chow,
or corgi mixed with like a mastiff, and it's just like.
Mixed with corgi.
