like, sure, you can have more if you have more money, maybe, but not if you're not helping people
primarily through money. You can be a supportive friend without having to give them $10,000, right?
So I guess that's the kind of thing I was talking about. What I meant by making an impact is do
something that is important to people that you care about. That's kind of what I mean. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. I mean, I don't think that it takes a driver's license or, you know, a bank account
to do that. Those might help. But it does take being respected. Like, if your efforts are ignored,
sidelined, what do I want to say, brain vocabulary glitch, access file, I think I see what you're
saying, though. That's a good point that helps me understand that because it might be important to
you at eight years old, like you want to help contribute to your parents, you know, maybe help
with dinner or whatever, right? But they're like, Oh, no, you go over here and pretend to chop onions
and we'll do it without you. Is that kind of like a scaled down version of what you're talking about?
Yeah. So I think everyone can relate to this because it'll happen to you at some point in your life.
You want to contribute. You're in a, you're with a group that you, that you want to belong with,
you know, you want to be a part of and fit in, and you want to contribute, but you're not as good
at what everyone's doing as they are because your input, they literally take it out of your hands
and push you aside. And so you're robbed of the opportunity to contribute or they give you busy
work, like something that basically doesn't matter. But basically it's about not being,
not being respected. Being an adult is a lot like that too. Being a legal adult in the United States.
That's why I said we can all, we've all had this done to us. So I think we can relate. But when
you're, when you're, when you're in an ageist world, this will apply to anyone at any age,
you're going to experience being pushed aside because you don't belong to that group,
because you're not the right age. And it's always dehumanizing and hurtful. And I think
it's complete bullshit. The age segregation thing bugs me, honestly, like I bring a lot of library
examples up, but like there were some really smart little kids. And I remember just watching a few
times there would be like a kid teaching an older person how to use email. And then like at one
point, somebody got scared about adult predators. And so they're like, oh, we have to have the
kids section of the library and keep the kids in the kids section. And the adults aren't allowed to
go in there unless they like have a child or, you know, able to prove that they're looking for a book
for the, I don't know, whatever the heck. And the kids aren't allowed to come out. Yeah, well,
that was that they were, they were confined to the kids section. Like, unless they had an adult
like supervising them, or like they were doing some kind of club where, yeah, again, they would have
an adult supervising them or they would be in their own little like meeting room, had to keep
them all separate. Part of that sounds like really well intentioned, but misguided coddling.
And wouldn't we know it? Yeah, the name of the essay that we were going to be talking about,
slash book, I don't read the book, because this is one of those examples where the essay,
thanks again, Charlie Rock. There's another example where the essay is the book, but just
more succinct. So the subject was The Coddling of the American Mind by Jonathan Haidt and Luke,
or excuse me, Greg Lukyanov. I'll put a link to the 2015 article in The Atlantic in the show notes.
Or you can buy the 2018 book, but I haven't read it, but I'm convinced it just makes this point
but longer. Some books are like that. In my limited experience of reading, like,
compelling essays and then subsequent books, that's always been the case. So I'm always reluctant.
And, you know, if you want a bit better expansion of it or something, maybe that helps. Like, I
liked the Scout mindset, even though I knew the point of it before I started reading it,
and I didn't like learn much, except for maybe some extra lingo. It was just more examples and
more fleshed out. I didn't learn a thing from Animal Liberation that I didn't learn in the 1975
essay All Animals Are Equal, unless I wanted to learn a lot about 1970s factory farming, which I
didn't. So. But books also often have a lot of citations and references, which is very handy
if you want to, you know, if you're talking to someone who's like, well, I don't believe this,
and you're like, okay, here's where the numbers came from. Yeah, I've definitely seen examples of
both books that could have been like essays and probably should have been, but just like a book
is a marketable format. Some books are the real life definition of like, this could have been,
you know, this meeting could have been an email. Yeah, like, it's clearly like there's,
there's info in there, but then they've like padded it out with enough filler to make it
book sized so they could then sell it as a book. But then I've seen books that will take a topic
and really tackle it from a bunch of different angles. So you form a much more comprehensive
model of the whole thing. And that's also really valuable. That's a good point. And I take back
what I said about all the time of my reading that with my reading with books, because I haven't
read The Calling of the American Mind to the book, maybe it's great, maybe it's way better than the
essay, and it's three years newer, which means lots of new data on the subject, because a lot of
the stuff was like newer in 2015 than it is. Yeah, and a lot of stuff was changing in that time
period too. Like you were talking about a, what was it, truancy? Not truancy was older than that,
but just like the like kids with the park thing, the greater incidents of parents being scared
to just let their kids play outside unsupervised. Yeah, totally. Even though like the world has
actually been getting a lot safer. Absolutely. And last thing, just before we dive in another
good example of a book that definitely deserves to be a book and not an essay was The Elephant in
the Brain. Like I knew signaling, I knew what that was, but having 15 or 20 chapters of specific
examples was awesome. That book was epic. So plug with that again. Anyway, it's worth pointing out
that Lukyanov and Haidt are probably to say Haidt for shorthand for later, because most of my
context on this is like reading specifically what Haidt, Jonathan Haidt had to say about it and
listening to him on podcasts. So I haven't heard anything straight out of Greg Lukyanov's mouth.
But mainly they're talking about college campuses. They talk a bit about earlier stuff,
which is why I tied into like our stuff about children and teens and tweens and young adults
and all that. Because I think that plays into a lot of the same stuff. Some of the mismanagement of
children and young adults has been carried through into college in some places. And their main
point is that that really fucks them up and fucks us up while it fucks society because they're
fucked up. They don't use the word fuck that much, but that's basically their point.
So treating adults like children has bad consequences of the fucked variety?
Yes. But then it's not clear because now you've got adults in their 20s who behave like who think
this is all virtuous and awesome. And it's not clear. I think you've got to jump into examples
or tell us what's going on. Yeah. But I was going to say, I don't think you can make the case that
how did you put it? That treating kids like... Treating adults like kids.
Messes them up. Yeah. Because I don't think it can be parsed that neatly because now you have
adults treating adults like what they think adults should be treated like.
Essay title, the coddling of the American mind. So we could just say Americans are minds,
honestly. Sure. Yeah. Because this is being imposed upon society. They targeted college campuses,
but you do see it in other realms as well. Yeah. We can start with the college stuff because that's
where the essay starts. So they basically talk about... And I'll get this at the top because
it's a lot of the beats fall back on these three great untruths as they call them, which are like,
these are things that are perpetuated as either virtuous or just the way you should think,
which fly in the face of all of modern and ancient wisdom and modern psychology.
So those three things are, what doesn't kill you makes you weaker, always trust your feelings,
and life is about always being good and evil, or good people and evil people.
I like that you brought up that this is sort of the exact opposite of what CBT teaches because
I'm already sort of gearing up to be angry about it. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I think I said this before
when we started recording that I was going to lean on Jayce for their expertise on cognitive
behavioral therapy, CBT for syllable saving. Because Lukyanov had, I think, severe depression
and maybe PTSD as an adult, and maybe as a youth as well. But the point is that as he's observing
these things on campuses, he's like, they're putting on a pedestal exactly what my therapist
has been teaching me not to do. And there's no way this is good for them. And the more you look,
turns out it's not. PTSD is actually way more common than I think most people know.
There's people that actually have the acronym HSP, highly sensitive people, which is funny,
but that's actually just a psychological phenomenon where some people are more resilient
and some people are more easily traumatized. I wonder how much of that is culturally imbued?
Some probably is. It's probably like a lot of things, like nature, part nature, but
there's definitely a biological component. I think if you get a lot of rewards for being
highly sensitive, it pushes you towards that direction. Yeah. And I mean, that could be in
the form of peer recognition or validation or even just like time off of school. Right.
It's just basic incentives, right? If you get rewarded for something, you get more of that thing.
But it could also just well be the case that like, yeah, look, I drew the short stick,
turns out things fuck me a lot harder than they fuck you. And that's also just going to be part
of reality. I remember learning about this and it was like a long debate in the history of
psychology and social science of like, is X trade or is everything like nurture or nature?
And the obvious answer has always been both, right? It doesn't matter how well
what great genes you have. If I mess you up enough as a kid, you're going to be a messed up adult,
right? Especially if I work sufficiently hard to the task, doesn't matter, right?
Alternately, you could be somebody with highly sensitive person disorder. I don't think it's a
disorder personality type and have great parents and a great sport system and grow up to be way
healthier than like a lot of your peers. Yeah. Let's see. Like I said, so they, because they're
both professors, like most of their examples start from that. And then they move back to
where this come from and why did it start in the 90s, etc. But the article starts off mainly
focusing on examples of higher education institutions, mostly expensive, expensive liberal
schools. This isn't a thing in like conservative dominated areas as it turns out, at least not
as much. But isn't it the case that most institutions of higher learning tend to skew really liberal?
Yeah, but like in, I mean, in liberal areas as well. And I, then this is a, I think a trend is
not like a golden rule. So if you find an example from a university in Georgia, you know, I don't
think that invalidates where they're coming from, but it does turn out to just be a more common
university phenomena among like liberal populations. So am I wrong about this? Or
my stereotype is that generally people who are more conservative come from a more rural and or
working class background. Is that, is that fair? That's probably a, like not unfair
sweeping generalization. Because it also seems to me that people who are more of the rural and or
working class background, their children are more likely to be put to some productive ends
earlier in their life and treated more like people that can contribute. And this can help you like
get an insight into the conservative mindset where you're like, why do they think that,
you know, handouts are such such a bad thing? It's like, well, because since they were kids,
they've been working for things and getting rewarded, you know, getting compensation for it,
right? So like, they've been like, I've been doing this since I was 10, why can't you do it when
you're 35? So like, it's, it doesn't make one person like, it might be factually right or wrong,
but it's not obviously right or wrong, right? Right. Anyway, so like some of the insane examples
they point out just to kind of kick off like the university stuff and keep in mind, this was six
years ago, like things have gotten weirder since then. Apparently, Genie Souk wrote an article
in an online, in an online article for the New Yorker about law students asking her fellow
professors at Harvard not to teach rape law, or in one case, even use the word violate, as in
that violates the law, lest it cause student distress. Oh, so just censoring the word rape
and violate. Well, censor the word violate, but then like stop teaching rape law entirely.
Apparently, in in Harvard, that's going to make it harder to be a criminal lawyer. Imagine. And
so that, that's where the weird part of this is coming up. And so in 2015, this was kind of like
an emerging thing. It wasn't like brand new, but now we're six years out of that. A lot of people
have graduated Harvard, Harvard Law, and they're so traumatized by the word rape that they can't
represent you in a case like that. I mean, how weird would that be, right? Like you go to your
lawyer and they're like, I'm sorry, can you not use the R word? I don't think that's, that's actually
a thing that happens for with real lawyers though, right? Like this is just something that they were
doing in school to exercise power over their professors. This is something they proposed.
Did it actually, did they actually stop teaching rape law? I didn't follow with it. I doubt it.
I feel like that's an important part of criminal law. But, but I, and while it's probably not true
in lawyer, in lawyering, it is true in other avenues of life. Some of the things, some of the,
the weird virtues that are coming out of this have perpetuated into the adult workforce,
where, or the graduate, college graduate workforce, where 20-somethings are employed next to,
you know, are, are, are gainfully employed in, in the world, right?
I, so I agree with you that this is something that absolutely happens. I don't know if hate
makes this point or if this is just commonly thought to be the, height, height. Sorry. If,
if he claims this or if this is just a thing that's commonly thought, but it seems to be implied that
these people are actually harmed by these things. And, and thus, that is why they're, you know,
I don't want to say screaming. That is why they are strongly requesting these, these protections.
But it has been my impression that these are ways to exercise power, that these are things
that people have found they can use to exercise power over their professors or to get more senior
people in their organization kicked out and open up space for them to move up. Like, I don't know
if maybe secretly on the inside they really do feel hurt by this, but in all practical purposes,
it looks much more like a way to exercise power over others or to eliminate opposition with these
weapons that you have at your disposal, because society does accept like, oh no, he was so triggered
by that word that now we have to make special exceptions. Yeah. I, I don't know how to dive
into that because I don't like, I mean, it's not always trying my hand at mind reading,
trying to understand these things, but it is often like, I don't know the motives, you know, like,
if somebody, you know, like there was that, that famous video that went around a few years ago
of all those students screaming at the Dean at Yale because Halloween costumes and like,
were they really so hurt and, and affronted that they were acting like a 1960s civil rights
protest? It really just strikes me as signaling. Yeah, I think is what any ash is getting at.
But I doubt that there's like, individual professors sort of sitting in their offices,
like, petting their cat and like, easily cackling as like, I will, you know, take over the, I don't
know, like, push out all the like, conservative professors. So liberal professors could take
over the whole, but like, that's become sort of the effect. And I think that it's sort of
the way signaling works, you know, because it's like, Oh, I, I think my tribe is the more moral
one and that we're correct. So we should fight these fights. But are you like, it gets to the
point where it's like, do you actually care about these issues? Like, is this your real
objection? Or are you just tricking yourself into like, making yourself feel good about just
doing signaling games? Well, it's not just about kicking out conservative professorship,
either. Like there was a, at the same at the top of the article was someone who wrote under
pseudonym. And their, the title was, I'm a liberal professor and my liberal students terrify me.
You know, height talks about how in every bathroom at shoot, where does he teach?
I don't see it in the article. It doesn't say where they were teaching.
Like, I don't think any of the students that were yelling at the Dean felt hurt by those
costumes necessarily, maybe like a little bit of offense, offended that other people might get
offended. I mean, I think more than anything, like the Dean is super liberal too. It's not
like they were trying to chase out a conservative faculty member, but it felt good to be part of
a self righteous mob that can hurt this person in a position of power. And so that's, I jumped on
that. That's the whole point of being a mob, right? It feels good to be on the righteous side
and beat up the evil people. And, and that was a tool that they could do, you could use to beat
someone up. I've like talked about this a bunch of other episodes, but I was really
concerned about how witch hunts became really popular and continue to be really popular on
like websites like tumblr. I guess just like a lot of social media, but for some reason,
tumblr in particular became really polarized with like the start of the anti movement, which
