And I don't know what we're talking about today, actually that's a lie because they
have told me, but this was one of the rare episodes where I just sat back and said, okay,
you guys do everything because I'm really busy this week. And you guys did. So thank you very
much. Oh, anytime. At least Steven did. That's true. Well, you know, I have no idea. I'm gonna,
I'm just gonna say you guys because thanks, Steven. Well, I mean, I was gonna say that to the end
and be like, Hey, did this feel more or less organized than usual? Because usually,
Inyosh kind of puts together, you know, note doc and stuff. But oh, do I? Yeah, I mean, usually.
I tell you what, some notes appear every two weeks.
All right. Maybe you do it in your sleep or something. I don't consider myself that organized.
But I do sometimes, I guess, but to get the notes. But before we do all that, we're going to talk
about the sequences like we always do. Usually, except last week, like we almost always do.
Almost always. Very, very usually. Yeah. Is that is very usually a thing? Sure. Okay. It is now.
All right. And our first post is self anchoring. So in a sentence, this is the tendency for people to
when modeling another mind, basically use your mind and put yourself in their shoes.
Right? Yes. As best you can. Yeah. Which I, you know, Eleizer's day job is making minds from
scratch. So that's not a good base spot for him. But for most of us, almost all of our interactions,
it's not a bad place to be. Yeah. It's kind of the best. It's also the best we have.
There's not really any other way. I think you know what your own mind is like. You don't know what
other people's minds are like. You can guess. I've often wondered though, if there was some way to
telepathically just link yourself to some other mind, would it be just wildly different from the
way your mind works and thinks? Or would it be like pretty comfortable? I have two predictions.
One, we will be able to do that in the next 50 years. Can we? And two, we will not be like
bowled over by how different other people's brains are. I think that they will be
similar enough to ours to at least be recognizable. I think it's going to be a
matter of culture. Like the more similarly you were raised to other people in the same
general like area and milieu, they're going to be very similar, even if you have wildly
different opinions. But like people on the other side of the globe raised in a totally
different culture in different circumstances, I think might be like radically different.
My prediction would be that like, I think just sort of the average person will probably
feel pretty similar to the average person, but I bet there's going to be crazy outliers there.
Just based on some people I know who I like, like most people, once I talk to them for a bit,
I can start to model them and predict sort of the kinds of things that they might want to talk
about, what they might say next, you know, there's some people I've met though that like
was talking about a sort of that there's a ex-boyfriend of a friend of mine in Phoenix's
who I was just like, we spent like a week hanging out with these two and I could not
predict what this guy was going to do or say next. And it actually kind of bothered me like.
Yeah, that's scary. You don't want humans that you can't predict unpredictable people.
Yeah, I think I would have a hard time. Like I've met some super hippy people, like the kind
that you think about only show up in movies and stuff, right? And I just have a hard time
really rocking what they're, what being them must be like, like it almost feels like a different
neuro architecture. Okay, then I will refine my prediction to say that it'll be easier to relate
to those people than it will be to your pet dog. Well, sure. Yeah. Okay. I mean, and I, so that's
a way broader, maybe less refined prediction, but like, I think that for the most part, our
modeling of other people based on our own selves is going to be close enough most of the time,
right? And it's, because we all do basically have the same neural architecture. Like I said,
it might be interesting seeing the order of which thoughts appear from people in different cultures,
right? Like the first thing might be like, oh, wait, what about my culture? What about my family?
What about my community? Whereas other people might be like, wait, what about me? What about
my personal safety? Americans? What about my freedom? Well, I wasn't even elevating one over
the other. I was just, yeah, but yeah, totally. Some people be, but my freedoms and other people
would be, but my rep, my family's reputation or something, right? But that's just differences
in what you, what you value, I guess, what's, what's important to you. Yeah. So like those thoughts,
I think we'll, you know, then cascade to like the rest of the decision, you know, of how to go about
the rest of the conversation or solve the problem. But maybe the real fun thing will be, like Jay
said, people are the tips of the, of the, at the tips of the distributions, right? Like if I'm
mind melding with a, with an M, with an emulation of like Elon Musk's brain, right?
See, I don't think Elon Musk's brain would be that hard to figure out. I think he's mostly someone
who's very curious, very energetic and very healthy. And like, that's not that hard for me to model.
I think he's also neuro atypical, which would be interesting to engage with as well.
As he said, during his SNL monologue, he's the first person with Asperger's to host,
or at least the first person with Asperger's to admit it.
He was actually really funny. Did I tell, did I already rave about that?
You did, but not on Mike. Oh yeah, it was awesome. Like they,
SNL does this thing where they can bring on really great people and then like the show kind of sucks.
I think the week before him was Keegan-Michael Key. Oh, that episode sucked.
Really? They just, they didn't put him in any good sketches.
Well, that sucks. And so like that, that's really what makes or breaks it.
One of the first episodes that had Jim Carrey on it was fucking amazing because you could tell,
like, he jumped into every episode and was just putting his comedic genius to work.
And it was great. I would have thought that he would have done the same thing.
I would have thought so too. It was one of the worst episodes of the season.
Damn. It might, I don't know, be like sort of a matter of how outgoing the actual comic is.
Like a lot of comedians are actually pretty introverted.
But even Keegan, you know, he's got a long background in sketch comedy.
And then the last, the season finale was, I don't remember her name,
the Queen's Gambit actress. Hers was amazing. And I wouldn't think of her as a comedic,
like mastermind, but it was hilarious. It was a great, great episode. Anyway,
modeling of their minds is tight. And this is, this is basically that talks about
between ages and three and four people, human people.
I think we talked about this last episode, right? The, the whole theory of mind developing
about, yeah, at it like between age three and four, where kids are able to kind of
put themselves in the shoes of another kid that they're watching on TV, like.
The, yeah, this is what does Sally think is in the box? Pencils or candy?
Yeah.
It's like, you know, you saw, you saw her see candy be put in the box,
and then she left and someone came and replaced it with pencils. And then Sally comes back.
And then they asked the kid, what does she think is in there? Before they get a good
theory of mind, they'll say, well, obviously pencils, because that's what's in the box.
But it's like, once you realize no way she wasn't in the room and they switched it out,
that's kind of that self-reflective bit that, that, that aware bit that more Sabian.
That most people learn at age three or four, but some people I think never seem to quite get.
It's a really short post. I think the most, the main, the key thing from this post is that
two people are see, I'd see basically the same layout, but one of them can see three candles.
And the other one has the smallest candle blocked so they can't see it.
And the person who can't see the smallest candle tells the other subject to move the small candle
from one place to another. And the person who can see all three candles and sees there's one
even smaller, their eyes always go first to the smallest candle before they quickly adjust to
the medium sized candle, which they know is the smallest one the other person can see.
And that's not the test. Like the test is obviously if you aren't a four-year-old,
you know, the other person can't see the smallest candle, so you're going to move the medium one.
But the, what Eleister says is the interesting thing is reflexively, they always go to the
smallest candle first and then adjust, which means that everyone has a bit of anchoring.
We spoke about anchoring before like several months ago at this point, where if you're given
a high number just at random, you will anchor on that higher number and give higher estimates for
things that you have absolutely no idea about just because you already primed with a higher number.
And so he says this is an example of like all people anchor on themselves first and then adjust
afterwards. And due to the nature of anchoring, oh, it's very rare for people to adjust enough.
It makes sense because we don't, again, like we literally don't know what other people's brains
are like. So we do kind of have to start with you need some model. Here's the one that I'm familiar
with. And then okay, then I'll add like a sort of simulation of the other person's brain state
based on the facts that I've known about them, the ways that I've seen them interact, et cetera.
Yeah. Yeah. I think anchoring has some of their application issues, but this doesn't strike me
as the same kind of anchoring. And if anything, this might just also just think that's actually
priming. And that's like in the social sciences, the whole like, if you give a group of men and women
a math test and prime it by like men do better on this test than supposedly women do worse,
I think that did not replicate. Oh, the, this is actually one of the things I did
of a small version of when I was doing boring psych studies in college,
stereotype threat. Right. Was that example? I mean, the other like some weird priming is like,
hey, my screensaver is money. And you see like a dollar bill, you're less inclined to give money
or something. Like all those, those sound, the sound, the eye roll is appropriate. These were
like, Oh, look, it's really easy to prime people on certain things and get certain reactions. But
that turned out to not really be the case. It sounds like just an overly simplistic way of
thinking about humans. Like we actually are pretty sophisticated at doing this for the
most part. Did we mention what the, one of the easiest ways to predict if something's going
to replicate or not is? If it just smells like bullshit. Yeah. Yeah. It was basically, if you
ask a random subset of people, does this smell like bullshit? And the majority of them say,
yes, it probably won't replicate. It was a very high correlation.
Oh, wisdom accrued. Yeah. I think that for social science, that definitely sounds true,
right? Yeah. The average person, if they didn't teach evolution, you know, if you ask them,
are you, you know, are you related to bananas? They would say, what the fuck are you talking
about? Right, right. But with social science, we all have some intuition in social science.
We all have a lot of experience with other humans. I think it's part of the thing that
helps with that. Whereas there are very few people have experienced with evolution.
Right. That's not to say that like, you can't get a surprising finding that no,
actually, it turns out, you know, forget what you thought you knew. This is actually the way
people's brains work. But it's less common, I think, than people trying to generate sensationalist
articles. Right. I was wondering, too, with this one, I mean, so my eyes, I'm told, move with the
smallest candle to the next to the truck in this little experiment, right? There's pictures in the
article. I don't know how much it is that I'm modeling might. So I look at the smallest candle
first, that's the finding, right? And then I adjust, I'm like, oh, wait, no, the smallest candle the
director can see. But I don't know how much that is of like me anchoring or me just like,
he said smallest candle and just look for the smallest candle, right? Right. And then, you
know, so I would want other ways to test this. I think that's arguably just anchoring on your own
perception there. Like, it's kind of the same thing. Like you could say, I'm first jumping
to I, Steven, believe that this is the smallest or you could just like hear them say the word
smallest candle and then start scanning for it. Yeah. Yeah. But still, that's your brain.
Yeah, I think that the key thing here is how it interacts with anchoring from before, whereas
once you're anchored to something, you're going to be always systematically slightly biased towards
the thing you were anchored. So everyone's going to have a little bit of bias towards everyone
else thinking that they're more like them than the more like themselves than they really are.
Yeah, an edge of the nice quote that I like, we can put our feet, we can put our feet and other
minds shoes, but we keep our own socks on. This actually ties well into the next post,
expecting short inferential distances, which is almost like he laid them out in this order
on purpose. I know. This is one of the ones that I never forgot. Yeah, this is a fantastic one. Yeah.
And there is an audio version of this, I believe it was why we heard that paid me to
make an audio version of it. So delightful. Everyone can hear that. Yeah, if you want to hear
any ashes voice, who doesn't? Yeah, I mean, on a meta note, this is like one of my favorites.
And I think it comes up for me like basically daily. Really? I mean, at least a few times a week.
I mean, I'm assuming largely in the workplace? Largely in the workplace, but even outside of
that, any conversation with somebody who, you know, like my wife isn't super into all this
rationalist stuff. And so when I come home from doing these, she's like, oh, so what did you guys
talk about? And I have to think of where to start. And it's fun. It's great. And I think that if
people pay attention to their own attraction to the people when they're explaining stuff,
I think they'll find themselves noticing this more often, I'm guessing.
But actually, like, they're so autistic people that are super bad at this. And it's really
cute. I like was hanging out with Gary yesterday. And there are a bunch of times where Gray would
just start talking about rifles and like, bullet calibers and things like excitedly. Oh, yeah,
well, there's this thing. And I was just like, I have no idea what you're talking about, man.
Go back to explaining guns 101. And then we'll go from
So first, you get a metal tube, right? Yeah. Honestly, that's not a bad place to start. I
still don't know. I mean, I know that higher caliber means either bigger bullet or faster
bullet. I think those two things probably correlate. But I don't, I don't know. I mean,
like I said, I'm getting at is, it's the kind of thing that if you're, well, that's so the
point of the post is when you're entrenched with knowledge on something, and you're explaining
it to somebody else, it's not impossible. But you have to be very, very careful and work hard to
actually convey what you're talking about successfully. Because you're talking about it
on terms you understand, but they don't understand the terms.
Can we give the hunter gather background? Because I find it's super interesting.
He points out that, yes, that in the evolutionary environment, we lived in bands of at most 200
people with no writing. And so all knowledge was passed down by speech and memory. And so any
knowledge that wasn't explicitly private knowledge that you were not sharing for whatever reasons you
have was just public knowledge, period. There were no like domains of specialization or wherever.
And so at most anyone was ever one inferential step away from, from you. Like, if you had knowledge
of where an oasis was, you could just tell someone that you wouldn't have to explain the concept of
an oasis to them first, or the concept of standing water or something. Whereas now we have vast
differences between, between what people know that often take, I don't want to say many years
of research, because that seems like an exaggeration sometimes.
No, I think it's not. I mean, if you're, if you have a degree in, I don't know, if you're, if you
have a doctorate, and you're trying to explain, I don't know.
I agree, but I don't think I just forgot the word of autophagy, for example.
Bless you. Yeah, I don't think there's any doctorate in the world where you literally
need multiple years to get it. You need, I think, the, maybe not the like eight,
or 10 or a million years that we require in the US per se, but like, there's definitely
some things are really hard and take a lot of time to learn.
Yeah, I know, I agree. But I think that if someone actually really cared about conveying
knowledge well and quickly, they could teach one other person in less than 24 months,
anything that we know, as long as that the subject was, you know, intellectually capable
of grasping it. I don't think you need eight years to learn this shit. And it's convenient.
And we, we teach a lot of other things as well, which is why it can take so long. But
if you really wanted to teach someone one specific domain of knowledge, you could
