have to be in school for seven hours. I didn't want to. I feel like dropping out of junior high
school probably would ruin my future. I mean, yeah, probably would have been a bad idea.
I have great prospects in the call center industry. But that's what I wanted to do.
Yeah, it would have been a bad idea for you, especially in this economy.
I feel like compulsory education isn't like the necessary evil that people
paint it out to be. Yes, school often sucks, but it doesn't have to suck.
School traumatized me. I think I would have done a lot better if I'd gotten out of it earlier and
just totally skip the whole college thing. All the jobs I ended up getting after I was self-taught
in anyway. I think a lot of people after going working at the call center for a couple of years
would want to go back to school. I mean, I don't want to use you as an example, but like,
you had a whole bunch of shit jobs that you hated, like the bank teller and the PI stuff and
everything. And eventually you were like, fuck this shit. And you went and got trained as a
software engineer. And now you have a fucking amazing job. Yeah.
But that was a choice that wasn't compulsory. What if kids had that choice?
To work shit jobs around and be like, fuck this, I want to get a better job and go get
trained in something. I found school to be so incredibly damaging to myself that by my senior
year, I was skipping three, four days a week, showing up to take tests only. And that was because
I had logically proposed to my parents like, hey, emancipate me. I'm going to get my GED
and travel for a while because school is dumb and pointless and torture. And they said, no,
we'll call the police. You're not allowed to do any of that. And I was like, God, two more years,
two more years. I'm going to either like end up setting the place on fire or stabbing somebody
in self-defense. That's someone stealing two years of your life at the prime of your life.
That's not like two years at the shit tail end when you're sickly and can't do much.
That happened to me when I was 16 specifically. I remember that I just
mentally checked out because school itself wasn't that bad. It was just the social
stuff that was... I had really bad social anxiety and being forced to be around people that basically
wanted to bully or marginalize me and being forced into social situations that gave me panic attacks.
I remember that I was just like, I'm going to try to just maintain a C average and get through it,
but I was checked out. I was dissociated. There's big chunks of my memory of parts of high school
and almost all of college that I'm just missing. It's creepy. I forgot most of my childhood,
but I feel like it was pretty good. I don't know what to make of that.
Yeah. I think there's a difference in... Well, maybe there's not. I don't know.
This was straight up depressive dissociation. I'm not sure if that describes what your childhood
thing is. No. My childhood was basically fine. That describes my first couple years or my last
couple years of college. I see what you guys are saying. I think I had one more thing to say about
was it jobs or was it... I don't know. When I did not drop out of school, even when I had a roommate
and rent and had to work to pay rent, thankfully, I had a vehicle and it was a small place. Gas
prices weren't that high and I was able to commute and get things done. What age was this? 15.
Did you legally have a vehicle? Yeah. Was it like a scooter or something? I grew up in a rural area
so you could get your driver's license at 14 and I'd been driving since I was a kid.
I remember what I was going to say about the property thing about... That's the thing too.
I mowed lawns and shit when I was a kid and I bought video games and whatever.
Could your parents take them away if you did something bad?
Not really, no. I didn't really do that much bad stuff and they're pretty chill.
Because they're physically bigger than me, sure. But I guess I'm drawing
contention with that because let's say they bought my PlayStation as they probably did in
this YouTube video. If you've got a shitty roommate and they're not paying rent, they're
leaving heroin needles all over the carpet and you keep stepping on them and it's really annoying,
you don't think you might say, all right, you know what? Fuck it. I'm taking my TV in my bedroom.
It's no longer in the living room. You're on fucking TV. Yeah, sure. But it's your TV?
Well, it's kind of your TV if you're the parent and you bought it for them, right?
Destroying it in front of them? I'm not defending that. And then putting it on YouTube.
I vehemently said that's obviously insane and stupid on every dimension,
including destroying your own property. So I got two things to say about that. I bought most of my
own video game stuff. The big difference is the computer. My parents bought the computer for me
because they thought I was important for school, which it was. But most of the things that I used
for entertainment, I had bought myself and my parents still could and did take them away as
punishments. And even more to the point, it's hard to have the ability to own any property when,
first of all, you have very little ability to make money. And second, even if you do have your own
property, it's not legally yours. Your parents are allowed to take away things that you have bought
even with your own money because they're your parents. Yeah, I couldn't take away your roommate
stuff to be clean up the heroin needles or I'm taking away your PlayStation until you do.
I think the other thing is that your roommate, you don't have any application to them.
If you give birth to a child, I think that there should be a different standard in your
relationship there. I totally agree. No, no, I brought up the roommate example because if there's
shared property and it's yours and you paid for it, in this example, if your parent got you a TV
or something and you're behaving in a way that is bringing down their quality of life for whatever
reason and they're like, look, I'm taking away the TV until you get your shit together. I feel
like that's exactly how you treat an adult under the same circumstances. If you move the goalposts
and say, well, no, it's not their TV or they couldn't buy it because they aren't allowed to work
or something, leaving all that aside, this is how I treat an adult. If my roommate and I shared a
car and they wouldn't stop drinking and driving, I'm like, all right, you're not using my car
anymore. But then I'm taking away their stuff and I'm doing exactly what I'd be doing to a kid,
but I'm treating them like an adult. I disagree that you're taking away their stuff. That is
your stuff and there's an agreement between you and the roommate as to why you're both allowed to
use it. I'm taking away their privilege to use my stuff, which is kind of what you're doing
with a child or their PlayStation. I'm not saying you smash out the hammer. I'm saying that it might
make sense to like, all right, look, you're ruining my life. What if, okay, what if you bought the
TV as a gift and then you took it back? So that does add to the wrinkle and that's more like what
it's like to buy stuff for your kids, right? I guess what I'm just saying is that it doesn't
strike me as necessarily like abusive or insane behavior to discipline your kid that way. That
said, I was like never disciplined that way. I think honestly, my parents are just, I mean,
I like to joke that my brother and I were each half of an accident because we were identical
twins and just playing on that. I don't think they planned on three kids. I think they planned on two
and three wore them out. And so they let me have a small TV in our room because I would quietly
sit in there and watch it. And if they tried to take it away, I would be annoying. And they're
like, you know what, I would rather sleep and have them not be disciplined than let them just watch
TV instead, right? This is kind of a segue, but I just think that once you give someone something,
it's theirs. And abusive and insane is like, it's a tricky word because like in this system where
parents are held liable for what their adult children do, it's not that insane to be like,
I don't want to go to jail for something you're doing. So I'm putting these limits on you. And
especially when society tells them they should, it's just in the broader picture, if society wasn't
like this, you wouldn't structure it like this, you would say that is an insane thing to do.
Don't do that. And it's kind of stuck that way right now. I'd like to not be stuck there.
So what I'm hearing is that we need to nudge down the parents culpability and nudge up the
community. Yes, responsibility, rights and freedoms always come with responsibilities at
the same time. Yeah, that's what makes you more of an adult having more responsibility and learning
how to use that. Yeah, I wish there were more gradients there to sort of like, not just the oh,
you're 18. Now everything flips. Yeah, actually, a series of tests that measure you on various
things. Maybe something that I sort of also object to, we should probably start to get
to the main topic. But just the whole idea of if your kids acting out that you should punish them
in this like default to sort of this authoritarian punitive response instead of sitting the kid
down and sort of like, hey, why are you doing this? And then trying to maybe negotiate like,
all right, well, because you have, I've told you not to do this and you have like broken your word.
So I'm going to limit your TV access. If you do it again, I'm going to limit it further. But if
you show me that you can take a week and not do this thing, then you can get your TV privilege
back. Like I'd rather there be more, you know. That seems what Harry James Potter Evans Varys
would say is that no parent would ever reduce themselves to the level of negotiating with
someone they view as a child, which I think is true in this world and is bad. Like that's sort of
when Stephen was talking about the roommate, I've had like shitty roommate situations or even just
where maybe even the roommate wasn't necessarily a bad person. I've had roommates that just like
one of my roommates was like being abused by a parent and I gave them a space to live. And they
just had never learned how to be an adult. So like, they were eating food that belonged to other
people or like, you know, taking like all the Advil or just like grabbing all the toilet paper
after I went grocery. And I like, I had to sort of teach this person like, okay, if you're going
to like, you know, be an adult, you've got to like, but it was like, I understand where you're
coming from and you're a friend of mine. So it was like this gradual like, okay, like you, I
would like you to get a job and start paying rent after this amount of time. I would like you to
like pay for your own stuff. But like, there's like within reason, I can also help you out
while you're learning this stuff and also recovering from just the trauma of that situation.
Yeah. And yeah, their parents, they're very lucky to have you.
So before we get to the main topic, did you have more feedback?
Yeah, I just wanted to say that I was specifically talking about consensual and healthy relationships.
Yeah, also have problems and tend to end at some point. And when I say relationships, that
does not mean sex. It can. It doesn't not mean sex. Yeah. And but they're not abusive. And it's
really important to differentiate between a healthy relationship and an abusive relationship when,
especially when you're talking about basing civil rights off of those circumstances.
And I know a lot of people who would say that it is impossible for a 30 year old to have a
non abusive relationship with a 15 year old. I totally disagree with that. I think it's bullshit.
But that is a line of thinking in our society that is pushed strongly by a lot of people.
When I had the thing with the college professor, though, I was 20 or 21 and they were like 36
or 37. It could have been fine. It just that was a coercive relationship.
And you were 21 and an abusive relationship. Yeah, like you had made it past the magic age.
Yeah. But like just the power differential between, you know, teacher-student relationship and then
like also the fact that he made more money and like had a house and I didn't.
And he had one and a half more decades of manipulating people than you did.
Yeah. Well, like that gives him more just skill with which to fuck you over.
Hopefully. Whereas if you were met, whereas you're with your peers, you have about equal
experience fucking each other over and being fucked over by them, right?
Why are we hanging around with people that have experienced fucking people over anyway?
Like I wouldn't want to have peers that have a lot of experience fucking people over because I just
don't like people that fuck other people over. We're talking about a bad relationships.
Oh, well, okay. Yeah. So in that context, you won't be as ill-equipped to combat your peers in
a bad relationship than you would be somebody who's got a decade and a half seniority.
In this case also, like I was sort of groomed sort of the same way, you know, like a child
predator would groom a kid online or whatever. But like this was after my best friends died
and I didn't have any friends in college. So this person slowly befriended me and took a long time
building up the relationship before it started becoming abusive and coercive.
At which point, like you're kind of already invested and then it was also like, well,
this is kind of sucks, but also I don't really have anybody else to hang out with. So like
if he wants me to suck his dick occasionally, maybe that's just something that I'll just put up with.
And that is something that can happen to any vulnerable person at any age.
Yeah, I could have been older than him to take an advantage of by someone who's manipulating you.
So at some point, we all deal with that. And sometimes the person is your age,
and sometimes they're not. But it's never an equal playing field when one of you is at an
emotional disadvantage. Yeah, there's different kinds of power differentials that aren't just age
or, you know, there's there's sadness, there's a vulnerable someone being your boss or whatever
moments in your life. We all go through that. I mean, who hasn't looked back at like a friendship
job or situation, a relationship, we have another human being going, Oh, I wasn't in a good place,
or that never would have flown in retrospect. That was a terrible decision.
So I think overall, that was a really, I think you guys have done a great job
discussing difficult topics. And I want to encourage you all to continue. And thank you.
I hope I can contribute next time. I want I'm glad also that you're doing a good job at pointing
out like where we could improve because that is important to me too. I don't want to like get
butt heard about, you know, or I don't want you to like feel like we're going to get butt heard
about you like criticizing stuff like us not defining terms because actually that's important
feedback. I really like just jamming with Steven and any of I know some people have said that they
actually like, just enjoy hearing that and they don't care as much about like a staying on topic
because it just feels like hanging out with friends. But then there's other people that like
like Phoenix, for example, doesn't listen to very many of these episodes because it's just like
too off topic and that bugs them. I came up with the term digress-a-thon.
Not a bad word for it. Yeah, no, I appreciate that. I can't say it better than Jay said it.
I was going to make last remarks on the last thing, but I already spent enough time talking
about last episode. I don't want to go back with another episode. So no, that was good.
It's fun to talk about and it's engaging and more important to revisit and get things articulate.
And as a final point, I think this kind of live listener feedback thing is kind of fun. So if
anyone does have something to say about an episode that we have recently put out and would like to
come on the show for live listener feedback, I think we could accommodate them. Yeah. I mean,
usually we record at the same time every other week. So we're more like them accommodating us.
Right, right. If you're willing to come on, you know, around the early afternoon on a Sunday
and we can get you an on Zencaster and maybe have a little 10, 15 minute live feedback thing.
Ultimately, if that doesn't work for you too, you can always send in like an audio question.
I was just going to say that, yeah, I actually like the format
in other podcasts that I listen to where people sort of just call in like, I guess,
almost like an advice show sort of like, hey, I have a question about such and such. And
we could also sort of cut up the audio clip if there's multiple things. And then it sounds
better than us just sort of reading a text comment and replying to it. Although that's also a thing.
It's just we get a lot more of those. And it's harder to sort of like skimp through all of this.
Yeah, talk to us more and more stuff. Well, thank you for joining us, Charlie,
and kicking off the first live listener feedback. Yay. Bye. Bye, Charlie. I have one last thing,
actually, because David Spearman added me on Discord and was like, what are you talking about
that young people can make an impact in the world or something? That was their first point. We
hammered on that for a minute where it's like, young adults can't make an impact or something.
And I pushed back on that because I didn't know what you meant by can't or impact. So it might
have been just a game of taboo that we should have played earlier. But I think the common
understanding of that was not what I was using. It's there was some miscommunication.
Like, I don't think you're ever until you're once you're able to mentally model other people. So
three or four. But at some point, and well, and then once you're old enough to care, which
might take you until you're 40, or maybe take you to your 10, who knows, you're able to make your
corner of the world a little brighter place. That's what I meant by make have an impact. And
