if you resort to violence, then you're the one that gets in trouble. Exactly. Not always. Not,
not always. Like in my case, I was always the shortest kid in class. And I was like,
girl with blonde hair, blue eyes, and was known to be like a good student, etc. Teachers didn't
get to see this out of me that would just kick a kid in the nuts. But the kid had a fucking coming.
Probably not actually. In retrospect, I way overreacted. Like that's why I said ender, because
like, when I was a kid, I felt like the stakes were way higher than they probably actually were. But
if you are the shortest kid in class, and it feels really threatening, especially because a lot of
my experiences in recess, for example, was if I, they would like say tell the teacher,
someone's bullying you, and I'd go tell a teacher like, Hey, this kid keeps hitting me. And they'd
be like, just ignore it, or just avoid them. And I was like, he's chasing me and hitting me. Like,
well, just, just, you know, I'm not going to do anything about it. Figure it out. So it's like,
I'll figure it out. I covered my, I covered my arms and poison ivy, because I used to be
immune to it. And then gave like, I could have given a kid anaphylactic shock. I didn't fucking
know. Or like, if some kid was like, starting to bully me and giving me mouth, I would just go
right for the nuts. Like I said, to the point where like, Oh, God, I'm going too much in a
digression. I just thought this was funny. A male teacher at one point pulled me aside and said,
you should never kick boys in the nuts because you can make them infertile or something. And I
was like, I don't give a shit if they're bullying me that they're asking for it. Anyway, no, you're
good. Take, take control again. I think you are helping teach those young men the responsibility
of their life that there are actually, there are consequences. Yeah, the other actions that if
you, if you, if you antagonized a young Jace enough, then you might never get to have kids.
Exactly. Lesson learned in your, your lineages ended. I also convinced probably a shitty lineage
that I was being psychologically bullied by a bunch of girls and I convinced them that I was a witch.
You got to sacrifice just one of them and the rest of you alone.
No, actually, they just would talk and they seemed to think that like,
people couldn't overhear them. So I would just overhear them, like saying shit. And then later,
I would be like, Hey, I know what you said about me and repeat it back and be all creepy. And they
were like, Oh, nice. I'll power through some of this. So like, there was the, so I brought the
cuddling childhood because it carries on into adulthood. And so, you know, if you're, if you're
a kid and you can always go to a safe, a responsible adult for all of your problems,
you never learn to handle anything yourself. And then you move on to what we colloquially
consider adult life like college, and you think things should be the same way. I should never
be scared. I should never be stressed out. And you're at the same time told, these things should
scare and stress you out more than they probably do the normal, the, the healthy average person.
And so that's where the, the untruth of what doesn't kill you makes you weaker comes in a lot.
Like, essentially the belief that people are fragile, like so remarkably fragile,
that reading the wrong word in a book at college can send you into like a spiraling madness and
depression. Or the kids just aren't like smart enough, or I don't know if smart's the right word,
but like Huck Finn, for example, like there was a historical context.
Are we using the term kids to refer to, I don't know, like it is kind of,
I think I was thinking of like elementary or maybe probably middle school is when people
would have tended to read Huck Finn. There is literally a common term called college kids,
which you know, I think is sort of telling on its own that we're calling people in their 20s
the same word we could use for children still. Because they basically are children. They're
they're dumb. And especially because they're, they're inebriated all the time, but we don't have
time to bog down on that. We'll call them college adults. Well, I mean, I think part of it is also
that this is a problem with how the adults are treating them. Like the adults are the ones that
are thinking, oh my god, they're going to be so hurt and coddling them. Or we're going to get
sued. Well, we're fine. I think the adults are coming around to that. You know, like if if this
was six years ago in 2015, the adults were flabbergasted. They had no idea where this was
coming from. But these were the first generation of kids raised with the super careful upbringing
and raised online to reinforce all these ideas of like, oh no, you're you're crazy fragile. Yeah,
safe spaces was the term that took off in 2015. And again, like so much of this actually, like
you keep saying Steven, that was well intentioned. I think that like safe spaces became, I think
that started it with the feminist movement, where it was women who had maybe been raped or
been in abusive relationships wanted safe spaces. We have some more listener feedback.
Happy dog. Yeah. Yeah, so I think you're right that safe spaces started and they just sort of
make sense. And I don't want to get us too far. In fact, I want to just mention that like, it makes
the discussion of like, who gets to use which bathroom, not an insane one to have, or which
changing room at the store or something. There is a not stupid way to have that conversation.
I think like there's contexts where like, if it is a group of, what is it like, women's studies,
people that want women, women only space to talk about like, ways that they were abused,
or like if it is somebody who is scared of men, because yeah, maybe like they did have like,
a stepdad rape them, and then like a bunch of abusive experiences, and they're just scared of
men, like, it's kind of reasonable to maybe like, give that phrase to the safe space to talk about
that. But like, then I saw safe, like, one of the actual like, pushbacks I've seen on social media
are people saying like, hey, tumbler is not your safe space. For example, the person complaining
about, oh, a minor might see the sexy like, pan up of Connie from Steven Universe. And it's like,
well, actually, you're supposed, I forget if it's 16 or 18, but you're supposed to be 16 or 18.
When you make a tumbler account, you have to click a thing that says I've like, you know,
I confirm that I am above 16 or 18, in order to make an account. So like, kids shouldn't be on
there. And I've seen other people say, hey, like, tumbler is not your safe space. And also,
control your content. If you want to, like, if you're 14, and you've clicked yes, I am 18,
and you're on here, you have sort of decided for yourself, I am, I am going to possibly see some
content that might disturb me. And then also, maybe you can like, there's filters, there's,
you can filter out tags, you can, you know, decide which things you do and do not want to look at,
not telling other people, hey, you need to make this space safe for me or other potential minors.
It's like, first of all, you're not supposed to be here. Secondly, like, if you don't like it,
go somewhere else. And that's why I'm not, that's why I don't follow any spider subreddits.
So like, but the idea of, again, always being raised with a responsible adult in the room,
somebody can go to and say, they made me feel unsafe. They had a spider picture on their phone
that I saw when I was looking at their phone. Like, I mean, I don't know if anyone's gotten
in trouble for that specific thing, but that's the kind of thing too, or somebody's like, I'm
really triggered by, I'm a vegan, I'm triggered by me and somebody's like, posting pictures of
like their Thanksgiving dinner or something, and they're like, take that down. Yeah, I mean,
I haven't seen a case like this. But I also don't follow this that closely, because I don't
do a lot of outrage stuff. But, you know, imagine a college campus where sorry,
if you eat meat, you have to eat it in your dorm rather than the cafeteria because it offends
and scares the vegans and triggers them. Like, that's not unreasonable jump from where things
are in some places, right? But I think you can also politely ask for that without demanding it.
I've seen examples on Facebook of a bunch of friends who are like in social justice stuff. And
I've seen different like ways of people, for example, posting like, Hey, I get really upset
by pictures of like animal death or animal abuse. So like, if you're posting graphic things of animal
abuse, like even if you're trying to raise money for something, like, I would really prefer if you
hid those under a read more or put like, you know, trigger warning, there are pictures of animal
abuse in this scroll past, if that's not your thing, versus I've seen all caps screaming,
like, you were a bad, evil, terrible person. If you were doing this, and I will unfriend you,
and you should also be arrested. Like,
I mean, I think part of it is just, since this is a culture war, a war over what the norms of
society are supposed to be. Like one of our norms is that we don't walk around in a grocery store
or whatever in sexy lingerie or other, you know, clothes that are meant to titillate our partners.
Not that there's necessarily anything wrong with those, but it's just like a norm that
you're going to cover up a little more when you go to the store. And some people want to change
the norms to be people are more covered up or less covered up. And this is one of those things
where like, some people want to change the norms that you can't eat meat in public. And
like, I don't know if there could be, you know, a norm if there's Indian, some, maybe there's a
Hindu around. And so nobody should be able to eat beef in public because it would offend them or
maybe there's a Muslim around. So nobody should be able to pork in public because that would offend
them. And, and at some point it is just a war about the norms, like, you know what, we want our
norms to be that you can't eat any meat in public, or we want our norms to be that like,
fuck your veganism or your religion, people are allowed to eat meat, this should be a normal thing.
And at that point, I think it's just, it's justified over, over preferences, right? Like,
there is no objectively right or wrong in this case. Well, I mean, I think for me, if I had to,
I don't, I couldn't say as objective, but I think the best outcome would just be like,
sorry, your offense doesn't get to control how other people behave. Right. So like, if you're
offended by two people kissing, that doesn't mean that they shouldn't be allowed to kiss
in front of you or at our campus or whatever. So like, that's where this whole
What if you're offended by two people like fingering each other in public?
I mean, maybe they're, so you're right, that's a, that's a good example, because a lot of call,
I'm not aware of any campus that, you know, wants their students to be fucking each other in public,
right? So maybe within certain guidelines, you know, I don't know.
That's why I went with fingering, because it's less unhygienic, it still crosses norms.
But yeah, I, as long as you wash your hands.
Yeah, I guess what's tough for me is if people fall back on like, no, this is offensive. Like,
this is the same kind of bullshit reason people have been using to oppress people forever. And so
you can't elevate that to like, you know, 20 years ago, we were all around for the new atheism
movement. And they were like, Oh, that your talk of, you know, unreligion is offensive to me.
The answer was like, so what? And that was the fine comeback. Like, you're offended. Okay.
Well, sorry, but they don't jump on my book, right? This for everybody else.
Maybe part of it just has to do with whether or not you're forced to be there or not. Like, I could
see. I don't think that has much to do with it. Like, in Muslim countries, you can't put up pictures
of Muhammad because that's offensive. And I think it's more than offensive.
I'm talking about like, sort of what my preferences would be if I were dictator of the world and the
one that had to choose these things. Like, I would say that like, I think it like is polite to do
the thing of, Hey, I want to raise awareness for like, this animal abuse charity. Trigger warning,
there are some disturbing pictures under the cut here. And some like graphic descriptions of the
kinds of abuse that we're trying to fight against. So like, keep that in mind. And that's cool,
because it gives somebody the choice to see it or not. But then there's, for example, like, if you
are in school, you are kind of like there's compulsory education. And there's also just
like, people want to be in their college class, I guess, like, not being shown graphic like Holocaust
murders or something. And I think they sort of have the right to maybe, again, like politely,
not like, let's kick down the Dean's door and, you know, put them up on a flagpole or something.
In a class on World War Two history, as long as the professor says we're about to see some
graphic images, I think that's just the way it should be. Like, you can turn your eyes away if
you need to. Yeah, I remember in middle school, there was like, yeah, that they were going to
dissect frogs and worms and stuff at different points. But they gave other students the option
to opt out. And I chose to opt out at the time, because I did not want to dissect a frog, I probably
would now. But at the time, I was like, oh, the poor, you know, animal, I don't want to do that.
And I like that they gave it, it's like, you could either participate in the dissection,
or you could like read the chapter about it and look at some of the pictures, which were
drawings, and then like write an essay about it, where you still sort of maybe you miss out on
like the hands on experience, but like, it's still sort of, I guess it's the respect thing,
again, sort of giving giving people the right to control their own content.
And yeah, I think, but that's the, that's where there's this like creeping frailty among
some young adults and not so young adults, where you're in your 20s, there's somebody on campus
reading a book with, there was an example in the essay about somebody reading a book about
this, this march against the Ku Klux Klan in the 1920s. And there was a KKK rally on the cover of
the book, and this offended a student slash employee. And I think that student got in trouble,
I forget what the, what the fallout was, but like, that shouldn't be enough. Plus the book
wasn't even pro KKK, it was about an awesome anti KKK movement. But I mean, so this, this kind of
falls into, I want to spend more time on each of the three untruths, but I'll power through real,
sorry, go ahead. Before we jump to the next untruth, I kind of, so there is a risk of, you
know, when you find a new thing that seems to explain a lot, suddenly everything in the world
is explained by that new thing. So I might be doing that right here. Everything is a clue.
But I think that it's entirely possible, and even likely in my opinion, that this is not something
where people are actually hurt by it. This is more an effect of people are being treated like
infants, adult people are being treated like infants, they have been for a decade plus by this
point. And this is one of the ways of fighting back and rebelling against that. This is one of the
few ways they can exercise power and, and strike back against the people who are basically their
prisoners who are treating them like infants. And I mean, it was brought up in the, in the book,
team 2.0 that I read that joining a gang is actually a very adult activity. We think of
it as a mature, but you're basically joining a military structure. You have duties that are
required of you when you join, you get benefits for it. And if you try to leave this organization
without their blessing, there's major consequences. And like, this is the same sort of thing where
people are trying to assert their lives by saying, we can hurt you too. Like this, you've been treating
us like children all this time, but we can do something to make your life terrible. Stop,
stop doing this. And who are they responding to, like the Dean at Yale? Yeah, any authority figure
in their life, because that's, I mean, it's the authority figures that are treating you like
children, like you don't have the same rights, you don't have the same ability to be an adult
human as anyone else. And this is one of the things you do. Like he said, the three things you
can do to get adult rights immediately in, in our world is to get pregnant, get married, or commit
a serious enough crime. And suddenly the system treats you like an adult in a lot of not what
completely, but in a lot more ways than they did before, because like, oh, you just murdered someone
at 16, you're going to adult court now. Unfortunately, the people are pushed to the extreme too,
because like joining a gang, you know, I don't encourage people to join gangs, I think that
they're usually pretty bad. But like, I could understand why someone would do it if that is
the only way that they could have any feeling of control over their own life, or what is it,
power autonomy, etc. Yeah, so I mean, I agree, it's because of the infantilization thing,
but I think it's less that people are actually children and more like that they're trying to
strike back, I think they're their power. Yeah, like, I can also understand some of the, I don't
agree with it, but I can understand where people are coming from with the extreme social justice
stuff. For example, like, there's the college I went to, or university now, Richard Stockton
University. Richard Stockton was one of the founding fathers who's like, less well known, but
he kept slaves. And there was a, I think, bronze bust of him, like displayed prominently that
some coalition of students like demanded they take down. And I think they did because they're
like, I'm offended by you glorifying this slave holder. And it's like, there's an argument that
like, okay, well, there's a historical, like he also did a bunch of good things. And maybe we
could have that nuanced view, but like from the perspective of black people who keep having to
see slaveholders, like glorified and talked about as though like these were, you know,
these awesome superheroes of the past, that's a way that you can sort of fight back for like,
