Sometimes it's sad kids do die but like also I think you can't really prevent that as a parent
by just you can't predict everything that your kid might do and sometimes they're just freak
accidents, you know, you could be walking in a forest path that you've been in all the time and
there's a bear one time and that's why you always have one more kid than you actually want to have.
So there's a backup. Yes, I was drawing a bad analogy to like saying where it kind of makes
sense maybe to protect 14 year olds from 35 year old people who want to fuck them because
that seems like a circumstance where yes, you could have a bad outcome that merely results
in having regrettable sex but it is like possible that that kind of trauma can hit a lot deeper
than if you merely got slapped by a 35 year old. But the analogy here is like, you know,
while I was told yes, you can blow your hand up if you do it wrong. Maybe my dad shouldn't have
taught me how to do it in the first place because I wouldn't have learned that all these cool things
are on the house are flammable. You would have found out. But he maybe showed me a couple years
too early. Okay. And maybe he didn't. Maybe he did at the right time. My memory's fuzzy. I just
do distinctly remember him showing me it was with like brake fluid or something or brake parts cleaner
that kind of like a hose that shoots like 11 feet. Like it was like, I mean, I learned from
other kids in school how to make basically a kind of homemade napalm thing. Got a styrofoam and
gasoline. Yeah, yeah, super easy. And apparently, I don't know where this came from, but also crush
up one Advil or Ibuprofen and put it in. That was just a thing that was like an urban legend,
magical ingredient in my area. I don't know where the hell that came from doesn't do anything.
But it was a thing we all did because that that gave it the little extra spice.
That's fun. Yeah, a couple of Halloween's in a row, we went around with like a two liter and we'd,
you know, you just spend the year collecting styrofoam. And then you shove it all into the
container full of gasoline. And then you go out in Halloween and draw a shape on a wall inside
on fire or draw a line across a back road and set it on fire. Yeah, I was pretty good on only
doing it like on asphalt or other things that wouldn't catch fire. You put it on walls, a brick.
Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we weren't totally dumb. All right, yeah, we were stupid, but not
not doesn't know what catches on fire is stupid. Yeah, I brought up this drainage tunnel thing
though, because there was one time, like my dad knew we'd fuck around in there. And it was like,
kind of on his drive, it's a common way to get to and from like Safeway and stuff,
you could see one side of it. And we had gone in there. And I remember which kid it was through a
bunch of like pine bramble onto our little fire. That son of a bitch. Well, as you apparently know,
that that is very, very smoky. Yeah. And so we all vacated quickly at the other end,
because we couldn't breathe. And apparently the fire department showed up and they and they
were at the other end of it. And they I'm assuming they're spraying water down or making sure there
are no kids in there or something, something, some sort of big deal. And my dad saw that,
but then he came home, like after he finished driving past it, we were at my place and he was
like, Oh, that was you guys, right? You guys okay? Yeah, we're fine. And he's like, Well,
the fire department's there. Don't, you know, go around. I'm paraphrasing from bad memories,
but that's basically what went down and go back to the scene of the crime for a while.
Exactly. So, you know, but anyway, little mistakes like I bring all this up, it's not,
it's an aggression, but it drives the point home that, you know, goofing around and being
unmonitored as a kid gives you a lot of this, this agency and responsibility that you know,
I should love so much for, for young adults. I'm teasing. But I, but in the good way,
I do like those things. Yeah. But the dismissive quote unquote,
stuff was teasing. What Charlie was saying earlier, I mean, like, it applies to relationships,
but also just things like screwing around with homemade napalm or whatever you, you do your
dumb shit, and then you learn from it. I learned, for example, that you should not use a car battery
to try to make an electromagnet. Oh damn, what happened? It might have been a wave runner battery,
which would have been slightly smaller, but I was in my dad's workshop and I connected it for
just a second until it like shorted out or just terrified me and I disconnected it, but everything
metal jumped toward me a bit. I was in a like workshop full of like saws and hammers. So I was
just like, oh shit. That's amazing. That's cool. I had made one with like a nine volt and then like,
or not even the nine volt, one of the like ones that's a big brick that you can kind of hold in
your hand. I forget what the kind of battery is called. Is it C or D? Yeah, C or D, those big ones.
Something like the big, and then I was just like, Oh, this, you know, what'd be cool is if I used a
bigger battery, like I wonder how much, you know, magnetism I could generate. It turns out a lot.
But I'll say he like knocked everything out of all the cabinets and I just see the Walter White
van going to the wall. I'm glad you weren't hurt, but wouldn't have been interesting for you know,
the newspaper, like you're just ripped apart by every sharp thing in the office. And like,
like it's not even clear what really happened. Like it looks like a ghost just ripped you to pieces
and everything and shattered the whole workshop. Anyway, it's fun to humor about because nothing
happened. So yeah, but those little experiences, they, and I said it as a joke, but I mean it very
seriously, it gives you a sense of responsibility and accountability for your own stuff. And it's
valuable. Anyway, there are great reasons to try and rein that in. And then it turns out it's not
that hard to overcorrect. You're like, I came home once and I thought I'd cleaned up well enough,
but I hadn't. And my mom was like, immediately, what happened to you? Like what happened? And I
was like, he named the kid through a fireball at me. And because we'd set a ball in the newspaper
on fire and threw it at me. And as I dodged like the wind just blew it and it just like basically
gave me a haircut. And I thought I'd kind of, I don't know, combed over enough. But no, it was
obvious that like from across the room the second I came home. And so, you know, it is the kind of
thing if we've been goofing around a little more differently that day, and I was, you know, covered
in some residual axe body spray from one of our extermination missions or something, he could have
set me on fire, right? So I get where parents are coming from. And I think it's hard not to
understand why they're, they have this protection. No one wants their kid to be burnt to a crisp
because they're playing around with fire, right? So, but this gets stupid real fast, like when
you pass a law and parents can get arrested. And again, I think you said that they're making this
illegal, it's illegal to pass laws like this. I'm not sure what that means in the terms of
legalities, legalities, but basically they're making it so you can't pass laws such as your
10 year old is at the park down the street unattended, and you're going to jail for child
neglect. Specifically, I think the Texas law was you can't call the cops on a kid being left in a
park. That I mean, I guess they still could, but the cops aren't supposed to respond. And
the parent that the person who tried to do that would be the one that gets in trouble.
I wonder how young the kid's supposed to be. Because if I saw a baby in a park, I'd call the
police. If it's just sitting there under a tree, clearly just I don't know what the police do.
The police would do the same thing as you stand there until the parents showed up, right? Or
at the very least, I guess, what am I going to take it home? Like, or just walk away from the
park and leave it there while it's getting dark out? I feel like, yeah. So it's probably
I should be allowed to call the cops without getting in trouble. Put something up on Facebook,
you know, baby found, perhaps approximately yay, wait, I call it. It's at the park, if anyone
belongs to anybody. Staple ends, it's hella fun polls, like found baby. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of that
makes sense. No more digressions. We are going deep. All right. So yeah, sorry to fill this
with digressions. I brought up a lot of anecdotes and childhood and tried to
coke some out of you guys because height makes the case. And I think I agree with him that
having unstructured time as a child, and specifically unsupervised time is very valuable
for self development, self actualization and accruing a sense of responsibility.
You know, like I got hurt when I was off doing shit as a kid.
That's literally how you learn things. It's how you learn not to touch the stove by poking
the stove one point and being like, Oh, fuck, that burned my finger. I'm not going to do that
again. Yeah, I did that as a young scientist on my very first birthday. I touched the candle.
I'm told I don't remember this course, but in the pictures, there's there's a picture of me
eating the candle flame and then a picture of me crying. And so anyway, the idea of not never
having like, so we're going to go with more examples. I mean, everyone's aware of them
because height goes on about the met at some length of, you know, Oh, this college campus,
this professor in 2010 was caught reading Huck Finn, and now she's fired. Can I read one like
please paragraph that was really funny. Some recent campus actions border on the surreal.
In April at Brande University, the Asian American Student Association sought to raise
awareness of microaggressions against Asians through an installment on the steps of the
academic hall. The installation gave examples of microaggressions such as, aren't you supposed
to be good at math? And I'm colorblind. I don't see race. But a backlash rose among other Asian
American students who felt the display itself was a microaggression. The association removed the
installation and its president wrote an email to the entire student body apologizing to anyone
who was triggered or hurt by the content of the microaggressions. And you know, I think was an
actual quote triggered or hurt by the content of the microaggression. It's, it's, it was a good
example because like, it's obviously very well intentioned. And they did maybe, you know, they
could have not picked on a particular race for it or something. If they picked on one of everybody,
except for white people, because we can't be microaggressed, American Association doing it.
So wait, they made, they made the thing and then other Asian Americans at the school. Oh,
I got you. Oh, I have a quick, just as long as I'm we're toeing the line of annoying people with
race talk and all this stuff. The guy who I can't remember his name because it's not that popular
of a show called Kim's Convenience Store, the older brother, Charlie loves that show. She grew
up in a very Asian community season, whatever just came out five. I've been watching it. It's
so far my least favorite. Okay. Mainly because all of their problems are caused by them lying
or trying to cover something up and lying and then frustrating to watch and stacking lies
on top of lies. And like, it'd be great if like by five years in, you guys have learned that like,
stop doing that and your lives get way easier. Okay. But it's that sort of manufactured
conflict, right? Right, right. But anyway, the older brother, he's going to be,
there's a trailer for it. He's going to be not an Avenger, but he's going to be a Marvel hero.
Oh, cool. And apparently, like after they did, I think after they did Thor, maybe after they
did Black Panther, maybe both times he tweeted at Marvel Studios, because maybe he thought he
was a big enough person to get a response from Marvel Studios. He's like, great, now you got a
you got an African American hero. How about an Asian American one? I feel like it's a weird way
to ask, but it got it got him to gig. And then people are like, finally an Asian American hero.
He's Asian Canadian. That lying son of a bitch. I mean, Kim's Convenience Store takes place in
Canada. He's Canadian. He lives there. Okay. So he's not even representing the true Asian Americans.
Yeah. And I, my only thing that I realized when I was thinking about this was like,
I've never heard the term Asian Canadian before. And so like, I also wondered,
do they, do they call Black Canadians, like African Canadian? I've never heard that either.
You know, Canada is basically just America's hat. So they, they can all count as Americans too.
I mean, I get some angry emails from Canadians. I only bring that up because I,
I was morbidly curious and I didn't know how to Google. I guess I could just Google,
but I don't want to. Canadians are pretty chill, right?
Canadians or what? We're talking about stereotypes.
Yeah, they're super nice. They won't get mad at us. There will be some strongly
apologetic and courteous emails from our Canadian listeners.
I'm sorry you got the wrong impression about Canadians.
But I remember seeing something years and years ago about African American actor,
British, or African, African American British actor, Idris Elba being considered for James Bond.
And I'm like, hold up a minute. This doesn't scan.
In Britain, they call them mixed race.
Well, now I know. Yeah, but I just, I'm more accurate, honestly, like I actually sort of feel
like when we're trying to be all politically correct, be like Asian American or like African
American, like sometimes people are like multiple races.
Well, and this is the thing that was calling them the one that they look like the most, maybe.
That's usually, yeah. Yeah. I know we're going to be on digressing,
but this actually does sort of relate so I can tie it back in. But anyway, I knew that was,
that was, couldn't have been the way that they actually called them in Britain because
they wouldn't say African American British actor. Like that makes no sense.
Anyway, so, but this does tie in because, well, I got to start from the childhood thing. So
self actualization through alone time and responsibility. And now that we're all super
old, we remember having childhoods probably with many unsupervised hours, maybe per day,
maybe just in the summers, but like being left alone a lot. And maybe not, maybe not all three
of us, but I spent a lot of my childhood outside because I didn't have my parents didn't want to
pay for the good cable. And I wasn't allowed to play video games until I figured I was 14 or 16.
But like, honestly, I think that I turned out better because of that.
I liked being outside. I was out doing stuff a lot. And I guess what I'm getting at is some,
I would be curious. I was a low maintenance kid for my parents. I mainly like to read.
And then once computers and video games became a thing, I did that a lot. I just, I went out
sometimes and I was unsupervised during those times, but a lot of my time was spent doing
things that would be considered very safe anyway, like sitting in my room and reading.
How safe is reading though? What were you reading? Was it Satanic?
I mean, look at how I'd ended up. My parents made the wrong decision trusting books to be around me.
I don't know how, just as long as we're like saying, all of your stories are really dark,
which is hilarious. Like if you, if you meet Elias, like he's just super like nice, happy,
positive person. And then like, it's like, you just like channel it all out and you're writing.
I remember like the first time you sent me the short story version of,
What lies dreaming?
Yeah. And I actually had to stop reading it. Like, I think the rape scene or like shortly
after where I was just like, Oh man, like, I was actually kind of in a depressed period at that
point. I was like, I'm sorry. Did you know that it was, it was a great story. Actually, I went back
and like read it later when I was in a better headspace and loved it and recommended it to
people. But I was just like, hidden depths. All right.
Totally. I, I'm trying to drive home my point quickly because we spent a good useful amount
of time on other stuff, but we're going on too long. So the unsupervised or excuse me,
the super supervised childhoods of today's 20s on things led them always to have responsible
adults around. And like, it lets not, I won't bog us down with examples, but all of us experience
some form of bullying, all three of us anyway, many of our listeners, most bullying can be handled
yourself. And especially if you handle bullying yourself, you feel like a badass. If you have to,
or at least you feel like you took like, you know, your life into your own hands or you took
charge of your own life, you know, the, you know, the broadening of what's encompassed under the
umbrella term of bullying is, is things like exclusion, like we're going to go play tag,
you're not, that seems like different than this kid's hitting me. Now bullying is still a problem
if you're like afraid to go to school, or if you're, you know, stressed out about they did go into
school, then that's a problem. It's just a really unpleasant environment all the time. Even though I
like didn't let people bully me because I was a weird little ender child. I still was stressed
by the fact that people could try to bully me at any point. And I was kind of hyper aware of the
I was bullied, like, consistently, but moderately, you know, like I never lost any teeth or broke
any bones, but I was hit, you know, like, so, but it was, it was pervasive. So it would be,
it would be kind of like what you'd call like a hostile work environment, right? Although it's
more hostile, you know, I can't, you can't even lightly beat up your coworkers. But that was
basically school for me. But there's less you can do about psychological bullying to like,
