no, actually, I'm sick of having like the shit shoved to my face.
I think those are some good steelman arguments. I don't know if they account for some of the
behaviors, you know, like yelling at the Dean, because you find Halloween costume is offensive,
you know, you go to Yale, Yale doesn't go to you, right? Like, it.
Yeah, although like going to Yale is a way that you can get a job. I mean, like,
I guess you could go to another university, but it's like considered one of the,
it is one of the Ivy League schools. It's prestigious and so forth and so on.
Maybe I'm modeling college is wrong, but I kind of picture it like a curated online space where
it's like, you know, if you come to a discord or you're following a Tumblr or something,
you don't get to tell them how to do stuff because you now you're here.
Well, don't get me wrong. I think it's egregious bullshit. It's just in expressing your power is
not necessarily a good thing. There's a lot of blatant abuses of power that people, I mean,
that's bullying, right? Is just using your power because you can and it makes you feel good. I
think this is the same thing. Yeah, unfortunate results of radicalization, like the reason you
might join a gang because the system's broken. So like, it's a reasonable or like, it's an
understandable thing for someone to do. But if young adults weren't treated like children,
this probably would happen less, I guess, is my thesis because everything goes back to that for
me right now. Yeah, I mean, there could be a lot more distress tolerance actually taught in school
too. Like, I still am annoyed by how little like social skills and just mental health skills are
not taught in school because people don't think that that's something you should learn in school.
You should learn it, I guess through osmosis or something. I think the only thing you should
learn in school is like very basic skills like reading and arithmetic. And like, like if this
was taught in school, it would be probably taught as badly as most things in school are taught. And
just spend less time in school and let people pick up the resilience outside of that.
There's really useful things to like learn though, you know, the example of CBT is actually like,
I think that's a skill that would benefit everybody to learn because
Yeah, but if you force them to learn it, they're going to learn it shittily.
If people want to go and learn it, then they actually pick it up.
I think a case could be made that like, I don't know, there's things I am glad to have learned
in school. For example, I'm glad that my school was one of the few that still had a semi functional
home X class, where they had already gotten rid of a lot of those, because it's like,
the whole, oh, well, school should be, you know, for training people to work in basically like an
office job. So they were getting rid of a bunch of, you know, things that were like, oh, life
skills that like maybe you should be learning these from your parents or something. But a lot
of kids parents don't teach them how to cut a check, cook food, repair clothing. I don't know.
Home X was such a waste of time for me. It was it was another recess like, oh, you teach me how
to follow the instructions on a box to bake a cake. I already knew how to do that because I can read.
So many of my adult friends didn't know how to microwave a bag of popcorn without burning it
or fry an egg. They'd probably learn after two or three attempts of trying to microwave a bag of
popcorn. I have friends and like past romantic partners who never learned it, because they felt
so embarrassed about being bad at it. I guess that's like sort of another topic where maybe you
ingrain the skill in people on how to read instructions and how to, no, I mean, not rudely,
but also how to Google things that you don't know about. Like I, all I didn't Google it, I watched
the inductive reasoning type classes would be pretty sweet. Yeah. Like I watched a great,
there's a great YouTube series, Nets, what I reckon, as in short for Nathaniel. He's an Australian
guy, he swears a lot and he teaches you how to cook. And it's all, it's all like apocalypse
based because we're all at home. So welcome back to your own fucking kitchen champions. We're going
to make chicken parmageddon. He's Australian, so I assume he drops the C word a lot.
Oh, yes. Okay. But anyway, this isn't the three hour podcast. This is the two and a half hour
podcast and we're past our three hours. So I tell you what, I'll wrap up with a couple of sentences.
If anyone thought this was interesting, wants us to do more on this, let us know. Or if you
want us to go back to doing like interesting stuff and talking about like cool science shit or
something. I do think this is interesting and relevant. I'm sorry, I got so off-tracked by
everything. I had a good time. Like I think maybe we could come back next week or something.
Because we only touched on one of your three things, right? One of Height's three things. I
didn't make a shit up. But yeah. I mean, we'll maybe come back to this in a couple of weeks,
maybe not. But I do want to just emphasize because I want to rail on this a lot harder than I got a
chance to. But there are a couple of good virtues coming out of this. A lot of like the terrible
toxic shit that everyone hates, call out, cancel culture, all that stuff. There are virtuous
mindsets from which that behavior can arise and good outcomes. Like even though it is a weapon
that is wielded incorrectly and like over broadly, I think way too often, I think the goal is like
accountability for being shit. If you're out there harassing people and you're actually doing that,
someone should know and you should get some turbulence going on until that stops, right?
I think the Me Too movement was a kind of fallout of this sort of mentality. And that's
just awesome to the extent that people weren't insane about it and saying Terry Cruz wasn't
allowed to participate. The initial Me Too movement was really good. I had Harvey Weinstein out of
there. Yeah. And so there was pervasive horrible shit going on. I don't know if anyone else loves
Kesha as much as I do, but was it her most recent or second most recent rainbow, I think?
It was basically all about her manager was one of these Weinstein characters. And it was about
overcoming all that stuff. It's great. And she's one of the few artists I can understand when she
sings. And don't get me wrong, Me Too was great. The one gripe I had with it was the thing I read
about people saying, it was specifically Terry Cruz because he was like, oh yeah, Me Too and
they're like, no, fuck you, sit down because you're a guy. I didn't like that.
It went off the rails. It started out great, but almost everything else in the culture war,
it went badly eventually. But that said, it was one of the positive aspects to come out of this
kind of mentality. So I'm actually glad about a lot of the raised awareness of things too.
I think that attacking the dean for Halloween costumes or something is taking things way too
far. But I also do remember being a kid and being in a Halloween store and like every other
costume was some like racist stereotype. Like there would be like geisha girl. And it was
like, first of all, I'm like, that's a chunk. So I'm not a kimono. And like, okay, I was a little
married kid, but like, you know, you'd see like a like a thug costume where it's like blackface.
And like, yeah, like there's some like pretty offensive Halloween costumes that used to and
still exist. There's also the thing of the like sexy female version of everything.
I love the sexy banana. I like the way that people just started subverting it. Like, I never
actually did this, but I thought it was funny. I really wanted to be sexy Emperor Palpatine.
Nice. Sexy job. The like emaciated scary face thing, but then maybe just have like the robe
be like a mini skirt and have like high heels and like fucking fishnets or something. I don't know.
See, I think that's the appropriate way to respond to a bad costume is to, you know,
challenge it and make it your own. Not attack the Dean about it. Well, and, you know, that was
that was a weird case. And one that I don't want to like make the whole platform of my gripe with
this stuff. But it's like, just there's there's there's a way to handle disagreements and conflicts
and and life stresses that doesn't involve running to your parents or running to the,
you know, the staff at wherever you work or running to Twitter to get a professor you don't
like fired or something. Like you can you can resolve a problem yourself. Like there was this
quick example of somebody works an office job and this all sounds made up because I have none of
the details. Handy isn't writing this down for this episode. But anyone who's worn a tucked-in
shirt before knows that when you sit down, it becomes untucked when you stand up. So unless
you do the military took this guy apparently wasn't. Or he didn't have that cool thing where
it's like a garter around your leg that you strap to your shirt. I left my wedding so I could do
all the dancing and stuff. My shirt didn't my untuck it to levels were perfect. But
stand up at his desk, tuck his shirt in, go off, go to the Xerox, go to the bathroom, whatever.
Well, rather than his I mean, so first off, you might reasonably suggest that his female co-worker
who reported him to HR might have been a little oversensitive. It's it, but maybe there's some
good reason for it, etc. But rather than say, Hey, man, you're making me uncomfortable. Again,
whether the uncomfortable, the reasonableness of the uncomfortable aside, or the the yeah.
They go to HR and say this guy is sexually harassing us. And he's like, What are you guys
talking about? Well, you're reaching into your pants every time you get up. It's like, I'm tucking
my shirt in. I'm not I'm not fondling my dick. Like this is this is a behavior that I need to do
to comply with the dress code for the place. I've got tucked in shirt, you know. So like,
I guess what I'm getting at is there are ways to like resolve. So like, again, owning the Palpatine,
the sexy everything costume, there are ways to resolve these things that don't involve running
to the authorities or or censorship. That's like, one of the things that I wanted to
do and the or before we move on, actually two things. I think that the really bad outcome
is that like, for example, like banning Huck Finn or whatever, you can as like a learning
institution, I don't know, for example, the the what is his name, Richard Stockton bust,
instead of just taking it down. Maybe they could have negotiated something where there's a plaque
that they they they could change the wording of the plaque to be like, Hey, Richard Stockton was a
complicated historical figure who did a lot of good things, but he was also a slave owner. And
we're putting this bust here because he was the founder of this school. But like, if you want to
learn more, here's a website that, you know, it seems really weasley to me. I like the idea of
not venerating the guy like he was perfect by just if you just have a statue with the guy's name
and age or date or something on it, right? If you do say, hey, this was a complicated figure, but
we found that his contributions to the founding of the country that you're living in and attending
school in was valuable. You know, check out the our web, you know, our yell.com slash or whatever
Stockton ed.edu slash statue for some details on our complicated thoughts on the matter.
I think that's not a that bad middle of the road option. I think if you got a bust of someone up,
you're venerating them. And I mean, I there can be an argument made that that along the lines of,
you know, what he deserves to be venerated for the good things he did. And in his time, this slavery
thing was whatever, I don't know, whatever kind of argument you would want to make. But like,
if you have a bust up of Stalin or Dick Cheney or something and being like, you know, this was a
complicated guy with a lot of good and bad things in his past, go to this website link to check out
the controversy, like, you still got a bust up of those people. Sure. But I don't know having the
fact that they existed, or just saying that they only did good things. Yeah. And I do think that
you're right. Having a statue up venerates a person, but especially to there's something to
be said about like, old art. You know, I'm not a very art minded person. But if something is 200
years old, and you're like, Yeah, sure, the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia is problematic for reasons
X, Y, and Z. But it's someone could I'm just making this up. But like, some some artifacts like
that, you know, it's like, Yeah, but we're not going to we're not going to throw it in the incinerator
because it's 300 years old and we like it, right? The thing I would worry about is that like, extreme
censorship of like, let's just get rid of books that offend people, let's not teach classes that
might hurt people's feelings actually has the opposite of the intended effect where you're
just not teaching people about the like, complexity of historical events. And that like,
you're actually sort of covering up bad things that happened. That's different from having a
statue of someone up though. That's why I was saying maybe that wasn't the best example. I was
just trying to think of something to use as like a concrete example. I mean, pick somebody awesome
that you know, again, all the founding the found all the founders had slaves, right? So like, it's
I mean, basically, if not all of them, the super majority of them. Yeah, I mean, like, it was
very common for white men of the upper class at the time to have slaves, and they were all white
men. So like, you know, they're the problematic history of the United States, by today's standards,
it's good that we don't operate that way anymore. Like, that's valuable. But you can't say they were
shit people, because they lived 250 years ago when everybody was shit people. Like, you know,
I don't know if this is true, but hypothetically, it could be true. Let's say Gandhi hated black
people. Like,
Gandhi had problematic views about the Holocaust.
Sure. So, you know, whatever, whatever legit issue there is with Gandhi, you can take the good,
acknowledge the bad, but not throw the baby out with the bathwater, right? Like,
to throw out Gandhi and all the good he did throw up Martin Luther King, Jr. All the good he did.
Like, if you if you are holding everybody to the perfection standards of 2021,
you're not going to find anybody from history that is perfect, right?
Also, like, what things are we going to be doing and saying that, like, people 50 years from now
are going to think we're a part?
Hopefully some stuff, right? I want to, I want to say, oh, no, I'm serious. I want society to
keep moving forward. Oh, I think that there, there, there will be things that I hope that they,
they are more wise in how they judge their descendants or their ancestors than we are.
But anyway, we are wrapping up just because I think we're over time, but we're never out of time
to thank this week's patron. And this week's patron is Alex Weik, who is a total badass for
helping support the show. So thank you, Alex. We couldn't do this without you. And I hope you
enjoyed today's episode. And Alex, if you have a comment about whether we should talk about this
more or move on to a different topic, we will triple the weight of your opinion on this one.
That's right. Yeah. Ping us on Discord or write us at Bayesian Conspiracy Podcast at gmail.com.
Or maybe submit a audio clip if you want us to air that. Yeah. Or even call in somehow.
All of those are great options. Cool. So thanks again to Alex and everybody for hanging out
listening. And we'll see you back here. Same rat place, same rat channel in two weeks. Bye. Bye,
everybody.
