I don't know. The guy who wrote something about Silicon Valley. Yeah, yeah, that guy.
He, what you said about him writing something that was actually fairly contemptible and
Howard Sterni, it was the exact opposite. It was extremely tepid.
I know what you're thinking of.
They drew one sentence out of context, which is another tactic of this whole mindset.
Because you're thinking about the Sam Harris podcast, right?
Yeah.
They literally stopped reading his quote right before he got to the bad stuff, which kind of
made me, they summarized the part that he said the bad stuff didn't they?
No, no, that kind of made me like, trust Sam Harris a little bit less because like,
and he stopped right there and was like, and the rest of it was basically like this too.
But like, if you actually read it, the rest of it is where it really got spicy.
And I really think that Sam Harris was being intellectually dishonest by stopping there and,
and not reading that and being like, but this does sound pretty shitty, dude.
Well, then I walked with the wrong impression. I will give Sam the benefit of the doubt there
only because they were doing it with Antonio leading the conversation and reading as much
of it as he was comfortable with doing.
Yeah, but he should have pressed him on that.
He should have pressed him. Yeah, but I can see why he didn't say, well,
hold on, let me finish reading this and kind of like,
Let's read the next two sentences, sir.
Yeah. But yeah, that's interesting. I walked away with thinking that all he had said that,
his wife was way more interesting than the average Silicon Valley girl because she was
like actually cool or something, which again, dismissive and rude, but like fairly lukewarm,
right? Right. But if it was worse than that, then yeah,
Paris did the world of disservice by not being forthcoming about it.
Anyway, the reason I wanted to talk about the calling of American mind,
because basically, you know, I said, hey, I'm busy this week. Who wants to think of a topic?
And I was thinking about the subject anyway, and it tied into the youth thing.
And so part of how we're fucking up kids is doing...
Young adults?
No kids.
Okay. So part of how we're fucking up people below the age of 13?
This is, yeah. Okay, okay.
So this ties into the kid stuff, not the young adult stuff, the children thing about...
So apparently this started in the early 90s, but it must not have got to my neck of the woods
till the, you know, 2000s because I did have a free-range childhood.
In like the early 2010s, coming to my attention.
The child, sorry, which part?
Oh, I thought you were saying just like sort of the beginning of terms like microaggressions
and trigger warnings and wokeness.
No, I was thinking younger.
Yeah, something below pre-pubescent.
Yeah, so as pre-pubescent stuff, but yeah, we will talk about the terms too if we get a chance,
because I didn't come very organized. I guess now you can tell, you know, I shouldn't organize this episode.
I think you're doing pretty good, actually.
Yeah, the youth aspect of it came from like the overprotectiveness,
in a word, I guess you can call it that.
He calls it safetyism, which is kind of fun, because safety is a good thing.
More safety sounds like a better thing, right?
It turns out, as one might expect, too much of a good thing can lead to a bad thing.
So... Middle way, always.
Yeah, you know, the idea of like wanting to know where your kids are,
so that you know if they haven't been home in X number of hours,
versus microchipping them.
Right, versus microchipping them.
Or like actually just not letting them play outside out like, you know,
you were in the middle of that, actually.
Oh, no, you're fine. But yeah, like, well, if my kids outside and I don't know where they are,
this was again, too, some of the satanic panic from the 80s,
and abductions being like headline news all the time in the 90s,
even though they almost never happened, and if it did, it was almost always family.
The world was actually getting safer, but like it was just the fact that,
first of all, you had news at all of this stuff made people more aware that it happened,
because like, you know, stuff's happening in New York City, or like, I don't know, Minnesota,
or whatever. But like, maybe there's never been a child abduction in your neighborhood,
but now you're aware that they happen.
Right.
But then the other thing was that they started focus testing the news and figuring out that like,
outrage porn gets lots of views.
I'm convinced that's what started this.
Yeah.
Was that, hey, if we make people scared and mad, they'll watch our show more.
And then that turned into how they monetized the internet as well.
Not just watch our show more. 24 hour news was not a thing until the first Gulf War, which was
91, I think. Yeah. That is when CNN, I mean, they'd already been kind of trying to do stuff
and sort of struggling before, but then the Gulf War happened, and suddenly having a 24 hour news
thing was really interesting, because you could at any time click over to CNN and see what was
going on in the war. And that was the era where 24 hour news really took off and all the other
stations started becoming big then too. And I mean, that's fine while there is a war and there's
action going, but like,
But there's always a war somewhere in the world and there's always a hurricane that's happened
somewhere and some child has been abducted and some horrible like serial killers on the loose.
And that's all the stuff that they were focusing on, because it's the most sensational.
Yeah.
If you ever like, hey, this community got together to like save a beef
well, isn't that cool?
Well, not just that, but like when you have 30 minutes to an hour, usually the newscasts were
30 minutes long, where they covered all the important stuff that happened in the day in about,
I guess, 22 and a half minutes with commercial breaks. And then once a week, there would be one
or two one hour news shows that like really dive deep into a subject, like an SSC blog post in TV
format. But like once you have 24 fucking hours that you got to fill with news. And like you said,
the outrage, bad stuff is what really draws into the eyeballs. You start looking for all
the things you can find that might be newsworthy slash scary and throwing them up on the air for
24 hours a day. And yeah, that that fuck up people slightly a bit. Well, and it turns out it just
fucked up parents. Yeah. So like boomers were way more protective of their kids on average than
their parents were of them. And honestly, their parents probably could have been safer with them
and things that have been a little safer for them, right? For the boomers themselves.
I remember my dad talking about he and his friends playing a game where they would throw a knife
at each other to like, what was it? Like you'd stand with your legs apart and and then you get
like further and further apart and each person takes turns throwing a knife and trying to get
it to land in the dirt between their feet. Man, I'm glad I was never quite that dumb. Like my
brother and I had like a weak ass plastic bow and arrow that we put a cork on the end of it,
and we would shoot each other and try and catch it. But like, but between that and airsoft wars
were at least we almost always wore sunglasses. I don't think you could put an eye even with airsoft
No, but it turns out if you could hit in the eyeball, it does burst blood vessels and really
hurts the eye. My brother had a cool red circle on his eyeball for a while.
He gets some like kind of gnarly bruises from it too, but like
And it probably could have blinded him at just the right angle and close enough. I mean, those
those guns can break skin. If it can break your skin, it can break your eye. It's true.
They're still probably safer than just throwing knives at each other.
Totally. That's what I'm saying is I thought we were dumb. But so, you know,
this is this is where the well intentioned part of it needs to be emphasized, right? Because
if if we want to pass a log and kids throwing knives at each other, I think that's probably
not a bad idea to do, right? Kids, not young adults, right? Right, right, right.
Probably shouldn't let adults throw knives at each other either. But if you're too
consenting adults in the privacy of your own home, you know, maybe that's fine, but not not in
the parking lot of Walmart or something, right? I actually wish that just waivers were more common.
Like throwing knives at each other actually happens quite a lot in like juggling shows or
various other performance, non professionals shouldn't be allowed to throw knives at each other.
You're really qualifying a lot of things. Do they need a license to prove their professional
life through? As Jay said, they probably need a waiver. Okay. If I if they fuck up and hit me,
I can't sue them or the circus, right? Yeah. But and I'm qualifying as a joke. Yeah. I mean,
it's it's one of those. Anyway, the idea of let's keep our kids safe, partly because the
news is making me think that every third kid is getting, you know, abducted and raped. And
I also just care about my kid, right? And there's also the actual real factor of some kids are
in danger, right? And this is a bit of an aside, but it was I was listening, I mentioned to Sam
Harris is up sort of Neil deGrasse Tyson. And Harris always tries to rope him into talking
about culture war stuff. And last time he was on, he kind of neatly sidestepped it. And this time
he he did a nice pirouette around it. He didn't engage with it directly, but he gave some good
insight. And he did talk about how when he was eight, his mom gave him the talk of like,
when you get stopped by the police, do this, because she didn't want to come home and learn
that her kids were dead. So like, you know, for anyone who doesn't know Neil deGrasse Tyson is
black. So like that makes a that makes that talk from his mom have some serious fucking gravity.
You know, when I got the talk about a deal with police, there was never a threat of or they'll
kill you. It was basically like, here's how you lower your chances of getting a ticket,
which is when they come to the car, have the window down, engine off, have your license
registration ready. Like that, that is how I handle every time I get pulled over. And anyway,
like that, but my talk of how to deal with the police was never involved, like, or they might
kill you. That wasn't even implied, as far as I know. If it wasn't implied, they didn't imply it
successfully. Anyway, so that this this level of kid protecting extends especially to places
where kids go like schools, zero tolerance policies became really popular. No, if stands
are butts, you fuck up, you're out, we're not dealing with it. Because if we have to have
tolerance, that means we have to have discretion, which means we can be held liable, right? So
I don't know if height makes that point, but that's been my hobby horse for a long time. Whereas
like, you're expelled because he hit that kid, it's like, yeah, I hit him because he kept hitting
me. And you'll notice I'm missing two teeth. And it's like, yeah, well, we don't have we don't
have a zero tolerance policy for violence, engaged in violence, you're out. I think that
that's mainly to protect the school from anyone saying, well, look, you know, you made a bad
judgment call, like, actually, we didn't make a judgment call. So he can't hold us accountable.
But so this ties into one thing that I've observed in real life with, I think,
legal adults, it's hard to say with online anonymity, but the idea of always having a
responsible adult around, that wasn't a thing when I was a kid. And I'm glad I get to say that
because it makes me sound old. But I guess my my childhood was just 10 years behind some other
parts of the country. Because when I was a kid, I left the house, and my parents wouldn't know
where I was for hours. I would say, I'm going to go out literally, you know, we're going to run
around with this guy, we're gonna go have fun. And like, all right, well, they would kind of know
you were with that guy, you were in the neighborhood, somewhere, probably. Yeah, I mean, we could,
within 45 minutes, drug to downtown for Collins, we could be miles up that way. I mean, if I did
fall and break my legs, they would never find me. You know, I wasn't like at his house or at my
house, we would be somewhere. And we found every little niche, every gap between fences to jump
and run across every ditch, every drainage pipe that you could crawl into and light fires. And
I was always scared to go in drainage pipes. We had one that we go into a lot, and it got harder
when we got taller. But I mean, that says something, the fact that we're still growing,
we're going into this thing, right? There's going to start fires.
It's on the side, there's a whole community of people who do urban exploration, and then one
of them, I forget if it's called draining, but like, that's like a subculture of the
sort of urban exploration community where people share information about where cool pipes are,
how to get in, like, I don't know. This just didn't even have a gain on it, etc.
That's probably great on it now, I should go look next time I'm in the area. But
Well, I always figured, I mean, I didn't go very far. But once you go inside past a turn or two,
everything looks identical. And maybe you'll get stuck in there for days and starve to death
because you can't find your way out again. Luckily from the surface, it was from about here
to like the visitor spots across the parking lot. And it had one turn, and there was no
branches. So I could see from like above both parts of it. It was just big enough to go in
and have fun. Cool. But like the kind of childhood we had, we'd go in there with a can of axe body
spray and a lighter and shoot spiders with it so that we could clear the place out for us, right?
I also used to set perfume on fire with friends because some of the chemicals were maybe just
the fragrances or dyes in there will make it burn really cool colors. And it probably wasn't
great to breathe in, in retrospect. It's a very expensive flamethrower.
Yeah, and not that effective. But it did get the spiders, and I don't like spiders.
And axe was the continuous spray. And so you could get them nice with that.
You could probably kill them without setting it on fire with a fire spray. That stuff is noxious.
So this is actually just this is nice kind of flashback to the discussion we were just
having with Charlie about like kids being traumatized and stuff is like, I think it
does make sense to protect kids from things that are overtly likely to harm them in very serious
ways. Like we were just lucky that none of these cans ever blew up on us without us meaning for
it too. Like it is actually not uncommon when you turn like you're when you're doing don't
don't do this at home. Don't do this period. But if you do, which you shouldn't,
you have the lighter a few inches ahead of the flame, and you want to you want to shoot the
excuse me a few inches ahead of the the projectant spray. And you want to you want to shoot the spray
about an inch or two above the flame, you don't want to shoot at the flame less to get on your
thumb. And then the flame cuts that. And then when you're done, you turn the lighter off and move
the can away at the same time. Because like as the as the flame goes out, and it just the
and if you stop pressing the diffuser, it doesn't it stops pushing out and it kind of comes back
this way. If it goes to the can it can explode and blow your fingers off. Okay. So like, it's
things like that where I do think it makes sense to like try to protect kids because kids don't
like I knew abstractly when I was 13 kids how to safely flamethrower spiders. Don't tell
them on but my dad told me how to do it. I think there's lots of dangerous things I learned from
other kids and have always done and like most of the time they're fine or you get minor injuries.
