I think, because the concepts are fuzzy. Well, I think children should absolutely not be used
for anyone who's gotten through puberty. I understand that the concepts as a standard
fuzzy, but there's no reason you guys can't make it better. We totally could have laid it out better,
but yeah. Children is pre-teen, and anybody who's hit 13 or older is now 18 rather than a child,
because it's in part of the name of their age. Teens are teens. And you could use young adults
for people that are in an age range of teen, but not voting yet. So according to our current
laws, officially an adult at 18 magically. And interestingly, the young adult book classification
is for people generally around 13, 14 and up. Like the Hunger Games series is probably the
most well-known young adult series. I'm not sure if that's still true. But yeah, that same for
people around the 13, 14 age range. It's like Hunger Games, Twilight, Harry Potter books, which...
The later Harry Potter books. I don't think the earlier ones were quite YA. They were probably
more like... Yeah, they were early reader. Yeah. But yeah. Charlie, are you familiar with tabooing
terms? I feel like, because I feel like that's something we could probably do more. Yeah.
It helps me get on track. When you say, can we taboo the word children, it forces people to
say what they really mean. Because we might have different mental handles that attach to the word
child, like you and I might, right? So if we're like, all right, look, we're talking past each other,
would we keep using the word child? Let's say anyone under 12. Or creep you best. Sure. And then
that way, like, because I might, I might mean child, it being anybody who's... His childish behavior.
Or yeah, or anyone who I wouldn't trust to operate a motor vehicle or something. You know,
I could have some Donald Trump as a tariff definition. Sure. I don't know what Donald Trump is.
Fair point. But yeah, so tabooing is saying, all right, let's have this conversation again,
or at least continue this conversation without using the word that keeps confusing us, right?
Yeah, that's all I'm saying. Yeah, no, that's a, that would have been valuable. Like I said,
I think, I think there's some self-awareness of that during the episode. But yeah, it might have been,
I don't listen to our podcasts. It may have come off way more annoying than it was to talk about.
So I appreciate that. Yeah, I think I hope I can be helpful in the future. Totally. Because there's
nothing you guys can't do when you take a coffee break, kind of recalibrate.
There's nothing we can't do when we've got the power of coffee. That's the subtext.
Charlie, you would be a really good moderator. Like everybody shut up. Okay, what are we talking
about? Wait, go back. We have had some requests to have more Charlie on the show already.
Ah, shucks and thanks. And I wanted to clarify a couple things about
young adults and sex. Because, you know, it was pointed out that, oh, I'm an exception,
because I'm incredibly, I was incredibly mature for my age. And also, like, I turned out okay,
despite the stuff that I went through. And I just felt like, when I was listening to that,
I got a little uncomfortable. Because if someone didn't hear that episode, they might not understand
the context of the discussion properly. So I just wanted to make it clear, like, there's no point
in our last discussion that I denied that sexual events can be traumatic, regardless of age.
And that's an important distinction. I think I also said that, but like,
I also just want to keep reiterating that so people don't get the wrong idea that, like,
yes, PTSD can happen. And it can be really, like, debilitating not everyone that has stuff happen
to them. I guess, you know, does come out of it, okay? Or even like the sort of, well, you're an
exception because you came out fine. Like, it's like, maybe like I'm functional now as an adult,
but like, it doesn't mean I came out fine. Like, I still have traumatic flashbacks to stuff that
I can function. But like, I've gone through therapy and shit too, and not everybody has the
same access to resources or whatever the same supportive friendships that I've had. So like,
yeah, I hope that I guess both of us weren't like downplaying the seriousness of the topic.
Thank you, Jace. Yeah, I just want to, you know, the fact that I am a functioning adult now,
I just want to let people know that that is harder than it looks. And it's a recent development in
my mental health. I don't, I'm much higher functioning than I was just a year ago versus
two years ago. And if you were to meet me a decade ago, well, I don't think we'd be having this
productive discussion. And it's, I'm not smarter. I'm mentally healthier. So there's definitely
damage. The damage of mental health issues is real, and it's ongoing, and it's so contextual and
unique to each individual. So I want to acknowledge that. And I also want that to give power to my
argument that young adults should be recognized as young adults and treated as such. I don't think
that putting people in global rap because they might be traumatized or make a mistake that they
regret is worth the damage that it does, preventing them from being capable. You do have to,
you have to experience mistakes to learn from them, and you have to experience responsibility
in ever changing amounts to grow. Preferably like in a supportive environment to like,
not just like, yeah, let kids go make mistakes, but like, let's not put any support structure in
place to like help them out when they get traumatized. But just complete infantilization,
retards your growth. It doesn't make you safer. It makes you a worse human. That's actually the
entire subject of today's episode, which is why this is a good, this is why I chose this one for
a good continuation of the last two. Cool. Now, I mean, you make a good point. I, you know, I
read back through this week of our skim through Inyasha's notes on that book. And like, I'm still
mainly convinced that 90% of that problem can be solved with just not having shitty parents
and schools, schools as own subject. No, I mean it. No, no, I understand that you're saying that,
but like 90% of the problem of falling off the cliff and dying is gravity. Like,
not having shitty parents is an extremely hard problem to solve. Right. You can't just say,
stop having shitty parents, kid. No, no, I agree that this is like an avenue for people with
shitty parents to find a way to get out of that situation a little easier than they have it now.
It's still one of those things where like, you know, if you're 14 and want to emancipate and
you can't drive, well, someone still needs to get you the nine miles from here to the testing
center where you take that test, right? And you still need some amount of, or what am I trying
to say? Like, I think if a 14 year old is emancipated in there, like, it's like, okay, kid,
we'll give you your own apartment and here's like your bus pass. Like that's still, I think,
not great because you need, you need role models, like mentor figures. It doesn't have to be a parent.
In fact, it's probably worse if it's a shitty parent, but like. And I think much of the point
is that the current system encourages parents to be what we call shitty parents, because that is
viewed as the correct and proper way to raise children. You do send them to school like this.
You do have control over their lives. You put on curfews. You don't allow them privileges. If
they do things you consider irresponsible, like that is what being a good parent is. And that's
bad. I've seen some real extreme versions. Like you've probably seen these YouTube videos of a
parent like smashing a child's PlayStation in front of them because the kid didn't listen to
the parent. And then like, you're supposed to cheer for that parent, like, oh, that dad's a hero.
And it's just like, that is just straight up abuse. I feel like you guys are making things up.
Sorry. I don't usually disagree with that vehemently. But I do not think that the role,
and maybe, maybe different ideals of parenting have different standards. But I've never seen
those YouTube videos, but I've heard about them. I feel like those are shown to showcase horrible
people. In an office, I used to work at somebody, like a bunch of my coworkers had kids and somebody
like posted that I think on our like off topic Slack is like, look at this. This is hilarious.
And then the like sort of the general idea was people laughing like, oh yeah, like look at that
dumb kid. Yeah, I mean, maybe you work with stupid people. Maybe I've just got high standards of
people or something. But like, at the very least, that's a really stupid thing to do as a parent
because PlayStation costs money. And you can make the same point by unplugging it and taking it away.
But you shouldn't take it away either. No, but but but if if your if your goal is to prevent
the child from doing it, which again, shouldn't be whatever. But like that's like, that is just
stupid hitting it with a hammer. That was public humiliation. Right. But also that's that's the
point. If your child doesn't go to school, you have to discipline them, you take away their
property. If your child wants to go downtown, and like, I don't know, hang out with friends or
learn something in their off time instead of going to school, then you're supposed to do these things,
take away their freedoms, make them more like an infant, or at least according to some like schools
have thought about parenting. I mean, not only are you supposed to, but like you can get fined or
go to jail if you don't. Well, that's new. Yeah, I think that's not that new, like that there's
definitely been like, that's like, I think 15 years ago was so that's new to me. Because
control your kids, like, no, no, like the idea that there's might have been in 2003 or five,
this is in Jonathan Heights essay. Parents are, you know, the first case of a parent being arrested
for their child going to a park unattended. Oh, no, no, no, I'm not even talking about well,
I mean, yes, that's just stupid. And I'm glad they're starting to put laws to make that kind of law
illegal or that kind of thing illegal. But like even when I was 14, which was C laws. Yeah, well,
truancy laws have been along for a long time. Yeah, that you have to be in school or the parent
gets a fine or jail time. But even when I was 14, I knew that their children take it away. Yeah, if
I were to cause some sort of property damage to someone else, if I were to smash their car up or
something, it'd be my parents that would have to pay for that. You don't have money. Well, right.
But that it means that I am not an adult, I am a child, they are still liable for what I do.
And so now they have to act like jailers to keep me in line.
And I don't want to have the last episode again, but I'm kind of curious, what would you have
instead? You're 12, you think it'd be a lot of fun to go down the street on your bike
with a sharp stick on the end of a or the yeah, with a sharp rock in the end of a stick and just
key every car on the road. And so what maybe let's say you're 13, so you're past that magic
number that instead of 18 is now 13. So now you're a young adult. What should the state do? Make
you get a job and pay for it? But how many or do community service like make you pay for it? Or
even put you in jail for vandalism, if that is a lie, if that is a thing that adults could go to
jail for. So we're talking about keeping kids still within a realm of protection against young
adults. Sorry. Again, concepts are fuzzy. But let's throw this 13 year old who's a fucking idiot
because they're 13 in jail and have them really enjoy the benefits of prison against the penal
system. That's not rehabilitative. And it serves no one to throw anyone in jail, except in extreme
cases. I basically agree that we should get rid of the jail, but treat them like any other adult
that has committed a crime. And hopefully that crime does not. Yeah, hopefully the punishment
does not include jail because the system is fucked up if it does, but treat them like an adult.
I think I disagree with treating them exactly the same as a 30 year old. But there could be tears
of responsibility that you unlock that are more nuanced than the ones that we have now,
these like sharp categories, or these fuzzy categories, honestly. Maybe you would go to,
you'd have to go to like after school rehabilitation things, do community service and like.
Just basically jail white. I mean, if they're too, if they're literally mentally incompetent
to realize what they were doing would get them in trouble and is a bad thing to do,
then you treat them like a child. That's literally what a child is, someone who is
mentally incompetent to understand that. But if they have the mental competency to understand it,
you treat them like a person who has the mental competency to know that this is a bad thing and
they shouldn't do it. I don't think the competency is binary. I think it's gradual.
Right. But I think it's also not just competency. Like if a 14 year old is vandalizing a bunch of
property, like there's probably some other shit going on that's causing them to behave that way
because I worked at a library with a bunch of teens. And I think if you asked most of them,
like, is that a cooler, funny thing to do? Like most of them actually are like, well,
no, I wouldn't do that. I wouldn't want someone to do that to my property. And it's just like,
obviously, bad and dumb and you'll get in trouble. And then there's like other kids who
if they're acting out, maybe they would act out and I could, I could generally always tell why it
was usually because their parents or shit. Or because, you know, like, there was a elementary
school across the street from the library and a lot of parents both worked and they would tell
their kids, okay, go to school after school, you walk to the library and then you wait there until
we pick you up at eight or nine PM, sometimes without giving them food. And it's like, if you've
been locked in school for eight hours already, like you got up at six AM, which is ridiculous for an
adolescent dish brain. That treating like an adult, like adults aren't forced to go to someplace
unless they're in jail. You have to go to work. But you have to go to work. You decide if you
want a job. Sure. You decide you decided you wanted to eat and stay one. Yeah, you literally don't
have to go to work. Whereas you have to go to work for a living. They're culpable for their
children. If anything happens, they're roaming around. It's very different. Like it was like,
there would be some instances of parents that were just negligent. And then there were some
instances of parents that were working their asses off at multiple jobs and just couldn't afford,
like, yeah, they weren't doing the best they could. But like, actually, you could see the
difference in those kids too, the kids whose parents were doing the best they could, like the
kids were smart enough to kind of recognize that they tended not to be the ones that acted out.
It was the ones whose parents would like, I don't know, just be those weird jerky sort of parents
that sort of commanded their kids around like it was a dog they owned, who would end up throwing
a football around in the library and breaking stuff. Rebellion and attention seeking behavior.
Just like lashing out against a system that like, honestly is being pretty bad to them. And I think
that kid shouldn't necessarily be punished like criminal. Like, probably they could use some
counseling, maybe somebody could actually look at their parent situation and be like,
I don't know what they could do. But
Well, and in a world where the system isn't designed to make the parents be the jailers
of their kids, this wouldn't be a problem much less often. The kids wouldn't be treated like
dogs because they would have other options. Yeah, well, one of the issues actually like
kids that, you know, for example, the kids that were throwing a football around, it's because
they were locked. They're locked up indoors all day and they have tons of energy. But like,
they sometimes would try to go play in the parking lot. And we as like the library staff would have
to tell them you're not allowed to do that because a car could hit you and then we'd be liable.
Because we have to infantilize you because that I'm kidding. I'm pretending to use the language
of the infuriated treating kids like kids. Yeah, no, it was like actually like really,
it was a hard decision to make it was hard to discipline some of these kids because I felt
like very sympathetic. I was like, I wish I could tell you like, Hey, why don't you go down to the
park? It's only like a short bike ride away. But like, the parents were entrusting the library
to be free daycare for these kids. And then like, yeah, maybe we could be liable if we told them
hey, go to the park and then they got kidnapped or whatever. Not that that would be likely to
happen. But I also felt gaslit by part of the conversation because you guys like kids can't
have jobs, kids can't have money. And I'm like, young adults, right? Okay, young adults. Sorry.
But like, I distinctly remember having a job at before I was old enough to drive.
Yeah, I had 14, it was under the table though. And I think my dad hooked me up with that.
Like, I think that not every kid has the option to do that.
I just I had a job at 14, only because the manager was a dope and wasn't paying attention
to local laws. I worked there for eight months. And then two months before my 15th birthday was
fired. So they could rehire me when it was legal to hire. I just I remember having a job when I
was in junior high, what did you do call center? Okay. Yeah, I mean, it was so like it was a job
with, you know, a paycheck, it wasn't cash. And so this talk of like kids, young adults aren't
allowed to have jobs. I, I guess I just need to Google what were the laws in Colorado 15,
20 years ago, because I remember being able to do this. There's a lot of logistics involved,
like, there were jobs I couldn't get just because I didn't have a car, my parents didn't
like want to drive me to some of the jobs that I got. There was a job I had to quit because my dad
like drove me to it a few times. And then was just like, Yeah, this isn't convenient for me.
You'll have to find something else. Could you have gone to your call center job or
any other job that you were qualified for instead of going to school?
No. Oh, well, I think that's a problem. Well, you can't really hold down a full-time job if you
