ostensibly is anti pedophilia, but actually it is just a way of, you know, yeah, inciting a mob
in witch hunting. For example, like if somebody drew a aged up Steven Universe and Connie from
the show Steven Universe, like maybe not even like doing anything sexual, but like,
I'm trying to think of better examples here. Or in a case where they drew, where they drew
fan art and the kid wasn't drawn fat enough and they bullied the kid into, you know, either
into a suicidal depression or literal death. It's funny that actually I've seen that go both ways
too, where like there's artists that will draw characters in different body types or of different
races, because they're just, I guess, experimenting with diversity or like sometimes, you know, the
best example I can think of is when there's like sprite characters in video games, so you don't
actually know what their canon appearance is. So sometimes people will like, oh, what if it was
like a black trans woman, and then like people will attack that person for no, that's not canon.
But then there's the other case of like, yeah, Steven's canonically fat and you drew him like
thin, so that's fat phobia. It's like a real bad situation for artists, if you're trying to draw
anything, because somebody's going to take some kind of offense to it. And it seems like it's
literally just people who feel disenfranchised want to gang up and attack people because it makes
them feel powerful. It's a form of bullying. It's absolutely a kind of bullying. And I think,
you know, it's in the case of, you know, watching or, you know, going to someone's website,
their Tumblr and seeing a Steven Universe art that you don't like, and then you act like you've
been attacked or assaulted or had violence done against you, whatever insane words they want to
attribute to this, I'll try to be more charitable and not just call it insane. But there's a lot of
misuse of the words like violence and aggression and attacked. Well, I mean, I've seen artists get
death threats, or even like some people will get like swatted or doxxed.
Oh, the artists are getting literally attacked and having violence done to them. I meant the person
who goes to Steven Universe fanarttumblr.com and they see an art that they don't like. The person
who visits that site says, I've been attacked because this is fat phobic. And it's like, no,
I just didn't draw it the way you thought I would draw it. How about you go fuck yourself or draw
your own? Which is how people usually would handle a disagreement like that, right? Maybe more politely.
If you go to a club and they're playing music you don't like, you don't get to demand that you
change the music because I don't like this genre or I don't like this artist, right? That's sort of
how I view online spaces, which isn't really talked about in the article, at least not much.
The extra level of anonymity makes it extra insidious and also the connectedness because
you could go see that art and not like it and then go cross post it somewhere that has thousands of
followers and say, look at what this asshole did. Let's attack them. And then suddenly that artist
is getting like mobbed with death threats. I've seen like, I'm pissed off. Some of my favorite
artists have been just been chased off of social media entirely. Some of them have quit art or
quit posting it and that makes me really mad. One of my favorite artists actually was a professional
artist and also had like a fan art blog and they were so harassed by people and this was somebody
who did have mental health issues and some PTSD and they were just like, all right, you know,
it's been a few years where I've tried to fight for like against this insanity. I'm quitting
art and I'm going to go like learn to be a welder and they went into welding school and they got
like a good paying job in welding and they're like, you know what, like nobody gives me shit about
like that I've welded this thing wrong unless it's like, you know, structurally unsound unless
it's actually wrong. They're like, this is the most relaxed that I've felt like in years. I don't
know why I put myself through trying to be an artist for that long. And it's just so
disappointing for me because I was like, I love this person's art and I'm mad that they're not
creating like cool shit anymore. I guess they're creating cool welding shit, but it's mostly
industrial. It's not art. It's like, yeah, okay, whatever, not to discraft skills, just no, no,
you're good. And that's the thing is, you know, it's, I'm getting myself a little out of order
on this, but it's fine because this is a, a sort of was a topic, but you know, it, I have this
weird, well, not weird, I have this, this knee jerk, not understanding and frank dismissal of
anybody who comes into an online space and demands that they be accommodated. Yeah, you know, this
isn't the acts like any tumbler they come across or any discord server they're on needs to comply
with their version of the American to the Disabilities Act where it's like, if I want to
go to the bank and I'm in a wheelchair, you better let, find a way to let me in. I kind of,
I'm on board with that, right? That was a good move with the United States.
But there's taking things too far where it's like, I'm offended by your art. So therefore,
I'm going to demand you like take it down or like right up public a pot. I don't even know
actually if there's a way that you can save yourself in that case. There's not as it turns out.
There were like, you know, like movie directors that if they find a off color tweet out of context
years before that they've since apologized for, but like, yeah, I don't know, your name's smeared
now. And even if you like write a public apology, people are just going to like be, I don't know,
still mad about it and find other things to be upset about. Well, I mean, I'll touch the apology
thing. And just a second, I was just my analogy with the with the ADA was like, my, my website
doesn't need to comply with, you know, this, this, this bad analogy of like your version of the ADA,
right? If you don't like looking at pictures of corgis, don't come to my website, right? You
don't get to come to my website and be like, I demand that you only show pictures of non pure
bred dogs because pure breeding is bad for dogs. Like, no, do you start your own website and post
pictures of non pure bred dogs? Like, so that never made any sense to me. And I've seen that happen
on multiple occasions online. And I barely get out online. That's the thing. Yeah, the thing that
really the worst example of this is a lot of universities were putting up their lectures for
free on YouTube, because I don't know, you can just learn things for free, you don't get the
credential, but whatever, who cares, it costs them nothing to take the video that they're recording
anyway, and put it on YouTube for people too. And then there were a bunch of ADA requests that
said, if you don't close caption this, we will sue you. And they don't have the money to go and get
everything, you know, transcripted in close caption, they were just throwing out there on
YouTube as a free service. So they took it down instead. And now a lot of free educational material
has been taken down. Because of these people getting all upset, I guess that that it wasn't
closed captioned for the hearing impaired. If this was if this was able to get you credentialed
and like that sort of thing, and it was part of institutions, education curriculum, you have
absolutely comply, right? Make it so everyone can learn because you've you've come to do that.
If you come across a video online, and it's like, I'm sorry, this doesn't work for you.
But also, this seems like it must be a few years old because YouTube auto does close
caption. They're not super accurate all the time. But like, yeah.
But they're about as good as you can get for free right now. So yeah.
Yeah, I definitely like, you know, I think that there are reasonable requests and like,
context for them. Yeah, a great example is the like, Hey, I'm deaf. And I would like to, you
know, like also access this material. And they and it's also reasonable of them to say, Sorry,
we don't have like, this is a free thing that we're offering, but we just don't have the bandwidth
to be able to do that. And maybe here's some resources or whatever. But like, one of the
things that really gets me about this is how often the people that are inciting the mobs
aren't even a meme. Like, usually it would be someone who's not even a deaf person just saying
there could be a deaf person. Like, or I see so much social justice that is actually like,
I find this offensive, because this is often people who do not belong to that group speaking
for that group. For example, like, a bunch of white people saying that sounds racist. And then
like, I've asked black friends before, like, is this offensive to you? And they would laugh and
be like, Oh, no, that's like the shit that I would say to my friends all the time, like, or
you can't bring that up, though, because then you have your token black friend.
I guess, but like, you're using as a shield. This is a this is a lose, lose,
yeah, engagement, as it turns out. So what what does this why why is this a bring us back to
the article? So it's, it's trying to explain where some of these behaviors came from, and
other ramifications that it has among including like new norms at workplaces, some beneficial,
some probably not so beneficial, and increasing political polarization, which has gone way up
in the last couple of decades, as opposed to the previous decades. There used to be a lot more
cross aisle communication than there is now, because now there's just this, again, you build up
untruth three, it's a battle of good people versus evil people. And if they disagree with you,
they're evil people, right? Or they or they offend you. But yeah, Jason's point of the,
and it's just easy to get sidetracked. But I just I got to raise my hackles on that for a second.
I've never understood getting offended on behalf of somebody else. I can, I can understand that.
Let me phrase that. Because I can understand that I went to a movie once with half a dozen
coworkers some years ago. And the one black person among us, they, because we all had a
backpack, we're all coming from work, the person wanted to see inside his backpack. And I stopped
and I was like, why do you want to see in just inside his raw carrying backpacks? And she's like,
oh, just safety thing. And if I had been more ballsy, I would have made a I mean, what would I
have done? Right? Like, so I could have at least said, that's horseshit, you're being racist, fuck
you, and just kept, you know, gone to the movie. I think that might have been the nice silver lining.
Just told her that was shitty of you and called it at that. You know, the, you know,
the person who had to show their backpack didn't mind, I'm assuming this happens all the time,
because people suck. And I've actually often seen people that are like, can you just not make a big
deal about it? Like, I actually hate when I know that some people have different opinions about this.
But if somebody misgenders me, and then like somebody on my behalf is like, hey, like, Jay's
uses he him pronouns. And that was very, and I was just like, you know what, I actually like,
can you can you just not make a big deal about it? Especially if they like, catch themselves and
corrected themselves. And then someone continues yelling at that. But like, even like, I don't,
most of the time, I actually like, don't want you to like, fight for my representation. I'm trying
to have a nice time right now. And you're just like, eh, people again, people have different,
like, you know, sort of opinions about this, I know people that would be really happy if someone
spoke up for them. But for me, I'm just sort of like, I don't know, I'm not like actually that
easily offended by stuff like that. And it's often not the time or place to talk about that.
If the person does want to like, want me to explain trans stuff, I'd be happy to, but I don't want
to just like be talking about elephants or whatever. And then so it suddenly turns into a
social justice argument on my behalf that I, that I didn't even like want to bring up.
Yeah, you know, it can feel better about my very tepid reaction to this ticket taker at the movies,
because he was already ahead, you know, I think he was one or two people ahead of me getting
into the queue. And you know, he didn't, I talked with her at this volume, you know,
the one you would, when you're saying, here's my ticket. And I, you know, I kind of just asked her
what was up with that. I didn't make a big stink. I didn't drag him over and, you know,
look at how he made him feel. I have no idea how she made him feel, right? I'm assuming not great,
but, but like that, that would have just maybe made him feel worse if he was just like, okay,
whatever, like, and he deals with this all the time. But like, if you drag him out there and
then like, or like, look at like, that's like the whole idea of the coddling thing, right? It's
the sort of like, you hurt my friend's feelings. It was very fragile and you should get like, you
know, it's, it's embarrassing. That's definitely one avenue of it. Yeah. I don't even, I didn't
really put his feelings into account when I was a 15 second exchange with this person. It was more
just like, I mean, it could have been me pointing out that I'm offended by you having done that,
because I think that was a shitty thing to do. Like, and then you're not making it about the
other person. I basically just said, why did you choose just him when we all had bags and kind
of had to make her, oh, oh, I was just doing routine security. And I'm like, on the one person. And,
you know, it was, it was just those basically two lines. It was a few years ago. But yeah, I,
I didn't try to presume how he felt about it, because it wasn't about necessarily his feelings
on the subject. It's more about like, Hey, you're not doing this to every fucking black person who
comes in here. That's kind of shitty of you. Anyway, that's a bit aside. I mean, the, the,
I guess I wasn't even offended on his behalf as, as offended on behalf of decent society.
But that's exactly what every person who, you know, if they're not fat and they see a fat
Steven Universe or thin Steven Universe picture, they're offended on behalf of decent society as
well. Yeah, it could be like one of those people who is just incredibly empathetic and is able to
put themselves in the shoes of somebody who might see this and get hurt, like, you know,
not all of these people are just doing this to sort of cyber bully people. Definitely some people
are definitely doing it for that reason. But I don't even know if they are aware that they're
doing it for that reason. I think that they genuinely like nobody believes that they're the
bad guy. They probably have convinced themselves that they're like a social justice warrior.
When I first heard that term, I thought it sounded awesome before like people started
doing this stuff. But like my, I used to be like, yeah, you know, I'm all about social justice.
That sounds great. I would love to have a society that's more like equal and aware of
diversity and determine as well. Yeah. Until it started turning into this weird like just sort
of political signaling bullying thing that's defeating the purpose sort of, I think there's
definitely people who are good natured about it. And I want to talk about that explicitly
at some detail before we, you know, before too long, because I don't want to say like this is
all terrible and everybody does it is the worst. But there is a a faction of it that is explicitly
malicious. You know, there are parts of what do you call your political team when you're running
for office, your campaign, your campaign staff. There are campaign staffers whose job it is,
and it's not every politician everywhere, but it goes at least as far as like South Africa,
including and so, you know, and parts of the United States, but it's not like just local to
the US, where it's their job to comb through the opposition's social media presence,
thoroughly and as far back as possible and try and find something to misconstrue so that then
you can drag that out in front of the crowd and say, look, in 2015, they said this terrible thing
about bathrooms and who can use them or something. And so like, there is a part of it that is
explicitly there to just try and rile people up so you can win. And it's not about caring about
the subject of what's over it, it's about caring about you.
Wasn't that one of Donald Trump's strengths, though, that he said like, yeah, I don't care
what you say about me, bring it on. I give no fucks about what you're going to find in my
backstory and my social media. I'll say something even worse, bring it.
Yeah, that people, you know, I can kind of see why people admired that about him. I sort of wish
the, because like, I think the, you know, accepted correct response up till that point had been to,
oh, well, you know, I want to deeply apologize for that thing that I said that I already
apologized for. But I just want to like remind everybody that this no longer represents my views
and I am going to gravel before you. So I, you know, I'm not going to lose you as my voting crew.
Or if somebody accused a real human politician of like sexual misconduct, they would say,
they would find some polite way to engage with it, not say, you're way too ugly for that have
been, that have been realistic, right? Which is another Trumpian response to a sexual assault
allegation. I really think that a lot of businesses and society in general would be
better off taking the Trump approach, these sort of things, like when Apple hired that one guy,
and he wrote some pretty from what, from the few clips pieces I saw, some like pretty bad
shit like 10 years ago, as part of like, I don't know, some kind of shock reporting kind of like
Howard Stern sort of level stuff, you know, which yeah, that's, that's not great,
what he wrote. It's pretty bad, actually. But you know, Apple looked through it,
they hired him anyway, he's got skills that they want. And then like the launch of social media
campaign, at some point, Apple's just got to say, I'm not letting the rest of the, I'm not letting
the, the most offended people on Twitter make my decisions for me. And I think most companies
would be much better served doing that as well as most humans in general.
Are you talking about Antonio Garcia Martinez?
