Yeah. Doperman corgi is just like, it has the like, you know, very stern German looking,
like sort of military, but then like it's just got a little bit of a dopey smile going on.
It's a little floppy. But anyway, corgis are breeding, are breeding, they're herding dogs,
and they're really intelligent. And so if you just have one as a pet and you don't give it
things to do, it'll just try to herd things like children or you, or the other pets in your house.
Speaking of, if you need to pick me up, you guys said dogs with jobs. It's also a great subreddit.
Dogs with jobs. Cool. It's also cats with jobs. Oh, yeah.
Cats with jobs is mainly just like a cat sitting on a keyboard, and it's like,
look, our new IT manager, which is really cute. The cat's natural job is to eat rodents and other
pests. That is the occasional post on there. You'll be like, you know, there's, you know,
it's works for a museum, and it's actually got a little badge that says like headmouser of the
museum, which is really, really cute. Yeah. I'm glad that like the cat, I don't know,
I've definitely met some cats that are just terrible at their job. Like, I was hanging out
with a friend's cat one day and just like an insect fell from the ceiling and then just fell on
its back on the couch between us and was waving its legs around like stuck and the cat just looked
at it and then looked at me and I was like, well, you're not doing the cat thing. Are you gonna,
no, it just like rated itself and then slowly walked away and the cat sort of yawned and looked
away. I was just like, hmm, you would not have been kept around in the early agricultural days,
but my cat is great because she catches flies. Oh, that's awesome. And she will leap in the air
and bat them like out of the sky, which is insane because flies are very fast. Yeah. And I wouldn't
normally suspect her being capable of these things because she also does some really derpy
things. But like, she can snap into predator mode when necessary. Anyway, though,
are we done with, I guess, inferential distances?
Except for two corgi facts. One, a lot of corgis do have tails and they're big and bushy and adorable.
Okay. And I found a two thirds number. Two thirds?
I will know that are born without tails. Born without. When I was looking, I just saw that it's
rare for them to be without, but they didn't have any numbers. Two thirds born without though.
Pembroke corgis were also bred with a gene that affects about two thirds of all Pembrokes. Those
are the queen ones, the tan and white ones. Oh, maybe the thing I was looking at was looking at
all corgis rather than just Pembroke corgis. The cardigan ones are like the black and gray and white
ones. Those tend to usually have tails. Okay, okay. I'm kind of a corgi expert. I'm a corgi
enthusiast. But yeah, anyway, I don't endorse that tail business, fuck all that. If anyone's
going to go lopping things off of anything. I think it makes sense for, I mean, like,
Dobermans that are working dogs, they crop the ears and tails because they're like police dogs
and they don't want them to get injured. But like, then people also just do it for looks.
How would not have a tail make you more dangerous? It's so, I guess, like another dog or a person
who can't grab it. For all of a second until the Doberman rips his hands off. If anything,
I think they make the Doberman more dangerous, which is kind of what you want, a guard animal.
Well, you don't want it to get injured. No. You want it to injure the other guy.
I'm going to breed it Doberman. That's just all teeth and claws someday.
And what is the other corgi fact?
Might have been about cardigans and hembroke. Okay. But the other thing was that, according to
poodlemixclub.com slash corgi poo, most are born with no tails. Oh, okay. Well, never mind then.
I need to see a picture of a corgi poo. I was, I was just happy to, to share that because I,
I would thank you for correcting the record. I wouldn't just be, I wouldn't be so enthusiastic
about them if I knew that most of them are mutilated at birth. So. Oh my God, corgi poos
are like what you'd expect. It's a corgi, but it's just like real curly.
Google this now too. Extra boof.
I do want to end this just by focusing on Eleazar's last sentence where he says,
and if you think you can explain the concept of systematically underestimated inferential differences
briefly in just a few words, I've got some sad news for you. And in part, that's, you know,
a joke about how long this post is, but also it's not just this post, like almost at least
several dozen of the last few posts have been leading up to this, if not most of the sequences
up until now, like. I mean, sequences are sort of a effort to go, go several inferences back
to get these like complicated. It's in large part an attempt to get the lay person to understand
just from their regular background knowledge to why general AI is a big deal and could be a human
existential threat and we should work on it. Yeah. And, you know, he's gotten this far so far.
And we've been going at this for a number of years. Admittedly, we've only done two per
one per week on average, and he posted, you know, like two, three per week.
I think it was every day for two years. Every day. Okay. Yeah. So, you know, he, he,
it wouldn't have taken him nearly as long as it's taking us. But yeah, it was a lot of time
just to get to this point to lead up to here. Yeah, I wanted to pull that out as well, because
I was curious if either of you have ever successfully conveyed the idea of inferential
distance to somebody outside the rationalist sphere, double reason of transparency, not withstanding.
Huh. Not successfully. I have had unsuccessful attempts. And I do tend to run into the whole
like person just sort of being like, Oh, you just think you're smarter than me because you've got
your fancy degree or you're on the internet all the time or whatever you're like. Yeah, the whole
being condescending is a big failure mode. I keep thinking of my dad. Kind of, I don't know.
I feel like I bust off my dad on the show a lot. If he doesn't listen to it at some point,
he's not a dumb person. It's just like a stubborn person, but like, you know, anti like
global warming. I'm also anti global warming. We shouldn't do that. I mean, like, I know, I know.
I've tried to explain to him one time that like the current temperature men like women with large
breasts because of obvious evolutionary things. And he just laughed and was like,
I was like, nobody's looking at breasts and thinking, Oh, like that person would be good
at feeding babies. And I was like, no, they're not thinking it. You don't need to be thinking.
And then like also money where like my dad is against the stock market and he found out that
I was investing. He's like, Oh man, like you can't be doing that fake money shit. And I was like,
all money. Do you understand that? Yeah, like all money, like this is a piece of cotton that's
reinforced with like, I don't know what money's made of anymore. You could just like, yeah, it's
a piece of paper with like a president's face on it that we've all sort of just like mass hallucinated
ourselves into believing has value. I mean, most money nowadays is just a number in some
bank's computer. Yeah, it's like, you cannot eat this though. Because like that was my dad's thing
is that there's real money and fake money and money that is in the stock market is fake money
because value can change. And I was just like, but I actually want like inflation dad.
If we're gonna say real money and fake money, real money is stuff. And it's stuff that people
need. But that's not money. That's just, that's, that's wealth. But yeah, I suppose so. But I'm
just thinking like, if that's about as real as money can get, right? Like look,
you need these things that people need to survive, right? Now I can partner with you.
Money specifically is like super fungible. It's the whole point of money is that it's,
it's abstract. It's not an actual thing. Totally. Well, and like the other just main virtue of money
is that I can transfer like, what do you need to live, you know, food, water, electricity? Well,
you have all that stuff, but I need skill of yours. Well, how about I give you, instead of
shit, you don't need like stuff, maybe stuff that you can go get stuff that you want with it,
right? And we call that stuff money. Yeah. How about I give you 10 electricity,
which you can later barter for food. Actually, I think that it's hilarious is my dad is a carpenter
and he does actually barter system stuff a lot. One time he like remodeled like a dude's kitchen
in exchange for getting dental work. Oh, that's cool. So like, maybe he's actually just sort of
coming from a even further place of inferential distance. And then neither of them is tax on that
too. Even though technically they're supposed to declare it to the government and be like,
here's your money for the thing you did. But yeah, no one does that. There was one last thing on this
post. I don't usually read the comments, but I had time this weekend. And the top comment was
really good by user constant to the explanation from ancestral environment seems likely. However,
there's also a rational argument for refusing to accept a claim unless all steps have been laid out
from your own knowledge to the claim. While there are genuine truth seekers who have genuinely
who have genuinely found truth and who were therefore who we therefore ideally sorry,
while there are people who are genuine truth seekers who have genuinely found truth and
who we therefore should ideally believe. Nevertheless, a blanket policy of simply
taking steps at taking people at their word. Thank you. Go ahead and someone else finish
that has the side effect of also rendering us vulnerable to humbug. Great word. Because we're
not equipped to tell apart humbug from the true statements, many steps removed from our knowledge,
which yeah, it was kind of what I was saying about how like, I feel like we're kind of like
being mean to each other's because they're actually, you know, yeah, they had the yeah,
they knew complex stuff that would take a long time for me to learn and they yeah,
they weren't just sitting there sitting in their hands and, you know, painting on walls, right?
Like they were doing stuff. They weren't just doing that. Yeah. In addition to doing that,
they were doing other things. But I brought I pulled this one out because, you know, say you're
looking for a treatment for something and someone's like, Oh, you know what you really need is my
really expensive crystal therapy or something. You're like, No, I'm pretty sure that's bullshit.
They could try to if they were somehow also first and rationalist lingo, they'd be like,
look, I just we haven't crossed all the inferential steps that you need to understand this, which
is, you know, if that could be true for real stuff too, right? Yes. So it's, it's interesting that
I think the I think constant two makes a valid point that like rejecting stuff you don't understand.
Yeah. Like if you didn't have any knowledge of, I don't know, you have like gallstones and you're
somebody that has just never looked this up, you're fucking busy. And like, you get three people
saying, Okay, well, you could take this medicine, or you could do like this therapy or this diet,
or you could use these crystals, you'd want the people to each explain, Okay, well, why should
I do this instead of this other thing? Right. And I think that I wish that there was like, more
respect for that, you know, Neil deGrasse Tyson's of the world, the type of person who
is actually really good at laying something out and sort of being able to gauge where you are
inferentially, what things they need to explain to you, and then catching sort of whether you're
confused or not and filling those gaps in. I've definitely seen this, again, I'm like the medical
professions on my mind, but there's some doctors that will just talk completely over their patient's
heads, or we'll just do argument for authority, like, Oh, no, this is what all the papers say is
the best treatment or whatever, versus like, I have a great psychiatrist who's a nerd like me. So
the last call I did with my psych just to like, discuss how my meds were working, we ended up
not even talking about that, we're just like, talking about different like neurotransmitters
and new papers that are out novel therapies and how excited we were about that. But like,
my, my psych is the type of person who if I had questions, I would like,
trust that she either is going to tell me like what she knows for the best of her knowledge,
or she'll be like, huh, you know what, I actually don't know, I'm going to look that up and I'll
send you some articles and then my, my sort of professional evaluation of it, which is great.
Yeah, I was going to mention the opposite of this, which was many people in school had a teacher
had been teaching the same subject for 30 years. And they just, they're just reading the textbook
to you, or, or they're like, I get, you know, half my class usually gets Cs because or Ds,
you know, because this stuff is hard. And it's like, no, you just suck at teaching it. And you
don't remember what it's like to not know this stuff. It's easy for you to think, Oh, no, this
is actually easy. You also don't understand it because you've been understanding it for, you
know, decades. And they don't remember what it was like to come from that position of ignorance.
Yeah. So before we end this, can I take it real quick to culture war land to get a little spicy,
but only just for a second? Okay. So that's where we're going. So okay, I see, I'd like to
occasionally maybe once every couple months or so watch videos from partisans on either side that
are that are popular with the peoples, I guess, either side of what the culture war, both people
on far left and far right. Oh, so just like far, but strong or politics things. Yeah, politics
things. I'm specifically I'm thinking on the right side, the Hodgman twins. They have a cool
YouTube thing. And they're very charismatic. They're fun to watch. And there's two of them.
And one of them is like more extreme than the other. So you can like see this interplay,
it's really interesting. But anyways, I see this on both sides where someone will say,
I don't even understand how the people on the right thing, they ought, they just must be greedy
bastards who believe I got mine. The rest of you can all fuck off and die. They're literally evil.
There's no point negotiating with them. And I see the same thing with one of the Hodgman twins.
He sometimes says things like lefty, you must be brain damaged, either that or you're just
evil. And like, like he honestly doesn't understand how someone on the left could think and come to
the conclusions that they've come to that brings them so, so far from where he is. And his brother
like tries to random and he's like, no, no, they're not evil. There's like ways you can come to
this conclusion. He's like, no, no, there's no way it's not possible. And obviously it is. But
like people on both sides do it all the time. And I think it's just because there's such a huge
inferential distance of if you started out in a certain culture, and your culture keeps going
in a certain way over many decades and seeing the same kind of evidence. It really leads up to a
vast difference in the end that you have to go way, way back to bridge that gap.
This will tie really well into basically point three that comes up in our main segment here. But
yeah, in general, if you're explaining away something that or somebody or some group of people
that disagree with you as saying, they're just evil or whatever, stupid or evil, you don't
understand where they're coming from. And it's not that you can't because you're not a bad person,
and only bad people can understand where they're coming from, it's that they don't think they're
bad people. And it's not because they're woefully misguided, they might be, but they're not so
misguided that you can't at least understand where they're coming from.
Oh yeah, that's also a thing that I've run into where people, and I've experienced this myself
like much earlier on, I think before this became an explicit value of mine where people don't even
want to try to understand where they're coming from because they're worried that they'll get tainted.
That is related also to the main segment. All right, well then let's finish this up.
For next time. All right, next time we're doing three because one of them is crazy short and
basically covered in this one. Explainers shoot high aim low, double illusion of transparency,
and no one knows what science doesn't know. Excellent. Alrighty, let's before we get into
our main topic have a quick feedback from last episode. We haven't had one of these in a long
time, and this one is special because the person giving the feedback is local to Colorado,
and so local that she lives with me.
Yes, so we can actually have her on for the feedback segment. Hey, Ms. Charlie, would you
like to say hello? Hello, hi, y'all. You had some feedback for us. Yeah, so the last episode,
I enjoyed it a lot, but it was also frustrating. That's what I like to hear.
Because I think a lot of points were lost because of no set vocabulary. And you guys got
off track a lot because you didn't have a set vocabulary as you kept talking about children
when we were the discussion was supposed to be about young adults. And you kept mentioning
using the word children when you're talking about young adults and teens,
using the word teens when you're talking about children and young adults, and just switching
terms, and then you kept getting pulled into talking about children. And that's an entirely
different discussion because we're not talking about pre-adolescence and possibly tweens,
but definitely not pre-adolescence. So that would have been helpful. And if you guys...
Stephen, stop calling 24-year-olds children. Well, to be fair, I think this just demonstrates
the fuzziness of the concepts, right? And that's part of what the article was getting at.
It's kind of where we're struggling with you, I think. Yeah. Well, we struggled with that,
