they mean like a being that can do things that regular humans can't do. Well, I think that's
probably why they use the term because of the, because of the emotional load that comes with it.
It is very empowering to tell someone you are a God. We are all gods. We can affect this world.
I, like some of Yutkowski's favorite, well, some of my favorite of his writings are things that use
very, like not religious, but emotionally charged words. He, when he compared evolution to the
gibbering idiot God Azathoth, I thought that was a wonderful way to make his point. And I'm not just
like speaking it in physical terms. This is what evolution does. And this is how, why, you know,
these things make sense and these things don't, but to actually put it in poetic terms like that
spoke to me on an emotional level. But wouldn't it be like deliberately misleading to obfuscate
and say, now I'm going to just henceforth without any explanation or without any further explanation,
I'm going to start calling evolution God without any caveats. So how many times do we just in our
in group refer to Azathoth instead of evolution? Or what do we refer to Malik when we mean out of
control optimization systems? So Malik is two syllables as opposed to out of control optimization
processes right out of fingers. But no one who hasn't read meditations on Malik and admittedly
probably a dozen posts before that to get the context is going to know what we mean when we
say Malik. Yeah, but I guess we wouldn't necessarily then stick to that word if we're losing people.
We wouldn't say no, no, we have to call him this or we have to call it this. No, we, I mean,
no, we wouldn't stick to it necessarily, but we know that everyone in our group knows what
that means. And so we use it for shorthand for us. Okay, so I think maybe that was my, I mean,
I like invoking Malik and in regular conversation also. And in terms of you are a God, I mean,
but I agree even in that it's like it's really it's not useful as far as getting a point across
to somebody who hasn't read the source material, right? Right. So I think that's one of the
neat things about saying you are a God if you're part of the temple set, because it is specifically
in a Christian culture. And they realize that basically everyone has the same idea of God
as they do. So when they say you are a God, they know that everyone has basically a similar idea
to them. And they can invoke that shorthand when we say we invoke Malik, we can only do it with
our group and people who know that. If we were in a Christian setting, we could reference Jesus or
the cross or something. And everyone would know what we're talking about. Okay, so I think that's
what I'm going to be straight with you, Vivian, that you, I've known that like you called yourself
a witch in the past. And so like that is a very loaded word, and maybe that's part of the goal.
That's very much part of the goal. It's all hacking. It's on what? It's all hacking. Well,
but like it paints the picture of an insane person. And so only because only because this
wasn't the first interaction I had with you, I knew that it must have been something else.
But if that was all I knew about you, you'd be like, Oh, she's insane because insane people are
witches and wizards, right? So in the broadest use of the word. So that's why I feel like the
like the language that you're using is kind of important in that you're missing a lot of people
by. It also depends on your culture. Well, and the thing is, is there's a height. There's a
there's a phrase called anti-nomianism, which I find to be particularly interesting. And it's you
do the thing that will contradict the culture in order to prove it to itself, basically. And I'm
oversimplifying and kind of adding my own spin to it. But when I call myself a witch, I'm doing it
because I think it's funny, because it categorizes some of the stuff that I actually do. And also
because it pisses off Christians. Okay, so I can, those are things I can understand. So like,
you're not the kind of person that people thought they were burning at the stake 400 years ago.
I actually probably would be. Well, but they thought there were burning people who are casting
spells and doing witchcraft, which I do. But you don't do it in the way. See, that's that's where
I'm getting out with like the language problem is that you don't really you're not waving a wand
and casting spells and turning people into cats. And so that's unless you are, I would really like
to that would be fine. Okay, but like so that's that's wanting to actually doing it. That's what
witch burners thought that witches were doing when they set them on fire. So sort of if you look at
I study this particular point of history, I know that I'm oversimplifying it. So like,
I'm probably less less than you. I know that like for the most part, it was never that clear cut,
but like the picture that we have in our heads of like, the person down the streets of which,
because they're casting spells, and you know, making the rain not come or making it come too
much. That's a picture. That's people picture, right? But that's the that's a really interesting
way to look at it, though, because I call myself a witch to defy those who call people witches.
Yeah. And I so I guess I can dig that. But like, by every sense of the way that you're using the
word witch Jenkins is a witch too. Yes. And well, unless he doesn't want to get burnt at the
start. The thing is, is you're using okay, there's a thing called labeling theory in sociology. I'm
also a sociology major, where the label is either applied or inherent. And witchcraft for very long
time has been an applied label, and it's been an applied deviant label. And so when you say,
like, if you were to call Jenkins a witch, you would be like, you would be applying that label
and you'd be applying all the concepts that you had in your head about a witch in that label.
Right. And when I say I am a witch, I am taking that label and saying, I defy you and these things
you assume about me. Yeah. And I so I guess I and I totally understand where you're coming from
and what what you mean by that. Plus it's funny. Yeah, I think maybe that's where like, I mean,
I see how it's funny. But like, it's, you know, and I'm pointing out this is tangentially related
like the the atheist movement realized that atheists had a lot of baggage, they tried to go
with brights for like three years, and it never really could took off. So I can see how they
it was a very small subset that actually wanted to go with brights. Yeah, but it was some of the
big names. It was people who go to conferences and people that people go to conferences to see.
So well, some of the people. Yeah, not obviously all of them. But I mean, there's not much to,
I think, be here except for like, I don't know if, yeah, I mean, I think I'm not sure where we
disagree other than disagreeing. Yeah. So I guess I'm not sure what we're talking about. Well,
the thing is I'm yeah, I'm hearing more. Yeah, the thing that we're kind of talking about is
the application of the label and why I use it. And I use it to a piss people off, be to describe
what I do and see to confuse people because it's funny. Yeah, I certainly get points one and three.
I think two, you only describe to people what you're doing to people who know what you mean when
you misuse the word or when you miss. Yeah, so like that then that's fine. But that's just what
like that's that stream or like it seems like this really needlessly complicated language game
unless everyone's on board at the whole set. They have to buy the whole deck unless they want to
understand everything, right? Some people just got to be contrarians. I'm just saying that
in fairness, I do kind of hate on it a little bit. I'm like, why you got to make things complicated
and difficult. But the reason I also use it is for that second reason. So people that are also
witches are considered themselves as such know that I have a commonality with them. So you have
a commonality with the type of which that you are not somebody who believes that if they really
wanted to, they could cast a Vodka Davra. Unless you do, I have a commonality with them and that
we use the same tools, but I use them intentionally.
Right, like as placebo's without knowing exactly. I mean, and I'm not like saying, you know, I'm
so much better than all those witches out there that believe they can turn people into cats,
you know, because that's absolute bullshit. I think I'm so much better than all those witches
out there that believe that they can turn themselves in the house. You're a wizard. I'm
prepared to say that as well, and that like I feel like I have a better grasp of my sanity and
reality where like if I felt like I could wave up a stick and make stuff happen, like then I would
be doing that, right? I wouldn't just say I could and just never do it. I mean, my go-to weapon has
always been James Randi's million dollars, the JRF million dollar paranormal challenge. It's like
if you could do anything magic and you can demonstrate it under or if you could do anything
paranormal supernatural occult and demonstrate it under controlled test conditions, you get
a million dollars. So somebody who is like, Oh yeah, I could do that. I just don't really need
a million dollars, right? So like those are the people that I, they're okay with like this huge
inconsistency in their head that I'm prepared to say that like I would, I am not okay with those.
I feel like that's a better place to be. Well, I think you're confabulating the people who
say they're witches and the people who believe they're witches, which I know I definitely am.
Because why would you say you are? I'm making a very, I'm making a probably incorrect distinction
here, so forgive me. But people who honest to goodness believe they are witches in the context
of American Christian society are usually not people who are actual witches. This is going to
sound very like, what's that movie? The, never mind. But people who say, you know, I am a witch,
it's usually like a practice and a way of living your life and way of looking at the world.
Rather than like people are like, I'm a witch and I can turn people into cats for a million
dollars. Those people tend to be delusional. That's sort of like the picture that's painted when
they use that language, right? And so I get going against that and cutting against the grain. I,
I feel like while I often don't have the energy to do that or the inclination, I feel like it's
an important thing to do if only to make people keep things in check for why they're doing the
things they're doing. And it's also a religious sort of practice as well. I tend to dislike the
word religion to a large extent because I grew up Catholic and my family is incredibly capital C,
capital A, capital everything, Catholic. And when you look at paganism and witchcraft as a religious
form of looking at a life, it becomes a very different thing. It becomes more than just I'm
going to turn people into cats. And I was using that as a shorthand. I'm also using it as a shorthand.
All right. So I think we're on the same page. This is great. I'm really, I'm really enjoying
this. I feel like this is, I mean, it's certainly cleared up where you, where I knew you couldn't
have been coming from because I talked because I've spoken with you. But yeah, that was well.
So now that we've had a big kumbaya moment, what can we use spirituality or and or ritual for
in more rationalist circles, powerful experiences? Yes. Yeah. I don't know if we're ready to move
to that. Did you have anything you wanted to add to like, because we were talking about like, I don't
feel like I was a part of that conversation. I didn't really literally open the book.
Yeah. No, that's fine. Well, I don't know. It was I'm not calling myself a wizard, except in
jest. Sometimes when I when I dress up like one or something, which which I think it's fun. I
think people should have wizard robes in their home, like just to have. I thought a really charged
example I could use here. Oh, I could be like, oh, I'm going to read the word pedophile because
I love children. I love people. And I'm going to go against that nasty use of the word. That's
actually really interesting because it talks about this people off. Most of the boxes you're
checking. You can't. You can't. And it's how labels are used in the value and doing either one of
those is what I was. I think that's why I opened the book is I don't see the value. But apparently
you do. I it doesn't bother me enough that I'm going to like yell at you for it, though. So
what I'm loving about this is these are the two strong ritualists in the room. And I suppose
so. Yeah. Well, there's there's a difference between understanding ritual and understanding
basically religious practice. I know. I just like how you guys came in kind of on the same team.
And now there's some at never on Jenkins team. Oh, yeah, I didn't think I was on her team either.
But I thought that you guys are defending ritual to me who wasn't a big fan. Yeah. I mean, there's
there's not teams, but we talked about how an actual group thinking was. So yeah. But in answer
to the question that any of us was saying powerful experiences. So so we're going to unpack the
pedophile example. But I don't I don't want to. But I think that's a good example. And what would
you like to say about the pedophile example? Well, when you talk about labeling theory,
you're talking about using labels to deviantize groups of people. And so we do that legitimately
with pedophiles to be like necessarily just to deviantize. It's also for all kinds of other
hugely useful things. Yes. But we use them as deviant labels to say that person is dangerous.
So as pedophiles, yes, that person is dangerous. Okay, yeah. But when you reclaim the label,
like in the 1500s of which was dangerous, given certain parameters for if you believe people,
if you believe people might believe, yeah. But now witches aren't dangerous, which is our
pagans or Wiccans or Satanists or whomever who have a specific way of looking at life that
tends to be on our sort of religious plane when dealing with that. And so you reduce the label
to make it less dangerous. Pedophiles are always dangerous. Well, unless I rebrand pedophile
to mean I love all humans, including young humans, no, because there's a difference when you're
looking at something that is dangerous and something that isn't dangerous. I mean, but like
I feel like we play the same sort of language game, like you said, you're casting spells and
doing stuff. Well, I'm loving kids, right? Again, don't take this out of context. I'm making a point.
But you see how like, so that's why I'm not a huge fan of those language games because they
pave the road for exactly that sort of obfuscation. And then if we're able to shift the culture around
the word pedophile, and then all of a sudden loving kids was great because everyone loves kids,
well, then what about like what we mean when we really mean loving kids in the way that we mean
currently for how pedophile kids. To use that, what do you think we really mean when we're talking
about witchcraft? I don't have a succinct definition for it. People who believe they have powers that
they don't actually have. Yeah, so like that label has also changed. Well, I mean, so that I think
I think that Jen considered right on the head, which was my my impression of the of the previously
going into this is the most people who said I'm a witch were people who believed they had magic
powers. And when I hear that, I think of the people that try to sell spells on eBay and like
the standard uses of all those words. So like when you if you want to like rebrand, you know,
four words in that sentence, and and change where basically all the labels are pointing,
then you can get away with something very different. But like I said, I don't see how that
is any different from changing. And maybe there's for the sake of argument, I'm going to to like,
you know, fall back on that pedophile example, right? I don't see where the important difference
is there. Maybe you said something about harm. Yes. Can you expand on that? We use labels
in ways that allow us to describe if someone or some group is dangerous to us as an in group
out group, not necessarily just to us. Pedophiles aren't dangerous to me, but it's dangerous to
look young, but not that young, dangerous to our society. Yes. And that's dangerous.
They're dangerous to us. I mean, just by by like lowering. So like if I go hang out at a park,
looking kind of like a wizard, and I'm like staring at kids a little too long or something
like that. Yeah, that affects me in that sort of way. Just just the fact that they exist.
And our culture is terrified of them. Just kind of assumes that, you know, then then that, you
know, damages me like I like kids. I, you know, I feel pretty comfortable around kids. But like
if one comes up and like gives me a big hug, like I'm going to run away, like, you know,
because even though I don't mind, right? Like I would not mind receiving a hug from a child.
I don't, I don't, that sounds kind of nice on the surface level, right? It's just, you know,
this basic. Sure. People don't dress up as pedophiles for Halloween. Yes, they do. Do they?
Yes. Oh, goodness. Yes. Yeah, Jarrett, the subway was a costume I definitely saw. Oh, that's
disgusting. Yes, they do. My sense of faith in humanity has just been destroyed. Thank you.
Yeah, well, so yeah. We don't have to beat this too much longer. I feel like it was a fairly large
digression, but it was interesting. It was a conversation I wanted to have and I appreciated
having it. I just, so there's a difference. So like this, the language obfuscation game is a game
that is only okay as long as everyone knows they're playing the game and what the rules are,
and they're not doing it to hide something harmful. Yes. Okay. So that's, that's a good
understanding that I can walk away with. And I would think so, yes. Okay. Except if you're
Christian and you really think witches exist and then that's just funny until someone sets you on
fire. I would like to see them try. Do you think you're impermeable to fire? No, I know kung fu.
You bite? I know kung fu. You don't need to be within kung fu range that somebody on fire.
Well, it's hard to set a human on fire. Unless you've got actually really hard to set a human
on fire. We're both slain or wider or wider fluid or all the stuff that you usually get at
Walgreens. Okay. If you're going to really go out of your way, you can set someone on fire.
You go to the grocery store once every couple of weeks. I was thinking like you were,
you were going to try to use a lighter or something. That seems like a lot of work.
I'm all about that lazy path, right? Okay. Air is pretty flammable. Yeah. That's true.
