you know, be thankful more often being thankful. I mean, like, I mean, just for like a purely selfish
reason, the more thankful you are, generally the more happy you are. Right. So even if you're,
you don't see the value in it inherently, you can get something out of that that way. So you kind of
see my point there where it's like maybe a solemn ritual even is like specifically that's what I
was going for. And that's why I was going for it. But if people are resistant to it, they're not
going to enjoy it. They're not going to want to be there and I'm not going to do it. Right. So,
so that's why I didn't do it. Yeah. Some things you said really resonated with me and I want to
get to those in just one second, but I'm trying to think of Norman Borlaug. So it would be one thing
if, if your wife or your lady friend wants to say blessings and then you eat, if she said, now let's
hold hands for 30 seconds and close her eyes and give our thanks to Norman Borlaug for creating all
of this awesome food for us to eat. He was the guy who's Norman Borlaug. He pioneered the green
revolution. Yeah, GMO stuff. No, not necessarily even GMO stuff. Well, because they didn't have
GMOs yet back then. He pioneered careful selective breeding and is credited with saving roughly a
billion lives. So yeah, not necessarily. Well, depending on how you define GMOs, it's a whole
thing. I'm prepared to bite that bullet, but like bull aren't. So you see where like the difference
would be even though you probably do have almost directly to think, especially if you're living
in a place where I don't believe in God. So I don't think God, right? But would you sit there
and for 30 seconds think Norman Borlaug? Why 30? Why not 25? Like those are the things that like
bug me during rituals, right? Oh, I mean, so, so sometimes it's just like have this set amount
of time that just because, but we've decided previously or we've discovered previously that
that's about the amount of time that you need in order to like really focus on what's going on,
right? So, you know, if you need a moment of silence, how long do you decide that moment of
silence is right for, you know, somebody who died or whatever? Sure. Similar thing, right?
Yeah. For me, the blessings thing is a second. Yeah. You know, I always have a second, right?
Right, right, right. It's just before food goes in my mouth. Borlaug's the best. Yeah.
Maybe I should start doing that. So one of the things that I liked was, you know, you have an
intense feeling about something and then you want to try and have a room of people feel that feeling
at the same time while you share with them for the first or maybe multiple time. I can see the
value in that. I think I'm trying to think of what my objection half an hour ago would have been
to that. And I'm not sure it's weird. Well, other than it is weird, right? Well, I mean, weird is
never, I mean, I'm signed up for cryonics, a lot of weird things like, right? So I'm not so much
repelled by weird, but I think it's nerd like it's the book. Sorry, I needed to slip one of those
in there. No, you're good because you're holding a book. Yeah. So I only brought like four books.
So yeah, I wrote my phone, which has however many books, right in books. Yeah, I cheat.
Steven. Oh, sorry, I don't want to distract if you had a thought. I consider me distracted.
Oh, damn it. Okay. Well, you're a big fan of Sam Harris. Doesn't he have quite a thing about
like the meditation and sort of a spirituality thing? Yeah, but not in a ritualistic sense that
I think even in the terms of the yeah, he's carrying the book. Sam Harris is waking up.
It's a good book. Yeah. And I recommend it. It's very big into like the meditation, right?
It is. Yeah. Which is sort of a spiritual experience. Definitely. Absolutely. Well,
spiritual, not ritualistic experience. And this evening, I think in the broadest sense of the
word that we're using ritual, like maybe like the circumstances by which you set up an environment
for mindfulness kind of sound like what Vivian talks about when she sets up her spell chamber.
What do you want to call it? Let's call it a spell chamber. Why not? All right.
All right. It's also a sleeping chamber. Yeah. Bedroom. It sounds like a bedroom.
But it changes. It changes. It changes purposes when you do different things in it, right?
Yes. You have different colored lights, though. Do you have like red lights?
No, I have a fader on the light. It's actually really cool. And I use candles,
even though some people don't like them. Yeah. I mean, my bedroom is also my dining room when I
eat dinner in bed. You should never eat dinner in bed. I don't do that. It's a horrible habit.
When you've had as much practice as I have, you get good at it.
There's no crows in my bed. So the key is to lay down like a blanket or something and then shake
that off on the floor. I'm just worried about us all turning into those people from Wally,
where we never get up off the couches and we eat in the couches and they hover us around everywhere.
And like once the bed is used for more than just sleeping and fucking, I begin to worry.
I mean, sometimes there's not a huge like metabolic difference in like sitting or
laying or like sitting, like sitting on a chair or sitting in bed. I know, but it's
a psychological aspect of the bed that once you start using the bed for other things, it's like,
why don't you just do everything in bed? It breaks your rituals. Thank you.
I do have a strong ritual with beds. Well, it's like you do your work at work. You don't bring
your work home with you because then it's just like having a separate space for separate activities
is usually just better for getting those activities done. But not always. I mean,
and you don't need to be that strict for it. But most people advise that sort of thing.
Well, I mean, certainly with like sleep hygiene, sure. But I mean, since I don't have a problem
falling asleep, that's never been an issue for me. Well, I don't currently have a problem
falling asleep. But I mean, yeah, I mean, this particular example, it happens to be that my
bed's more comfortable than my dining room tables or my dining room chair and table. So like it's,
I mean, it is what it is. Sorry, didn't mean to jump on you. No, you're fine. I shame you.
Oh, no, you're good. Well, I brought it up. We were we were moving into Sam Harris's spirituality.
Yeah, little Sammy Harris from down the street. Yeah, so you,
thank you for that. Yeah, I do that from time to time. It's like Stevie Zuber from down the street.
It's just fun. It gives it gives an image of like that person like writing a single speed chew
and bubble gum. It's great. I like it a lot. Okay, I can yeah. All right, keeps you from
from building up anyone too high in your head. Yeah, like if people did that with the Pope
every now and then, I just that would be awesome if you did that with the Pope. He might actually
enjoy it funnier than it actually is. So it's a joke that I just tell over and over and over again
to keep the Pope, you know, humanized my head. I just picture his hat falling off,
falling off when he was wiping his ass. He probably takes it off. I'm sure he does.
But then I wonder if he wipes his own ass or if he doesn't wear the hat because he's afraid of it
falling off. Yeah, he doesn't write in the Pope mobile either. So that's actually pretty legit
pretty cool dude from everything I can. I mean, as far as popes go, right? Yeah, like I mean,
there's mafia bosses that are pretty good for more mafia bosses. Yeah, but yeah, but as far as
popes go. Yeah, yeah. That's one in my living memory anyway. Well, you've been through what three
yeah, which is, you know, a lot of popes actually. Yeah, it is. So Pope, Nazi, Pope Ratzinger was
the only one to have stepped down or was the second one. Yeah. Well, wasn't he the second
one to have stepped down ever before dying? Yeah. Yeah. So that was kind of cool. That's why I got
three popes. Anyway, so Sam Harris is definition of spirituality. I think he sort of moves the
goalposts sort of like moving the goalposts of the division of witchcraft and except,
except there's not a better word for what he's talking about. Whereas there probably is
with witchcraft. But it's not as fun. The whole first chapter is him talking about. Again,
waking up by saying, good book. I'd suggest it, but. It's about time someone other than me is
pitching Sam Harris' stuff on the show. So thank you. Yeah, I think especially this book.
Yeah, I like it better than his other ones that I've read. Yeah. Except maybe lying. I really
liked lying. Well, I think the difference is like reading like Richard Dawkins
or what was his antithism book? The God Delusion versus reading Unweaving the Rainbow.
Like one book is about something like, this is driving me nuts. I got to get my thoughts out
about this and people might read it. And others like, this is really cool. I love it. Let me talk
about it. So it's a very different tone of book. Yeah. Yeah. And it's more, well, it's more personal
like it talks about his personal life too. That too. Yeah. So I don't know. I enjoy it a lot.
But yeah, the whole first chapter is basically like, I don't have a better word for what I'm
describing. I'm not describing like ethereal spirits or like, you know, beings or entities that
interact with this world. I'm talking about, you know, a specific set of like feelings and,
and, you know, the practices you can, you can put into place to make those feelings come about.
And there's no better word than spirituality really. Like I could make one up, but that's really
stupid. And I'm not going to do that. So yeah, that's, I don't know. I think there's an audio
version of that too, which you can, it's not a version of just about everything. Yeah. Well,
I mean, like that's out for free that you can just link to instead of, instead of like, the first
chapter is the first chapter, which is what he goes through. And also the last chapter,
which is about, I think it's like drugs and the meaning of life is his title for it. But it's
basically like psychedelics did this for me. And this is what they can do. And this is why
they're important. It's actually got me off the fence on psychedelics. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah,
I think what he uses the word spirituality, because it encompasses what people who use that
word in the hokey sense, it encompasses part of what they're getting at. So like contemplativeness
doesn't really pack the same punch as like having a range of experiences. And so that's, that's what
he's getting at there. I mean, there's also the important distinction that like the kinds of
practices that he describes in the book are not the kinds of things that you need to believe
things on insufficient evidence in order to do. So like mindfulness meditation where you're focusing
on breathing is not where you're not, you're not reciting a mantra in your head, especially not
one that you don't understand. Did you have any, you brought it up the book, did you want to have
anything you wanted to get into or just curious what your thoughts were on, on how he treats
spirituality? Because I haven't actually read it myself. I just knew you were a big Sam Harris
fan so you'd probably read it. Yeah, it's fun. I do think it, I mean, spirituality in the Sam
Harrisian sense encompasses everything from like good contemplative mindfulness meditation to
an intense acid trip. So that's the kind of stuff that he's talking about, not necessarily where
you're holy ghosting at the church, right? So. Oh, that's another way to get the same kind of effect.
I think that's totally within the whole spirituality thing. I just think
people who are holy ghost might say that the way they do it is the only way to do it.
Whereas we're just broader. Yeah, I think there's a good article again by Sam Harris. I think it's
called like Islam and the misuses of ecstasy. That's exactly what I was going to say. Yeah,
right. Yeah. So it gets into that where it's basically like, look, I've been a part of these
sorts of rituals before that like Muslims do on, you know, in regular practice or whatever. And
yeah, they have an effect. Like they do something real and measurable and you'll notice it,
maybe not measurable, but like you feel it, right? If you do it and you're told over and over again
that this is like, you know, this is coming from this specific God or whatever, then like that'll
probably really affirm what you already believe about all this stuff. But they're misusing this
ecstasy that they're creating through ritual and, you know, it's... He makes the case in the book
that all religions are basically doing that. Yeah, yeah. In the essay that you're talking about,
he links to a video where it's like a very passionate, the speaker, I forget what I don't
think it was necessarily any mom, it was whatever the speaker was clearly emotionally charged,
the audience is having visible feelings. Yeah, he's like singing a sermon. Yeah, yeah. And then
the word... It's beautiful, really. Like it sounds... Well, if you don't understand the words.
Well, yeah, right, right. If you understand the words, then it changes a very different context.
Yeah, and then it's like, you know, those who do not believe will be burning for, you know,
it's something like that. But it's like, it's this incredible, powerful moment for all the people
that are in the audience or... I think that's probably what turns off most people who are
worried about these sorts of rituals is that we're worried it will be that same sort of misuse of
ecstasy. I feel like that's a safe assumption that's... Or at least for a lot of people.
Yeah, I'd agree with that. I think that's fine, but you're wrong because you can just look into
what we're doing, right? So, you know, like that's where, you know, you do the whole... I don't know
if this counts as like system one, system two sort of thing, but you use your rational mind to
work through like what's going on. Okay, where's this going to take me? Is this a place I want to go?
You know. And that's exactly how I participate in ritual. I assess it, determine if it's something
I actually want to participate in. And then if I am interested in participating in it,
then I will fully do so. I don't blame some people, though, for being along the lines of, well,
I can't fully trust that I can suss out all those things by myself. So to err on the side of caution,
I'm not going to participate. Or just like... You can't always see everything. Or, you know,
ritual might all smell the same to some people, right? So, you know, and if it has the smell of
a misuse of ecstasy, even if it's a proper use of ecstasy, it's like, still, you know, has all
these warning signs. Or ecstasy at all. Yeah, little ecstasy. People are scared. I mean, yeah. No,
I don't mean the drug. I mean, the experience of ecstasy. Some people are, I mean, they're like
actually scared of, you know, powerful experiences, right? It's like, this is making me feel too much.
I'm going to go do something else, right? We've been going on for over an hour and a half,
so we should probably jump into some quick listener feedback and then call it. If you want to move on,
yeah, that's fine. Okay, so first thing is we are going to have our supporter thinking segment,
as we always have now. We would like to give thanks to our Patreon supporter, A.A. Bowser,
who is helping make this possible and bringing this to all you guys.
Thanks, A.A. Bowser. Is this a ritual? This is just polite. This is actually kind of a ritual,
but this is just also courtesy. It's not even, it's not solemn, so it doesn't fit Stephen's
spookiness. Right. Maybe solemnness is part of an ingredient. You're not like solemn things. Do
you like serious movies? No, actually the things that, like when you're thinking of sharing, like
moving things, I was thinking specifically solemn things, that's not an appealing. I think it's
the idea of like forcing that on somebody or like having to convincingly, or having to try and fake it.
Oh yeah, no, they shouldn't be forced. And yeah, I have an issue with like having children participate
in them, because I think children can totally gain something from certain rituals, but I don't
think they're equipped to understand what's going on, really. But like children can have powerful
experiences. I don't know if you guys, I mean like dreams when I was a kid were like these crazy
wacky things, but not so much anymore. I know we just went back. We said we were gonna move on,
but we didn't. We had another thing to say real quick. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So would it make it more
of a ritual if we played like Angel Choir of Angels when we thank the listener?
No, we're just gonna make Jesse sing.
Thank you, AA Bowser.
Okay, should we go on to listener feedback? Yeah, all right. So this is, we are a little bit behind.
So our last episode actually came out already. So we have a few listener feedbacks on that one,
which is very rare for us. Usually we record before the last episode. So anyways,
Googleplex Bytes, speaking on our last episode, when we talked about the sparrows,
with the getting their feathers pulled out, there are two different stories which got conflated.
One of them is about Kim Jong-il, who for his grandfather had these, not for his father rather,
had a quilt made out of the chest feathers of the sparrows because they are the softest ones,
and decimated the sparrow population. And I link to that one. Apparently there is a
different one that does include Mao. Mao in 1958 was told that sparrows eat the rice grains,
and that's affecting production. So he ordered all the sparrows killed to increase yields.
It ended great. Yeah, by April 1960, the Chinese leaders realized that sparrows also ate large
amounts of insects, and so rice yields decreased substantially. So that's a really good example.
Thank you for sharing that. That fits perfectly. And I mean, sorry, the
sharrows got shafted twice in just a few decades. That sucks. Yeah.
Googleplex Byte also said, in a different comment,
illegible humans, this is an interesting point I thought,
illegible humans by their nature can only be assessed as a collective. So modern day individualism
and all its benefits exist because of legibilization of the state. Only legible humans have strong
property rights. Only legible humans can have a one person equals one vote policy.
