main objection to like ritual things is I don't trust any of these motherfuckers. And by any of
these motherfuckers, I mean any of you either. Why am I subsuming myself into this collective hole?
And I don't necessarily believe that you have my best interests at heart. So briefly return to
the night veil thing. That's my problem with the night veil thing. Okay. See, I was much more
comfortable with them, which is weird. Okay. It was really weird because I know you don't like
ritual. And I'm like, this is actual ritual. I don't know what the intent is behind it. I have
not agreed to participate in this. And I don't know how I am going to be affected or choose to
affect others through it. Yeah, but you listen to the show too, right? Yes. Don't you get the
intense impression that they're just here to like tell a good story and let people have fun? Yes,
but I didn't want to become one of those people that just subsumes to the ritual without
understanding it. Okay. That accidentally loads your way into fascism. Okay. Pretty much not really
actually. I mean, not that exact thing, but yes. And yeah, that's sliding down that slippery slope.
I'd say you guys are being careful to the point of missing out on like important,
nice experiences, right? So Vivian is nodding. So we're on microphones. You have to actually make
a noise. I have to nod to agree. I agree. Affirmative. Word.
So to go back to like the whole communion thing, back, I was raised in a Christian household,
like a lot of atheists, honestly. So I mean, we did the whole Ash Wednesday thing. We did the whole
Good Friday, Easter, and you know, each one of those religious holidays had their own thing.
I remember Christmas Eve service, there was always a really great, we'd all shake our
keys and sing, come on, ring those bells like the Christmas tree. It's this hilarious song
that we only sang at the one church service. And I really enjoyed it, right? So it's supposed
to be a joke with the keys. Well, it's your bells. You're ringing bells. Can you go and buy like a
one dollar bell? You could, but that would be wasteful. That's money you could give to the church.
Right. Everyone has keys on them. So do literally anything else with it and not throw
bells in the garbage tomorrow. But bells are so cool. You should keep them around your house.
Yeah, slave bells. I mean, a few people had slave bells and they'd bring them.
Cool. I like those people.
But yeah, just like the basic like communion thing, I think that happened like every other week.
So while I was a believer, I really enjoyed that, right? I mean, that was a nice experience that,
you know, it was usually, most of those were like fairly solemn. Some of the, you know,
the bells won. That was, you know, happy and cheerful and it's like, yeah, it's Christmas time.
And, you know, while I'm a kid where I, you know, I'm into the whole Jesus loves me sort of thing,
that was really enjoyable. I like that. And now that I'm not a believer, I can't really
participate in those specific rituals anymore because I don't believe in any of that crap.
Like, I mean, I don't want ashes on my face and, you know, but I feel kind of robbed,
like I'm missing something because I don't have any form like that. So I don't know.
So I go to a lot of concerts, like a lot, a lot more when I was working instead of being in school,
but I have a very similar feeling to yours. I do feel like I have sort of a religious mindset,
even though I'm not a religious person. I just have that mental architecture that it works with.
You have a Jesus sized hole in your heart. Not in my heart. It's somewhere in the brain.
In your heart. Jesus shaped. But the thing, I mean, I would like to have those rituals,
but when you're a kid and your parents say, trust me, obviously you do trust your parents,
and they say you can trust these people. So you transfer your trust to the church.
And so you have all that trust naturally just built up as a child. Now that I'm an adult and
people are like, Hey, come do this ritual of trust with me. No, I have, I don't know why I would
do that. I have no reason to trust you. You have to break me down like in a basic training.
What if you do trust them though? Like you spent enough time with them and they're not asking you
something interesting like, here, let me read you this story. I think you'll find it, you know,
as powerful as I did when I first read it. Have you ever read Howl? Yeah, right, right. So
do you remember how you felt the first time you read that? I'm not a big fan of Howl specifically.
I really like that. No, no, no. There is a, well, in general, I'm not that big a fan of poetry,
but there is a poem. I absolutely like howl structure. I love the God. I wish I'd gotten
ready. There once was a man from Nantucket, right? No, so big a fuck it. No, but the one, you know
the poem, go not into the dying of the light. Robert Frost. That's Robert Frost. Yes. Oh,
okay. That's a very specific type of poem structure, which I just discovered recently,
and those are beautiful and amazing, and I love them. I have one final note. Okay. It was Dylan
Thomas, not Robert Frost. Oh, okay, then that makes much more sense. So that is the one that
really touched. So yeah, so would you be really opposed to being around a bunch of friends that
you already know from a different context that you're just used to hanging out with and having
somebody read things or you reading one of those that you're like, hey, this is really important
to me. Let me share it with you guys and see if you guys react to it the same way I did or what
not. I mean, that would be something that's very ritualistic, right? Yeah. And it's not, and I feel
like if you, you know, went from that into some sort of like bloodletting ceremony, that would be
like a bit of a betrayal of trust, right? It's like, hey, I brought you in with like promises of
like interesting reading, and, and, you know, now I'm making something bleed. That's weird.
Then like, yeah, I feel like you have, you have room to be, you know, kind of
weary of that sort of thing. But when, when it's kind of laid out like, hey, we're going to do
this, and then we're going to do that. And then, you know, we'll light a candle. I feel like you
can, you can kind of just deal with that, right? Like what? Why a candle? Yeah. Well, that's not
as efficient dim light. So I mean, really, really, it's for the aesthetic thing. It's the same reason
why you turn down the lights when you're, when you're, you know, doing it. Maybe doing the whole
sex thing. Yeah. Well, yeah. Well, I was just going to say that like, there's a difference between
saying, Hey, let me share this cool thing I like with you. Like, Hey, let's go see Spider-Man
Homecoming this weekend. I think he gets all I really like it and saying, but you all have to
wear white and we're going to hold hands and chant at the end of this thing. Like, so, I mean, there
is a difference in kind between those two things. And I feel like it's being disingenuous to equate
them like saying, yeah, let me share this cool poem with you and doing all this extra. So like,
one of those things makes sense on that level of what you're trying to do, share this cool thing.
And the other thing is like adding a bunch of weird shit on top of it to make it like special
for your in group kind of thing. And that, that's the part that I find. That's the part that makes
it even more powerful, right? If like, say, like after a couple of years, you guys all like this
thing, you're like, wait, now we're going to, we're going to have our like poetry reading hats
that we're all going to wear because we all really like this thing. And we've done it so many times.
We're all going to, you know, we're all just going to do this thing that we do only during
this time, right? It's like, you know, that song that we only sing, you know, for the one year,
right? I feel like having to wear a hat is a good sign that you're becoming a cult. Who cares?
Having to wear a hat, not getting to, saying you can't come if you don't wear your, your sorting
hat is like, turns, turns your like Harry Potter fan club into like, we all have wizard hats all
the time. And yeah, I was just pointed to his literal wizard hat up there. That's cool.
So one of the interesting things about ritual, and I'm agreeing with you that you are, that we
are being a little bit disingenuous, but we're also not discussing how ritual is built. Ritual can
start out with something where you're like, I'm going to get a couple of friends together. We're
going to read a poem or read poetry that we like. And then it can grow from there. And as the years
go on, it turns into the Catholic church. And so I'm many, many years, about 2000, about 2000.
But people build ritual as they find things they want to bring to the experience they're having.
Bring things. Can you expand on that? And I'm not trying to be like,
thick for the purpose of like, making you guys are being articulate. If, if Jesus, or if, if, if
Enyosh has a Jesus sized hole in his brain, I have a poetry sized hole in my brain in that I've
never been the kind of person to appreciate any sort of art that you like. I mean, you don't dance,
you, do you like music? You don't go to concerts. Do you like visual art? I like watching movies and
TV. Movies are cool, right? I mean, I can appreciate a good camera angle and stuff. But like,
I guess what I'm getting at is like, how much, like how angry do you get when somebody's talking
in front of you in the theater? Oh, this is a man that avoids spoilers to the point that he
does not watch trailers. Yeah, I mean, I don't know. I mean, I don't know what that counts as,
as ritual or not. A lot of trailers are really. That's actually a really good metaphor example for
ritual when it comes to cinema, though. And it's not going to see a movie with friends. It's going
to like the 50th anniversary of a movie and being able to like talk on all the lines with everyone
and share that like, we're going to share this experience. Rocky Horror. Yes. Rocky Horror is
a perfect example of this because everyone knows the lyrics. Everyone knows the words. And we go
through and we participate in this and build a community through this, even if it's just for a
moment. I haven't seen Rocky Horror picture show. Oh, that's okay. Maybe because the cultish fandom
deterred me from it. Huh? Yeah. So the whole thing, it's like, it's not a very useful term,
right? So like, there's, there's, um, ritual is sorry. Yeah. I'm coming off more adversarial than
I'm clear. I'm not pro blood ritual. I am pro barbecues. I like, I mean, you consider like
our monthly less wrong meetups to be sort of a ritual. Yes. No, because anyone can wear what
they want. You don't have, we're not holding hands. We don't do a stand up ceremony. We don't,
but they're always on the first Tuesday of the month because it's convenient for a calendar.
Just like I always brush my teeth at night, like not at, not at 10 in the morning because I'm,
you know, at work, right? When we, when we push it back to the second Tuesday, because of the
fourth of July, I was like, aw, that's a little less special this month. I didn't feel that way
whatsoever. I know. Okay. I think I'd have felt maybe that'd be less special if three people
showed up because everyone else is off doing for the July stuff. There were fewer people this month.
Yeah. Well, because like we also often order food and or drinks. We are imbibing the, the
intoxicants as a group. We are taking communion. Can I, can I articulate my thought on that? Is
that we're ordering food and buying drinks because people buy drinks during social things for like,
because it's, I call them social lubricants, but someone laughed at me once. That's why you
imbibe alcohol when in group because it's more, it makes you more relaxed. And we buy food because
it's 7pm. Most of us came from work. So like it's not, if we all bought the same dish and we,
and you couldn't come unless you ordered a white Russian, then it would be really weird, right?
Yeah. So that's what, that to me, that's, that's where I draw the line at ritual. Like when you
have to do this to be part of the club, all you have to do to be part of the less wrong community
to show up and not be a dick. And I'm not going to say that. I order for everybody else because I
have the most refined palate. What would you order out of curiosity? No, you should have something.
What? Oh, no, the, the, the adult mac and cheese is really great. Yeah. Solid. With the black and
chicken. So, you know, all the, the vegans and vegetarians feel really, wouldn't, wouldn't the,
wouldn't the whole context of a very different feel if we had to come in bathrooms and order white
Russians? That would be kind of awesome though. Maybe awesome, but wouldn't it be very different
than what we do? Yeah. So that's what, that's what I mean. All right. Yeah. So I, like, I'm okay with
not calling that a ritual. I don't, I don't mind. So I see your point as far as... I actually am
disagreeing. I think it is a ritual, but I think that you are possibly confabulating. Okay, I'm
going to get really weird here. Right with ritual. That's, I believe that I'm, I'm open to look to hear.
Right are the very formalized, we will do this thing. We will wear the silly how we will say
the sayings kind of thing. Ritual is something that we do to build things. And as I'm a witch,
so as a witch, I use ritual, like intentionally to create things in my life.
Can we get into that in more depth? I don't want to talk about that.
Yeah, that's kind of an interesting thing to drop into a conversation. And I don't know what that
means. Yeah. If it means, or I think it means, you just casually dropped that I can, I can fly,
and I'm one phone call away from winning James Rindy's million dollars.
And I sleep with Satan, which can confirm.
So, okay, there's a little bit of backstory here. So I'm a psychology major and I love hacking
the brain. I think it's really interesting to be like, well, if I do this thing,
how do I feel about that? And how do I perceive the world through this different lens?
Magic is basically that to me. I use ritual to look at the world in a different way.
Can you discuss your methods briefly? Or is there some ceremony involved or we can't talk about it?
No, we all need a hat. And bathrobes. And you need to give me $2,000. So that's
kind of the stuff I expect from ceremony, right? Or from ritual.
I'd like to make it clear that even though I said I look like a wizard, I'm not a wizard here.
So Vivian, please continue. Okay. So it ties into intentionality and putting yourself in the
mind place of being able to think and look at the world in a different way.
So when I do ritual, for example, I use dim lighting, I use candles, I use incense,
because it transforms the world that I am used to into a world that I have created as a ritual space.
So like a darker, smellier room? Yeah.
Okay, that's fine. Just make sure I'm on the right page.
Your olfactory senses are really closely linked to like emotional memory also.
So like if you're trying to create a specific feeling at a specific time and then like you're
only going to do that at a certain time of year or certain, you know, whenever you're doing a
certain thing, like burning incense or a certain type of wood or whatever is actually a really
good way of doing that. Sure. And it trains your brain to be like, okay, brain, when I want to do
this thing, I smell this thing and that is the place where I want to be in my head to be able to
generate what I want out of this scenario. And I'm not saying that I'm going to like suddenly
operate millions of dollars or some random shit like that. That's not how it works.
What magic is for, and I'm sure there are many people on the internet who will disagree with me,
what magic is for is transforming how you see the world and how you participate in it.
So magic is DMT or LSD? That's another question. That's a question for someone else.
But that fits what you're talking about. Yes, I have heard a lot of people say that.
Okay, so it's different than like, I'm going to make this happen by chanting the right words
in front of this circle that I drew. Oh, do me now. Okay, so you painted, I think the word
witchcraft carries quite a bit of weight. So like, because by your definition,
Jenkins is legit a wizard. Kind of, yeah. When I describe the smell of DMT, I literally describe
it as smelling like magic. Like, I don't know how else to describe it. It smells like magic.
Sure. And there's a little bit more to it. I'm oversimplifying it.
I don't use the word magic the way she does at all. I have no idea what she's talking about,
to be totally honest. I'm still very confused. You don't use the word magic in the Harry Pottery
and sense of you make things happen by doing things. No. Okay. No. But it's all psychological.
Why use that word then? Because it's ritual. It's because it ties into the, it's a, it's a
shorthand for what we are creating in this world. And there, there are, there are several schools
of belief that talk about this in different ways. And I'm completely oversimplifying what I'm actually
doing. But I'm going to use the Setian, sort of a part of you for this to just kind of describe it.
The temple of set is an offshoot of the church of Satan. And the Setians believe that, and I'm
going to hope that I'm getting this right. Something along the lines of that you are a God.
And it is your point, it's your point to find out your meaning in life. And so when you use magic,
the point of the magic is to make you the person that you see yourself being in kefir.
And that's basically the point of magic is like this, not, it's going to sound hokey to say it,
but to self actualize and self grow to the person and the, using the power you want to have in the
world. So I mean, I minus a lot of the vocabulary there, a lot of that sounds like things that
are desirable that like most people try to do all the time, right? So like we try to self
actualize and make a difference, become who we're meant to be, that sort of thing. I guess it is
interesting that you'd couch it in turn, like the first premise of the Setian sect of whatever
that you're a God, and it's irresponsible to figure out who you are. I guess how do they come to
that first premise? I mean, it sounds like abuse of God. Like when most people say God,
