Welcome to the Basing Conspiracy. I'm Nini Ashbrotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber, and we have
two guests today. I am Vivian Cape. And I'm Katrina Stanton. My Katrina, you have changed
quite a bit. A little bit, I guess. How do you feel about animal rights, Katrina? Who
cares about animals? What? Alternately, you guys can call me Cannonball Jenkins. Cannonball
Jenkins. I think that's a SpongeBob reference. I'm not sure, but all right, we can go with
that. I never watched SpongeBob. I was not. Mini McWeberman Jenkins or something wasn't
that it like is really. Yeah, well, they just keep changing it. It's something Jenkins and
toward the end it's Cannonball Jenkins. Okay, Leeroy. Anyway, so I'm Katrina Stanton. Yeah,
no. Fantastic. Call you Leeroy. All right. We're going with Jenkinses. That's my favorite
one. Okay, cool. Cool. I'm ready. Cannonball. Let's dive in. So we brought you in here because
we want to do an episode on spirituality and rationalism or I hate the word spirituality
because it sounds so fruity and New Age and like, yeah, exactly. We'll have to touch on
that. Yes. But you had, was it just this last solstice? God, that was seven months ago
now. Well, not the last solstice. Last winter's solstice was seven months ago. Yeah, well,
no one celebrates the summer solstice. We tried or maybe you guys don't celebrate the summer
solstice. Okay, well, definitely celebrate the summer solstice. So no one cool. It's just
more of a summer solstice. More of an outdoorsy, you know, like naked dance to the sun god.
Yeah, right. Depends where you are. But on our last winter solstice, you were trying to do the
solstice ritual thing that some some rationalist groups have been trying to do throughout the
country. I suggested we do something similar to the Bay Area solstice and kind of follow
their sorts of guidelines, I suppose, that they had. I was I was going to, you know, push very
lightly on it. I don't I wasn't I didn't have like a lot of plans for like singing in groups or,
you know, like holding hands and passing around dark chocolate, which I think is actually something
they do. But yeah, it was more just like, I wanted a time when like, I could read something,
you know, to a group, and then somebody else could read something. And then we could all
sit and reflect on the thing we read. And then, you know, go back to doing whatever else we were
doing before. You know, maybe dim the lights even or or or wear a funny hat. But but nothing
like too crazy, I think. And I think yeah, I just wanted to weigh on that. I like my I'm getting
like this sense of revolutions too strong of a word, but like repellents to that whole thing. And
that was what I expressed when we were initially talking about it like last October. Well, that's
what I got from pretty much everybody when I discussed it. And I was like, okay, well, then
this is not really the right time or place or group. Well, what we went for it, we had like a
party, but it wasn't like the same. I mean, so that's what I was going to get as like if you said
nothing too crazy, if holding hands and reading books with weird hats on isn't too crazy. I'm
wondering where that line where the line is. I mean, well, there's like, you know, the you
know, any sorts of blood rituals or, or, you know, okay, that's definitely crazy. Yeah,
sacrifices, rational circles. No, I don't think so. Yeah, not really much of anything, but it's
more about the, you know, having a group experience was what I was looking for, right? So it's like,
you know, we all drawn to this whole rationality thing in one way or another. For me, it's mostly
because I was reading, you know, I read the sequences and a bunch of Scott Alexander stuff,
and I thought they were really important and really interesting. So I wanted to connect with
the people that did that. So any form of connection that I thought it could be interesting was one
that I was willing to pursue. But I mean, it ended up just being a party and that was fun.
I enjoyed that. I seem to recall there was also a tapestry. Oh yeah, I brought a tapestry to cover
up a television because I don't like screens. I think that was part of the ritual. Well, I suppose
so. We did a book exchange, which I don't know if that was part of the intended ritual or not,
but that's that's the kind of ritual I can get behind. Yeah, well, that's for sharing of knowledge.
Katrina and the other Katrina, rather. I think like, I came up with a bunch of ideas and she
came up with a bunch of ideas. And we ended up doing like one of them. Because I think the book
exchange was the one that people felt like the least creeped out about, right? And specifically,
Katrina's husband, who like, it was hosted at Katrina's house. Katrina's husband was like,
I don't like the idea of any sort of ritual anything. And like, as soon as that happened,
I was like, okay, it's dead. Like, I'm not going to try and push against that because, you know,
it's in his house. I'm happy to respect that. It wasn't. Yeah, I think that's that's the main
reason you're having me on, because I'm not immediately repulsed by ritual. And that's
interesting to you guys, right? Kind of. Yeah. Okay. That's one third of the reason. Okay. The
other one was I laughed at you guys for for having Taran on as kind of a pseudo authority on psychedelics.
And we can get into that later. And I was like, Hey, if anybody's going to be the drug authority,
like, look at the guy who looks kind of like a wizard, maybe first, like, by the way, those of
you listening, I look kind of like a wizard. I try not to judge people based on outward appearances.
Picture Jesus, but if Jesus showered and wore t-shirts, if Jesus showered occasionally. Yeah.
Yeah, I did shower it this morning. So that's
yeah. So I don't know what was the motivation was just to like get a sense of belonging with
other people. So group bonding is part of it, right? So rituals are great for group bonding.
Secondly, it's just it's nice to have a group experience. Just, you know, try to create some
sort of powerful experience, whether it be through music or dancing or or art or or whatever,
just a group project or or anything like that. Having powerful experiences is
something I usually try to to do, I suppose. I'm curious, Vivian, would you have gone to
this ritual thing if you had known about it and been invited? It depends on the parameters.
With attending ritual, there has to be a sense of purpose and a sense of commitment to it.
Because if you if you spring ritual on people, they tend to react poorly
or react well, depending on what's going on. Like, for example, if you're at a concert,
that's basically a ritual. And people go there, they're like, I'm here, I'm expecting to
participate in this in some way or another. And I'm down for that. If you turn the concert into
like a mass or something, and they're like, wait, wait, I didn't sign up for this, guys. Why are
we kneeling? Oh, God. Is that why you wouldn't participate in the Welcome Tonight, feel thing?
Yes, actually, the Oh, so quick setup for the audience. I we went to the Welcome Tonight
Veil show, All Hail, which was fantastic. And I highly recommend it to everyone wrote a blog
post about it. But it felt to me kind of like a combination of modern sort of like meta tongue
and cheek ritual, and also like audience participation, really, I love going to the
Renaissance Festival for the same reason. They have a lot of audience participation in those
things. I love yelling back and doing things on cue and whatever, and like doing it with
everybody else at the same time. It's not as much fun. And there's only one or two people
doing it. That's pretty much that is. Somebody that loves, maybe a little bit, but I'm going to
get to as to why it also freaks me the fuck out. But no, in Welcome Tonight feel, it was just fun
stuff. It was like, we are hailing the glow cloud and shit. And it's a joke, but we all did it
together. And I felt a sense of like community and bonding with people. It was really fun.
And I was like, you're not doing the thing to Vivian because she was sitting next to me. And
she was like, yeah, I don't participate in ritual unless I have decided to do that beforehand
or something along those lines, right? Yes, very much so. It when you're doing audience
participation stuff, it's very important to consider the intent of it. And in this particular
case, it was very playful. It was this very like group bonding kind of thing. But it was making
me feel like there was intent and purpose behind it that I wasn't 100% committed to. Therefore,
I didn't feel like I was able to participate fully in it and comfortably.
Two things really quick. I wanted to get out one. Welcome to Night Vale is a weird podcast for
those of you who are super out of the loop. And weird is maybe operative. I wouldn't say it's
please explain it to me. Oh, really? No, yeah, I have no idea. I would mention 50% of the people
who are familiar with podcasts are familiar with Welcome to Night Vale. But for those we are assuming
we're not, it's actually sort of like Garrison Keeler meets the X files. And it's this very quirky
LGBT friendly kind of like weirdness in the middle of the desert. And you kind of just go
with it and you slowly learn about the people and start to care about them and their weird,
weird ways. Yeah, it's billed as a community radio show for a very small desert community
called Night Vale. But it is really bizarre and kind of like surrealist absurdist kind of existential
horror lots of the times, but also in a laughing at ourselves sort of funny way. Like we're all
going to die. Let's have some fun before we do like Twin Peaks meets Rick and Morty. Yes. Yes. Yeah.
Yeah, I got it. I listened to it for like a year and it's still going like what every week?
Twice a month. Yeah. Many years behind. But it's I mean, it was it was fun. I don't know. I would
say that. Okay, so Welcome to Night Vale. I only think like maybe one out of every four episodes
is good. But I consider it worth listening to for those one out of every four because when
you do get those they're really good. And more importantly, it gives you the background context
to attend the awesome touring ritual that they do once or twice a year because I really love their
live shows right on. Yeah, we went to one. Yeah, a few years ago. That might have been. I think I
was slightly out of the loop at that point, but I was roughly that's where I don't want to fall off.
Anyway, I also, unless I'm derailed too far for you to remember your points already. I also was
curious, will you keep using this word ritual to encompass everything from like bloodletting to
going to a concert? And I feel like that's way too broad. Is it though? Huh? Yes. I'm I'm
prepared to say the word is useless if it encompasses everything from animal sacrifice to
listening to music in group. Well, the thing is, is it applies to groups and it applies to how people
operate in groups. The point of ritual is to share intent. And so if you're sacrificing an animal,
for example, and I hope none of our listeners are, you're called barbecue. I'm vegetarian. All right.
The barbecue is a specific type of animal sacrifice. That's actually a very good point.
But if you're participating in a ritual with an intent, for example, I'm gonna I'm stuck on the
barbecue thing now. Thank you. If you're performing this ritual to get food and also to share community
with members of your family and friends and maybe people you don't like, but you invite it anyway,
there's a purpose behind it and there's a thought concept behind it that forms the
framework of the people's interaction. And so when you say, Hey, I'm going to have a barbecue,
people know what to expect and know how they're going to participate. Well, other than like the
fact that you guys also like, I think jumped around a bit with like animal sacrifice there. If I went
to barbecue and they killed the animal in front of me, I'd be kind of turned off, right? Right.
It is not the ritual you were signing up for. Does a ritual need to have more than one person?
Yes. Well, no. So I mean, I can definitely think of examples in my head that archetypally fit one
person morning rituals, but I can think of things that I do, you know, every day with intent that
I don't think are rituals like I brush my teeth so they don't fall out. I don't do it as some,
you know, for the same reason that people go to concerts or whatever, right? So or sacrifice
animals. There's this fantastic article slash post. I don't even know what to call things on the
internet anymore over at melting asphalt where someone does go into the aspects of ritual and
makes lots of different comparisons, things like meditation, listening to live music in a crowd,
that sort of thing, singing in a choir, being all around a fire and telling a story and says that
the thing they all seem to have in common is that you sort of subsume your sense of self and more
feel like you're one with the community and with the people that are around you and that's
the actions too. And that seems to be the purpose of ritual that humans have this sort of built in
software for being able to cooperate with other humans and do things in groups and rituals are
a way of helping to reinforce that and, you know, say this is the group that I want to do things with
and I will cooperate with them and together we can make more, you know, awesome things and you
can't seem to do it like that well through rationalist means. I mean corporations do exist and they
motivate people with money and fear of starving to death, but they don't work as well as groups that
have that deep social bonding and trust, which is why the military has, you know, their basic
training where they break you down and a lot of groups oftentimes all wear the same uniform or
something to help make them all feel together like a single entity. It's sort of a call sign and
whatnot. Yeah, a call sign. It's a way to help build the hive mind to be part of a community.
Well, I mean, your point with corporations that that seems kind of weird. I mean, corporations
are usually consist of a much larger number of people than like Dunbar's number. Dunbar's number
is like 150. That's supposed to be like the, you know, about whereabouts the number of people that
we can actually like simulate in our own mind of like, this is how this person acts, etc.
So I'd say that that's not too surprising that that corporations aren't as functional as like
small military groups of 50 guys or something, right? Yeah, but like large military groups work
too. We've managed to make it a whole military because they're broken up into, you know, groups of
like 50 or so. I don't know. Anybody that has been in the military is probably laughing at me
for not knowing how large. I believe eight is a squad size. Maybe seven. I don't know. Sorry. I mean
concerts have more than 150 people, but the intimate concerts have a different feel to them than
like larger concerts. So if you're at like a small venue kind of thing, like the Welcome Night Vale
show or whatever, there were maybe more than I feel is medium sized by now. Oh yeah, that's true,
but like 300 people are ish-esque. And so if you go to that and in contrast, going to like a very
large concert, you don't feel that same level of intimacy. You don't feel that same level of
like crowd participation. I should just close. I've been to one concert. It was like 12 years ago
and I didn't have any fun. So yeah, I hate all the things that really turn me off, even like as
much as like the like get together and lose your sense of self with a community like that doesn't,
that's not something that I've ever been comfortable with or enjoyed. I've attempted to dance like
three times. Oh, you should try dancing. Dancing is really fun. I can't. I have no rhythm or groove.
You don't have to go to more concerts and then you'll develop some rhythm and groove,
and then maybe you'll learn how to dance. I mean, I mean, this isn't one way to cost. Well,
I mean, dancing is like this really basic human thing that I feel like everybody should do,
even if it's like square dancing or something. Yeah, but like I'm going to throw out that like
that, not everything that humans bait that base humans do. No, no, no. I'm not equating the two.
I'm just saying that you can't use that as a persuasive argument. I read a criticism,
which I wish I had the source for it because all I have is the actual criticism now. But
someone was taking basically Steven's view that my position is that a longing for community or to
be part of a whole is unhealthy, as is indulging in it. It's why we can't have nice things because
that's how people establish political power and motivate their bases. And you are not a hunter
gatherer who will die if you're separated from your tribe. Religious rituals are communitarian
super stimuli that we should avoid weighing in. That's not necessarily my position. My position
is much softer than that. And I personally don't like doing that stuff. Okay, if other people
want to do stuff, I'm not going to be like, Hey, you guys are, you know, worse than religions and
all that stuff. It's just that never appealed to me. I was emailing someone who went to one of the
solstice rituals in a different city. And she said that she just felt and I think this is one of
the reasons that I get squicked out. Like when you propose your ritual thing, I was like,
you know, I'm all for you doing whatever you want. If you know, Katrina's okay because it's
our house or wherever you want to do your thing, but I'm probably not going to participate because
for me, like religion, partly I always felt like an outsider. And any sort of that sort of
religious ritual or space makes me feel immediately like this is not a place I should be. I have a
strong psychological, this is a bad and run away aspect to it. Did you never like take communion
in church or anything? Did they do that? Jehovah's Witnesses are a fairly young
religion in the grand scheme of things about a century or so. They don't have a lot of ritual.
They're their main. Sacraments or the, you know, no, no sacraments. Their main ritual is going
from door to door and telling people about Jesus. Have you heard the good news? Yeah,
exactly. Right. It's not a good ritual. Okay. So more importantly, as the person who was making
the counter also pointed out, ritual and that sort of communitarian mindset is often used for
evil things. And lots of times like the Catholic church being a great example, you managed to
unite these people and give them a common purpose. And then a small minority of power hungry people
managed to take control and pervert that purpose and use it to their ends instead. And that is my
