Cleverly. You don't have a lot of it. Maybe that's on purpose.
Fix that. So, so going back to the using ritual because it gives you experiences.
Powerful experience. Powerful experiences. Yeah. I don't know. Interesting experiences.
That's, I suppose if that's your thing, you can do that. If powerful experiences are your thing.
Yeah. Why don't they not be? You're like reading good books or just books.
Okay. I mean, specifically the power, powerful experiences you get from rituals.
For a lot of people, it would not be because you get the weird, squeaky.
They're trying to channel me and use me for their purposes feeling.
Yeah. Being hit in the face is a powerful experience, but it's not one that you want to
have, right? Or many of us. Well, I mean, being recruited into the military is a very powerful
experience, but I wouldn't want to experience that. Oh yeah. Like, I mean, and so it's like
skydiving and I don't want to do that either. But like, I guess I'm trying to think of like,
just because it's a powerful experience doesn't mean that it's good or desirable.
I like to just set my boundaries because I really don't, right? So you can,
you can accept that many powerful experiences are desirable, right? Sure. Yeah. Like orgasms.
Orgasms would be powerful experiences that most people want to have, right? So do you think most
of the, the people in the rational sphere that do try to do these sorts of rituals,
it's for the powerful experience aspect? I think it's mostly for the group bonding
from what I can tell. I think a lot of rationalists who are aspiring, whatever,
less wrongers are kind of weird socially. Right. Right. So they're kind of building
their own thing in their own way. And I think that's cool. You know, do it. However, yeah,
I don't know, but I think that's the main reason for most people, but, but it's also like,
I think for me, it's always going to feel like wearing your parents clothes until we get something
that is comfortable and doesn't feel like the churches that we grew up in. That's why you
have to build it. Yeah. That's why you make it your own. That's why I liked Welcome to Night
Vale so much. It's just something, you know, it's got several years of just, you know, fun,
weird stories. And then they come along and do just tongue and cheek sort of things. I mean,
I could totally see like maybe on a university group, people start doing re-enactments of various
shows and that building somewhere in the future. Right. But it ties back to the reading poetry
example. And then you getting silly hats to read poetry in. You build, and it's kind of a weird
comparison, but you build ritual and you build it through what you do as a community.
So you got to start small. Can't jump right into the candles and the holding hands and chanting.
No, because that will automatically make people adverse to it, especially people that come from
a religious background or come from a background that is dubious of the trappings of religion.
So, I mean, kind of running with and thus butchering Inyasha's example of wearing your
parents clothing, which I'd never heard before. But then to me, something sounds really just
super unappealing about like trying to recreate the experience of wearing uncomfortable parents
clothing, right? Because like just because you miss wearing it, like, I guess maybe I'm the kind
of person, again, told you I'd ruin the metaphor, who never liked that. So, I mean, I guess luckily
in my childhood, it wasn't super full of ritual, at least not that it's tasteful kind, like we did
do Christmas on Christmas Day, but not like we didn't sing a song or, you know, read a Bible
verse or anything. So like, it was Christmas is the best. It was just done as like, you know,
the thing people do, but not in like, okay, well, we also do all this weird other stuff.
Like, I mean, you can, I feel like a good rule of thumb that I'm kind of running with is like,
you can wear whatever you want. So there's, you know, I've never had anything like that in my life
that I, you know, really wanted to get into. I mean, I went to like my graduation ceremonies
because it was important for my family, not because I wanted to. Like that's the level of like,
eh, just send it to me in the mail. It's the same thing for me. Like that's just the level
I'm operating at. And I'm not saying that's better. I'm probably missing out of something.
But you weren't too uncomfortable with the everyone had to wear the same sort of graduation gown and
walk up in order and no, I mean, like with the song playing in the background.
Yeah, I wouldn't have done it of my own. I mean, it wasn't my own volition in that I wasn't held
at gunpoint, but I wouldn't have done it if I didn't feel like my family would have been bummed
if they couldn't go to this. Like they wouldn't have had as much fun watching me open it when it
arrived in the mail, right? So like, I didn't do it for me, I did it for them. Did you feel
more comfortable with that ritual because, or that ceremony because it was explicitly non-religious?
I feel like I just, like I only did it because I felt like I would be letting people down if I
didn't. Yeah, but you didn't feel like weird and gross when you did it, right? No, I guess not.
And maybe it was the lack of seriousness. And I guess not all, all rituals are serious from
what I'm understanding here. Well, the ceremony, I mean, the graduation ceremony is supposed to
be very serious. Well, it's serious to the, like people talking to the microphones,
but the rest of us were just goofing around, just sitting there and, you know, making jokes.
A lot like church when you're a kid. Probably. I didn't go to church a lot as a kid either,
so maybe less than half a dozen times. So it's a lot of lucky you. It's a lot of doodling
in Sundays and cartoons. It's a lot of doodling inside the watch tower and just daydreaming.
Oh, you know what? I can bump that number up to like a dozen because we used to go
out of like every summer ish when my great grandparents would go. So that count. But I mean,
yeah, you're right. Cause I specifically remember the doodling. We weren't allowed to doodle.
Oh, I'm sorry. You had to just sit there and listen to that shit. Well, yeah. You know,
in church, you can't deface the mess. It's called a missile in Catholic church. MIS has a L and
it's the book that shows you where you're supposed to stand and sit and kneel at words to say in
all the ritual, right? Kind of stuff. And that's R I T E, right? Not, right? Oh, thank you. Thank you,
Jenkins. That I can't sing either. I should put that on the table. That was you should try singing
it. That was actually really cool. Yeah, just learn. It's good. No, I say all of these things
stop sucking Steven. It's not stop sucking. It's like most of these things require practice,
right? So when I was a child, I had to sing like really, really terrible worship songs,
like contemporary Christian music is the worst form of music that I can think of.
It's the worst classic hymns, though, when done properly. Yeah, you're right. Yeah, that's why
I said contemporary Christian worship music. It's it's the worst. Um, yeah, but yeah, just
it takes time and practice and and whatnot. It's like you start biking the first time you got on
a bike too, but you stuck with it. Yeah. I mean, a lot of this gets into like probably
repressed childhood memories of bullying or something, but like there's difference between
to like I can enjoy, uh, like maybe some of these things are started earlier and it made it easier.
I mean, a lot of people are told when they're young that they can't sing and they should stop.
And I recently heard that that is like a violent thing to do someone and I agree because singing
is such a good, awesome, enjoy emotionally enjoyable thing. And so I'm going to try to
start to learn, but right up until a year or two ago, I also always felt people tell a lot of white
boys that they can't dance and it's really sad. Yeah, white boys, you can dance. You just got to
try a little harder. Yeah. And up until a few years ago, I haven't been doing it is the same
sort of thing. I would never sing, never dance, because dancing is more to find y'all should
be embarrassing, horrible and just start working on it and it is nice. Yes, exactly. Well, and the
thing is, is that's preventing people from being able to experience a lot of the stuff that we're
talking about though, because it's like you can't participate in this thing because you aren't
quote unquote good enough at it and therefore you don't get to experience that community and that
ritual. Maybe it's intentional to funnel people more into like churches and doing things like
the chanting and yeah, as opposed to dancing and stuff. Well, I mean, and there's some like
Christian sects that do dancing as part of their ritual. Yeah, dancing was, I mean, most of the
reason most Christians don't do a lot of dancing is because it was like not allowed. I mean,
dancing is really sexual a lot of the time too. So it's like, it's hard to not have it be like
not sexual. Unless you're Holy Ghosting doing the Holy Ghosting. That's what I call. Oh,
space enough for Jesus between you two. Is that what you're talking about? No, I mean,
when you feel the spirit coming over you. I know what you're saying. Comedian Hannibal Burris
and I call it Holy Ghosting. I mean, that sounds fun, but I don't know. Like yeah,
don't like give yourself a seizure or anything, but but yeah. So do you have any forms of like
self expression that aren't this podcast or no or anything like that? Yeah, so I don't say that
tongue and you're missing something of value. I'd say like something that well. It's really
valuable to me anyway to have and I think if you developed one or or multiple well,
Stephen, it would be valuable to you too, right? I think memes are sort of a modern day
weight. Yeah. Oh yeah. I don't make or share memes. I observe them on Reddit and I'll occasionally
text a cute picture that I find. Yeah, I've had you've shared memes with me before. You name one
example. Not off the top of my head because you literally showed me one. I showed you an XKCD
comic that's very different than like a picture of Eugene of the graph. Oh yeah. That was a meme,
but I'm okay. So we're I think I think is very modern day sort of way to express yourselves.
So my first one, I didn't make either of those. Second of all, you don't have to make my first
exposure to the word meme was in the Richard Dawkins, Dawkins Ian sense. And I really really
liked 2011 when people started using it all the time. I like this book like get really popular
again. What's happening in this high class motherfucker over here. I mean, I wish we still
had the origin of the word meme. I wish we still had a word that meant that because it's a very
useful word. Oh, yeah. Well, we do. It's just only with specific groups of people, right? Right.
Depending on the yeah. You have to say meme and original thing. Are you a good witch or a bad witch?
Memes like image macros. And then I mean, that's that is most memes. Yeah. So no, I think you're
absolutely right. I'm missing out something. That's one of the reasons as eager to do this podcast.
I did run a blog for like a year where I wrote something every day and then deleted it like
five years ago. But like my main thing is I don't have like maybe it's because I'm not good. It's
I'm I'm told I'm not good at singing, not by like mean people, but just like as a matter of fact,
it's just like I'm told I'm not over six feet tall, like you happen not to be good at singing.
So like, you know, I don't have a good pitch for or you know, ear for pitch or tune or whatever.
I can't hold a beat. I mean, so like it's the same way as like telling someone in second grade,
you're not good at algebra. That is true, but they can become good at algebra. I
like being color blind. No, no, no, no. Like you're not. You're not good at discerning the
colors green and red. Well, like maybe you'll be dead. Yeah. If you if you tried really hard and
like you never progressed maybe, but and it might be one of those things that you have to learn
when you're a child. Also, I don't know. I did take music classes all through primary school.
You did or didn't I did like to K through six and then in junior high. I was in choir. Just
like, but I was on the ship. Music classes. Yeah, those aren't. I don't think those really
count to be totally honest. I mean, it's like intensive practice. So yeah, I've always been
a fairly musical person and musically inclined. So I don't it's it's hard for me to empathize with
you in that sense. But I assume that if you spent a lot of time or spent, you know,
small piece of the time, you know, any musical person has spent, you'd start to get it. I think
right. Not as often as most people. That's probably the first step is listening to like and
liking music, I suppose. There's YouTube videos that teach you how to sing.
But yeah, while you're doing what like, what's your feedback? You have to have somebody listen
to you sing and say thumbs up, thumbs down. You can hear yourself for one and you can also record
yourself. Yeah, not doing that. So I mean, maybe steps. I'll find some way to edge into this. But
Stephen does have ways to express himself. You were really big into that soul, the game that
hurts you until you like it. Soul Calibur? No, not Soul Calibur. Oh, Dark Souls. Dark Souls, yes.
I play video games. The honest trailer pitch for the Dark Souls series was the game that
fucks you until you love it. So I mean, like I play video games, but I don't know if that counts
as self-explanatory. Like I don't make video games. Right. But I think there's a difference between
playing video games and like getting deep into them and knowing a lot about them.
One's a form of like hobbyism, another is like a form of self-expression.
Hobby is a form of self-expression. Like once you're the guy who's playing Dark Souls on the
Guitar Hero controller. I never was. Well, okay, I know. But that is a form of self-expression
itself. So I mean, okay, I see you're saying, but I do feel like there's a difference in kind from
that and like writing a song or writing a book. Like I don't, I'm envious of the people who can do
that because there's nothing in me that's creative trying to get out and do that sort of thing. I
feel like we're sort of far afield from where we were trying to go. But as long as this is, you
know, I'm fine talking about it. I just, if this is, I don't know. Well, this is related to
powerful experiences, right? Vivian, would you warn people away from attending Jesse's ritual
thing because you don't know what he's trying to channel them into? As long as he didn't spring
it on me. No. Okay. Don't spring ritual on me. I'd like all of us to, to join hands in prayer now.
So not going to do that. No, I mean, that's the thing. Cause like powerful experiences are
powerful. And that is one of the reasons that I try to avoid them because I'm not necessarily
sure I want to get wrapped up in that sort of thing. If I, if I don't completely know it's
that this is a trusting thing. And also like you're giving me the, Vivian's giving me the
look right now cause the welcome night feel thing, but the welcome night feel thing was
also safe. It is like a crush on your high school teacher cause you know, you're never
going to fuck your high school teacher. Unless you're never going to fuck your high school teacher.
Okay. Unless you are in one of those Florida schools with the, that you hear on bottom news.
Yeah. But no, it's the same thing. The welcome night feel people, they're going on to Santa Fe
after Denver. They're not going to have us riding in the streets or whatever or giving them 10% of
our income. I was about to spoil the crap out of that, but they kind of did.
Well, okay. Just a tiny bit, but it was only just like a little bit and it was for the greater good.
That's what they wouldn't tell you. Not good. I feel like it's okay to spoil it. Yeah.
There was just a little bit at the end, sort of a, a, um, a slight nudge towards, you know,
and maybe resist the current administration sort of feel stay strong, stay together.
Every artist right now. Yes. Yeah. Right. I mean, is that, is that dangerous ritual or is it only
dangerous because it came after a ritual? Spoilers. Ah, okay. I mean, we'll, we'll put a spoiler tag
before this. Okay. Spoiler tag before this. Okay. And anyone who does not want the spoilers,
skip ahead by two minutes. There's only like two weeks left in the tour anyway.
Oh yeah. That's true. Yeah. So the thing is, is there like go forth and say this particular phrase
to everyone that you meet as a way of acknowledging them as another human being. I'll hail. Exactly.
But that is in itself ritual. What, what do you think? Amen. It's
yeah. I'm okay. It's like, hey, we also see listen to night fail. I'll hail.
So it's not going forth and acknowledging other human for being another human. It's going forth
and acknowledging another night veil fan for being the night veil, but it's like when metal
heads throw up the horns at each other. That's just like we both like heavy metal. It doesn't mean
it actually means hail Satan, but well fine. It actually means hail Satan, but nowadays it means
we like, it really just means metal. Yeah. I do this for hail Satan. Well, you are also a witch.
We have appropriated your symbol and now it means I like metal.
It can be both. It can be both. Yeah. I'm not begrudging you the use of it. I'm just
staying for accuracy that it also intentionally means hail Satan. So if you don't want to hail
Satan, maybe don't do it. Okay. Hailing Satan. I'm not a big fan of like, well, of those things
you're like, well, you know, this actually means this, right? It's like, no, it means what I thought
it meant. It means that 100% of the time. I'm just using a word wrong language is determined by
usage. Kind of. Yeah. So like, if everyone uses it for I like metal, it means I like metal. Yeah.
That's, I mean, but that's sort of just one of my little nitpicky things. I could be wrong.
I think that's the common accepted thing that God, I forgot the word, but the saying is
language is determined by usage, not the other way around. So usage determines language.
Yeah. I mean, certainly it'd be weird. Like if you could change the definition of something and
