then change the thing, right? So that's, that's why like, I feel like the map, the arrows point
the other way. Right. So anyway, so we're done. Spoilering, I think we're done. Spoilering. I think
so. Okay. Okay. And I don't think that was really, I don't feel like I got spoiled. Yeah. Okay. I
don't think it was really the dangers of the thing. It's not dangerous, but there's an intent
behind it. One of the things that I think is I'm not conveying very well is that it
doesn't have to be dangerous for it to have an intent, but unless I want to fully participate
in that intent, I don't participate in it. I heard anecdotally, or let me rephrase this,
I have a memory of reading in Shirley or joking, Mr. Feynman, that when he received his Nobel prize,
he either wanted to or actually went up the stairs backwards to take his prize because he
didn't like the ceremony the whole thing. And I feel like that's sort of where I'm coming from
or like where my feeling is like on ceremony in general, like the whole idea of we do it this
way because we've done it this way is something that I am just repellent. I find that's like my
initial pushback. And then when we were talking, I guess bringing it way back when Jenkins and I
were talking about salsa stuff eight months ago, I was initially like, oh man, that sounds gross
and weird. But then you're like, well, no, what about all the cool community stuff? And some
people like it as well. Some people like it. I'm willing to acknowledge that there's probably
something there that I'm missing as happened so often that other people will want to have. And
if people want to do it, you know, I'm obviously not gonna like try and stop you. But I was just
initially like deciding whether or not to go. But then I was like, well, all right, I'll give it a
shot. I don't think I would have held hands if that was part of the thing, but I would have watched
you guys hold hands. I probably would not have encouraged it. Or whatever like other thing that
felt super ceremony-y. Like I might have not participated. Like what if all the lights were
off and I let a candle and then read something over the candle or like slightly behind the
candle? I would probably not be a dick and turn like around a corner so I could play on my phone.
Like, so like, I wouldn't want to let it through with my phone and be like that level of destroy
the ritual because I'm right now. I was mind that that's probably not worth doing. So one thing
I usually used to point out that like most people have a sense of, you know, the sacred or ritual
or whatever is just basically like if you're at the movies and the guy is talking in front of you,
you kind of want to punch his head. Well, I want to punch his head. Other people want him to stop
talking, right? And you want to punch his head to make him stop talking. Right, right, right, right.
Yeah, sorry, violence. Violence is always the answer guys, remember that? Violence is always the
means. It's never failed yet. I share that impulse, but not because he's ruining the ceremony of the
movie, but because he's ruining the mood. Immersion broken, man. And like, so that to me is not so much
the ceremony as it is like just the experience, right? And you might equate the two, but I feel
like they're just they're importantly different. In what way? In the way that I can't think of
a better way to articulate it than say you can wear whatever you want to the movies. Okay,
but and like if for like, I went and saw the Avengers when it came out, a lot of us are wearing
some sort of costume, but I didn't like sneer at the people or tell them they couldn't come
with people who weren't wearing costumes, right? Maybe it's a large part because going to the
movies has never really done a lot of harm, whereas we've all seen a lot of harm coming from
religious fanaticism. And personally, probably all of us, I don't know about Stephen, because
you raised in a non religious environment, but have been at least three of us, I'm assuming
have been harmed by religion in our past. And which is one of the reasons I have a very strong
aversion to those sorts of things. Like I would not have been comfortable with that sort of thing
if you turn off the lights and light a candle and read a thing. I to me would have started feeling
weird at that point, because I'm like, this brings up too many, too many associations with religion
and how how that was abused to hurt people and control people. What if it wasn't things that were
like reminiscent, but it was just other random things like, all right, everyone stand on one foot
and well, it depends if you know, if it's Cecil Baldwin up on stage saying, everybody raise your
hand and say, I swear fealty to the glow cloud. I'm totally fine with that because that's fun.
Yeah, but like, what if we tried to do that around like our like local community of rationalists,
right? Or whatever you want to call it, like, then that sounds weird. Like to say, all right,
everyone's swear fealty to whatever. I guess like that level of yeah, that would be weird.
That's where I see this going, right? So I mean, part of it, like the harmlessness is, I think,
maybe I'm, I think I'm pretty sure I'm missing something integral here. I would first have to
feel that it is harmless, which is why I was okay with the Nightfield stuff and why I'm probably
less okay with other things. So why would it be harmful in a rationalist context?
Not it wouldn't necessarily be harmful. I just wouldn't already think we're a cult.
Well, I mean, some people say that and I think it is a gross misuse of the word cult.
But I don't think- Sounds like someone in the cult would say.
No, I just would. The fact that someone would ask me to be in that sort of a ritual would,
that itself would make me raise my suspicions because anyone who I trusted would not ask that
of me, I guess. So instead we say, hey, we're going to do a thing? Then that's fine. You can do
your thing and I'm invited. Would you like to participate in this thing rather than
using the word thing instead of ritual? Yeah, no, I'd be like that. No, I would not like to
participate in that. There's too many candles and other religious trappings. What if we used
LEDs, right? Those don't have any religious- No, I mean, depending on what it looks like.
Okay, again, I was not attached to it enough to even- As soon as there was a little bit of
pushback, I was like, no, never mind. This is not the time or place or whatever.
And I know that's not what you were trying to do. That is my own psychological gut instinct. Word.
I feel like I don't like adding things on top of things that don't bring any tangible- Well,
tangible might be the wrong word. Any clear value to it. So if we want to get together and hang out
for a solstice party, that's down. But if someone's like, all right, and now I'm going to recite the
12 virtues of rationality, all gather around. Even without the use of LEDs or candles or hats,
it still feels like now we're doing a thing that doesn't- I don't know, seems janky and just shoving
this into it to try and make it a thing. I don't know. I'm not- It's hard to do right. The Hugo
awards that I've gone to a number of times now are definitely a ritual, but they're just to, you
know, celebrate authors that we like and, you know, have a fun time as a nerdy sci-fi reading
community. And so I don't have a problem with that particular ritual. And it also feels, I guess,
it also doesn't have any of the feelings of religion. It has the feelings of a secular ceremony
like the Oscars or something else where you dress up in suits and there's a stage and an emcee and
all that, which is very different from a more religious sort of thing. So that's what I was
going to say is that like, I'm not sure I've never been to the Hugos, but I pictured something like
the Oscars where they're calling names and handing out awards. Like they're doing it that way, not
because it's like the way we've always done it and this is our rituals and our ceremonies,
they're doing it that way because, well, we can't just like have the crowd rush the stage and we'll
hand out rewards at random, right? Like then it's like they're doing it because there's a real point
behind it. But they've started to build rituals into it. Yeah. I mean, I haven't been to the
Hugos. What do they do? Well, I mean, it's now it's more like the Oscar sort of ritual thing,
but originally for the first, what, 20 years or something, it was just like, here's the list
of winners and come get your statue whenever you want in this room. There was no like,
pomp and circumstance behind it at all. Isn't there also something with like a tiara this year?
Yes. Which was kind of a joke. Which they've been doing for several years now. They have now.
It's like they're running gag. The ritual. Yeah. Maybe all rituals start as running gags.
That would actually not surprise me. And then, you know, like the kids that come up are like,
and we have the tiara, which goes from person to person and the parents are dead so they can't
tell their kids, guys, that was a joke. Maybe that's the point that I stopped liking it. Okay.
Because then people are just doing things unthinkingly and they don't know where these things
came from or why they're doing them or they think they have, they know where they came from. But
no one wrote down that it was actually a joke. They wrote down some joke. And so people take
that seriously later. But do you have to take ritual seriously? I guess I still don't have a
good idea of what ritual is. I know we talk about it a lot. I prefer the rituals that you don't
have to take seriously. That's why I like participation and theater and that sort of thing.
Yeah. That would be like a concert concert. You don't have to take seriously. So like,
if you're at a metal show during the breakdown, you mosh. And maybe that's why I don't like the
word ritual, which encompass this entire variety of things. Because I mean, the other obvious
examples are like using the word sports, describe everything from contact football to chess,
or like using the word drugs to describe DMT and aspirin. So it's like, yes, they all have
some things in common, like in chess and in football, all the contestants are breathing.
But like beyond that, like that's about it. Well, they are competing against each other
in a display of skill. Sure. But I mean, and I was using breathing as kind of a joke. I mean,
there are, yeah, there's obviously the other things. That's what separates things like chess
from sleeping. You're also breathing doing that. So, but you're not going to convey, like if you
had never heard of chess, I'm like, oh, it's this cool sport. Like, that's true. I mean, so, you know,
if your only usage of the word drugs was like the stuff you can get at Walgreens and like, oh,
you should have some LSD. Oh, what is it? Oh, it's a drug. Oh, you mean like Tylenol. So you see,
so like, when you say like, so solemn rituals. Okay, so it's like, you always have a problem
with a ritual that you have to take seriously or is meant to make you feel some sort of sense of awe
or sadness or wonder or or joy or just to make you do something really just doing anything like
not not literally anything. But because like I said, I mean, you know, the elevator doors open,
the people on get off and then people want off one on get on, right? Like that's not a ceremony
or ritual. It's just like, that's makes sense because everyone's trying to do their thing. So
do you have a movie that really fills you with deep like sorrow moves you emotionally?
I could think of one, but I'm trying to think of Jesse's example of like rituals. I think maybe
it's because of ritual to me always meant one thing. And now I'm being told there's this whole
other class of things that it means. Okay, no, I can just have it be whatever you
I mean, if I'm using the if I'm missing a lot of labels on that, if we see it, I suppose.
Yeah, so I think that's what I think what it was was like, you know, I pictured I'm trying to think
of a another example, but I'm stuck on the other ones. So I had my in my head what ritual meant
as like the kinds of things that you do at churches, not even churches, because that that's a
specific kind of thing that people don't like. But you know, or I don't know, I think ritual is
anything that is a thing that tries to subsume yourself of sense and self identity into a broader
hive mind sort of communal thing, yeah, feeling. So like in that sense, like, like I think a
graduation ceremony is supposed to instill that sense of of awe and that you are part of something
greater, you're this class going forward into the world. And yeah, most people don't take it that
seriously. But at least that's the intent, right? But you don't even have to take it seriously,
like even goofing around during your graduation ceremony, you're still part of the graduation
ceremony and joining there with your classmates. So but I mean, you're not joining in like the
part of the ceremony that they're trying to make ritualistic. That's because the adults are stupid.
Right. So my my my mental schema of sports is things like, you know, basketball and football
and hockey. And you're like, Oh, no, what about chess? And I think it's something even less exciting
to watch. Okay, well, let's let's just go with the solemn rituals growing communion, but not so
like, do you do you see that communion has value for Christians who who participate in it, right?
For sure. Okay, right. And I totally get what they what like why they so they're they're affirming
to the community that they believe what they believe. They're they're taking part in some
sort of ceremony to to, you know, show that. And then, you know, they're they're having a solemn
moment, right? And they're like, Hey, you know, this, this whole Jesus guy was really important
to us. And he told us to do this thing to remember him. And we're all going to sit here and remember
him together, all at the same time. I think the examples I used way back in December when
we were talking about it was like, I think we all kind of share similar, not not similar, like,
you know, we all think Jesus is the rad or something. He seemed like an all right dude.
Right. But in so far as yeah, right. Insofar as not when he created your mental well, never mind.
Thought crime and whatever. Anyway, um, ignoring all that, right? So, so like, I feel like we all
kind of think that like, sometimes life is hard, you know, love is a powerful emotion, you know,
uh, you know, death is scary sometimes, or, you know, just life is scary sometimes, you know,
sometimes we feel really small. Things like that, right? Where it's like, these are all these are
all things that most of us can, can, uh, you know, uh, feel sometimes. So as rationalists,
also we could add a few things to that, like the world would be better if people thought through
things more. Yeah. Yeah. I suppose so. In the specific way that we, we like, right? Because
our ritual tries to focus at least a little bit on that. Right. I'm really happy that smallpox
is not around anymore. Right. So I don't know about you guys. Pretty stoked about that one.
Right. A lot of progress is a good thing. Yeah. In a lot of cases. So could you kind of daisy
chain from the community example to either what you prefer, either the glow cloud hailing at the
night veil or like a concert? So like, well, so like, I understand where they're coming from at
communion and those, because that's what those people want and they, and they have all those
things. I think I need some handholding to get me from there at least some incremental steps to
how going to a concert is. Well, let's keep on the train of thought I was building on. Right. So
if, if we all tend to believe that like sometimes life is scary, right? I'd say maybe the winter
solstice is a good time to reflect on that. It's the longest night of the year. It's really cold.
A long time ago, people would die around that time or start to die because they were starving
or freezing. Right. If they went to the horse. Right. Right. Yeah.
Uh-huh. Isn't it terrors? Yeah. Damn it. I ruined a game of Thrones quote.
You know, when you put it that way, I kind of, right? So you did this once before, right? Yeah.
And it makes sense, right? Right. Yeah. So that's it. It's like we all, we all kind of feel that
every once in a while, right? It might be nice to feel that all at the same time together in the
same place. Yeah. Right. And when you say that was the main point I want to go to your right.
Yeah. See, don't you want to go to my home and recite verses to do that. You don't have to.
You don't have to. Right. But that's that's more like getting together and not dying all night.
It sounds like a lighting thing. And so there's fewer distractions. Right. So you dim the lights
for if you want everybody to focus on a specific thing. Same thing for movies or theater or whatever.
You dim all the side lights and you focus on the main thing. So the reason I brought up a candle
candles are good mood lighting, man. I hate blue light at night time. Everyone hates blue light.
Well, not everybody realizes they hate blue light at night time though. It's weird.
Not everyone has tried flux on their laptops. Right. Well, yeah. Doesn't that like track our
shit? Everything tracks. Your laptop already is tracking your shit. All right. Whatever. Anyway,
so like the reason I say like bring up a candle and read a thing is because like I'm thinking of
a few specific things like some of the sequences or like things that Scott Alexander has written or
there's this big I think it's on like almost everything is broken. Almost no one is evil.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Jay. The smallpox one. Right. Yeah. Right. 500 million, but not one right.
Right. Right. I was like I read that and I'm like that's really fucking cool. Like like I think
that's a really, really cool piece. So like reading that with a group of people. It's like
maybe everybody else will feel the same thing I felt when I read that. If they're hearing it for
the first time or even not for the first time, they're just set aside this time of year, every
year to focus on this thing and to be stoked about it. Right. It's like you can't every day say so
glad I didn't die of chickenpox or smallpox or whatever. Glad I don't have the polio and so
people forget about how useful vaccines are. But if you dedicated one day a year to that sort of
thing, maybe. Right. Also, practicing gratitude I think is really valuable. Like I, you know,
saying thanks before you eat. Right. I think that's a great ritual. Honestly, that I still kind of do
in my own way. My lady friend shows us blessings and then we eat. It's great.
And yeah, and I don't mind at all. I'm like, yeah, I should probably, you know, be reminded to,
