If we are gaining the power of gods, then without the love and wisdom of gods, we self-destruct.
That we are gaining the power of gods is now both a given and unavoidable. So what is the gain,
the love and wisdom of God's curve that gets there in time?
Greetings, future fossils. Welcome to another episode of the podcast that explores our place in time.
And as I'm sure most of you already know, our location, our address in the landscape of time
is right at the crux of what chaos theorists call a catastrophic bifurcation. A shift between one
way of living in the world together and a completely different way of seeing and understanding
our surroundings and our participation in them to help us make sense of this turbulent transition
between worlds. This week's guest, Daniel Schmockdenberger of the Neurohacker Collective,
joins me for a conversation about complex systems thinking and macroeconomics that I found
surprisingly engaging. But as Daniel says later in this episode, that's just evidence that gaining
insight into structural incentive and value systems, or to put it in different terms,
starting to understand the operating principles of the ecology of mind in which all of us exist,
what motivates us, and of course how we can design better systems that allow us all to win
together. On that note, before we begin this episode, I want to thank all of you who have taken
a moment to rate and review this show on iTunes, your five star ratings, and creatively enthusiastic
reviews have been very helpful getting this podcast into the ears of like minds and kindred
spirits, and I appreciate you. I also want to give a shout out to Aaron Young, the newest
supporter of Future Fossils podcast on Patreon. I'm up to almost 80 subscribers on Patreon right
now, which is really exciting and very close to my year end goal of 100 people who believe that
this podcast is facilitating important conversations about our future and helping people make sense of
the complex and confusing times that we live in. So if you want to join that group and help ensure
that I can continue devoting my full attention to intelligent and inspiring creative media,
then you can join Aaron and 77 other people and counting over at patreon.com slash
Michael Garfield, where you can also find for free an extensive amount of the music that I've
produced over the years, including the kind of stuff that you're listening to now, as well as the
science fiction audiobook I just released, an oral history of the end of reality, which explores
the social, psychological, and spiritual consequences of AI forgery and our decaying
ability to agree on the facts. Kind of a dirge for simpler times and an ode to the vast new
landscapes of possibility emerging before us. Lastly, before we begin this episode, a big thanks to
Future Fossils podcast sponsor the Body Hacking Conference here in Austin, Texas from February
2nd to 4th of 2018. Body Hacking Con is about human augmentation, personal expression, democratized
medicine, and bringing the DIY ethos to our own bodies. They're bringing people together from
all industries interested in what's happening right now and body hacking all over the world to
make connections, friends, and share experiences and resources in order to build the best possible
future. Some of these folks, including conference director Trevor Goodman and one of this year's
key presenters from Australia, my buddy Meow Ludo Meow Meow, have been on Future Fossils before. I
highly recommend that you go back and listen to their episodes and if you're interested in that
juicy confluence of intelligent and creative people, then go to bdyhax.com. And with that,
I release you into the wilderness of this wonderful conversation with Daniel Schmockdenberger of the
Neurohacker Collective. Thank you so, so much for listening to this show. Thanks for telling your
friends enjoy and have a beautiful day. So shall we begin? We shall. Awesome. Daniel, it's a pleasure
to have you on Future Fossils. It's a pleasure to be here with you. Like we were discussing just
before the call, I heard you talking on Future Thinkers and was impressed with your conversation
with them and the the scope of your synthesis of like ecological thinking and how it is that we
can create real powerful opportunities for ourselves in a regenerative economy over the next few
decades. And you're clearly in this space already with your your various enterprises. So I'm I'm
curious to know how you got to this point in your life, how you how you decided that thinking about
this biggest you know this big picture stuff was important to you and why it became like personally
significant to your work. I had no it's great. It's great to kind of understand where people
are coming from into this. I had a fortunate early exposure. So I grew up on the work of Buckminster
Fuller and complexity science and systems theory and futurists. And so it's kind of always been
the come from and then fairly early on I got into activism work and it started with animal rights work
and then environmental work and then social dynamics work. And so I was working with different NGOs
that you know starting really young like nine years old homeschooled that got to be a huge part
of the homeschooling and having some systems theory background already I was able to see that
the causes of the issues weren't being well addressed and the interconnection of the issues
and the generator functions weren't being well addressed. And as a result, the really well
intentioned and very hard earned success is largely displaced problems elsewhere. There were
externalities even to the positive projects that were trying to solve externalities. And so
you know where we would think of something like the death of elephants as an externality of an
incentive system that makes their tusks or something. There was a project that I was working on to
try and protect elephants at a preserve Greenpeace and World Wildlife Federation a number of groups
working on it. And the solution was bigger fences around the preserve and harsher sentencing for
poachers. And after a tremendous amount of work that happened and it actually succeeded in terms
of keeping poachers from poaching elephants in that area. It of course didn't address the poverty of
those people who had really no other solutions at all. It didn't address the worldview towards
animals at all as a whole, the black market on various other animals. It didn't address the
macroeconomic system that creates poverty inexorably. It didn't address any of those things. So
the same group of poachers moved to start hunting the mountain gorilla and the white rhino.
And because I was working on enough different projects, I got to see those movements. And
you know, there was an existential devastation that started. It started with seeing all of the
suffering that humans were inducing unnecessarily on themselves and each other in the world. And then
at least there was some hope that there were projects working to resolve these. When
it became clear that the projects working to resolve them weren't really resolving them,
I started to look deeper and say, where else is that happening? Where are the other
environmental projects? So we work really hard to prevent a dam that's going to have ecological
catastrophe. But then that means that the energy from the dam doesn't come in. So the coal plant
comes in or, you know, like there wasn't a deep enough focus kind of anywhere at how do we actually
do complex system problem solving and design and management. We only knew how to do simple
systems or complicated systems and we're doing complex systems and the toolkit was obviously
broken. Right. And so as I started diving in deeper there, kind of early in teenage hood,
I saw that the trends that were happening in terms of biodiversity loss and in terms of
peak resource use with nitrogen, phosphorus, etc. If we just continued those curves at their
current rate, while also looking at the positive curves of increase in solar or whatever kind
of positive curves, we only got to an adequate evolutionary place to deal with the negative
curves after extinction. And so the forecast, you know, and this was basic methods of forecasting,
but the forecast was inexorable self termination. And so then I'm thinking not only of, you know,
unnecessary human induced suffering and the failure of the solutions, but existential risk
at large. And so of course, the idea of succeeding at some partial set was broken,
right? The idea that I can have success in my personal life working on some of the problems
and other ones are continuing to happen. And I know about them. I know what it's like in a factory
farm, right? I know what it's like in extreme poverty. But I can be stoked because I'm succeeding
in some small area. I can only be stoked if I can disconnect my empathy from what's actually going
on, which is a kind of being a psychopath, right? Some level of abstract psychopathy.
Yeah, cognitive dissonance is a characteristic of the modern human. I think it's like it's necessary.
It is. Because we have a system where structural violence and externality are implicit throughout
the system completely. So participation with it at all requires participation with that, right?
And so it was clear that there were no models of success that could actually work for me,
and that killing myself to get off of the kind of like crazy bit of violence didn't help anyone
else. And so the only thing was, is there a solution to all of this that's actually viable?
And it was clear that it wasn't going to be more of the kinds of things we were already doing that
weren't working. It was going to be, you know, we've got in the for-profit world something like
$70 trillion trading hands every day that is almost all externalizing harm somewhere along a supply
chain. Then if I was to allocate a billion nonprofit dollars really intelligently per day,
I'm still five or six orders of magnitude too small in my effect. How do we have a system where
human agency has been predisposed to be directly and indirectly harm causing? How do we change
that generator function at scale where all human agency is disposed by the nature of the system
to be omnipositive? And that if you do that, you can get off of the current curves and have a
discrete nonlinear phase shift, which evolution does, single cell to multi cell, etc. And it was
clear that nothing less than a discrete nonlinear phase shift was adequate. And so then, you know,
the rest of the process has been what are the necessary and sufficient criteria of the post
transition world? And how do we actually support that emergence?
So this is around what time are you starting to think this way? Like how long have you been
in this in the pocket with this one?
The assessment of definitely self terminating on the current path was around 15.
Yeah. And so yeah, because there's that that thing about, you know, neglect in the traditional
presentation, our mutual friend Bruce Damer talks about how he was helping Ray Kurzweil with the
images for his book, like the graphics for his book, and that he was responsible for giving
the Kurzweil the infamous hockey stick chart, which is appropriate because Bruce is a Canadian.
And the, you know, he makes this point with the chart that, you know, a lot of this stuff was
absurd. But the timing of those predictions aside, you're looking at the collapse of that complex
dynamic that you're discussing here into, this is like the common problem with science fiction.
It's like even if Ray Kurzweil gets all of them, even if his projections are all totally accurate
and the oceans die in like 2033, we never get to 2045. It's the neglect of, well, like any
science fiction film where it shows one, one thing that's been torn 100 years into the future,
and then they're still driving, you know, internal combustion engine cars around or whatever.
So seeing it this way, knowing that there has to be this discrete jump and to be clear, like
this kind of thing does happen, it's not like you said, just the transformation and individuality
from like individual cells to a multicellular organism. But it's even you see it even within
human culture, where we start to organize at a larger level. And so the units of human society
that were at once the the major organizing unit like the city becomes an organ in the body of
something larger. So like, I guess this might just be a tangent, but fuck it, let's write it and see
what it takes us. How do you understand your work as a junior process or an organ within a
superior process or superorganism in this particular thing? Like, is that a framing metaphor
that you use? Is this how you understand the nature of this shift? And like, in that sense,
like what kind of role do you and the work that you're doing fit into that?
So if we think about that question, in light of the name of this podcast, Future Fossils, right?
So we think back about all the civilizations that we know of in recorded history. And one
of the first valuable insights is that they all ended, right? And so if we read Joseph Tainter
in the collapse of complex societies, we see certain patterns of, and there are updates to
that work since then, but we see certain patterns of how collapse occurs. But whether we're thinking
about Sumeria or Mesopotamia or the Byzantine Empire or Rome, like none of them exist anymore.
And think, and there were actually elements of unsustainability in their own growth patterns
that led to their self termination. Even if there was an attack from outside, it was usually after
there was increasing decoherence where they weren't able to have the military capacity that they
previously had, et cetera. But they were all local collapses, right? The collapse of that empire is
because it was wasn't the collapse of everything. And so we're in a unique position now where
the only meat, like the thing that we're looking at having collapse is a fully globalized civilization.
And the collapses are all between catastrophic and existential, right? The collapse scenarios.
And we are currently on the path for collapse scenarios. And so when, and it's important to get
that many of those early cultures actually did ruin their environment. They had unsustainable
agriculture that desertified the area and then people starved, right? But they didn't ruin
the life support capacities of the planet writ large, right? Which is very different. And a lot
of them killed each other militarily, but they didn't have nukes that could leave nuclear winter
for a long time. And so if you think about the evolution of history from a game theoretic
perspective, and you think of it as the evolution of power and win-lose games. And so you have tribes
that so long as the resource is plentiful relative to the population, don't bother killing each other,
and as soon as the population outstrips the resource, they're competing implicitly for scarce
resource, it becomes important to then compete explicitly. And so then one tribe kills the
other one that has the riverfront. Now they don't have the competitor for the same resource,
and they have the riverfront life is better for them. Now all the other tribes who didn't do that
have to do that by default, or they're going to die from the ones learned to start doing military
strategy as a method of advancing. And so then you have a big tribe, little tribes can't compete.
So if you have them band together, and now you get groups of tribes, and then this continues
to happen. And then you get villages and kingdoms and nation states and global economic trading
blocks, and they increase their competitive power in a win-lose game on all sides. And so that means
military power goes up. It means the ability to extract scarce resource from the environment,
including unsustainably faster than it can reproduce. And they increase their propaganda
capacity to disinform the other side and have more adherence on their side. When you add the
hockey stick part of an exponential tech curve to that win-lose game theoretic dynamic, and you get
exponential military capacity, where no side can actually deploy the power necessary to win
without destroying the playing field, you get exponential extraction capacity where you actually
run up to the fragility limit to the biosphere, you get exponential information tech applied with
the incentive to disinform, and you get now a post fact world where nobody knows what the
fuck is true about anything. You get to the place where to try and continue to win at a win-lose
game with exponential power equals omni-lose-lose equals existential collapse. And so either you
figure out an omni-win-win game or you self-terminate. And that's the discrete phase shift. Basically,
we've been in a win-lose game theoretic structure for a very long time, and that's the phase that's
ending. And so then we either have a discrete phase shift up to an omni-win-win kind of model
in which when you say what is the larger body that they become organs of, all of the separate
in-groups that define themselves in relationship to an out-group in a win-lose way actually dissolve
here. And it doesn't mean there aren't levels of self-organization. A city is a real thing, right?
It has a natural self-organizing dynamic. Tribes within it are real things, but the win-lose dynamics
at the boundary have to go away. If you look at the cells within tissues, within organs, within
organ systems in your body, your kidney's not competing against your liver for scarce resource.
If it was, you would be dead very quickly. And so they have boundaries, right? Your cell has a
boundary, but energy and information transmit across that boundary in an intersymbiotic way with
the other things around it, right? And the same is true across all of the boundaries, right? Plants
and animals and gas exchanges. So that's the key thing we have to get. So the only thing about
future fossils, there won't be future generations to be able to look at the fossils of this culture
if we don't actually make this phase shift up. And if we do, they won't have to be looking at
fossils because we will actually get down intergenerational knowledge transfer.
So we are at a unique point in that whole historical curve right now.
So I happen to be reading two books that you alluded to very strongly in this last bit.
Timothy Morton's Hyper Objects, if you're familiar with this one, Philosophy and Ecology
after the end of the world, talking about the influence of this complex and distributed
phenomena that we have to take as real, and a phenomenon like global warming.
And then the other one is James Peacarse's Finite and Infinite Games. And this is exactly a vision
of life as play and possibility. The fact of it is, we transit here, if successful, it sounds
