creature process matter? And if so, then we have to create a design that tends to it. And then we
can have a Boolean tree underneath it that says what matters about it. But when I have them in zero
and one, I don't look at how much do I damage it or how much do I take care of it. I define
thresholds of what take care means that creates the zero one, but then everything that matters
becomes a design constraint to an integrated complex system design process. And now I'm not
looking at these each of the issues separately and saying how much resource do I put into this one
and put into this one where it's the optimization point. I'm saying, how do I create an integrated
system design that tends to everything that matters here? And so this is a different
information theoretic way of approaching complex systems that is actually relevant to complexity.
So it seemed for a while there that you were getting into this whole stream
conversationally drifts into the area of where this change is going to come from. And clearly
because it is a planet wide phenomenon, it's going to come from everywhere at once in some sense.
But then you have the William Gibson future arrives and it's unevenly distributed, right?
So how do you see this? Well, it's more than holistic, right? Because holistic tends to
reduce things to systems. And I know from you, you know, your acquaintance with Ken Wilbur that,
you know, you don't see the individual or the system or the culture or the inner life world,
the experience as like reducible to one another, you know? So how do we understand this like
every like all scales of organization, all levels of complexity, co-occurrent shift in the order?
Like in what way do you expect to see it taking shape? You know, how are you
consciously participating in its emergence? Yeah. So there's a number of projects that were
working on related to these things. But I'll just go ahead and talk about how do we see the shift
occurring kind of macro. So just to use a very classic analogy, when we think about the transition,
the discrete nonlinear phase shift transition from caterpillar to butterfly, it goes through a
liminal phase, right, which is the chrysalis. And the caterpillar doesn't just like lose weight
and grow wings, the caterpillar actually goes through a very complete dissolution process.
And then the amino acids are re-sequenced by a second set of DNA, butterfly DNA, caterpillar DNA,
two different code bases. And so we can really see that the caterpillar's job was it had a
developmental phase where it was basically defined by net growth and consumption unrenewable gathering
the parts necessary to then be reassembled foundationally into a different code that was
not about net growth and consumption in the same way. If the caterpillar didn't go through that
phase shift, it would eat itself into extinction. So if you plotted those curves, you would say it
eats itself into extinction. But of course, as the blood starts getting rich enough to be able to,
you know, go into the chrysalis, you start getting the first imaginal cells kicking in,
which of course, the caterpillar body attacks as foreign invaders. But then they start to proliferate
more, triggers the movement into the chrysalis dissolution of the caterpillar recoding.
So this, and then just to complete that story, the butterfly is actually pollinating the plants
that the caterpillar decimated, but across these vast ecosystem spaces that helps the evolution
of the whole thing, right? So you get what was net, unsustainable, devastating, based on growth and
consumption was actually a developmental phase of something that's helping the evolution of
all those systems. So if we think about developmental phases, the 40 weeks of a baby in utero, if it
continued, would kill itself and the mom. And the phase shift of leave the birth canal,
umbilical cord cut is not predicted by the 40 weeks before, if you didn't know that thing was
going to happen, right? The same is true of a chicken inside of an egg shell. So you have all
of these discrete phase shifts associated with developmental phases. And I think it's fair
to look at humanity as being in a developmental phase defined by net growth and consumption
of the technological and scientific and, you know, et cetera capacities that are necessary. And
it was when loose game theory and capitalism and the military industrial complex, they got us those.
But now itself terminates if you keep it in that phase, just like the caterpillar or the
in utero baby, but you can then. And what the interesting thing is, if the baby comes out too
early, it dies, but if it if it stayed in later, it would die. It is there's a very kind of tuned
window where it both has to shift and can write it didn't have the capacity to before all the
developmental phases are defined by that. So the kind of economics that is necessary for a
distributed exponential tech world is not Marxism is not capitalism is not any version of
capitalism, not socialism or fascism. It's a fundamentally new shit that we couldn't have
even thought of before because we didn't have the tech necessary to mediate it. And so, you know,
if you have shitty jobs that nobody really wants to spend their life doing that a civilization
needs, you have to figure out how do you force people to spend a lot of their life doing the
shitty jobs. So you either give everybody meet everyone's needs as a state communist way,
and then the state has to force people to do the shitty job. So it's imperial, we don't like it,
or you let the free market force them, which is if they don't do the jobs, they starve.
But as soon as technological automation starts replacing the shitty jobs,
and it's non sentient doers of those things, the need for extrinsic control extrinsic incentive
of all the humans goes away. And it's a foundational axiom of every economic theory so far.
You think we're going to get rid of all shitty jobs?
Progressively. Yeah. And but basically it goes like this, if you can write a process for it,
you can automate it. It requires the technology to advance, but anything you can write a process
for you can automate. And without a GI, right, with just automation, and anything you can write a
process for no human wants to spend their whole life doing, it's fun for a little while, you might
get kind of zen with it, you might learn something, but ultimately, doing things that are discovery
and creativity and connection based is where our intrinsic incentive is going to come.
And so there happens to be a very nice match here, right, between what our generalist capacity
that can write processes and create technology to do those things can do, and what we actually
want to do in an intrinsic incentive based civilization, an economy, educational system,
etc. So where does the change come from? Like the imaginal cells, there will be initial prototypes.
That now, you know, we have plenty of eco villages that are prototyping some things,
and it's a part of the curve, right? And it's nice. But they actually don't offer a model for
how civilization could change comprehensively. They don't have the ability yet technologically to
automate the shitty jobs to, you know, have an internet of things that is taking an inventory
of the commons and being able to inform a data system that can help the enrichment of the commons,
right? It doesn't have those new forms of governance and economics factoring boolean
fields. So they're nice steps, but our ability to actually build prototypes of civilization
that have fundamentally new forms of economics, and governance, and infrastructure, right,
integrated complex system that have necessary and sufficient criteria for complexity,
that basically outcompete the current world systems comprehensively, because the increased
coherence of those systems makes a lot less resource per capita create higher quality of life
output across the entire set of things that we would consider. And so here's the real funny irony
is that the Omni-Win-Win system actually outcompetes the win-lose system while
obsoleting win-lose dynamics itself. And that is the transcendence of the win-lose phase into
the Omni-Win-Win phase, because in the win-lose phase, you get a fractal win-lose defect process
where I'm supposed to cooperate with these guys on my team to compete with the other side, but the
competitive mindset has gone at such that even those CIA and NSA and FBI are on the same team
called the United States are all competing with each other. And then different departments
within are competing with each other, and then different people are. And as a result,
you're actually getting fractal decoherence everywhere, which means radical inefficiencies,
right? And the best things that could be built won't be because the IP separated by
separate companies that are competing with each other, so they can't synthesize the knowledge.
And because information equals competitive advantage, we hide the information and then
intentionally disinform others. So then we live in a world where there's so much disinformation,
you can't par signal from noise. That is the decay of this system, fractal decoherence and
disinformation, that will make it possible for another system to actually radically out-competed
if it gets coherence down. And coherence actually does mean not win-lose dynamics within that system.
Sounds like you're in the sort of like Hyperion cantos where the character Ania is asked to,
she attempts to reduce Jesus' Sermon on the Mount to two words, and she offers,
choose again. Yours might be open source. That's the distillation here, is that if we really want to,
you know, like, was it a former CIA guy who has been strongly advocating the open sourcing of
intelligence agency work? And it sounds like that that's exactly what you would see if
you're going to get this sort of multi-cellularity, like the emergence of a like a planetary
individual. As you were discussing earlier, that there's there's a free exchange of information
across the cell membrane of participating subordinates. Although you got to be careful
with that, right? Because you're talking about like a what you might call like a whole arctic
organization. It's a nested natural hierarchy, not like an enforced hierarchy.
A hierarchy of inclusiveness. So a city includes all the tribes within it, the tribes don't
include the city. So there's different levels of consideration where the city is working on having
the tribes within them have omnipotent dynamics across them that the tribes on their own don't
necessarily have to think about. But it is not a hierarchy that has any of what we've thought of
as power structures involved. Open source, as we understand it right now, is necessary, but not
sufficient. And if you were to, you know, reduce it to a couple words, you could reduce it to a word,
which would be omni considerate, or then the applied side of that, which would be omni win win,
which means that any act of agency positively affects everything that it affects.
And what is the omni considerate is the consideration of how to do that, right? But
that can't just be an idea, it actually has to be the economic system itself and the governance
system, as well as culture and the tools that are necessary to do that.
So I know that we're running out of time here with you. And this is, this just points us to
what could end up ultimately being kind of a cliffhanger question, because I feel like we've,
we've created up, you know, the map of the problematic here. And we're starting to glance
at at least the contours of or textures of this, the flavor of some solutions. But I guess,
you know, if you have insight or suggestion into this particular area, maybe this would be a good
way to end it, which is, because we're all at different points along a, like a developmental
sequence, you know, like what we're able to consider, what we're able to attend to,
who we're able to take into consideration as an audience, or as the affected by our actions,
is, you know, limited by our ability to perceive and to cognize by, by that, like by how much we,
I, we are able to experience and thus I have the potential to identify with in our, in our worlds,
you know, like how much, how big is the planet of our experience, how far is that horizon.
And so, you know, when we talk about the way that this is going to work is by organizing things,
so that everyone's incentivized to participate in a way that benefits everyone. Is it even possible
to have that kind of, does not omniconsideration require omnipresence, like a total surveillance,
or like perhaps like a shift in our consciousness as individuals that would be
perhaps like difficult for us to contain psychologically? I mean, how does this even,
how do you see this being deployed, implemented?
Sure. So it's pretty hard for me to consider how to increase the quality of life of the creatures
in another galaxy, because I don't have very much sense data about them to know how to do that.
Fortunately, I also don't have the ability to affect them very much, so it doesn't really matter,
right? Now as soon as I start getting the ability to affect them, then understanding that matters.
So I need my sense systems and my information processing systems and my actuator systems connected.
If you think about from an evolutionary bio point of view,
it's never advantageous to select for sensory systems alone. It has to be sensory systems
that then can integrate that sense info with the other senses and then be able to have information
processing to inform choice and then have the actuator capacity to act on that choice within
a closed loop of the ability to sense the effects of that choice and learn, right? And so information
input, information processing, actuator output, closed loop, that's actually what gets selected
for is that triplicate. If you, if I could sense something that I couldn't make any sense of,
it would actually fuck me up. If I could sense something that I couldn't act on, it would mess
things up, right? Similarly, if I could act on things where I couldn't sense the effect of the
action, then I wouldn't be able to learn if that was successful or not. And so the triplicate of
those is what defines the evolutionary adaptiveness of a creature. Now what's happened for humans
is that our ability to make tools, which means our ability to identify some of our capacities,
our corporeal capacities and extend them in tools, I can see the way that my fists can bang
something, I can make a hammer that can do it better, I can make a wrench that can do what my
grip can do better, I can make a telescope that can extend my eye or a microscope, I can make
an industrial supply chain that can extend my entire production capacities, right? I can make
computational systems or an avocas, right, that can extend my, my processing capabilities.
But we can make these in isolation from each other so the triplicate is not bound anymore.
So right now we have a world where we have an amazing amount of sensory input possible, right?
We can see stuff from the Hubble, we can see stuff from electron tunneling microscopes,
and then we can see input from around the world on the internet. But that's decoupled from sense
making. So when I read stuff, I can't actually tell if it's fucking true or not. I can't put it
together with the other things that I know, right? And so I have a tremendous amount of sense input
that I can't make sense of. Then to the degree I make sense of something, like, okay,
their CO2 is actually a problem, I have no idea how the fuck to act on it. And then to the degree
that I act on things, like I go buy this laptop that we're talking on that comes from an industrial
supply chain that affected life on six continents, I actually have no sense coupling to what the fuck
was actually affected and how it was affected to inform if I want to make that choice or not.
So our information processing system is broken open, which is fundamentally non-adaptive,
and we're running exponentially more energy through that broken open information ecology.
And so omni-considerate, we basically, when you said this requires surveillance,
the sensory input and information processing and actuator output have to be coupled. If I'm
affecting shit, I have to know that I'm affecting it and be able to factor it. If I'm not affecting
it, it doesn't matter that much. So to the degree that our actuator technologies are giving us the
ability to affect things in the world, we have to know how they're being affected and then be able
to process that in a way that informs how we use that capacity. And that's why it's so exciting
to plant this recording in history, that Facebook has told everyone this week they will be letting
you know who paid for that ad. So this has been super fascinating. I know you've got a hop to
another meeting. I feel like we've really only started getting into the real meat of it. And I
would love to do this again with you sometime. Yes. I didn't actually answer your primary question.
So I want to say one thing to it. The people who already have the capacity and disposition
for omni-consideration will find each other and build systems that increase that capacity and
more people. And that will be an auto-poetic cycle. I think I agree that really it's not so much about
making this change occur as it is making it land as lightly as possible, making sure as many people
can get on that boat as possible, possibly widening the definition of person here. And where the boat
is actually a training ground for boat builders, right? And captains. And this is the key thing is
that those who are oriented to will build refugee solutions at scale for the massive
upcoming human migration issues. And they'll say how do we build refugee solutions since the people
won't be able to integrate with current societies because nobody wants them. And they won't be able
to go back to the places they came from for maybe forever. So they have to be enduring, which means
that we can't subsidize them forever. They have to actually be generative. And since we're basically
building cities from scratch that have to be generative at scale for a long time, this gives us
the opportunity to take the fallout of the current failing system and build a new world, what should
the education system there be? What should the economic system be? What should the governance
system be? What should the media system be? What should the, you know, all the human services be?
And how do we actually prototype that? There will be people similarly thinking about how do we create
