macroeconomic systems that automatically are incenting win-win dynamics better so that everyone
who's participating in those will be growing in their own consideration by the byproduct of
interfacing with the system, educational systems, etc. So it is those at the front end of
a omniconcederation bell curve from the fortune of the life that exposed them to those things
have to self-organize and will self-organize to create systems that then bring that kind of
disposition to wider audiences, which then continue to do the same thing and then it scales.
Absolutely. Yeah, I think one of the most interesting things about this is imagining
how we can encourage people to play by new rules that benefit everyone. And with that,
how do people find you other than your totally pervasive Facebook ads for your amazing neotropic
products? Where do we send folks to follow up on you and the way that you're helping out?
So the ads you're speaking about are a company that we have called Neurohacker Collective,
Neurohacker.com is the website and there's one product out right now which is in the cognitive
enhancement space. But the goal of that, just to tie it together, is working on complex systems
medicine and complex system psychopharmacology to actually do a better job of having human
physiology predisposed in fundamentally balanced and positive ways. And there's a whole bunch
happening beyond what's obvious there so far. I have a blog you can check out,
CivilizationEmerging.com, just put up, has a little bit of stuff and Facebook.
Awesome. Daniel, it's been super fun. I think I didn't have to bust out my brand of time travel
sickness pills for this conversation, but we got close. I think you have a really clear vision
for all of this and it's a treat to have you on the show. Thanks a lot.
I love the show. I love the concept of it and what you're doing here and it's really fun to
be in the dialogue. So I look forward to more. Absolutely. Cool. Take care. Have a good one.
Take care, my friend. Thanks again for listening to Future Fossils podcast,
a member of the MindPod network along with such excellent shows as the Synchronicity Podcast,
Third Eye Drops. It's all happening with Zach Leary and many, many more. Go to mindpodnetwork.com
to check those out. And if you would like to support the show, give us a rating on iTunes
or stop over at patreon.com slash Michael Garfield. Thank you and have a most excellent Eon.
