That's like, okay, no, stop hard. You're not doing this. Now, I will do something else
here to prevent you from killing us, and so on. But the same process that does that,
if you were to have its way, it will kill you. So you can understand many diseases as
precisely the misfunction of this organization, in case of autoimmune diseases, cancer, etc.
They are indeed parts that can get away with what they really would do normally. And there,
in this light, life is kind of a frustrated suicide. You have a system that is by nature
trying to, in each of these components, run away at this integrated system, but it's
organized in such a way that it cannot. And why is this an interesting alternative way
of looking at it? Because at the end, you also obtain the circular organization, and
that's it. Well, it's an interesting way of looking at it, because it implies an inherent
restlessness, an inherent motivation to move, because things are in this unstable condition
all the time. You're never in a condition where you might say, okay, everything's fine.
That condition that you might sometimes experience, in fact, has a limitation. At some point, everything
is not fine anymore. Why? Well, because there is an internal negativity, and not to mention
something I'll mention later, an external negativity as well. So, I don't know how
I'm doing with time, John.
Okay, thanks. I'm okay. I'm halfway. So, let's come back to the point that we were trying
to make. The point that we were trying to make was that it could be a way of grounding
the idea of cognition in the autonomy of living organisms, or more simply in autonomy.
Hans Jonas says, this is, there's an existential kind of argument for that. Fransisco Varela
said, yes, there's a logical progression that takes you from multiple uses to something
called sense-making. Now, I've already spoke about autonomy. Now that we have something
like a concept of autonomy and operational closure, can we now proceed and say, look,
it's obvious if you follow logically the consequences of this idea, you already have a system that
is related to the world in terms of meaning, in terms of norms. Well, as I said, having
a self-sustained identity implies already normativity, because, well, at least to the
external observer, you can say that some interactions between this system and its environment will
be good in the sense that it will keep sustaining the identity, or will be bad in the sense
that they don't. Interestingly, you have to compare that to other physical systems. You
look at the planet and say, you know, particularly two planets collide. Is it good or bad for
the planets? We don't have a way to say that there is a value attached to whatever happens,
whatever event happens in this physical system, whereas we can say that about the living organism.
The interesting thing is that if the organism has enough mechanisms to appreciate some of
these consequences by itself and act on the tendencies of a particular encounter, then
that organism itself is able to modulate its behavior, modulate its interactions with the
world, so as to, for instance, select a pathway that leads to improve autonomy or improve
auto-polysis. This is what I call sense-making. Imagine here, you have a close diagram. Sorry.
Yes, I said that there is no way to say that there is no way to say that there is no way
to say that. I said at the beginning that at least to the external observer, there is
a normative to whether this system is interacting with the world in this way or that way. Now
I'm saying that if that becomes available to the organism in some limited form, not necessarily
in a full-blown objective manner, for instance, but just mainly, you know that, for instance,
by investigating this particular form of bacteria, you know that sugar is good and medium temperatures
are good. But it may happen that that system can only detect sugar, and that the system
can ignore temperature. It doesn't really have the mechanisms to know that medium temperature
is good. Sometimes if you put sugar at a very high temperature, it would just go there
and eventually die because of the high temperature. You will say, like, aha, silly, you didn't
know. But essentially what I mean is it doesn't matter. At least there is some access of that
organism to all this multidimensional normativity that you can use to describe whether the organism
will live or not. That organism is doing some form of sense-making and, of course, will
be more sophisticated if you can tell the difference between temperature as well. So first external
observer to the point, to make the point that the normativity, that we can speak of normativity
at all, and now highlighting that the organism itself has to make that difference. And how?
I mean, I was going to say it here. Imagine this, there's a close set here that you might
describe in the space of possible states of the organism. And this close set describes
the domain of viability of the organism. That is to say, if you're inside this close space,
if the organism state is inside, you're alive, if you cross it, you're dead. For instance,
your blood pressure goes, or your body temperature goes above a certain level, you die. Now, this
domain of viability, the organism is not in a single point there, it's moving about.
So this is what the arrow represents. And if you cross that domain, that boundary, the
organism disappears. Now, a sense-making organism is an adaptive organism that is able to revert
a tendency that tends to approach, to make it approach the boundary of viability. Things
are getting dangerous, and things are getting more and more. They leave less and less options.
If there is a mechanism that allows the organisms to alter its behavior or its internal working,
as this starts to happen, and avoid the crossing of the boundary, that organism is doing sense-making.
So this implies that it's kind of an adaptive monitoring and regulation of states of the
system, and of course of states of the system environment relation. And the result is that
there is an avoidant of the crossing of the boundary, interjectors that would otherwise
cross the boundary. Now, another of these questions that we raised before, the question
of agency, derives directly from these two concepts of autonomy and sense-making. What
are the requirements for agency? Why do you call something an agent? I mean, in normal
language. Well, we worked on this and we identified that there were typically three requirements
that would be the same across the board in all possible meanings of agency, only that
sometimes some of these requirements were more important than others. And these requirements
are the idea of individuality, asymmetry, and normativity. We speak of agents as an individual
entity. So there has to be a notion of individuality. But also we speak of agents as doing things,
of being agents, you know, this kind of active element, doing things in the world. So if
they're in their coupling with the environment, there is an asymmetry, at least sometimes,
not all the times, an asymmetry between, you know, the arrows that go back from the other
agent into the environment and back. Because the agent is just, it's behaving, it's doing
something in the world. We want to capture that. And there is a normativity to it because
the agent is not doing just random things, it's doing things with certain normativity,
for instance, trying to find some food. Now, you can put all these requirements together
and it follows very simply from what we already said about autonomy and sense-making, that
if you have a sense-making system that is able to regulate its interactions with the
world, its coupling with the world, that in itself already fulfills these three requirements.
So you've got a system that is autonomous and precarious, that is able to make sense
of its interactions with the world and regulate its interactions with the world. For instance,
a cell is able to open and close ion channels, bacteria is able to move from one environment
which is low in sugar to one that is rich in sugar. So those changes of the conditions
of the interactions with the world that originate in the system itself are the actions of an
agent. And this is how we approach the question of agents. So you've got a system like an
expressive machine that is not an agent, it doesn't fulfill these requirements. You know,
a toy car is not an agent. A toy car that is supposed to run with water, you should
collect water and you make it go into the rain, approaching a kind of a gray area there,
right? We're going to discuss that. A cell, yes, a cell that is able to regulate interactions
with the environment, open and closing ion channels, that is an agent. An animal like
a dog is an agent and it could be different sizes of an agent. So agency is not manifested
necessarily by looking at the agent and seeing that it's doing what it wants. Actually,
agency often is manifested as something that the system is trying to do and not achieving
it, right? We've got a dog on a leash there. Agency may be ambiguous between moments of
acting and moments of being passive and it may imply a sort of social element as well.
An agent in the presence of others and we'll come to that. And eventually the regulations
of agency, you can reappropriate them and regulate yourself in some way, trying to signify that
with that. So the point here is that agency, you have this very minimal definition of agency
but that still allows for very different kinds of sophisticated distinctions within this
notion of agency. So, now this approach is trying to cover a lot of ground and it's trying
to have a kind of a naturalization of many of the terminologies, much of the terminology
that we use in cognitive science. And this is the story that is not over yet and you
can investigate transitions in different forms of operational forms of autonomy and agency.
And I've got two columns here, one describing of the point of activity, regulation, nervous
system, image making, blah, blah, blah. They follow some of the suggestions Hans Jonas himself
about the different transitions in value making with the history of life. And on this side
you have the, if you like, the teleological cognitive aspect of things. So Hans, you can
claim that things like actions and emotions only come when you have some form of self-movement.
I'm going to go back to that or the idea of objectivity comes when we are able to do our
first images and so on and so forth. Each of these blobs here would take a whole
lecture really. But one thing you notice is that there is a kind of axis of increasing
autonomy or increasing forms of sophisticated autonomy and increasing forms of mediacy,
increasing form of the object of cognition becomes further and further removed. Instead
of just surviving and just evaluating whatever comes into contact with the cell wall, you
can at the bottom of this have a human project and say like, well, you know, I would like
to be an academic and therefore I will plan the best way to do it and so on. I would like
to be a good father. So this whole range of increasing forms of mediacy between your actions,
your situation and if you like the cognitive target of your performance. So I don't think
I have too much time for this, but I wanted to just move into the habit thing, but this
is something I just said very briefly about how animality is about a kind of a self-movement
and a spatial know-how by which I mean that you have to have some kind of proprioceptions
and kind of knowledge that you're moving. Presumably, you know, a bacterium going up
a sugar gradient doesn't know that it's moving. It's just moving, but as far as the mechanisms
for sense-making that it has, it may as well be just turning the sugar volume up, so to
speak, instead of really moving to the source of sugar. So there's no distinction that tells
that system that it is moving. But for an animal, for instance, and I don't want to go
into the discussion where the plants are cognitive. Yes, they are, and they move and all that,
but what I want to say is that there is this qualitative jump here when you're able to
uproot yourself and move about, because then a whole spectrum of potential, intentional
possibilities open up whereby some form of life like bacteria might have some kind of
internal tension between need and satisfaction when it needs a particular nutrient. An animal
can have a much more sophisticated form of development of this intentional space, because
for instance, an animal is able to move and perceive at a distance something that hasn't
happened yet. I mean, you can say, oh, the predator is over there, and therefore I should
better run. So now I am appreciating something that hasn't happened and is about to happen,
or similarly, oh, I can see the tracks of my prey, and I know that I might just find
it if I just start running. So I can project into the future or understand the immediate
past, because I can move. And that was originally something like just some very one-dimensional
between need and satisfaction. Now it becomes much more sophisticated, something like you
may have emotions like fear, which is there is danger that is impinging on me, but not
here yet, or expectation, and so on and so forth. So Hans Jonas made this argument, very
nice argument of how emotion comes with action and perception. So this is a part of the story
when I am just giving you these vignettes. All of them would probably need a proper development
and surely need a proper development. But I am just trying to give you this overall picture
of what might look like a program, alternative to functionalist program. Hans Jonas, these
transitions that we talked about, say transitions to forms of self-movement, our transitions
whereby you get some gain in the sense of you are able to regulate your interactions with
an increased freedom and increased autonomy, but at the same time in a more precarious
manner. So he speaks about needful freedom. So for instance, you can move about and have
some freedom if you are an animal, but you have less guarantee that you are going to
get the energy resources that you need to carry on surviving, like a plan that has just
to stand there and just wait for the sunlight and the air and the earth. So there is no
net gain in these transitions. It is not that there is an evolutionary tendency towards
more and more complexity and complex forms of autonomy, but the thing is that once they
happen, they start conserving that that may then happen. That is to say, the perceiving
animal starts to conserve an identity that involves action in the world in perceiving,
in the relation of perception. So there is therefore a way in which you can say that
every time these transitions happen, it is a new form of life that is beginning to be
conserved or is being born, of course, in a continuation from previous ones. I didn't
say much about social interaction. I am just flagging here the fact that this can be applied
to social interaction as well and this is where we are done with Han and the Jagger.
You can also connect into things that John has also worked on. One of the terms that
you have not defined properly in cognition is the social. When you look for definitions
and you are lucky to find one, you find circular definitions such as the study of information
processing in a social setting is referred to as social cognition. That is why Chris
Frith, we propose something different. We propose to understand social cognition as
a mutual, co-regulated coupling between two autonomous agents. So I am using all these
words. I am using autonomy, coupling, agents, which I have already defined, which in addition
is not just a mutual co-regulated coupling but in addition that coupling acquires a sort
of autonomy of itself, of its own. This is characterized in circumstances where we are
interacting with people. Two interactors are interacting and actually they don't want
to interact and they keep on interacting, such as, for instance, in the narrow corridor
situation where you just say, oh, sorry, oh, sorry, oh, sorry, and you are still coordinating
with each other and your individual intentions actually just pass through. Well, interaction
is taking over there for a little while and having a temporary form of autonomy. The sense
making that happens in these conditions, we call participatory sense making. Again, this
is the subject of a full different talk, but I will come back to that in a minute when I
go back to the social aspects of habits. Time?
Thirty-five minutes.
Okay. Oh, we are laughing.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I am going to finish.
I mean, because I am sure there will be questions.
Yeah, yeah. I don't have a lot more, but this is now it is starting to move towards the
more speculative. I mean, this is close enough that this whole putting on the table all these
groups, autonomy agents, sense making, participatory sense making, transitions in forms of autonomy.
But then, of course, there is a question that you can ask immediately and say, well, isn't
this approach something that eventually says that everything is about surviving as an organism?
All these values that you speak about and say when things are good or bad, are they not
all eventually related to the otopoiesis of the organism? And isn't that not contradictory
with our experience? Because sometimes we care about things that are not necessarily our physical
survival. We care about other people. We care about things outside ourselves. We care about
the country, whatever. So what is now? There is a missing concept there that we need. And
