I would like to propose that this concept should be the concept of a habit. Now, we don't speak
so much about habits in cognitive science and psychology, because the recent history of the
concept is a bit tainted by the use of this word in behaviorism and such things. But actually,
the concept of habit, it can be quite rich. And if you look backwards in time and how it has
been used, you have people who go from Aristotle first, and I forgot to mention him, and to
Hegel, Maine de Biron, Félix Ravisson, two sort of philosophical psychologists like Kurt
Goldstein, pragmatists like John Dewey, William James, and phenomenologists like Manuel Bantique.
And then psychologists in the middle of the century, last century, like Nikolai Bernstein's
understanding the self-organization of the movement of the body, or Eva Koller, who was running
experiments on disruptions to visual perception using inverting goggles and so on. They all used
this concept of a habit, not in exactly the same way, but they had that concept in some kind of
high regard, in the sense of it is the habit that actually makes the difference, and in particular
the difference, certain forms of habits make the difference between animal life and human life.
We can come back to that. But what is the habit? I mean, how should we understand it?
As you probably noticed, what I'm interested in is to, when you take a word like this, to try to
find an operational definition, a way of grounding it, such that you'd be able to then describe it
without using terminology that it hasn't been grounded in this way already. So you can describe
a habit, some kind of ecological entity, and I want to explain what I mean, that sets itself into
some kind of stable pattern, and in the case of a cognitive agent, a stable pattern of action
and perception. So the idea is like this, you have a system that is plastic, not just the
cognitive agent, but also the environment itself is plastic, in the sense that there are changes
that can happen over slow time scales that tend to be conserved, and that system is behaving.
There's kind of an underlying structure, but that structure produces certain forms of behavior,
maybe at a faster time scale. Now the thing is that the plasticity, the plastic changes will affect
behavior, but the behavior itself, because this plasticity is dependent on the processes that are
going on, this plasticity is induced by behavior. So there's a kind of circular relation between
the processes that happen at a fast time scale, and the processes that happen at a slow time scale,
like dynamics and meta-dynamics. And the slow processes are not just slow, but actually they're
altering the structure of a system. It's as if you have a set of differential equations,
and you say like, well I want to understand whether this is going to fall into a particular
attractor and so on, that's the dynamics, but the plastic process that actually changes in those
equations, changes in those parameters, adding an equation, removing another and so on, that is the plastic
meta-dynamical process. When that happens, and this circularity is not guaranteed to ever stop,
but when that, when this circularity tends to fall into some kind of meta-stable condition,
that's what you have a habit, something that is in a way already predisposed to continue
itself, some kind of autonomous ecological dynamics. And this is an example here, you see here a path
on the grass that has been, is there and regulates the walking of people, I mean we walked yesterday,
but actually this, the one that we did yesterday probably was not made like this, it was probably
man-made, I mean intentionally made, I mean let's do it like here, but this can happen naturally,
there is a path on the grass that is made by the walking, it's a path made by walking.
Now once the path is there, you tend to walk along the path, thereby reinforcing the path
and preventing the grass from re-growing, but this structure that looks very, very stable,
and it is, but it's not fixed in time, it has a certain reactivity, because if someone puts here
like an ice cream shop here, people will start deviating from the path to reach this new
destination and eventually forming a new path or a network or changing this path and so on.
So this is, this kind of dynamics is what I try to call, what I think characterizes a habit.
Now here I've got the typical map of somatosensory, in somatosensory cortex, when you have
represented all these parts of the body, you know, when you touch your finger and so on
and a neuron over here lights up, you touch your face and a neuron over there lights up,
and I want to suggest that actually this somatosensory map is actually one case of this path,
what you have is a somatosensory path making, because it is made by the activity,
the doing things actually, why Havian learning enough is enough to explain how certain things
become activated and how they leave a trace in the brain that then allow you to do things in the same way.
So these are the neural underpinnings of the plasticity required for habits,
but I must just say that actually the plasticity doesn't have to be in the organism,
it can be in the environment too, and this very nice story told by Philip Agri,
who is one pioneer of situated artificial intelligence, but he says that he has a record collection in his office
and he likes to listen to just one side of each record, he has a preferred side of each record,
so he moved into the office, he moved first time and put all the records there on a shelf,
and over a period of some weeks he noticed something interesting, that he would pick a record
and take it out of the sleeve and immediately would come out in such a way that he could just do this movement,
just take the record and directly boom, onto the record player and it was the right side, he didn't have to choose.
So he realized that the whole activity was reorganizing the way in which the records were being put back into the sleeves,
in such a way that it would be easier for him to take them out and put them back when he wanted to listen to them,
and he did this totally unconsciously and so on, I mean it just happened,
but it is a case in which the plasticity is in the record collection itself,
it has been modified by action such that now it perpetuates certain forms of action, listening to the sides that he likes.
This changes in somatosensory cortex can actually be, you can intervene with this by for instance using tools,
and you can see how your, if you're trained to use a tool to grasp something,
then you have different appreciation of your body schema,
you think actually that the distances between parts of your arm have become smaller or larger,
depending on how you do it and so on, this is recent work by Cardinale and others,
where you train someone to pick up something with a tool and then they have a sense of an enlarged arm,
but then the parts, to make it fit with the rest of the body, then parts of this enlarged arm seem to have contracted and so on,
and they can measure this.
Can you explain what's being grabbed there?
What's being grabbed?
Yeah, I don't know.
It's a little, I think it's a little cube, and it's either you grasp it with your hand like this.
What I mean is, there's this thing right here.
Yeah, sorry, these are latencies and pre and post test conditions without the tool,
so that they measure acceleration, I didn't want to go into details, but measure acceleration, velocity and so on,
showing that having been trained to grasp with the tool, therefore taking a longer arm,
then when you remove the tool, it takes you longer because you already expect to reach much before you actually reach.
The tool has given you the expectation to just get to your goal much quicker.
So when I'm using the tool, I can do this and I already touch this part of the table,
and then I'm doing this and then, oh, oh, I have to carry on.
So that's what they measure, the extra time that it takes.
So the large parts are the time measured with the tool and then they can be trained?
No, there are pre and post tests without the tool, and the middle is having been trained with the tool.
So you measure the same thing, it's actually grasped without the tool,
and there is an after effect of having been trained to use the tool.
This is latencies, this is time and time to reach a particular acceleration in the profile of movement,
time to reach a particular velocity, so they measure these points like the peak velocity or the peak acceleration and so on,
and these are significant differences, it takes you longer to reach these points after being trained by the tool
because in a way your movement has been reorganized to having a tool in your hand,
and now they've taken the tool from your hand and initially you just think that the only thing you need to do is
what you've just done with the tool, but actually that's not enough, so you need to then carry on.
It takes longer time to reach these points in the profile of velocity and acceleration.
So what if they measure velocity?
I don't want to play it down here.
It's here acceleration, velocity, here I can't tell very well, sorry.
And also what is measured here is a subjective point, they point into parts of the arm,
so they touch, they're blindfolded and they touch a bit of the arm and they touch this bit,
someone touches parts of the arm and they say, well point to where that is, roughly,
and you point like this or like that, you're blindfolded,
and their perception of the arm has in certain distances feel like the arm has shrink,
so they say that the concept, you know, I want to make a big, big point about this particular experiment,
I want to say that they use the tool, changes the habit and therefore has changes in the body schema
and in somatosensory cortex as well, you can postulate that hypothesis.
The concept of habit is very rich and you cannot see this very well,
but we've been trying to trace all the connections between all these people,
going back to Aristotle, some Arabic thinkers, back tours, through Hume, it's just too rich,
that's the problem, we started making these connections
and then we realized that we didn't have enough dimensions to connect them all,
but there are different breaks in the idea of habit,
when you say like, no, the habit is a bad word, you shouldn't use,
but different lines of thinking and connection,
like here's the main thing, you know, Hegel and so on,
leading up to the Gestalt school, connecting to phenomenology via Maloponte, et cetera, et cetera,
it's such a rich concept that it's actually quite difficult to put all this together
and to try to make a clear sense of it,
but people have said extreme things about habits such as, for instance, Hegel says,
habits is what prevents us from going mad, right?
Thanks to the fact that we had habits, we just don't go crazy,
because we can just, without a habit, the mind would just either close on itself
and become totally disconnected with the world and obsessed with itself,
or it would be just totally driven by whatever destruction it has
and be so open to the world that nothing would happen,
it would be constantly, you know, anxiously changing from one thing to the next,
and it's actually, the habit is what puts some order in that,
and so it's like, okay, you can focus on certain things,
they're not in yourself, they're connected to yourself,
but this focusing actually helps you to just keep out all the other noise,
and that's, you know, then, I haven't got it here,
well, Hume, the Lewis, it's not even there,
it says, you know, the habit, the self is a collection of habits,
so I propose that this is a very rich concept that needs to be, you know,
worked out even further, that habits themselves can generate values,
because in a sense, in a way, if you have this circularity of processes that change
and sustain themselves, they produce, they generate certain predispositions
to carry on enacting the same habits,
and for this, some things are good or some things are bad,
so the habit of smoking, you know, is in itself bad,
only with respect to a larger objective point of view,
but in itself, it's a habit for which smoking is good, you know,
and that's why it's hard to quit smoking, you know,
if you just thought, okay, it's bad for me, I just didn't do it,
it would be easy, but that is because it wouldn't be a habit,
but if it is a habit, it's actually hard, because the habit takes over
and wants to carry on, so habits generate values,
and these values are non-metabolic,
and people like Merleau-Pontier have already said that there is this concept
of motor intentionality, that it's a consequence of how we organize our actions
and how the body organizes itself,
and that puts us in a sort of relation to the world
where there are optimal distances, for instance,
to appreciate a particular object, a vision,
or the beginning of an act already just tells us very much
about what's going to happen next, you know,
the beginning of a point in gesture is already part of the point in,
and it's pointing to the point in this case.
So, but you can survive, I mean, the point here is that you can't survive
without this, organically speaking, you know, I need water,
and I can drink water in a very funny way, dangerous,
like picking up a glass like this and doing a kind of movement
and drink the water, but I don't do that.
I mean, I just have a preferred way of handling objects,
like picking up a glass,
and these preferred ways are part of habits.
So, I think I mentioned the...
Yeah, okay, I need to mention this, sorry.
This is an insect, the water boatman,
who can trap air bubbles and go underwater and breathe
by using the oxygen contained in the air bubbles
and creating a difference of partial pressures with the water
such that the oxygen from the water flows into the bubbles.
So, as long as the insect can keep the bubbles from collapsing,
they function like an artificial lung, right?
I want to say with this that habits,
you can call it a habit or something if you like,
you know, the behavior can eventually affect the lower levels,
for instance, metabolic levels,
because you can imagine this insect now looking for food underwater,
finding new kinds of nutrients,
having metabolic pathways that become atrophied,
that's the word, yeah, because they are not used and so on,
and eventually, depending for survival,
on finding these nutrients underwater.
So, something that becomes behavior can change the conditions
of life that give rise to this behavior.
So, the picture that I told you about, about this closure,
this operational closure,
I would like to now start opening up this idea a little bit
and put it in time.
So, instead of having a circle that fits back on itself,
that is perfect, you may have something that is actually quite,
not quite perfect, but at the moment,
there is a kind of relation of dependencies between these processes,
but it's not perfectly close on itself.
