I mean, you may notice that this talk may have different moods to it.
Some parts are very clearly worked out in detail.
Other parts have been more or less constructed over the last couple of days when I was paying
attention to the discussions that we were having here.
So towards the end of the talk, you see me going more speculative.
If you don't already think that I'm speculative at the beginning, well, I'm hyper-speculative
at the end.
So what I'm going to do then is to, first of all, raise the question of what do we mean
by the body?
I mean, what do we mean by embodiment, this buzzword that seems to be so much found everywhere
almost indiscriminately, and you sometimes have to stop and wonder and say, what are
we talking about when we talk about embodiment?
And I will give you two senses of embodiment.
I mean, for the first part of the talk, I'll give you a very rough idea of what is the
most common sense of embodiment in cognitive science today and why something like the inactive
life-on-mind approach would like to take some lessons from that kind of use of the word,
but actually move away from it and provide what I would call a deeper sense of embodiment.
And that will take me to run through the main ideas of this life-on-mind and active approach.
And I suppose I'll be talking about autonomy and sense making and transitions in the history
of life and mind.
And then towards the end, I'll just put on the table some ideas about habits, skills,
and what I call the social flesh or the social invisible.
As some of you may know, I mean, I have been over the past years working in using models,
using evolution and robotics models of computational simulations to try to ground some ideas and
essentially to also have some kind of reality check.
The models are there, and I could talk about them, and I just put them towards the end
of the talk.
I mean, I suppose that if we go into the discussion and someone is interested in saying, like,
well, but actually this idea seems too abstract, can you actually build a model of this?
Maybe we can go into that.
But if I put them in the middle of the talk, it would be just too long and we would just
lose the track.
But this is up to you as well, depending on what you want.
I mean, we can talk about the models as well.
So that's the overview.
So let's start with then this question of the body and the different perspectives and
something that I call a shallow embodiment.
But actually, I think I should find a better word because I mean shallow in all the negative
overtones of that word.
I don't really mean them.
I just want to say that this sense of embodiment doesn't go far enough.
So maybe you can help me find a better word.
So you may be familiar with this picture that describes the brain, the body, and the environment
in a mutual relation.
Each of them describes as a little system having arrows moving back and forth the other
bits of the system.
So the brain connected to the body, the body connected to the environment, and so on.
And this is like, you know, I think this was first done by Randall Beer.
It's a kind of iconic idea of embodied cognitive science, which is meant to tell us that the
whole thing matters.
At the very least, you know, we should not be looking at brains in isolation from bodies
or bodies in isolation from the environment.
But of course, there's a lot of room for interpretation or how we practically apply this idea.
So let's take the case of perception as just one example of how embodied ideas have been
moving progressively over the last few years.
So I'll just make some caricatures of perception here, and in traditional cognitivism, traditional
cognitive science, you have a picture like this.
A little brain with a man there moving levers and pushing buttons and receiving some kind
of image from the outside that is relayed from sensors such as, you know, ears and eyes
into the brain.
And of course, you know, when you show this picture to someone working in this traditional
mode, they will say, like, we don't mean that.
Of course we don't.
You know, that's such a caricature.
But if you push them hard enough and you ask them, what do you mean by distributed representations?
What do you mean by all this?
Eventually I always think it resolves into a version of this.
Someone inside making interpretations of some translation that you have made of states
of the world into internal representations.
So that's the traditional caricature of perception.
Now we've also been hearing a lot about what I call the sensory motor approach.
Alvanoe and Kevin O'Ragan idea of perception actually being a form of active engagement
with the world whereby your experience depends on your mastery of sensory motor contingencies
and so on.
So that's the other approach that you might call this, okay, so I've got here this caricature
again of, this is not necessary for you.
You've seen this before.
I mean, the softness of the sponge depends on how we grasp it and how we apply pressure
and so on.
And there's nothing in the sponge per se that you can call softness, but it's actually
the result of this particular engagement of the body, in this case, a particular body
like someone with fingers, and the sponge itself, the responsiveness of the materiality
of the world.
The sponge is not going to be soft for an ant.
So that's the idea of sensory motor contingencies.
And in this view, it's therefore not separable from action or not easily separable from action.
And you could say that the particular form of the body, its disposition, becomes crucial
in your abilities to perceive and act.
So your skills become crucial.
And I would like to then later on unpack some of these statements.
Now, you can also say that this is a more situated approach because given that what
you use in order to perceive is an engagement or even a virtual potential engagement with
the world, this engagement is likely to be the kind of engagement that is embedded into
a network of everyday practices, like, for instance, drinking coffee, and you see this
object and you don't see an abstract object that then you suddenly realize, oh, by the
way, I could actually pour some coffee and pick it up and drink it.
You see a cup and you see immediately what are the affordances of the cup.
And then this is why this, you can say that this embodied approach is getting, it's closer
to Kipsonian ideas, because perception is a form of know-how, or for Heideggerian, we
like some form of Suhandenheit, these things are ready to hunt.
And because the materiality of your perceiving experience is the action itself, of course,
it doesn't have to be added up later.
This knowledge doesn't have to be added up later, it comes with the way that you perceive
the world.
So in conclusion to this, the discussion of this approach, you can very well argue that
we're talking about the crucial significance of the body in the whole of this approach.
I mean, it's clear that the kind of perceptual experience you may have depends very much
on the kinds of sensory-motor engagements you can enact, and that depends on the body,
on the structure of the body, on the history of the body, and so on and so forth.
Now, why would I call this shallow embodiment?
Well, one thing you may notice is that this story, nothing prevents in this story some
kind of functionalist takeover and re-appropriation of these ideas, whereby you say to a traditional
functionalist theories in cognitive science for whom all that matters about cognition
is how we implement different functions and put them together in order for the system
to solve some problems.
For a functionalist like Andy Clark, this is not bad news, I mean, this is fine, because
precisely the body becomes one more element, one more information processing device available
to the cognizer and actually a very good and practical one, a very good embedded and dynamic
and convenient sensory information processing device.
So philosophers like Andy Clark, an external functionalist in general, has seen the body
as a welcome way of loading computation and so on.
So this theory, I'm not saying that Alvanoia and Eric Mayn and Kevin O'Riggum would say
that they probably wouldn't call themselves functionalists, I don't really care, what
I mean is that the theory itself can be just taken over, at least in this form, by the
traditional point of view and therefore more than a revolution, it's more like a reform,
it's just saying, okay, we extend a little bit the possibilities for our story, making
more interesting and richer, but it's the same story, right?
Now the problem with that is that we, in this way, we're still avoiding certain questions
and these are the questions that traditional cognitive science has avoided all along.
Some questions are in the blind spots, like some questions are questions that you cannot
even ask from traditional points of view, other questions are typically issues that
people don't care too much about and for, I've got a little list here, it's not exhaustive
but you have questions about the nature of agency and the nature of autonomy or the very
nature of the identity of a cognitive system, what makes this a cognitive system as opposed
to this plus environment plus everything? And crucially, I believe for a theory of cognition,
the questions of meaning and value, what do we mean when we say, when we use words like
meaning, value, et cetera? So what happens is that many or all of these questions, none
of them is really fully addressed head on. And in a way, in a functionalist approach,
what you do is to somehow assume that these questions will be answered in some way. So
the questions of value, for instance, you say, well, there must be some evolutionary
story that tells me why this particular system is interested in doing mathematics, for instance.
But that's actually like making science on credit because nobody eventually may come with
that story and what will happen to your theory when it's revealed that that story is not
there. So that's the situation and I believe a fully-fledged alternative paradigm in cognitive
science should look head on, I mean, just go and try to answer some of these questions,
try to try to provide at least provisional definitions and check whether they make sense,
whether they interlock in interesting ways and allow you to generate novel ideas or novel
hypotheses. So that's the situation in embodied cognition. In most cases, if there is a meaning
at all to the word embodiment, it tends to be this loosely functionalist meaning of
the body is important, the body is crucial in some way. And that, I want to stress things
here. I want to say that that actually has generated very interesting lessons. I mean,
it's not as if we have, I'm complaining that these people have done nothing. Actually,
I am one of those people. I mean, my work in evolutionary robotics has mostly been about
understanding how different bodily interactions with the environment can actually help you
rethink what are the necessary mechanisms for a particular cognitive performance. So
you can, some of the deep lessons from this is, for instance, that you have to stop thinking
of mind as being something that happens in the head. It's actually something that happens
in the interaction with the world. Other deep lessons have to do with considering mind not
as some kind of discrete exchange of perception and action and so on, but actually something
that happens extended over time. And if we go later to the models, I can show you very
concrete cases of this. And of course, when we start looking at social cognition, we can
also argue very concretely how mind cognition is happening not in the head of the individuals
but between them. The mind is in between people. So just clarify that that's why they don't
like the word shallowed, but I couldn't find a very one. So this is then motivating me
to start looking at the alternative. And that will take us to overview of this life and mind
inactive approach. So, of course, I will be using the word inactive in a very particular
sense, in the sense advocated by people like Francisco Varela, Evan Thompson, but different
as I already said from people like Alvin Owen, for instance. It's just a clarification
that I hope it is not a big issue. So where does the inactive story begin? It begins with
experience. It begins with the realization that we are, we ourselves, you know, individually,
we are beings who have an experience of concern with our lives, with our world, and so on.
We think, you know, to say it shortly, things matter to us. That's an interesting recognition.
This is Hans Jonas, who wrote a very, very inspiring book on the phenomenon of life.
I mean, he was an existential philosopher and trying to find the roots of existence. I
mean, what is it to be a being? What is it to be something that exists? And he finds
that in life itself. In a way, he says, funnily, that the success of an evolutionary view of
the world, a Darwinian form of materialism that tells us that eventually, I mean, we
have come from a history of blind process, blind material processes that have, you know,
operated under natural selection and et cetera, et cetera, whatever version you want of evolution.
That story that presumably would tell us, hey, we are nothing but atoms. Actually, it's
a good story because it builds a bridge between the nature, a continuity between nature and
ourselves. But that bridge flows both ways, because we can also tell the story that since
we cannot deny our own experience of concern, then we must be true that for other beings,
they must have an kind of interiority, a form of life that and things they care about.
So in that sense, Hans Jonas makes a very interesting metaphysical step. It's like, well, okay,
we accept experience that leads us to believe in a material world and, you know, efficient
forms of causation, being dominant, and so on. But we have to accept experience that
we are alive. And that is the only way in which we can then understand living organisms
as real, not as a way of speaking, which is something that goes back to Kant, which is
like, organism seems to be so organized and has intrinsic teleology, et cetera. But reason,
pure reason cannot approach that. So we have to use that as kind of a regulative knowledge.
Hans Jonas says, no, this is real knowledge. And why life? I mean, why not go up to rocks
and everything? And the argument goes like this. For Hans Jonas, metabolism is a particularly
interesting sort of entity because it's a formal identity, something that is being conserved
in a material flux. So there's a flux of matter and energy that concerns a form. And that
form has a consequence, which is it acts so as to conserve itself. That would be one way
to put it, or conserve itself as a consequence of its actions. That would be another way to
put it. So the only time where you, as living organisms, coincide with the matter in your
bodies is when you're dead. That's the only time where there is a coincidence, a material
permanence of this body, this piece of matter. And that's the only time that we can consider
