It's a circle with some gaps,
but that circle has a kind of permanence,
even if it's transient, you know, for a few minutes or a few hours, a few days,
and in that state,
it can still regulate and interact with the world
in such a way that you may close back whatever you have.
The behavior may actually provide the closure that is not there,
and so that's why, you know, we, well, that's what we do, actually.
We need food, so we eat, and it's not the case
that because we need food, we are actually not alive while we're not eating, right?
So, but if we don't eat, you know, if we don't behave in certain ways,
we won't survive, so we're not fully close on ourselves, you know.
We will need to do something before the end of the day
or before the end of the week if we want to carry on being where we are.
So, why is this important? Why is this interesting?
Because I think that if you were building up a picture of what I was saying
as something that goes in a kind of a layer approach,
at first you have metabolism, then you have agency,
and more sophisticated forms of agency, and animality, and social, and this, and so on, and so on,
some kind of a layer of you, like a cake when you build things on top of each other,
what I want to suggest is actually that that's not the right picture.
The picture, yes, you have to starve somewhere, you starve the bottom,
but the thing is that as soon as you move out one layer,
it starts to feed back on the original one.
For instance, by behaving, you can liberate several constraints on your metabolism,
and then you can just start feeding on something else by just being able to move about.
And so your metabolism, that had to be of a very particular kind,
now it has some freedom to change or drift in its structure.
And this is the title of the talk in the end.
We come to the title of the talk, How Mind Shapes the Body,
because the thing is habits, this idea of habits,
crossing the personal sub-personal domain both ways.
The habit is something that I do as a person,
but it's also something that has consequences for my metabolism,
my brain, and so on, so it's shaping me.
Every time I do something, it changes me a little bit.
And because they introduce their own normativity,
it may well be that my underlying levels, my metabolism,
can start to depend on these higher levels.
If you have a preference for certain kinds of food,
eventually you might have to depend on that kind of food.
Or an example that we wrote in that chapter with Marik and Hannah,
a patient needs to be given a drug that is actually quite hard
and can be poisonous for normal people,
but you give them slow doses of that drug in order to survive,
and it gets adapted to it, and eventually so much adapted to it
that it needs to carry on living.
Here you have something that a particular behaviour,
in this case very much directed towards the physiology, I admit,
a particular behaviour has changed the physiology,
where the value of an encounter taking the drug has changed
from being a poison to being some nutrient,
if you want to call it like that.
So it seems that mine can get, therefore, re-inscribed in the body,
that the habit is a mutual translation between the psychic and the somatic.
And of course this applies, of course, to the social aspect as well.
Ritually Wanton and Richard Levins in their recent book of essays,
they claim our physiology is the social physiology,
that it depends very much on the class,
the kind of work that you do, etc.
Now, in interaction you may have the same kind of situations,
there can be habits of interactions,
and I can go into that later in the discussion,
there are some examples of habits of interaction,
including music improvisation, but many others too.
Another example of how behaviour can change our physiology,
is this case of underwater vision in children in Pacific Islands,
where they dive to search for things,
and they made a study recently that these children can actually,
they have perfect vision underwater,
they can read the book underwater if they want to,
whereas Western children, you have a blurry vision underwater.
Your action changes your physiology and your anatomy,
and it turns out that actually what they have is,
they change the diameter of the crystal,
I can't remember what it is,
but the thing is the behaviour shapes the body.
And to go, I wanted to suggest that human perception,
coming back to what we said about human perception,
is not a special case when we think about perceiving an abstract object.
This seems to be the departure point of many theories of perceptions,
like imagine how do you know that you're looking at this red cube and so on.
That's actually so abstract,
in this view an animal will never perceive a shape like this in its abstractness,
it will just perceive it in its value.
Does it have any food, content, is it any dangerous?
Then otherwise, I don't care about it.
So I would like to say that what makes us perceive these objects in their abstraction,
is a very high level human capability.
It's a form of second nature,
where you pick up a baby and show him little abstract things,
and I want to highlight this part of the picture,
where the baby is actually being pushed to see certain things,
which takes me to the final speculation of the talk,
which is the idea of the social invisible.
The social invisible being interpersonal processes
that do not happen at the interpretative level,
not at the level of, oh, I realize that you're looking at me,
or I realize that you want this, not at the intentional level,
but actually below that level,
they can result in different forms of coordination
that may fit into interpretation,
but what they do is actually shape the body in this way that habits do.
I was going to say something about this already.
Well, I can come back to that, actually, it's not that central,
but the thing is that this social invisible,
it's like this network of social coordination,
it's quite alive in a metaphorical sense, perhaps,
but quite clever.
It's not necessarily something that happens attached to an author,
to someone who's doing it, but it just happens,
and you can cite the work of sociologists like Marcel Maus,
who wrote this very interesting essay on techniques of the body,
I can't remember the date, it's like the 30s, 20s, I don't know,
and more recent sociological studies like Loïc-Vakuan
on a kind of embedded sociological study of becoming a boxer,
how the institution trains you to move in certain ways,
to breathe in certain ways, and so on, through institutionalized manners.
So this ties in with certain movement in phenomenology,
going from a phenomenology of experience,
an intentional structure towards the phenomenology of the invisible,
and that happens here with Merleau-Ponty first,
he has this book called The Invisible and The Invisible,
with this concept of the flesh.
These conditions that are underlying our possibilities of experiencing,
but themselves are a form of self-affection that is not intentional.
It's the kind of thing as, you know, something that bottoms out
the possibilities of experience.
A sort of...
Mane de Biran talks about the sense of effort.
The sense of effort is not about something or anything,
it's about attention.
It's an underlying aspect of experience
that is telling me that I am an experiencing being,
that I am this active self.
So, yes, okay, well, we can come back to that.
And it's a very nice study, again, of this sociological study.
Breathing like a soldier.
It speaks about the differences between normal breathing
and the breathing requirements of a soldier
that has to, you know, a soldier has to, for instance,
be able to run for miles and miles and miles and miles,
being able to stop and shoot.
And therefore, the breathing cannot be too agitated.
And at the same time, they have to be able to shout orders very loudly
and clear so that everyone will listen to them.
So, this sociologist went under this training
and noticed exactly how this training happened.
And so they would ask a cadet to lead a little platoon
and say, well, you know, give some orders.
And the orders couldn't be heard
because they didn't shout from the bottom of the stomach or something.
And then they would stop her and say, like, look, you know,
this is what you have to feel.
You know, shout now, then they push the bottom of the stomach
and say, you feel that?
That's how you have to feel when you're shouting.
So how direct that intervention is, you know,
it's a social intervention that is not telling you, like,
oh, imagine this or that.
It's like pushing your body and creating that experience directly.
And then you realize, like, oh, this is what I have to feel.
Okay, I'll do it.
So that is what I talk about, what I mean by this social invisible.
It's not an interpretation that I'm making.
It doesn't happen at the cognitive level.
It happens at the direct and body intervention level.
So the whole thing is that most of phenomenology
and most cognitive science thinks that, you know,
or has moved from this idea of me first,
I can do things to then extend that idea to the others.
Like, I can towards him, or she can towards me,
or we can, they can, all that.
But I want to suggest that actually this might be either going both ways
or more radically going just one way first.
You know, that idea, that social builds up my own experience
as a possibility of self-affection,
my own possibility of self-affection.
More examples of the social invisible,
ways in which you carry a baby about,
ways in which you expose it to different forms of contacts
with others and the world, and so on.
So we can leave this to the discussion,
the distinction between habits and skills,
because it probably will come up.
Yes, and that too.
So just wanted to say that in this view, again,
highlight the fact that mine is relational.
It's neither inside or outside.
That also has to do with it,
relation to extended mine ideas.
And I don't want to go into that,
but there is kind of, interestingly,
that there is not a layer approach from the inside outside,
but there are those flow in both ways.
So just final message, recapitulate a little bit
when we were talking about shoulder and bottom
and things like functionalism, like extended mine.
They do provide interesting ideas about the body,
but these do not focus on the blind spots that would really...
