because like, if you're a stupid kid who doesn't want to get vaccinated,
because you think needles are scary, or because you're an anti-vax lunatic,
and you're in your 11.
But you can talk about that because sex is so gross that you can't talk about it.
Sure, but I guess whatever my kids' reasons are for not wanting to get a vaccine,
I'd be like, tough shit, you're not dying of measles in this house, young man.
Like, I-
So you're talking about a nine-month-old.
Well, whatever, let's pretend as a vaccine you get an 11, right?
Where we all agree they're too young for sex,
and they're all too young to design mortgages or loans,
but old enough to talk, right?
So, I mean, I guess-
I guess once you start getting into your teens, 13, 14,
you start getting more responsibilities,
and if you do make the wrong choices,
sometimes you just have to let people make the wrong choices.
The same way we let people vote for the other party,
or go to church, or take out a loan, yeah,
or go gambling, or take drugs,
because you're fucking-
You can't run other people's lives for them that much,
and the amount of control you can have over other people's lives
should start diminishing in your early teens,
and diminish more as you get older and show greater responsibility.
Not just be like, you're an infant, you're an infant,
you're an infant all the way till you're 18,
and then suddenly, boom, go wild.
Like, that's just a risk before disaster
on both sides of that 18-year-old line.
Yeah, I mean, I guess-
And this is getting us away from the age and consent stuff,
but it's like, you know, I can't control what my friends do,
because we're all adults,
and that's part of what's involved with that.
But if I had a kid who was 15, old enough to drive, not legally,
old enough to drink, not legally,
and I don't want to take away their agency,
you know, to get shit-housed and drive home from 60 miles away,
like, oh, no, I don't want to impute on their ability
to make their own decisions,
and then they kill a family of four,
and two of the people in the car were pregnant, right?
Like, it's-
An adult could do that, too.
I know, but-
We have separate laws about-
But as a parent, I think you have an obligation to be
not just like the co-signer on loans and stuff for a kid,
and to make sure they get enough food.
You're like, you're to steward them
into a safe and responsible adulthood.
Yeah, but what you were describing is negligence.
Some would just say, go do whatever, you guide them.
But you do that by taking away their agency.
No.
This makes me think of-
I wouldn't let them make that mistake.
This is why we have separate laws for the age of sexual consent
that we do for driving, joining the military.
This is not the same issue,
and I think that legally and ethically,
we're wasting our time trying to compare them.
Which is not the same.
I did acknowledge that they weren't the same,
and then went on to go ahead and talk about it, you're right.
Yeah, and we all-
Of course, we want to protect children,
especially as a parent, you want to protect your child.
But the other thing is that we all make decisions
without the ability to truly understand the repercussions
of the choices we make,
because none of us can predict the future.
We all have made decisions we regret,
and will continue to make mistakes in the future.
It's reasonable to expect people to make better decisions
as they gain knowledge and experience with age,
however, implying that underage people have no ability
to make decisions,
or that it's not okay for them to make mistakes,
that treating sex as though the cost of having it is so high,
we just have to absolutely slap that off the table,
is ridiculous.
It's damaging, and it's ridiculous.
And regret does not equal abuse.
That's part of the mythology of sex.
Like, oh, this person abused me
because the relationship ended poorly,
or they don't love me anymore.
It's like that is part of the romanticization of sex.
Sex is not the same thing.
They actually have laws about abortion
based on the idea that they said,
you will regret having an abortion.
Yes. Hey, I tried to get sterilized as a young woman.
I tried in my 20s.
I tried in my late 20s.
I tried again in my 30s.
And all in like all three times,
You might change your mind.
All three times I was given absolutely no agency
over my own goddamn body
because someone else might feel bad
if I regretted my decision or get sued.
And it was like, oh, I'm sorry, you're female
and you don't really know what you want.
Biology says you must breed,
and then we can sterilize you.
And I'm like,
That's them not treating you like an adult
until you're in your 40s.
But there's no, like I was way beyond 18.
That's not having bodily autonomy.
I don't want to get on that subject.
I'm just saying that this does tie into the fact
that the commodification of the female body purited culture
is tied into the way we think about sex
and treat young adults.
And when they're experienced,
when they're exploring sex,
they are exploring sex.
And we need to provide them with guidance and support
and treat them in ways that are healthy for them,
not make it a traumatizing experience
where someone gets thrown in jail
or they feel like they're supposed to be upset
because they were raped, apparently.
Also their whole life is ruined regardless
of whether they were raped or the rapist.
Yes, oh my God, yes.
I think this also has further bad knock on effects
because I would not consider dating anyone in their teens
or even at this point, probably their early 20s.
And the thing is some teens
will still want relationships with older people.
And I think some teens would even benefit
from relationships with good older people.
But since all the good older people are like,
fuck that, I'd be creepy if I was dating a teen
even if it was legal in the state, I'm not gonna do it.
So the only people left that are willing to date teens
are the people who are abusive
and will exploit that power rather than helping someone
and being kind and accommodating your partner's way.
Yeah, that's why we're creating problems.
I think we're also talking about a lot of stuff.
Like the sterilization thing, even as a guy,
it's hard to get sterilized.
And it's probably harder as a woman because people suck.
But the main reason for that
is the doctor doesn't want you to come back five years later
and be like, he should have talked to me out of it.
I regret my decision and it's their fault.
They made me infertile.
Liabilophobia.
Right, so I think some part of it maybe is no doubt.
Some puritanical sex bullshit,
but it's really, I think in large part,
that particular thing is just fear of getting sued.
No, it's worse for women.
There's no laws against guys getting
a form of birth control in their hands,
but there's people trying to make it illegal for women
to even have access to birth control.
And there's countries where women can't.
Right, they suck.
I wasn't saying that wasn't an issue.
Yeah.
I mean, did...
Stephen was saying that it's not just sex purity,
but there's other...
But it needs to be recognized
as a driving force behind those laws and the way we...
We...
Like, so your revulsion when you see a 17-year-old
with a 20-something-year-old,
like, you don't know that 17-year-old
or that 20-something-year-old,
it's...
I think it would be healthy for people to internally be self-aware.
Okay, I am judging them based on what exactly?
I am for this law because, well, it just sounds good.
I mean, 17-year-olds shouldn't be fucked
by people in their 20s.
Slow down.
When you said internally self-aware,
I don't understand how that applies to laws
because you can't have that with laws, right?
They're bad at laws.
Well, I mean, like, I mean, laws are...
We should have had our resident lawyer on to explain.
What laws are?
Well, I mean, but in general, I think that they are...
You know, they are cut and...
They're supposed to be cut and dry.
This is the case.
And sorry, you know, discretion,
we can argue about that in court maybe,
but for the most part, like, you know,
if someone walked in and Jace was risked deep in my abdomen
