And I noticed that a lot of the boxes they had out said for reuse each box costs the company
a dollar. And then there were boxes that did not say that.
So I walk up to an employee and there's a big cart of unmarked boxes.
And then there's a different cart, the marked boxes.
And I said, is it all right with you if I take the unmarked boxes with me?
And they look at me and they're like, no, you can't have the marked boxes.
And there's like this two minute excited explanation why I can't have those.
And I let her finish. And then I pointed at the unmarked.
And I said, unmarked boxes, the ones that do not say that I cannot have them.
And she goes, oh, yeah, yeah, fine.
She's probably had to tell people that so many times that it's just like a
script that she's primed for.
But that was an example where I was using very clear language.
We both spoke the same language. The boxes were there for reference.
But I still failed to come across. I needed to point at the boxes as well.
I'm curious how different were the unmarked boxes from the marked ones in terms of like
physical dimensions and all that.
Very different.
Okay. So so they probably were just going to throw out the unmarked ones.
Absolutely.
Okay. Because I was thinking, did they just forget to mark those?
And you had a whole bunch of one dollar boxes.
They're all incredibly clear and very different.
But I thought this was perfect for this discussion where I was just like, huh,
could I have phrased that better?
Probably not.
Perhaps I should have pointed the first time I said it to add even more information
to what I was conveying.
It's a thing that comes up fairly often when you're trying to write fiction too.
It's really good sometimes to over-explain or to default to over-explaining.
Yeah. So the moral here is be not too quick to blame those for misunderstanding your
perfectly clear sentences spoken or written.
Chances are your words are more ambiguous than you think.
Now, that's just chances.
Sometimes you're perfectly clear and they just don't understand you like with a box thing.
But the moral is that if someone, and this actually, you know,
I don't know if I started doing this before after I read this post because I read this
first 10 something years ago.
But, you know, I, especially with people close to me, if like we're having a conversation,
I'm like, all right, if I say something that is offensive or rude,
can you ask me to clarify that?
Because I almost certainly didn't mean it that way.
Yeah.
And, you know, good friends, good dialogue partners will understand that.
And seldom has come to occasion where they need to point that out.
But when it does, we get to skip the whole part where they think I'm being an asshole.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's great.
Like you said, it was like 10 years ago, you read this probably the same for me.
I actually distinctly remember this sequence post making me a better person.
Because it makes you so much more willing to give people the benefit of the doubt.
That's awesome.
And also like doing things like actually just like asking someone to rephrase something
is something I've to this day like done a lot when I jumped to some conclusion about
to start like fighting them about it.
Or we're also just stopped doing the thing of like, I don't know if everyone does this,
but it like when when someone would say something I didn't understand,
I used to kind of nod because it would be impolite to sort of interrupt them and be like, wait,
like, I don't know what Solomonov induction is or whatever.
But like,
And now do you ask for clarification?
All the time.
And like it's made conversation so much better.
Excellent.
All right.
Well, for next time, we are going to be discussing the posts self anchoring.
And I got to ask you guys about this.
Expecting short inferential differences is the one after self anchoring.
Didn't we?
Distances.
Did I not say distances?
Differences.
Oh, sorry.
Distances.
Didn't we already do an entire episode about this?
I tried to search our archives, but I didn't find anything.
I don't remember.
We've definitely talked about it, but we can summarize it quickly.
It sounds like probably one of the ones you would have done before I was on.
Since your early episodes were more sort of like explaining rationalism.
There's also the wrinkle in your brain that you've recorded a handful of these
over the last five years in audio form.
Oh, maybe this was one of the ones that I was asked to.
You definitely spoke this one.
I did.
I remembered in your voice.
Okay, okay, okay.
Well, expecting short.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
Yeah, this this was one I read just out loud for the HPMR podcast
back when we were in the middle of waiting for updates.
So yeah, we have not discussed this on the show.
So we will also be doing expecting short inferential distances as the other one,
which is again, a classic writing a lot of classics here.
And if you'd like a refresher before next episode, you can hear it in any Ash's voice.
Yes, you can.
Where is it?
It's at the HPMR podcast and I will add a link to the show notes at the basinconspiracy.com.
Toid.
All righty.
We are back and we are going to dive into our topic,
which is kind of a touchy topic.
If people want to know why the fuck did we even come up with this?
Steven and me have a podcast called Not Everything is a Clue,
where we read and analyze Worth the Candle by Alexander Wales.
And about a month ago, we were talking about, I don't know, the protagonists having the
protagonist and other people, they're having possible sex or whatever.
And like Steven was all weirded out by it because they're 17.
And I was like, whatever, man, they're 17.
That's that's totally old enough to be having sex.
And Steven was like, ooh, Age of Consent, though, they're killed children.
And I don't know.
I feel like I was a tad more articulate than that, but that is not an unfair summary of my position.
Okay, all right.
And you know, I was like, to me, it wasn't that big a deal, partly because,
you know, I think teenagers can be mature enough to do that,
but also because my first sex partner was when I was a teenager and she was five years my elder.
And then my second sex partner was 10 years my elder.
But at that point, I was in my early 20s.
And like, I've had several significant others with relationships that they had when they were
in their tweaked teens that were with men in their late 20s.
And so like, I don't know.
And so in case it's not clear, the main subject is Age of Consent.
Yes.
And so yeah, me and Charlie got to talking after I was talking with Steven about this whole like
Age of Consent is 17 weird thing.
And Charlie was like, well, I have stuff to say about that.
And so now we are here to say stuff about it.
That is that is the short thing, the short version of how we got there.
So should we say things about it?
Sure, let's say things about it.
Who wants to?
I'm waiting for somebody else because I don't actually have a fully formed opinion about this.
Somebody influenced me.
We can start with the Age of Consent as it's defined in Colorado.
I was interested in why you earlier said it depends.
Ah, yes.
It probably depends on how old you are, right?
So I looked at a few websites when I was looking at the statutes and I like...
Now you're on a list.
Sorry.
How old does the person have to be before I can fuck him legally?
That is an awkward thing to Google.
So I liked this website by a criminal defense attorney, a local one, H. Michael Stanberg.
This episode brought to you by...
Right.
And so what he wrote is Colorado does not define the term age of sexual consent.
Colorado law is written to make a determination of whether individuals based on age have the
legal capacity to consent to having sex.
The age of consent is then determined by what is excluded from the Colorado criminal law.
And my head exploded a little bit.
I was about to say, wow, I really like this.
They're going to evaluate whether they're emotionally mature enough.
Then wait, what?
Yeah.
So Colorado age of consent explained further.
The example one, the alleged victim is under 15.
The accused is at least four years older than 15 and is not the spouse of the victim.
Okay.
Wait, is not the spouse?
Wait.
The older party need not be an adult to be guilty of this crime.
In fact, juveniles are often charged with this crime in Colorado Juvenile Court.
Consent is not a defense in these cases.
Oh my God, is this like the case where like two preschoolers are playing doctor
and the one child is accused of...
I'm just creating summary of the law.
Example two, the alleged victim is between 15 and 17.
The alleged perpetrator is at least 10 years older and not the spouse of the victim.
In case that's not clear, spousal rape is fine.
Get married here.
If one of the parties is 15, 16 or 17 and the other is 25, 26, 27 or older,
this is also considered statutory rape.
But in this situation, by definition, the older party must be an adult to be guilty of this crime
and not the spouse of the victim.
So how are they defining adult if not by age?
I was curious about that too from the first example.
You said they need not be an adult, but they have to be four years older than 15.
And so I thought adulthood was 18.
I thought we were trying to define adulthood here.
And he hopefully goes on to Colorado laws criminalized sex between adults and minors
and between minors regardless of consent.
I have a problem with this myself.
Oh my God.
Wait, sorry, can you repeat that?
That didn't sink in.
To Colorado laws criminalized sex between adults and minors and between minors regardless of consent.
You know why that is?
That's because parents wanted the ability to accuse their child who had consensual sex
with their partner to accuse the other child of rape.
So there's a misdemeanor and a felony.
The misdemeanor is a person commits the crime of sexual assault if he or she is 10 years older
than a minor who is 15 or 16 years old.
I'm just summarizing the felony.
The person commits class for felony sexual assault if he or she is at least four years older
than a minor who is 14 years old or younger.
So if you're 18 and you sleep with a 14 year old and it's consensual, then you are a rapist.
Felony rapist, yeah.
So I think I don't want to like just throw out the last 90 seconds, but I don't know
