He asked me if I wanted to stay for a long weekend at his place.
We didn't talk about having sex, but I knew he wanted to.
And I was interested.
So he picked me up the airport.
We had a great time.
I insisted on safe sex.
He complied without complaint.
And I enjoyed him so much I visited him about a month later and then we never saw each other.
And, you know, a lot of people, in comparison to the ways the sexual touch was experienced for me
outside of those examples, my relationships with those two men were some of the healthiest
encounters that I had as a young adult.
And they stood out to me because I gave consent.
I pursued versus not giving consent or being asked for consent.
I was also treated with respect by both men.
They protect me from pregnancies and STDs.
It was either my idea or their suggestion.
Both men spent non-sexual time with me and invested me as a person by sharing experiences.
I was treated like a person versus an object, whereas by everyone else, I was an object.
And I was also not defamed by either of these people when I decided to end the relationship.
They didn't go around saying, calling me names, telling people I was a horror or an easy lay
or any of the stuff that my abusers did, by the way.
And I still think of them fondly, both of them.
And I hope that they aren't traumatized by their relationship with me.
And I absolutely do not feel that way about anyone else I had sexual encounters with
before I was a young adult.
And I have any kind feelings towards any date rapists or sexual predators I've encountered
in my lifetime.
And it all comes down to my consent being respected.
And if the law doesn't respect my ability to consent, that's a problem for everyone.
It creates more problems and trauma.
Absolutely.
This is different than our usual thing in which we talk about heavy stuff.
But it's all this nice, naval gazey, distant armchair stuff, not talking about somebody
who's been through some shit and not talking to somebody about that and then saying,
well, let's abstract that away and think about it distantly.
So I don't know if I'm prepared to engage too much on it just because I don't know
exactly how to navigate that.
I can try, but again, it's different.
If we're talking about some obscure whatever, we were talking before about the death of
everybody on a continent, and that's like, oh, nothing, right?
And now we're talking about one small stupid, or maybe not so small, but one stupid law.
And now it's suddenly a big, and it is a big deal because it's more salient and close.
When I was talking with Charlie about this four weeks ago, when it first came up,
I kind of, I was having the same sorts of qualms and opinions as you, like where, yes,
there are, there are young adults who can and should be able to consent and sign legal contracts
and all that. But as a society, we have this law that drives the line at a number because
it's easier that way. And we don't have a mind reading machine yet.
Well, I mean, there's not like a meter you can stick against someone's head that says
emotionally mature or not, like on a spectrum.
I don't think the laws are based on.
No, clearly not at all. I think they're based on the first half of it was.
And I think actually, I think a lot of the laws are based on now that I've been reading this book
are based on the explicit, explicit intention to control young adults.
Yeah. And commodification of them.
Yeah. Yeah. One of them is specifically there, like clearly so parents can veto their children's
relationships. That's, that's awful. Yeah. And, and like, and so I have the same parents
or basically anybody who disapproves, actually.
I still think it's going to be an issue to change society about this thing.
But I think it's a good fight now that I've been reading this book because like the guy
proposes an actual method of measuring emotional maturity in people.
Is it not the equation?
Sounds like I should read the book.
I actually think the equation. What was it? Half year?
No, no, it's not the equation.
No, what was it though?
Half your age plus seven.
I actually feel like that's, it's better than the law we have now, right?
Like, Charlie, would you, would you agree that if half your age plus seven,
like if the person is older than that, then like that's still big of an age gap?
Then she couldn't have sex with a 31 year old dude.
So I don't like any of these fucking formulas.
Yeah.
All right.
But we do need a bottom aid.
And I think that looking at like physiological and social development,
we should come up with an age and like, I think it should be 14 or 50.
And I also think that the law has to be, the law has to be explicit so that it can be enforced.
I think that's,
However, that doesn't work in reality when you're dealing with something as complex
as a competency.
There actually should at least be like a panel of judges or something.
Like, have them, have a psychologist.
I mean, there is what is in our eyes of people's competence.
Right.
So I think that the law should have a hard age, a hard age bracket where competency
can be called into question.
And this is how you resolve the question.
Right now, the young adult has no agency and they are deemed incompetent by the law.
And that's
And they have literally no rights.
Well, there's one or two special rights carved out for them,
but they don't have any of the rights that are afforded to most adults under the constitution.
And considered full humans.
Exactly.
Yeah.
You are still your parents property more or less.
The law is really like, and if you take into account like drinking age,
I always found it hilarious that I think a lot of people do.
You can, I think when you're 18, can you run the military?
Yeah, they actually lowered the drinking age to,
no, they lowered the voting age to 18.
Because you still can drink until you're 21.
You can die.
You can go overseas and kill people and die when you're 18, but you can't have a beer.
Although apparently those drinking laws are rarely enforced on military basis.
The age.
Well, I should hope not.
Because if you're 18 and you've been sent overseas to go kill people and die,
you should at least be able to have a beer.
Yeah.
I mean, there's, there's a, I mean, you said that it would be very expensive to test competency,
but I don't think it would be that expensive.
Like we test people's competency at operating a fucking two ton vehicle that hurdles at 60 miles per hour.
But we don't do it well.
I'm sure we don't do it great, but we do it well enough.
No, we don't.
Oh, and while they're not, we do like, I mean, I'm not trying to try to,
I'm, I'm, I'm kind of putting a foot down on this because I don't think that
measuring competency is a thing that is doable in general and solves the problem.
Like that's, that's why you have having something in place, like have a psychologist analyze the
person and give their verdict would be at least better than what we have now.
It may be, but then you, you know, you get a psychologist who hates black people.
And so whenever the guy is black, well, but then how do you, how do you,
how many opinions do you get to have?
Like that's the thing is that that's what makes this
really hard and convoluted where like, if you just say, look, if they're not 18,
they don't get to do it, whatever it is, drink, whatever.
I mean, I could see a law that like, once you are 18, you can no longer be denied
your competency rights, no matter what.
See, that sounds stupid too.
But I, but by the same metrics, right?
Why do you, why do you suddenly become competent on your 18th?
If you can, if you can, if you can be competent on when you're 17.
My, this goes into what I want to say in two weeks, but my personal metric is kind of
once you can cause problems for, to the political machine by taking up arms,
that's when they have to start considering you competent.
And that is why there is so much effort put into suppressing teenagers, right?
Of course, this is my opinion.
Yes.
How often did you like daydream about just like storming the government as a child?
Very often.
But it wasn't the government because I, it wasn't the government oppressing me.
It was teachers or something.
Yeah, it was, it was teachers, it was parents.
It was the people that were actually holding back.
Fucking authority figures.
Actually, Charlie brought up about Puritanism.
I grew up in a town that was settled by Puritans and still the place I went to school actually
has drinking prohibited because they kept the Puritan laws.
The section in, we were forced, they were forced to teach as sex ed because of a law,
but because of I think school boards and parents objecting, they took the textbooks
and they ripped out the page, the sections about contraception.
So they're denying you agency because basically the ability to make decisions for yourself.
They thought that if they're teenage children had knew that you could have sex safely,
then they would do it.
They weren't wrong necessarily.
They're not wrong, but they're still going to do it anyway,
but they're going to get STIs and pregnancies.
What's fun about that is they put on like the big slide where it's like,
here's all the consequences of having unprotected sex, STDs, pregnancies.
And then here's all the consequences when you have sex with a condom,
they click the slide and nothing changes.
And so all they're doing there is making a great argument for raw dogging it, right?
Yeah.
Like, well, hey, in for a penny, in for a pound, right?
If we're going to condom does nothing, I might as well not wear one.
Like, I guess for me-
I'm going to hell already anyway.
On slide five, it shows me burning in hell.
Right.
Yeah, there's wasn't one of the things in unsong.
If you've already said which everyone has,
you're basically going to hell no matter what.
So just go all out.
And if you hitler hard enough, then you get an awesome place in hell.
So anyway, I guess I don't understand quite what it would mean to like,
to have these competency measures that could be exercised in a consistent way.
Like, you know, I mean, what agency does a 15 year old have?
I don't think that they have the grasp and it depends on the 15 year old,
which is why you have magic numbers that are usually after 15 for stuff.
But like, you don't let a 15 year old sign on a student loan
that'll sum into $120,000, right?
But you let a 17 year old do it as John Mulaney has
hilariously pointed out.
I think that for those of you who tend to have adult cosigners, right?
And so like, for, I know that-
As he pointed out that when he signed it at 17, he had no fucking clue what it meant.
I think, but he's also a comedian, like telling a joke.
I think that he had to have a parent there to cosign it.
It's because we're so grossed out by sex that we couldn't have like a parent cosign.
Well, so that's what I'm saying.
That might be an argument here, but we also have,
there's also been an issue raised with parents like owning their kids,
but I'm also kind of hugely in favor of that.
Like, if you're a stupid kid who doesn't want to-
Say any adult, like, if you could cosign,
if you could get any adult to cosign that you're emotionally mature enough to have a relationship,
like, or maybe like teachers, I don't know.
That might be something, but then you'd still be like at the whim of your parents.
But like, so part of me likes that because being at the whim of your parents,
