while I was unconscious and doing an appendectomy on me,
unlicensed, you'd probably be in trouble because...
I'm just going to mention Stephen being like,
it's okay, this is consensual.
But at least...
What if it was an emergency appendectomy?
Right, but I think running in and arresting Jace
would be a great idea and you could make your case in court
and be exonerated, but like, because in general, we see,
oh, look, this is happening, we should put a stop to this.
And most of the time, that's the right call to make, right?
Well, partially the consent laws don't...
Or the age of consent laws don't allow for consent.
If you had consented that appendectomy, it wouldn't matter.
Jace would still go to jail because law says
your consent doesn't matter.
But more importantly, I think the problem is that
the age is just set way too high.
Like, set the age lower because 17, 18,
that's a ridiculously high age for people who want to fulfill
one of the basic drives of biology at an earlier age.
I think you can still, like, accuse someone of rape.
Like, if you're legally, you know,
this just gives you the ability to consent.
Like, if you're 14 and you're raped by a 20-something,
you could still go to the cops and say,
I was raped, but like, you know...
In fact, they'd probably be more likely to believe you
if you had some sort of established agency, you know?
But as a kid, it's like, yeah.
So, you know, I was born in the late 70s
and raised in the 80s, 90s.
So, I don't think much has changed, honestly.
I see it all the time.
Age of consent loss have gone up in some places.
It's the major change.
So we've regressed, great.
Yeah, I think things have actually gotten worse
since the 70s.
Like, yeah, maybe...
Actually, I'm not sure about that.
I think some things have gotten better
and some have gotten worse in this domain.
Where I'm curious about how the law is fluctuated, too.
Yeah, that'd be something to research.
I wonder what the first, like, yeah,
if I'd thought to research stuff for this episode,
like, it would have been interesting to know,
like, what the first age of consent law was,
like, where it was initiated, what the circumstances were,
and what the age was.
You could probably find that on Wikipedia real quick,
but my laptop's all the way over there.
I think we kept getting modeled down
on what I tried to separate out at the beginning
and then totally forgot to keep doing,
which was, like, separate the law from what makes sense
and what we should be doing,
because those might not be the same thing.
You know, and giving agency to kids at a younger age
maybe makes sense in some contexts and not in others.
Think that you can defend all the kids.
Well, yeah, and so, like, ideally, like Jay said,
we'd have a magic wand that we could wave over somebody's head
and say, they are sentient enough to make this decision
and they're cognizant enough of their consequences,
but we don't have that.
Look, how do we...
You're in your...
Are you 30 now?
Yeah, I've been 30 for a couple of years.
He had to think about it.
Okay, see, I don't know, man.
I met you when you were in your late 20s
and so that's the age you are forever in my mind.
Aw, how nice.
He also looks very young.
Yes, that too.
Yeah, I have a face that says,
can I please check your ID, sir?
Yes, very much.
So, we don't have that wand and we can't wave it over your head.
How the hell do we know that you're sentient enough
to consent to sex?
So, that raises one of the new ones...
We know you're not a pee zombie.
That raises one of the nuanced points
that's gonna make here, like, you know,
there's a couple of, I think, interesting edge cases with this
and I maybe can get them both out quick enough
and then we can talk about them.
One, I knew a guy,
a few years ago, he's at a college party
and it's not a 19-year-old level college party.
They're 23, right?
You know, they're seniors.
And a girl comes up and, hey, you wanna hook up totally?
And a week later, he gets a call from her parents,
she was 17 and he's fucked, right?
So, what's interesting, and I don't know if...
I think that she even had a fake school ID.
And so, like...
So, she went out of her way to, like...
To make this...
Because she thought she had the authorship
and she maybe did.
She certainly had the authorship to get a fake ID.
And we could make this as details we want.
Because somewhere, you know...
If you're old enough to fake an ID,
reliably, that means that you're competent.
A lot of them care.
So, that's one.
And then, you know, like, on the other end of that,
I know people in their 60s who aren't competent enough to...
If they're not competent enough to fake an ID in their 60s,
they probably shouldn't be having sex either.
Well, but that's what you think,
because they're allowed to.
Particularly people with mental handicaps.
You know, people with their IQ in the 70s or, you know...
You know, whatever.
How do you see that we need to be included in the law?
I don't understand what you mean.
I don't see that it is.
What would need to be included and how?
Like, I'm thinking...
Let me finish the example.
I know of a couple that got married
and presumably copulated that marriage at some point, right?
Or consummated or whatever you want to call it.
And they're of equal-ish level, right?
They're both handicapped.
You know, like, if it's about agency and adulthood and cognition,
these people shouldn't be allowed to have sex.
We should sterilize them or at least keep them away from each other
and put them in chastity belts.
I'm being absurd, but like you see what I'm saying, right?
Yeah.
Like, if they're...
That's what some people think.
If it's magically about...
About, I guess, take away the last,
the absurd bit about chastity belts and distance,
but like, it does seem like we can't let...
It's an inconsistent metric.
I think that if they're both, you know, if they're, you know,
neither of them can read and write.
They can't prepare their, you know, whatever.
They can't live a life independent of help.
But if they want to hook up, you know, fuck it.
You know, like, there are people in old folks' homes
who presumably, you know, they're right with us, at least.
Well, they get police too.
They do.
And I kind of think they should,
because there's a lot of dementia going on
and a lot of people unable to...
Depends on the person, though.
Right.
Like, they're, you know...
But...
That should be in the law.
I think that's what Charlie's saying, right?
Like...
I've seen that a law doesn't...
You also don't have the ability to consent
if you have a certain level of dementia
and that should be in the law, too.
That should be protected status.
Yeah, like, just because it's not addressed...
But people should be allowed to have sex.
...doesn't mean it shouldn't be.
And I'm not saying there shouldn't be specific age.
I never said there shouldn't be a specific age.
I'm just saying that simply naming an age is not enough.
And I'm actually agreeing with you,
because there's other ways that you can be competent or incompetent.
And we need to address all of that.
Yeah.
And also the, uh...
Oh, you're done.
Yeah, because context matters.
Right.
It absolutely matters.
And if we are actually going in the interest of being just,
we need to...
We need to fix this.
Our current laws are egregious.
We're back on laws.
Laws suck.
Yeah.
So I think we can table that and just, you know, agree.
Here, here.
Because...
But does that mean you agree that 16-year-olds could have sex
and it wouldn't be gross?
Well, so that's sort of where I'm at.
If, again, these two mentally handicapped people,
I mean, again, the state saw them fit to get married.
