It still has lots of externalities.
It's going to be terrible.
So people are going to take the, like,
stupid drug and die.
Right.
And part of me has this...
That world still looks better utilitarian-wise than the one that we have.
That's probably true.
I think what I'm just trying to, like, analyze my own feelings about it is,
like, part of me has this intuition that people just can't,
like, in many cases, can't make judgments for themselves.
It's like, look, I know you say you want that, but you...
But tough.
I, you know, I, being the state or the God, artificial intelligence that we built,
I'm giving you this vaccine.
I'm going to make you wear a mask.
I'm going to not let you drive 150 miles an hour on the highway.
Like, whatever it is, right?
I, and I've realized that's completely at odds with the band Good Store.
It's, somehow, I need to, I need to square this out and I'll do this off the air.
Like, I think having a band Good Store sounds like a perfectly entertainable idea.
And yet there seems to be, I'm learning that there's this part of me
that feels the exact opposite way about it.
I think it depends on just, like, as the superhuman AI,
you don't want to tell humans, okay,
you can't have relationships with people of the opposite sex
because those are too often turn out badly because, fuck,
that's what most humans want really badly, you know?
On the other hand, you also don't want to be so permissive.
We're like, yeah, go ahead and blow up the earth.
I know that's not ideal, but it's your own choice.
Thank you. That actually is a great distillation of it.
So, yeah, it's...
You can't protect them from everything and you can't let them do everything.
But, like, the scale is not below up the world.
The scale is have sex you regret.
Exactly.
And that's the social position right now.
It seems to be very much like all sex is bad and harmful.
And we can't stop adults from doing it
because adults are fucking self-descriptive, terrible people.
But at least we can make these laws that say no under 18
can do this horrible thing.
And we, you know, we are very much pushing against this idea
that it's a horrible thing that should be legislated away
for as long as is possible and should be embraced as something
that people find out and experiment with as they age.
And we're also not saying there shouldn't be an age of consent.
We're saying that the age of consent should be lower
than it is in Colorado and much clearer.
And also not have special exemptions for, like, oh, but if you're married to the 12-year-old.
Yeah, oh my God, yes.
But that's a whole another ballgame.
This was fun.
Yeah, that one definitely seems weird.
I've got nothing to defend that one with.
Ooh, if you actually read through the law,
I wonder if your skin would crawl like mine did.
That was a loathsome experience.
Well, you know, it's not a loathsome experience.
Thanking our patrons.
Yay, trust me in that segue.
Who's the lucky patron who gets to be thanked after that?
And I do want to use this as a quick bridge to our next episode
where we'll talk about, in general, adult kids' autonomy
as opposed to just the specific age of sexual consent that we were talking about today.
Assuming that something crazy doesn't happen,
and I can't read a single more page in the next two weeks,
but hopefully I'll be done with the book by then.
Right on.
Well, this week's patron is Bob Rocks.
And Bob does rock.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, Bob.
Thanks, Bob.
Thanks and sorry, Bob.
You did this, Bob.
You made this episode possible.
And we thank you for it.
Yeah, thanks for bringing this to all the people out there
and for helping us to continue to do the show that we do.
We couldn't do it without you.
Totally.
All right.
If you would like to be a patron of ours,
there's information at TheBaseinConspiracy.com,
which is our home site.
You can write and review us at iTunes and other places.
Let your friends know.
Am I forgetting anything?
We have a discord.
If you haven't read Worth the Candle,
whether or not you listen to mine in Inosh's podcast about it, it's amazing.
I know at least one person who's listening to that podcast
just for fun and not reading the story.
And I've been hounding him to read the fucking book.
It's actually a lot of fun.
And I think we are almost comprehensive enough
with our discussion of it that you can probably squeak by,
but you're missing stuff.
Read it.
Thanks, everybody.
And is that it?
It?
That's it.
Okay.
We'll see you all in two weeks.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye, everyone.
Now there's some coffee.
