if it's worth getting bogged down in the confusing legalese of Colorado's particularly
or particular definitions of.
I thought it might be a good conversation to start about consent.
It totally isn't.
It's interesting and it proves that it's murky and weird legally.
But I almost don't care what the law is.
Like just because I don't want what's right and wrong to be constrained by what can be
explained to the average judge, especially like if that judge happens to be in one county versus
like, you know, across the street in any other county, that doesn't seem like that should depend
on what is right and wrong.
I'm really wondering what other states consent laws look like and how much do they all differ
from each other just across like the United States?
Not even bringing in other country's consent laws if they even have them.
I don't know all the details behind it, but I know Michigan's you can consent at age 16,
which is I looked it up because my, you know, my previous partner said that she could have
gotten the guy she slept with on statutory rape.
And I was like, huh, and she grew up in Michigan.
I wonder how old she was then.
And so she must have been 15 or younger at the time.
And, you know, I mean, she didn't, she said it was a great relationship and she was happy
with it, but she, you know, had it if her parents had disapproved of the relationship.
Well, if they had found out about it, they could have, they could have got him.
I think she also kind of had like, you know, a fun kind of kick out of the fact that she
could have gotten him on statutory rape.
It was sort of like a power, power play kind of thing.
That's weird.
Yeah, it's, you know, coercion through legal ramifications is tight.
Well, I mean, it's not she did any of that.
Just no, but because of the implication.
Right, right.
But I mean, that's, that's more of a kink thing.
I know I was trying to use the word implication with my, with my best Dennis
stare from it's always done in Philadelphia.
Whenever you say those words, I always think of that episode.
Great.
Yeah.
Well, when he told me that story, my initial reaction was you.
And then I also had to be like, oh, well, I tend to find power and balances scenarios sexy,
but that's in fantasy land.
When I've actually had power and balance scenarios in real life, it's never real
sour and balances and relationships are pretty bad in my experience.
Like, I don't think I've ever been in one with major power and balances, but I'm definitely
on the power and balances are sexy as hell.
But I think pretty much in fantasy land, yeah, I totally agree.
In fantasy land, they're very sexy and in real life, not so much though.
Yeah, like, uh, you know, I just, I had a partner that was five or six years younger
than me at one point and they were still in college.
Like I was graduated and had a job and I owned a house and they lived at it.
And so it was neither of our fault, but there's definitely a power and balance there.
And I was always aware of it in the back of my mind and it made me feel creepy or like
made me feel like I had to, I don't know, like, yeah.
I think it's impossible to have a relationship where there's no power in this.
I think that's true.
But I think that the white, like the more there is a power and balance,
though, the more potentially dangerous or like bad the situation could be.
Another of my examples is that I had a sexual relationship with one of my college professors
for several years.
Well, they were professing you?
No, like we were friends before that, but like I was still in college at the school
that he taught at.
I just was not in his class.
Okay.
I was going to say, I mean, the issue there would be if you're in his class.
And yeah, that he was like 10 or 11 years older than me and I was a depressed
sack of shit because I was right after my friends with died.
And so this was clearly like in retrospect, I didn't like this guy.
I was being taken advantage of the whole time.
He like parasitized my need for support and friendship and then just like got into my
parents and I said, no, the first actually he got me drunk for the first time that I
had ever been drunk and then had sex with me after taking me to his mom's house way up
in the mountains.
So I had no way out of that.
And I said, no.
And he kept saying, no, you really want it.
No, you do.
So that's fucking awful.
Yeah, that is.
I will, that's a bunch of power.
That's day three.
Yeah, which is rape.
And you know what?
I told my parents that I was dating a college professor.
My mom said, good for you.
They make good money, right?
Which no, he didn't wall.
But like she didn't even raise a brow at that though, because that was like my mom,
you know, was like raised like poor and lower class.
And this didn't seem unusual to her at all.
In fact, like her response was, oh, good, he makes good money.
Well, I think there's a lot of reasons to seek out a partner that has more power.
Like if someone has a lot of money, you know, if someone has a lot of money
and can take care of you, that I would find that attractive.
If like I am in a shitty ass emotional position and they can be stable
and help me through things.
That is that is great.
Like they could also take advantage of you and you can't protect yourself.
They could.
Yeah.
Oh, I mean, that's that's a that's not a necessarily a problem with a power and
balance that it's a problem with a shitty person.
Like even someone who is poor and trashy and sucks can take advantage of someone
and and use them in that terrible way.
I was going to say I saw a comedian on Friday night named Matthew Bressard
and his girlfriend works in marketing or finance or something.
It makes four times what he makes or at least what he did in 2020 because,
you know, comedy was hard last year.
And so he's he's perfectly aware that like and they share an apartment in New York.
And so he's like, obviously she wins all the like we don't fight.
Because there's there's there.
What am I going to do?
Like go threaten to sleep in the hall.
Like so he's making fun of this power and balance.
But the other thing there was another the part the reason I chuckled myself was
he had a joke about like she asked if I'd ever leave her and he said,
well, it would have to be a very competitive offer.
Nice.
But I realized I was talking serious stuff and injecting love into serious stuff is my go to.
That was like breaking the tension.
So it's also kind of a problem.
Like, does that mean the more successful you get, the less you can date people?
And do you have to break up with someone who still isn't successful?
Do you have to turn down raises?
Like, yeah.
So I mean, that I do agree that like it's more about the person than like,
you know, the power imbalance, right?
It's not your fault that you're big enough to beat me up.
But if it was like privilege, like it's not your fault that you're like white
cis male, but it is something to take into account.
I did not realize that until I was well into my first relationship,
that one of the things she really liked about me was that I was white.
Being the ethnic majority of whatever country you're in is, you know,
a form of power and a thing people seek out.
So I was like, oh, okay.
I mean, did that feel good?
Like, no, I feel like that would feel kind of gross for me.
It felt gross.
It felt weird because I was like, oh, I didn't know that.
And that's not something I care about about myself.
But I'm glad you like it.
Like it would be like if someone was like, I think it's really hot that your
hair is brown or something.
I'm like, okay, that's just the way it was born.
But if you like it, that's cool.
That doesn't have any political charge.
Well, yeah, but I mean,
I think, yeah.
Well, maybe a little.
There's definitely hair politics where like black hair.
Oh my gosh.
Comes into play behind ethnic hair.
But like your height, right?
Yeah, people are stereotypically and not, you know,
just as long as you're getting canceled.
Stereotypes exist for a reason.
Women like tall guys, as long as I'm super generalizing, right?
And so you can pull women and the majority of women like tall guys.
It's like an evolutionary biology.
Oh, yeah.
I'm just saying, anytime you say anything about like,
you know, that sweeping, people get mad.
But anyway, so like you don't get to control how tall you are,
not without drastic surgery, right?
So, you know, if you're to get rid of that imbalance or unfair advantage,
are you to go get leg reduction surgery?
That seems like a huge cost to impose on yourself for having been born to be
what, six foot?
I mean, far weirder than the fact that I'm white is that when I lost a lot of weight
and actually started being, I don't know, conventionally attractive, I guess,
I'd spent my entire life being, you know, the nerd that no one found attractive.
And then once that happened, like the difference in the way people treated me,
even though I was more or less the same person was just shocking.
I changed my hair color a lot.
I mean, I used to have more before you guys knew me.
Like I'd have a different hair color and it would be like bright green or bright orange.
I went through the like spectrum of colors and I found that even like having
unnaturally dyed hair, people treat you really different if you have green versus red versus
black hair.
Right.
So, I mean, I guess, you know, height is a form of power in the same way that like being
attractive is also a form of power.
It can get you what you want.
Yeah, attractive.
Tall people get more raises and more people vote for them.
And that's what our lifespans, so it evens out.
Just get people to do what you want more if you're attractive.
Take that tall, pretty people.
Once you do that for me, you're like, okay, you're hot as shit.
That, as long as we're talking about hair, Jason's hair currently is purple and blue
and has like a sort of to the side with like an undercut.
Looks fucking awesome.
It's like Cyberpunk 2077.
Yeah.
What does all of this have to do with that?
That's what I'm curious about.
So, we're talking about, you know, convoluted relationship dynamics and that's more something
that I, you know, that's a fun conversation.
But I'm curious what the stances were on aging and scent that were interesting enough to talk about.
Right now I'm reading an interesting book which I picked up actually in preparation for this
and maybe our next episode will be about this particular book about how teens in Western
societies are traumatized by how they're infantilized.
