And might as well have been 5,000 miles away, right?
Right. I mean, she was just in a different part of Denver.
But yeah.
That's 1,000 miles when you're 15.
Exactly. Yeah, yeah.
I had a bike, man.
But it's very hilly.
I did actually end up going to her place once
when she had like a like a gathering of nerds over
to watch Zena stuff and then some alien movies.
That sounds cool.
Yeah, yeah. It was a great time.
And like she was just she was really awesome to me.
And it was it was a great thing in my life.
And, you know, if it had things had been different
and I would have been able to sleep with her, I don't know.
It probably wouldn't have been terrible.
And I have a hard time imagining that kind of world
because, you know, it's just so not the relationship we had.
Like from the very beginning, she was like,
oh, that's really cute.
The one time when I was like, I think I think I really love you.
She's like, oh, that's so adorable.
And how old were you?
I was like 15.
I mean, you know, so if she said, I love you too, let's fuck.
I mean, would were you consenting to that?
Like it's it's interesting, right?
It is interesting.
So and I again, I'm not saying that I don't think it should
necessarily be an evil considered to be an awful thing.
What if she had asked, can I borrow, you know,
what your parents have your parents putting away college
fund for you? Can I borrow it?
You know, like, see, that is much more likely to be very
exploitative.
But but I mean, if you're Donald, if you're not cognizant
enough to lend somebody a hundred bucks, are you cognizant
enough to to and I'm not.
This is not this isn't a question I expect an answer to.
Yeah.
And I should be clear.
I'm not sure if it's obvious.
If this is your first episode, I'm usually a bit more composed.
I'm finding this emotionally challenging on a way that I'm
trying to analyze whilst talking about it.
It's actually really interesting because I can't figure out
what your objection is.
Neither can I rating somebody else's college fund is abusive
and an abuse of that trust and that that relationship.
Whereas, you know, if there were actual romantic feelings
that developed between us, which again, there wasn't,
she's not into younger dudes and she's not into men at all.
But if something had developed along those lines,
I don't think it would necessarily be bad.
Yeah.
And that that that that wouldn't be an abuse of that
relationship if it was just kind of a natural outgrow.
OK, so flip the sexes.
Same scenario.
I can't do that publicly because then everybody thinks
I'm a creepy pedophile.
And I totally understand.
But in theory, you should be able to do that.
Yes.
In theory, that should be just as acceptable.
And I'm a female saying that.
So there, you're not canceled.
I have learned that it doesn't take one person in the group
that you're supposed to be marginalizing supporting you
to have you un-canceled.
There's two.
I'm trans.
I agree with the idea.
OK.
Yay!
Thank you.
But I think it's less now.
Right.
That's the law.
So like, it's like no take-backsies.
Yeah.
As soon as you say it, you can't be canceled.
Yeah.
Well, you know what?
I'm glad that you're like trying to figure out why you have
that impulse to be like, no, that's not OK.
It's very socially ingrained.
Yeah.
Like that's what I'm trying to point out.
I still kind of have that reaction.
Like I can't.
Yes.
I can't imagine having a relationship with a teenager.
I'm so on Charlie's side after you articulated your point.
But in the beginning of the podcast,
I was sounding more like I was, because I was saying,
oh man, age gaps are really problematic,
or like power imbalance is a really problematic.
And that was just.
They can be.
They can't.
Well, yeah.
That was what I was trying to say is they can be like,
but then I came into this feeling like I'm not sure
where I really fall along like the argument
about age of consent, just because I haven't really
had a good conversation about it yet.
Like I hadn't articulated my own thoughts.
Yeah.
And this has completely helped me like crystallize
my opinion here.
Cool.
I haven't crystallized one yet, but it's currently brewing.
I mean, when Jay says like, I'm not sure you guys just agree.
And I'm like, you know, I've been thinking that for the last 20
minutes.
I'm not even sure where our point of attention are.
Like you're just kind of poking at Charlie's point
to try to like steal, or not steal man it,
like the devil's advocate it to like.
That's the phrase I was thinking of on the drive over
as like, I think I'm prepared to devil's advocate
the other side here.
I guess what it is that I'm.
It's very like uninteresting airtime if you just
have four hosts who all very like strongly agree
with each other.
Yeah.
Sometimes I don't know man, tell that to Fox News.
Oh, well.
But I.
Should we polite the president harder?
Although I guess this was pre-February.
Right.
I still have, I, you know, confusions.
Then it's more about legality stuff.
I still don't know how that would possibly work.
You know, if you just lower the age, then great.
That's maybe step one.
But it does seem to be like you are,
you guys keep saying aptitude based.
Yes.
Have some sort of aptitude test.
And I, I feel like it's weird.
I mean, maybe it's just my feeling weird.
I, I, I don't know if I've articulated this yet.
I have a lot of like, obviously like yuck reactions
about a lot of this stuff.
And that's clearly, and if again, that's not usually
one of my like salient reasons for disagreeing
with something.
And yet apparently it's, it's a strong one here.
I have a lot of reactions to incest, but like morally,
I think that there are cases where it's fine.
That's the standard example to help you get over
like yuck example, yuck reactions.
Yeah.
It's, it's like ingrained culturally.
And when like, and some people have problems with like,
and you still get a knee jerk, like, oh, that's problematic.
Like even I was doing that in the beginning of the podcast.
And then I like, but when you actually like articulated out.
Yeah.
Yuck reactions aren't a good reason for anything.
I mean, a lot of people don't like people with two dicks
having sex or excuse me, two people with dicks having sex.
Someone with two dicks having sex might be awesome.
But, but, but, you know, some people, they think,
oh, two guys kissing is yucky.
That's like, all right, great.
Enjoy your yuckiness.
That's, that's not a good reason to do anything.
I think that's okay.
The disgust reaction is a lot of why so many laws did exist
that like, you know, about interracial marriage,
for example, like nobody could really articulate
a good point against it except, oh, it makes me feel bad.
Right.
And it, it's got cooties.
Like that's sort of the whole like trusting other people's
autonomy and their ability to make decisions for themselves.
Even if you wouldn't do it and you disagree with it,
like it's laws with empathy.
I think I've said before too, that I think I developed
on, you know, more fully.
I hope to be more developed in 10 years than I am now.
But in like my late, late teens, you know,
like I was aware of stuff as a teenager.
I even remember I think having some original thoughts,
but like, but they were few and far between, right?
I don't think that at 15, I was anywhere near where Charlie was.
And so I'm typical mining for my 15 year old self.
And so I'm having difficult, it's kind of just like taking some of
the kids to grow up fast.
So you see that an aptitude test too.
And Steven, so that's great.
I'm glad you went there.
Because then you would probably not have given consent or pursued
or allowed a sexual relationship.
