is that I never told anybody about any of my instances.
I didn't tell anyone.
My abusers started to spread rumors about me.
And I was targeted by other abusers who also let other abusers know.
My abusers never met each other and they're like years apart.
I lived in a terrible place.
It sounds like it.
Yeah, and I was raised by a terrible family.
But you've come out of it really well.
I mean, the whole thing, yeah, I actually do.
There's post-traumatic growth is something that I've been reading about recently.
It's like kind of, I don't know if it's a new psychological idea,
but I think it actually goes back to World War II.
At least like what the papers that I've seen.
But that was when they were just carpet bombing England.
It actually mobilized the people that lived in England more
to fight the war where like where they had been ambivalent.
It was this, there's this effect called a near miss.
I will, sorry, go ahead.
Like surviving a bombing by near miss.
Like it means like maybe your house was hit
but like you got out and you survived
and you come back a lot stronger from that.
If certain psychological conditions are at play,
like you still feel like you have control.
Like you feel like you can tell sort of a survival story to yourself.
There's a possibility that I could get out of this
and become stronger because of it.
But like if you're a child stuck in a situation
where like you have no control,
you literally can't tell yourself that story.
Like I can survive this because you're like,
I am at the whim of what other people are telling me and doing to me.
I may or may not survive this based on like what other people decide.
Pretty much.
I don't really want to go there because that's like, yeah.
I will say that PTSD doesn't exist.
Well, no, and like I probably had this discussion with you guys before
but I really, really loathe that common apathetic terrible saying like,
oh, you wouldn't be the wonderful person you are today
if you didn't suffer blah, blah, blah.
And I'm like, fuck you.
Don't you dare retroactively justify abuse.
Abuse is abuse.
And that was a loss and it took from me.
And I am a wonderful person despite having endured that,
not because I endured it.
Thank you very much.
I wasn't born a piece of shit.
And like refined through suffering.
I was born a loving, fearless kid.
I loved people.
I would go hug strangers and crawl up their legs at parties
and I liked to dance and I was just so social.
And I almost lost that child to abuse.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm amazed that you came out of it like as healthy and stable as you are.
Like if I could.
Because like definitely people can be traumatized
and it can wreck their lives.
Like, yeah, I don't want like by saying that post-traumatic
earth exists at all.
Like mean to say that no, I think it doesn't exist.
I think that it's unfortunate
that people do have sort of different levels of cope.
Yes.
That's like, but that's another thing
where like it's at different levels of aptitude
and it's not their fault for being.
Yeah.
But a lot of it has to do like,
I guess the reason I really wanted to talk about this with you guys is
if I could go back or even if I could change the laws in society
for the future.
So the next child who endures abuse like I did
isn't further victimized by the reactions of people around them.
I think that like, like dealing with the physiological realities of sex,
demithalize it, addressing purity culture issues
and sexual double standards and all this shit
is vital to allowing people to basically bounce back from trauma faster
and also not be re-traumatized continually
because they have experienced trauma
and part of like changing laws around sexual consent.
Why I feel so strongly about it is because that I can,
I can look back and be like, God, that would have been helpful.
I would, I lost so much to the, not just the events,
but the re-traumatization and the social consequences.
Decades of my life spent extremely mentally ill
and constantly re-traumatized.
And then like one step forward and five steps back.
And I, I'm not going to ever get those years back.
I'm in my mid forties.
Like what I have lost is irreparable.
Like, like there is no giving that back.
And so I just, I look at the way things are now
and I see these laws and I see people's reactions
and I'm like, no, that's, that's not helpful.
You're not helping young people by reacting that way,
by framing it that way.
Like if you really care about them, you need to acknowledge
that they are adolescents.
They're sexually exploring.
They are less risk adverse.
They, they are at like a experiential disadvantage,
but that doesn't mean they don't have agency.
There's no reason to re-traumatize them
or to traumatize them when they weren't traumatized
in the first freaking place.
So that's really what was important to me to get across.
I really liked the distillation.
That sounds like it, I was going to say on a t-shirt,
but it should be somewhere, like on a trophy of,
I'm not the person I am because of what I endured.
I'm the person I am despite what I endured.
I liked that a lot.
Yes, that's a quotable, Charlie and Bradley.
I love it.
It sounds like in the instances of the abusive encounters
yet as a kid, that it's not like more lenient laws
with sex with children would have helped you there.
It sounds like the law failed you.
That what we needed was, was more intense legal action.
Everything they did was illegal.
Yeah.
Nothing they did was illegal?
No, everything they did was illegal.
Oh, right.
Yeah, that, that isn't a matter of a, um...
That wasn't bad laws.
That was just laws not being it.
Like badly enforced.
Yeah.
Okay, sure.
Enforced.
And that was because of a lot of purity culture stuff,
victim blaming.
I didn't bring up my raps.
I never told anyone because like,
I knew that I would be the one that would be the most hurt
by telling people, by society.
There you go.
Like, definitely like they were, they weren't gonna,
I don't know, like, charge those people.
They would like, yeah, I don't know.
Or even if they did, it would be like, you know,
time spent in a trial, lots of money that you have to spend.
You could lose the trial and then you could like,
owe the other person money.
Also, your name is now slandered because it's involved
with dirty, dirty sex and you're,
you gotta wear the big A and whatever.
Like, sex shouldn't be that like, taboo stigmatized.
We need laws that are simultaneously more understanding
that kids can make decisions about sex.
And that sex isn't necessarily something
you have to prevent people from having
because it's inherently bad.
Sure, totally.
But we need laws that can both encompass that
and that like, make it easier and more obvious,
obviously a safe path for victims to come forward
when they're being victimized,
not when they're choosing to do it.
I mean, raping a child was already illegal
in Hawaii at that time.
It wasn't the law that was the problem,
it was the society.
No, I know, that's what I'm saying.
So, yeah, you're right.
It is not the law, the society, fair enough.
Yeah, it was a horrible place.
That particular.
I have one last, like, just,
and we can toss it out or we can entertain it if it's quick.
If I went to work tomorrow,
I was assuming I went to work
because work was a place I went to
instead of my, you know, the next, my office at my house,
and I punched a coworker in the face.
I would be tried to the crime assault,
you know, could be rather serious.
If I'm 15 and I'm at school
and I punched another child in the face,
you know, I probably don't go to jail
and I'm not tried in front of a judge and stuff
because people realize, oh, kids do stupid shit.
This seems to indicate
different understandings of attitudes
among children and adults.
So, like, and then, I mean,
if two 15-year-olds are brawling it out,
hitting each other in the face, that's different.
If a 15-year-old and a 30-year-old are brawling it out
and the 30-year-old keeps hitting the 15-year-old back,
that's way differently as a crime.
Is this is this readjustment of agency for children
adjusting across the board or just for sex?
I'm across the board.
Across the board, and it's all in what you just said.
