And I'll get more into that, I guess, in our next episode.
But is it by Jordan Peterson?
It is not.
It is actually by a guy who worked directly with BF Skinner.
Snowflakes.
Yeah.
But no, it's not that.
I'm joking, but I actually think there might be a point there.
It's a very interesting book.
But what I am trying to say is that in the U.S. and maybe in all Western society,
I don't know, but definitely in the U.S., relationships between people who are in their
teens and people who are in their 20s or older are insanely stigmatized to the point where,
like, when we were recording our episode, Stephen, you made the comment about like,
do you really want to be that guy who's 23 and comes picking up his girlfriend from
high school in his car?
And like, no, I don't.
That feels gross just thinking about it.
But I think it feels gross because of how I was socialized by society,
because I can see why a teenager could find someone who is older like that attractive.
And not only that, if they weren't a skivvy person, I can see it like working out and being
just fine.
You can learn a lot from an older person.
When I first had sex, we were both virgins.
And I don't think that was great for either of us.
I think we would have been better off if we had started with someone a little bit more
experienced.
The person that I was dating who was much younger than me told, like,
I think I actually brought it up.
Like, when they asked me out, like, I was like, oh, there's a weird age gap.
Are you sure, like, you're not weirded out by that?
And they were like, my parents have a bigger age gap.
And like, they have a great relationship.
So I'm not worried.
And I was like, huh, I never thought of that because your parents are both old.
And I never think of it as being different.
I have a good intuition pump for this, maybe.
Like, I had a friend when I was growing up and her parents were like 14 years apart.
I think that the dad was older.
And I had joked, at least they didn't meet when he was in high school.
Right.
So I feel like this is a good intuition pump because at some point.
That's exactly what I was thinking, though, because like at the younger ages, when the people
are younger, when the people involved are younger, then like it is more skivvy for people.
If it's like a 56-year-old and a 46-year-old, nobody would care.
No, not at all.
That's what I was trying to intuit there was like, I think I'm not sure where,
and I'm curious where people are coming down on this, if there's a magic line or what the,
you know, magic number is or whatever.
Oh, there's an equation.
But my...
Half your age plus seven.
Well, that aside, I'm just thinking like, I think we can, I, is there a baseline,
you know, if she was seven and he was 21, would that be copacetic among everybody or not?
No, definitely not.
No, no.
Okay, so...
She hasn't sexually developed yet.
So we have a baseline.
That's definitely pedophilia.
Well, so, well, I mean...
And that should be a crime.
Sexually or emotionally, like...
When you say sexually developed, you just mean like able to menstruate or like has boobs or...
I mean, those are definitely partial indicators.
It's more a question of...
There's like physical maturity and like emotional mental, what's the word I'm looking for?
Help me.
Like what if she's mentally, and this is getting us too far, I feel like,
if she's mentally mature-ish, whatever, 17-year-old can be mentally mature as, but happens and,
you know, is able to menstruate.
James Potter, Harry James Potter happens various in Professor Snape.
No, no.
I'm just thinking like, oh yeah, that'd be a funny intuition, too, because he's an adult in a kid's
body.
But the, I mean, I, you said no, because it's pedophilia.
I don't even want to say like, that's the reason it's wrong, because like if she was 18,
but she happened to look 12, you know, and they were both cool with it, right?
And he's, he's 50 and he loves it.
Then it's not pedophilia.
Because of a magic number?
Because she's 18?
No, because of developmental stages in an actual human being's life.
Oh, well, see, to me, the pedophilia I thought was less about being, and I'm not a,
not an expert on pedophilia, I figured it was more about the physical attraction to the,
to the shape of the person that you're into, not about their mind.
The thing that...
No.
Yeah, I think the thing that me and Charlie, uh, object to is having a relation, sexual
relationship with someone who is not at the developmental stage where they can handle that.
This actually just strikes me as a power and balance argument.
Okay, so I mean, from my perspective, I think that's what it is, but...
I really have to interject here.
This is something I feel incredibly strong about, okay?
As someone who was victimized by actual pedophiles before I had any kind of sexual development in
my body or brain whatsoever, someone calling a distasteful arrangement between a 17-year-old
young adult, pedophilia, is infuriating that a 17-year-old has way more agency than a five-year-old,
for example, just throwing numbers out there, and to suggest that they don't,
is an injustice to actual victims of pedophilia, and it also really harms a 17-year-old young
adult.
Yeah.
Like...
Like, ooh, that gets me so upset, and I see it happening in the news, and...
When I'm Tumblr.
So it's one of those things you can witch hunt people for.
Like, if you draw, like, a sexy picture of Steven Universe, but he's aged up to be 18,
and you have, like, have it tattooed, I am 18 on his chest, people will still call you a pedophile,
because that's art that's based off of a character from a children's show, and children might be on
Tumblr, and they might see it because they're looking for Steven Universe art, and then they
might traumatize themselves, and it's your fault.
Charlie, how old were you?
Call the cops.
How old were you when you moved out?
15.
So at 15, you, like, had your own job and were paying for your own living expenses.
Yeah, and driving myself to high school and traveling.
Right.
I mean, basically a competent adult.
A little bit immature for an adult, but...
I was inexperienced.
Yeah, inexperienced.
That is the word I was looking for.
Yeah.
I was never dumb, but I was definitely inexperienced, and, you know, only time can cure that.
But at the time where you're paying your own rent, like, I think you can start making some
of your own life decisions, and perhaps there will be mistakes, but, like, one of the things
I've been banging my drum about for two years, and have started thinking I should apply to
teenagers as well, is that people should have the right to be wrong, to make their own mistakes,
and not have, you know, their choices taken away from them, because other people think
it's a mistake what you're doing.
This, I think, and I hope I didn't imply some equivocation between 17-year-olds and 4-year-olds,
and 20-year-olds and 5-year-olds, but people do, and I...
But you did ask, like, where's the line?
And I'm like, oh, I'm really confident there's a line.
Well, so...
And I feel very strongly that there should be a legal line, and there should be a magical
number.
Absolutely.
We do need to protect children from abuse.
Right.
And I agree.
I think that...
We also need to not abuse young adults.
And not all 17-year-olds are children.
Are you saying, like, possibly very few?
Are you saying by taking away their agency?
Like, you're saying you don't want to abuse young children by sexual trauma, and you don't want to use...
God, this is deep.
Like, 17-year-olds by infantilizing them?
That is where I'm going.
I wrote something down.
Let me find it.
I'm just trying to see if that's your point, Charlie.
So my point is that consent is everything.
Like, damage is greatest when autonomy is not respected.
So, like, being objectified by others and the reaction of authority figures, peers, family,
to a young person having sex can be far more harmful than the sex that act itself or the sexual
relationship.
I...
Yeah, that's what I thought.
I have experienced this.
I agreed to get in this because this is really important to me, and I actually have a lot...
I have things to say, and it's important.
I'll just throw out an example.
You know, the legal age of consent at the time when I was 14 was 14.
And, you know, someone would say, well, you know, how can a 14-year-old know if they've
been harmed better than an 18-year-old, right, when you're an adult, officially?
And I was just like, that is absolutely possible.
As a sexually abused child, I had experienced sexual situations and their social, personal
repercussions beyond what many older adults had.
And people that were deemed fit to have authority over my person had less experience than I did
with how sex affects you both in a context of with other people and internally.
And so I had experienced non-consensual sexual interactions enough to be absolutely certain
when I gave consent.
So, but, you know, you know, you is the thing, right?
And that makes perfect sense.
Like, to...
Charlie, I think it's also a really, like, was a really mature 14-year-old.
I think Charlie definitely, probably, as you're describing it as a 14-year-old, you could give
consent.
Other 14-year-olds, definitely, I think, were like, I've known 14-year-olds that
could not have.
That were very, very immature.
Well, the problem is that the presumption is that no 14-year-old can.
And they're all treated that way.
And not only are the 14-year-olds barred from making that decision, but anyone that they were
to sleep with would then be jailed and have their life permanently ruined due to sex offender
registries.
And that is, you know, probably not something the mature 14-year-old wants to happen to their partner.
Yeah, the 14 and the 18-year-old, I think, like, again, I've known 14 and 18-year-olds
that have a wide range of, like, emotional ages.
And consensual sex, I think, between a 14 and an 18-year-old, like, if you, like, the first part
of the law actually sounded really good, where it was, we're going to evaluate the sort of emotional
maturity level of these people.
And then they had to throw all that shit in at the end.
That's what I'm curious about, is how you would possibly do that.
Yeah.
Like, so that's where I think it makes sense to have magic numbers.
You know, it's like, you know, there's no, there's nothing that
happens, you know, on your 365th day after being 17, you know, at midnight, you're struck by
lightning, and now you're cognizant enough to sign a loan and vote, right?
