And if something sexual happened with your with you,
it probably would have been something that you would have protested.
And so for like that, basically disenfranchising every 15 year old
because some 15 year olds aren't interested in sex yet,
makes no sense.
I think, and this is just the, this isn't me devil's advocating at this.
This is just my actual vague recollection of my childhood.
I do think that at 15, if somebody said, hey, you want to fuck,
I probably would have said yes.
But looking back, I don't think I was able to make that judgment.
And you know, maybe because I've got some magic thing about
sex from head that really shouldn't be there.
But you know, it could have been about anything.
You know, do you think that could have been something
they could have uncovered on an aptitude test?
Okay, I would need to be magical.
I want to dig right there.
You wouldn't have been able to make that decision.
Why is that decision so monumentally important?
What's going to happen if you fucked?
Were you going to die afterwards?
Were you going to have to marry that person
to be with him for the rest of your life?
See, you're going to demythalize sex.
It's not this titanic event.
It's not a tidal wave.
It's fricking a ripple.
Especially nowadays that we have, you know, protection.
Yes.
Yeah, like back in the day, I can see why it was,
and this is really surprising because back in the day,
people had sex much younger and it wasn't a big deal.
But back then it actually could have been a much bigger
deal where you get someone pregnant or you get pregnant.
You could die.
You could die.
And you could, yeah, yeah, exactly.
And societally you are like now property.
Yeah.
And but nowadays it's much less of a big deal.
Yes.
Because we fix these things.
And the laws should reflect that.
And our educational system should reflect that as well
to prepare these young adults for the choices
they need to make for themselves.
Also giving what you said about wanting to have,
probably would have said yes, if someone asked you
to have sex at 15.
Like, I don't know, maybe you might have.
Your hormones would have just taken over.
But just from personal experience, sometimes when
your body is uncomfortable and not, not working,
it just doesn't work out.
And I'm not thinking that my body would have been
and thinking that my mind wasn't there yet.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I mean, and then you probably would have like,
lots of times kids, when they first get into sex,
start with things like, you know, heavy petting, touching,
kissing, that kind of thing.
They don't go to full sex on the first go.
And not only that, but so your mind isn't there yet,
but your body wants to experience.
So that's how you get there.
You experiment.
You explore sexually.
It should not be a crime to hit puberty and start exploring sex.
I think it, I don't think so either.
But I think what, to me, I, and now again, we're back on laws,
but I think that it might should be a crime to test some kids limits
and see if they want to explore their horizons with you
when you're 30, right?
And you, and they're, they're 15.
And I realized that it was your situation
and it worked out great.
But it, like, if someone was like, Hey, you know what,
try this out.
You know, worst thing, worst case scenario,
you have a bit of regret.
And like, Oh, sure thing.
You know, person who knows a lot more than I do,
because you're twice my age, I don't, I don't think that we
should be, I, I, I at least understand why people might be
reluctant to say, No, let, let people go forward and try their
hand at as many kids as they can.
Right?
Does that, I mean, does that make sense?
Cause yeah, no, I see what you're saying.
I just, as the 15 year old, you might say, Hey, I've got autonomy.
But you don't, cause you're stupid.
But that's okay.
Cause you're making, I don't even know if it's, it's, you know,
cause, you know, like, I think you still have to protect
against sexual predators.
Yeah.
But how do you, can I pump your intuition for,
what if the person, what if you at 15 have been approached by
like a 30 year old person who said, Do you want to have sex?
And also do you want like, but do you want to have sex?
Also let's do it like without protection.
You would have said yes.
I don't remember my 15 year old self well enough just to
answer that, but pretend I'm giving whatever answer.
You think that if someone had like initiated sex at 15,
you would have said yes, but would you have said yes if it
was another guy?
You're straight, right?
I'm less straight now than I was 15 years ago.
But, but you probably would have said no at the time.
Cause you weren't attracted to like, if it was somebody that
like you hated, like if it was maybe like a cute girl,
but she was total asshole who kicked puppies.
Right.
You'd probably say no cause I don't like you.
Like you'd say no to one of them safe situation.
Somebody who like, if the 30 year old was in some way off,
if you, if you didn't actually want to consent to that,
you probably would have said no, right?
I guess I don't know what actually consent means when I was 15.
Consent just means saying yes.
I like, if they ask some 30 something propositions you and
I mean, I know, I know what it means, you know, it means,
it means assenting and, and, and give a confirmation enough
to be able to like check yourself whether or not like,
do I feel comfortable having sex with this person?
Like, do they seem safe?
Do like, you know, are we using protection?
Am I attracted?
Am I attracted to them?
Yeah.
I mean, and again, I don't quite know where I'm at here.
And I don't know if I can accurately model my 15 year old
self well enough to answer any questions.
Honestly, I mean, I do remember seeing people in junior
high, you know, being picked up by their boyfriends who are
at least 10 years older than us.
And that was weird.
And they, and some of them had very bad times.
Now to Charlie's point, you know, tough shit.
Maybe you need an abortion.
Maybe you had to regret.
A lot of people are really tough times having sex at 32.
Yeah.
To with other 30 year olds.
And, but I guess, I don't know, maybe.
They have the right to make that choice.
Keeping kids safe from stuff, you know, like,
if somebody offered a 15 year old some cocaine, like,
hey, you know, you'll be, you know, most people who try it
once don't have a huge problem with it, but some people do.
And you imagine getting a cocaine problem at 15, right?
I was offered drugs at a young age, but that's another issue.
And the people that offered me drugs were all ages.
Yeah.
I guess I understand that just because someone's old enough
to give the syllables.
Yes.
I don't think that's what that refers to.
It refers to being able to, like,
understand all the stuff that's involved.
Have your own theory of mind, like,
to have a fully formed theory of mind, I guess,
partially, and to, like, also know that you want sex
and that, like, you're physically capable of having sex.
And then this is someone you feel comfortable doing it with.
If you have sexual attraction to someone and you can,
and you can actually perform sex, then, like,
you're physiologically old enough to do it,
and then you're mentally old enough to do it if
you can think through the, like, implications
and make a responsible decision.
Or even an irresponsible decision.
Yeah, or that, like, you know.
I mean, I have made irresponsible decisions as an adult,
and I'm very sexually experienced.
Yeah, like, how much do you think the law should protect
people from themselves is kind of the question.
Yeah.
And again, I just need to say this every time,
we're back on laws.
But I, I...
Well, it all comes down to protecting people from themselves, right?
That's what all these laws are supposed to do.
Because we're talking about laws here.
Are you, are you...
I'm also talking about, like, what I feel good about.
...imposing other people's decisions
because they're making the wrong decisions
and they have to be protected from them.
Well, and to be clear, we're talking about laws,
and we're also talking about, like,
just what we feel cool about,
and what we feel should be allowed,
which are different things.
Like, I mean, you know...
Oh, and it doesn't mean I feel cool about it.
Do I still get grossed out
when I see, like, really young girls being, like,
hit on by guys that, like, I don't know,
