They have a marriage certificate.
And, you know, I, again, I'm assuming that the state,
again, if they let them sign a marriage certificate,
I had no problems with them having sex.
So, like, what they probably would hopefully object to
is an able-minded person, fully able-minded person,
marrying a person who with severe mental handicaps
and having sex with them, right?
Because they're not on the same level, right?
Two 16-year-olds are close enough to the same level
as opposed to a 46-year-old and a 16-year-old on average, right?
Like, and I realize that there's new ones and it's,
and it doesn't, and I might not be making a coherent case.
Like, I don't think they even have to be on the same level.
You can be on different levels, but still consent to sex.
So I wonder, though, I mean, I guess maybe...
Yeah, actually, I think I see where Stephen's coming from.
Calling an adolescent mentally handicapped.
I wasn't.
Well, no, but, like, it's equating it.
No, it wasn't. I didn't make it clear.
I'm saying that there is a level of cognitive ability
that grows through adolescence.
Yes.
That you don't have at 10, that you do have at 20.
And some people never get past where you start at,
where you are at 10.
That's true.
And we call them mentally,
do we call them developmentally disabled?
Yeah.
So, you know, whatever it is that's coming along at that age,
that is...
I don't think you guys are disagreeing with each other here.
I don't think so either.
I just didn't like that I was equivocating.
I wasn't saying that kids were mentally handicapped.
Anyway, I guess I sort of was, but I was drawing an analogy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I think where you were headed was like,
you're trying to come up with an example of the mental competency
of someone in their 60s versus someone who is in their teens.
And I'm like, oh, you can't draw a straight line
between those two points.
There's more going on there.
Yeah.
If you have dementia, maybe you have the mental faculties
of someone who's 14.
But you have a fully developed body like physiologic Cali.
God damn it.
I mean, we can skip the dementia part
because that maybe takes it too high.
What if they're both in their, you know,
two developmentally disabled people who are exactly 40.
That's just not really stupid.
And they're, what was that?
I was just joking.
I was just saying they're not, well, mentally handicapped,
just really stupid.
Now, I like the, I guess, because they're,
but they're cognitively,
cognitively about where you could test
with an aptitude test or something,
a cognition test, whatever you want to call it.
They'd gauge around 10, right?
Can you?
They, so like at that, sorry, go ahead.
Oh, nothing.
I had a random thought.
No, it's, it's fine.
I'm not, I don't know if I'm making a good point here.
Well, I was going to say, you know, drugs retard
your mental capacity for periodically, for a time.
And does that mean you can't consent?
Because I mean, if that's the case, I've been on LSD
and like been raped and or raped people at the same time.
So, I mean, in the extreme example,
people often give people drugs,
have sex with them so they can't consent.
Yes.
And that's fucked up.
But you need to be able to distinguish between those two.
And yeah, you can distinguish between those two.
And I think the easy solution to your example is like,
you pre-commit whilst sober saying,
I'm going to alter my consciousness through substance use.
And I am open to doing whatever we're doing,
whatever we want to do at that point,
whether it's sex or not or whatever.
And I'm consenting to that while I'm sentient and on planet Earth.
Right?
Right.
Like that doesn't sound like a hard problem.
Right.
But so you could still have sex with someone who was on LSD
without it being evil or bad or whatever.
Because well, I think if you if you asked them
when they weren't on LSD, sure.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
But that's like, if this it seems like in the example,
then the analogy would be if this person who's mentally handicapped
at 40 could turn it off for long enough.
Well, no.
Just say I consent to sex and then turn it back on
and they're disabled again.
Yeah.
No, I mean, I guess sorry.
That's a bad analogy.
No, you're good.
Like I said, it came out of nowhere
and I probably shouldn't have jumped in with that.
It's fine.
Because it's it.
That's it.
It's it.
Exploring the edge cases where you figure out
where the edges are.
Yeah.
But like when Steven was saying,
like people are on two different levels
when they're in their teens and their 40s.
Like I agree.
I think that Charlie at 15 and her lover at 31
were definitely at different developmental levels.
But I don't think that relationship was problematic.
It was.
I don't know if Charlie doesn't.
I mean, yeah.
So like you can be on different levels
and still have good relationships
as long as, you know, you're not a bad person.
If you take the other person into consideration
and treat them like a person and be decent.
That was my point entirely
where the objectification commodification
of adolescence is really what the problem is.
And maybe it's also just a general thing with age gaps.
I mean, you know, I if I I'm, you know, in my 30s,
if I hung out in front of junior high schools
just to make friends.
No, no, I'm just saying.
Like there's no there's no sex involved.
Honestly, I wish we lived in a world where that was possible
without societal a negative societal assumption
of repercussions.
I would love to have teenage friends.
I would hate to have teenage friends.
That's the one I was making.
I have great teenage friends.
Don't get me wrong.
We're allowed to this.
This is this is more of a values difference.
But I don't think teenagers have anything interesting.
It's like I like talking about, right?
Really?
I had a co-host metamore who was in her teens.
Not cognitively.
We're going to we're going to pretend.
Oh, oh, I see.
OK, so.
April doesn't count.
I'm justing.
I know I I don't have a good answer for that.
And I guess what I'm meaning is that, like,
I am glad I'm not the kind of person to go out
and, you know, troll the junior high school
is looking for buddies, right?
Right.
And that's but I mean, that's still creepy as fuck.
That's just that's just the two of us.
And, you know, and it would be nice to society.
You know, I remember, you know, we had a friend
who likes kids in a nonsexual way.
If you say they like kids, you have to we have to qualify that.
And he even said he loves getting hugs
from like his nephews or something.
And he's like, kid hugs are great.
You know, I was at a three year old's birthday party yesterday.
And I didn't get any hugs because she was busy.
My niece was playing with this giant phone machine.
But, you know, little hugs from little kids are adorable.
You know, it's when I was 15, I had a mentor
who was not sure exactly 10, 11 years older than me.
And like it was God, it was such a good relationship.
And I learned so much.
I grew a lot through that.
My mother absolutely hated her, even though she never met her.
It was almost entirely a relationship.
But she was like, this creepy older lady that's creeping on you.
And yeah, I totally developed a crush.
And, you know, I would have loved to to have sex with her if I could.
I couldn't because first of all,
she thought that I was, you know, a teenager,
which would be weird.
She didn't attract it to me.
But also she was total lesbian.
So two layers of not being attracted to me there.
