Like, that's exactly what I've been saying.
Like, we mythologize,
God, that's a hard word for me to say for some.
Sex, where it's like, if a teenager has sex,
well, it's got to be a crime.
It's a really big deal.
It's like, no, not necessarily.
It should actually be taken less seriously, probably.
Yeah, you have to take other stuff into account.
What if, like, the reason that you went
and punched your co-worker in the face
is that he had, like, stolen your car?
I don't think that the cop who arrests me would care.
I think that you actually would
mitigate circumstances in the...
I think you might get, like,
some kind of punishment for punching the person,
which is not, like, the socially correct way to respond,
but, like, people would be understanding that, like,
like, he would go to jail.
You'd get your car back, you know?
You know, it's like if, and I realize I'm stretching
this past where it was supposed to go.
Or if you, like, killed your wife, like...
Sure, yeah.
At that point, I don't think you'd be
held accountable for anything.
Yeah, but, like, you know, if me and my other adult friends
want to have a fight club, you know,
I guess it's already illegal, so, I mean...
Wait, is it?
I thought you could consent to fight clubs.
Well, maybe if you're an adult,
but if a 15-year-old wanted to join,
and we beat the shit out of him.
Oh, I see.
And he's like, I wanted to.
I was into it.
It was like, yeah, but now you don't realize...
You didn't understand that...
I didn't know the thing was going to hurt.
Maybe, you know, kids don't maybe realize, like,
oh, yeah, those teeth don't grow back.
Your first set did, you know?
Or, like, yeah, that contusion,
that broken eye socket will never heal the same.
You know, you're going to be disfigured
for the rest of your life.
As an adult, you've had contexts of not necessarily that...
It doesn't have to be the exact thing,
but that's part of, like, wisdom,
is seeing different things and applying it to your situation.
You had to make those stakes first
in order to have that experience.
Yeah, I had brotherhood.
You had to have those learning experiences
to get that wisdom.
I had brothers-in-law who were literally in street gangs
and did suffer those sorts of, you know,
facial trauma in fights.
I think they would have been a lot better off
in a fight club than in a street gang.
Yeah, I mean, I guess...
They should have consented to that instead.
You know, I guess if I...
Legalize fight clubs.
If I'm looking...
If I'm looking around for, you know,
whatever, to fight, right?
I would just think it better for me,
and maybe for a society,
that's where I'm curious about,
to say, find someone your own size and age
rather than go to your local junior high
and ask if someone wants to get to a fight with you.
What if you were to do DBSM with someone?
Because, like, that's more related.
Like, if you're a masochist, you're 15,
and you find a 31-year-old at, like, a sex club
that wants to beat you up and you agree to it,
like, does that change your perspective at all?
Because, like, the cases that you're saying are still assault.
I think assault is still, like, bad.
Well, but if it's consensual assault...
You can still accuse someone of rape.
If it's consensual assault, then, like, I think it's the same thing.
Like, it's just bodily autonomy.
You get, like, there's a point where you get to the age
in scare quotes, maturity-wise, et cetera,
to be able to make decisions about what is done to your body.
And I think it's absolutely your body, your choice,
because, yeah, whether it's abortion
or getting punched in the face or having sex,
like, don't you think that there's a point
where you should be able to have the right to decide
what happens to your body, like,
even including euthanasia, I think.
We can't have it both ways.
If the adult in the room is more liable
than the young adult in the room,
then the young adult has less agency than the adult.
Like, we can't have it both ways.
I mean, I think I've got, and, you know,
this sounds like we're near the adult,
trying to hit both things, you know, like, on the one hand...
Sorry, Jace, what was the last thing you said?
I'm trying to get it back to you.
Oh, bodily autonomy, like, as I was saying, across the board.
I think that at some level, and this does come with...
And it just happens to be tied with age,
but it is experience, you know?
You can have enough XP before you're 12
to understand things that someone at 20 might not,
but it correlates strongly with age
because it correlates with time.
So you'll see, like, that some consequence...
Some actions have consequences beyond your understanding.
And the first time you see that, it might not even happen to you.
It might happen to somebody else.
But the odds of you having that first wisdom moment
go up... The odds of that happening go up with age, right?
So, like, if you're going to drink and drive, if you're 15,
it might not sound like that bad of an idea.
Yeah, worst case scenario, I run off the road
and I wake up, you know, drive home
because you're stupid and you're 15, right?
But if you're 35 and you think that way, you're an idiot.
But you're still making decisions for other people.
But then the sex thing doesn't work with drunk driving.
But I don't know, I guess, you know, with, I guess...
We're getting...
Yeah, we're getting far afield tonight.
Yeah, we're getting afield from...
This is, like, the general question
of how much should laws protect people from themselves,
which I think is still related, but it's...
That is maybe where we're...
Not exactly your topic.
I think that is where we're differing, though.
And that's what has...
That's why I was bringing up the physical violence example
of consenting violence, because that seems to distill the thing there.
Well, also, violence is worse than sex, potentially.
Yes, yes.
That's another thing.
Like, you can be raped and it can be, like, unviolent,
coercive thing.
And you come out of it, maybe, like, mentally scarred,
but, like, I think there's...
Physically undamaged.
It's not like you're in the hospital
and you're therefore have sexual dysfunction for us
in your life because you had to have surgeries to...
Even if you get pregnant, you could...
You should be able to get an abortion.
You should, yeah.
Like, you recover from this.
You can recover from this, like...
I don't know if that is...
There are different magnitudes of violence and...
And sexual abuse or sex, generally, I guess.
Yeah, so, and then...
Their consent is everything.
It's everything.
So, I'm a virgin and I'm having sex with someone
for the first time.
And I'm all about it until it starts to hurt.
And then I say, whoa, whoa, whoa, I don't like this.
I'm not consenting to continue.
Consent is everything.
Bodily autonomy is everything.
I definitely...
I draw my line in the sand there every time.
Yeah, and in that case, if a 15-year-old wants to join
the Fight Club, if they say,
I'm consenting, then they get to do it.
And they get to make the mistake of not understanding
that they're risking lifetime brain damage.
But that's just an owned risk.
About football.
But that's just an owned risk of letting people do what they want.
You can play football when you're 16.
I think, you know, and again,
I'm still trying to distill where my, like...
I think I understand where you're coming from.
I think it's coming from...
It sounds like you're trying to compare an ideal world.
Like, ideally, like, there should be a better way.
Like, it's sort of the same thing as, like, you know,
the band goods store, how we all sort of agree that should exist
because people should be able to make their own decisions.
We all sort of agree.
That's what I was going to bring up.
Okay, if they're competent, I guess.
No, no, it was just that.
Part of me, I think the band goods store makes perfect sense.
I think that my inner libertarian is super into it.
I have this other part of me that says people are too dumb...
I think the thing is that it's better than the system that we have now.
It's not perfect.
