It's just, we have a number.
Our local laws as they stand are aberrant.
They made me sick reading them.
I think that is a form of, like, child abuse in itself.
And also just totally abusive young adults.
Yeah, like, this actually just, part of that law is specifically giving parents the right to veto
their children's relationships.
And it's basically exemplary.
It does not recognize that sexual abuse can exist within married couples.
Oh yeah, the spacial thing was horrible.
It also gives the parents the ability to sell their child into a marriage.
Basically.
If they're not ready for it.
Is that why that's there?
I don't know, but it churned my stomach reading, like, the details.
So the bigger problem, in my opinion, with the whole consent thing is that
The way we are taught to interact and think about sex has a lot of problems because of purity culture.
And it's still distorting.
It's still distorting and distorting sex.
And also, like, just basically hurting everybody.
I don't know how I'm making everything shitty.
That sex is sinful and you shouldn't be allowed to sin until you're of the age of majority.
That sex is only okay in, like, sanctioned arrangements between X and Y and only under
these circumstances.
And the law has reinforced this.
And sex is still kind of gross, but we can't really prohibit you from doing it.
Like, okay.
And then there's there's the sexual double standards that come from purity culture because
of pregnancy and fatherhood and legitimacy.
And it just you can dig this.
You can you can be lost in a well never see sunlight again if you just dig to the bottom of this.
But regret does not equal abuse.
And we need to demythologize how we present sex to everyone, not just children.
This myth that sex is somehow implies this deeper relationship between the people that
have sexual contact.
False.
The fact that sex is only okay and not harmful under certain situations like that are socially
condoned to.
False.
Like, yeah, the fact that there's been raped a bunch of times.
Yeah.
And I hate that.
Like, there's people that I can't convince that, like, I'm okay about it now.
Like, actually, like, that wasn't the worst thing that's ever happened to me.
Like, it was it's bad.
But like, you know what, like, I don't want to be like treated like abuse victim.
Pat Pat.
Oh, we can't say like things around.
Like, I don't, you know, yeah, I don't want to be treated like a survivor of like, like
911 or something.
Because I'm like, yeah, that happened.
It was bad.
Like, I've processed it.
I've moved on.
Richard Dawkins got in some water some years and years ago when he disclosed that when he
was a child, some he said he was mildly, mildly raped or something.
Was this something about Elevator Gate?
Maybe.
I don't know when this came out.
I think it was years after.
I think it was after that.
At least a couple years after.
But you know, you sort of been like in this position of, sorry, that you should finish
your thought.
I was going to say, apparently he was like in the backseat of a car and a priest felt
him up, you know, under his pants.
And when he was a kid, he just processed that as yucky and it was nothing.
Like, it was, it was weird, not, not literally nothing, but it was like,
that was gross.
All right, I'm going to go home and do whatever British kids do.
Right.
Go shower now.
Yeah, or, or maybe not even that.
Maybe it wasn't even that kind of yucky.
It was just, you know, weird.
And he went on and played video games or whatever the British equivalent of that was
70 years ago.
Like, I guess I bring that up because I'm, I'm making up.
No, I don't know.
I'm just, I, I, I brought that up because you were saying that like, you didn't like
people shoving you in a box and, you know, necessitating that this was the worst thing
that happened to you when, when in yours was obviously way worse sound.
I'm assuming way worse, but like it doesn't, it didn't define you as a person.
Right.
And so like the reason that I brought up Dawkins was because as soon as he talked
about this, people are like, oh, that's why you hate religion.
And it's like, no, I have other reasons.
This, this, this wasn't even, you know, didn't make the top 50.
Right.
So I'm not really making much of a point there other than.
Yeah, this is, that was unfortunate because he brought that up to invalidate the, I think
somebody like that he'd been having the elevator gate, like argument for a while.
And this was just really disappointing for me because Richard Dawkins was like my hero
at the time.
And it was Rebecca Watson, who was one of the other hosts on the skeptics guide to the
universe had mentioned.
And she was fantastic.
She's, yeah.
I miss her.
Miss her.
Yeah.
And she had like a creepy guy trying to hit an elevator read as not hot.
Oh, God, we're going to have to.
I know, right?
So about elevator to get deeper into this.
I'm prepared to leave the show for an episode about elevator gate.
So Steve, adjust the line.
So I just, I can shut up about this.
No, no, no, no, I don't want to shut down that part of the conversation.
I'm also just wondering how far I feel that's getting us from anything interesting,
worth talking about.
I, if anyone's curious about elevator gate, there's a, I'm sure there's a volume of
internet articles on it, the height of your house.
So the only reason I wanted to bring it up is because that was just my memory of like
the moment when I was like, no, Dawkins, like a bunch of my idols all like at the time I
like found out shit about them.
And I was like, we're writing in my journal like no more heroes, like no gods, no heroes,
no something.
That's a dope ass thing to put in your diary.
Also, sounds like a title for a novel needs to be written.
No gods, no heroes.
It's from something, I'm not getting the quote right, but anyway.
There's a Scott Alexander post recently, the rise and fall of online culture wars.
That doesn't talk about elevator gate, but it talks like this elevator gate happened
in the middle of all this stuff.
And so, I mean, it was interesting that this was just a weird time in an internet history too.
But I want to lead up to what I have to say about the age of consent,
because I think context is important.
So I was sexually abused by several adults and many other children, both repeatedly and in random
like single occurrences on a regular basis from about the age of four to 13.
And all of these encounters involve some form of violence, intimidation, threats,
somewhere within like, sometimes it was like the individuals on their own,
and sometimes multiple offenders worked in concert.
Oh, Jesus.
Okay.
No one who abused me was punished legally or extra legally, like by society in any fashion.
Okay.
I, however, was punished for being a victim consistently.
I was socially ruined and emotionally demestated by the time I was six.
As a sexual abuse survivor, I was thrust into a world where there was clearly no safe harbor
or refuge because of rape culture, victim blaming, all this purity shit.
I was unable to escape being revictimized and abused until I moved away at 17.
I had to literally move away from the community to be treated like a human being.
And that scarred me way worse than the physical violence and the sexual assaults ever did.
The fact that I was treated so poorly as a result of being preyed upon was fucking devastating.
Like this, I have like two examples of icky relationships, like that people would condemn
these men for, that I'd like to share contextually, because it means a lot to me.
Like, uh, so that I can summarize.
Yeah, please do.
Why I feel so strongly about this.
So, uh, I will make it as brief as I can.
Uh, so these situations would be illegal in a current Colorado law.
But I grew up in Hawaii, which had different laws at the time.
So I was 15.
I met a 20 year old that I wanted to have sex with.
He was interested in me until he found out I was 15.
And he mentioned he didn't want to end up in jail because we dated.
Fair.
So being the nerd I was, I went to the library with the help of the librarian.
I found the law books and I started researching.
Okay.
I found the pertinent statues.
I photocopied them.
I highlighted the relevant sections.
I brought them to him and I showed him the statutes, explained to him that I understood
the law.
I reassured him about his concerns.
And yeah, that was a precious moment.
So we continued dating.
I actually had to do that with my first sexual partner too because he was younger than me.
Hey, congrats.
Gay nerds.
So we continued dating, uh, for about a year.
He moved away.
Then I traveled to Florida visit him once.
He proposed marriage shortly after that visit.
I said no.
I didn't hear from him again until I was 19.
And when he moved back to the island, we dated again for about four months.
And then I realized I'd outgrown him and I ended things.
When I was 15, uh, later that after I had, that other guy moved away,
I met a 31 year old man at a party and I told him my age, 31.
Okay.
No, you were.
15.
Okay.
Yeah.
So you were 15.
He was 31.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I told my age before exchange contact information and he lived on Oahu,
a different island.
I lived on the big island.
So we chat on the phone, called each other for about a month or so,
even exchanged a couple of letters, just kind of getting acquainted.
Maybe eight weeks had passed and I heard there was a concert on Oahu.
So I asked him if he'd like to go with me.
He agreed to come.
