should, could be old enough to be their dads?
Absolutely.
There's a yuck factor there.
I mean, so we're all probably in favor of,
of adults being allowed to post pictures or videos
of themselves having sex on websites
that condone that behavior, right?
Like, Pornhub, whatever.
Oh, can you upload your amateur videos?
Do you mean to the internet?
Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, you have to get consent from the other people in it,
but yeah.
Well, yeah.
But, but if 215-year-olds,
just to rule out the confusion of a 30-year-old,
or we can even have that one example too.
That's a really complicated question.
If the 15-year-old says, totally, put it online.
I think it's great.
We had an awesome time.
I don't think they, I don't think they know what they're doing.
I don't know.
But like, you can also be there in your 30s,
they could be two 30-year-olds who also are impulsive
and make a bad decision and regret it.
But at some point, you, you, you, you stop for...
Who's been harmed by you putting porn online?
You.
People have seen you having sex with someone,
but like, you regret that decision later.
Yeah, that goes back to our period of culture.
You take the video down.
Yeah.
Well, you can never, you can never take anything.
In some societies, it's great.
In other societies, they're going to be like,
let's brand an A on your forehead
and cast you out into the wild.
You can never take anything off the internet, right?
I mean, you can take it off of your personal server
that you're hosting.
But how does that hurt you?
Unless like, a lot of people...
Maybe some shitty people find it and they're like,
oh, look, that's Steven.
Let's like, spread it around.
But like, mostly, like, that's never even going to come back to you.
I think that some people don't...
People don't recognize porn, like,
actors on the street, generally.
No, I think that just, you know,
some adults take down porn videos
that they put up themselves, right?
Yeah, and they should be able to do that.
But like, they're never down.
They just wish they were.
Okay, well, the thing about not having autonomy
over your ability to be on the internet
or not is a different rights question.
I guess I'm just thinking like,
if we're cool with 15-year-olds and 30-year-olds having sex,
we should totally be cool with them sharing that video online.
I think I am.
But I guess I wonder...
You could monetize that.
Does a 15-year-old understand what they're getting into,
that, you know, if you Google...
Maybe they do.
...if it trends.
Does anyone who's never done that before
understand what they're getting into?
They might understand that things get popular online.
They have a little more perspective because of age.
And other life experiences,
like seeing things trend on Twitter or something, right?
But they still can't predict the future accurately.
None of us have that magic ability
to never regret any decision we ever make
or fully understand the repercussions
of every decision we make.
And trying to magically extend that umbrella
over an adolescent who's going to make more mistakes
because they're exploring something new
in all these different contexts is just...
I don't know if that's not...
It doesn't work.
So, I mean, I don't want to draw the line
that we should have to be able to perfectly predict the future,
like wizards, to have that be the bar,
that no one's claiming that anyone should ever be able to do that.
What we can do is we can imagine probable futures
and anticipate outcomes
and decide on which ones we want to happen, right?
And gear the future towards those probable outcomes.
Also, the excuse I was in my teens
is commonly accepted by a lot of people.
Like, the younger you are, the more likely...
That's literally the age where you're supposed to mess up.
Yeah, the more people are like...
Once you're older, people are like,
you're 40 years old
and you're still making this stupid decision.
No, man.
But like, someone's like, I was 14.
I was like, oh, yeah, okay.
One of the things that I think is important to take into account...
We sort of talked about it with elderly people
and dementia, but that there are different stages of life,
different developmental stages
that do have earmarks.
Teenager brains are more impulsive, more creative, less...
What is the word?
They're just more risk tolerant.
That's intentional, because again,
Wes, fight me, this is evolutionary psychology,
but together at times, you are supposed to...
That's the age where you're supposed to break your bonds
from your parents and your family
and go out and learn how to be a human.
You're supposed to really test
if that lake is full of alligators.
No, more like you're supposed to go find a mate
from another tribe so you don't inbreed.
Sure, but as far as being risk-over...
Being not risk-overs.
Attached to your parents in the sense of attachment,
which is a whole psychological thing.
You know what I mean by that Charlie Wright,
like attachment theory?
Yeah.
You unbond from your parents
as your primary attachment figure
and you go and re-bond with other humans.
You know how you find peers, mentors, partners,
and start your own family, and like...
And that all generally happens in the teens.
Yeah, the thing is that that's instrumental.
Like you become more risk tolerant during that time period
because it's advantageous for you to go make mistakes.
Like the way you learn shit is by going and making mistakes.
I'd also like to point out that is one of the time periods
when your body is most able to absorb
the consequences of failed risks.
Like you can bounce back from shit in your teens
and you cannot bounce back from when you're older.
And you're more bouncy.
Yeah.
There's this joke about like children bounce.
I like, my mom went to preschool
and I worked with children in like that
and like at the library and it's just like...
This weird kind of fact about children
is that they're really resilient to...
To physical damage.
To physical damage.
Yeah.
I mean like in some ways they're more fragile than an adult
but in a lot of ways like they can just...
I remember like when I was in my teens
and I was like chasing kids around at the summer camp
and I was just like, oh my god, they have so much energy.
Or like it's always the joke of adult saying like,
yeah, I wish I had that energy.
But like these kids would run in like 95 degree heat direct sun
for hours.
Yeah.
Something about...
I was in my teens and I was tired.
Do our fucking mitochondria start decaying
as we get older or some shit?
Fucking.
Well, we also have more neuroplasticity when we're young.
Our brains are literally forming.
Very rapidly.
And I want to just go circle back to what I said earlier
was that the actual rape and abuse standing alone as a child,
I would have recovered from much better if the...
The stigma hadn't been thrown on top too.
Yes.
And the bystander effect.
All the victim blaming impurity culture stuff.
Like I was...
I was given the impression that I was merely along for the ride
and whatever happened to me,
including like rape and abuse,
what kind of touch happened was not my decision.
However, the negative consequences of the decisions
made on my behalf were entirely mine.
All you kiddo.
And that was what was really traumatizing.
Like honestly, I think it's very brave that Jace was just like,
yeah, like being raped wasn't the worst thing I've ever been through.
I absolutely agree.
That moment was bad.
How I was treated because of it.
And how like I was like basically targeted for my abuse.
My abusers were protected.
I was the one punished.
I think part of the reason that I have recovered so well
