But it was something along the lines of
Dr. Fisher said that couples in open marriages
establish all kinds of rules for what isn't, isn't allowed.
So A, she's talking about open marriages,
not necessarily polyamorous relationships.
I'm in an open marriage.
I'm in a specific kind.
Exactly, and she's also assuming that they all establish all kinds of rules
for what isn't, isn't allowed, which we've already kind of covered.
So sorry Dr. Fisher.
You're probably smart in lots of stuff but you got this wrong.
She never met a monogamous marriage where they had any rules?
Right.
They may say that you can't have dates on Friday nights
or you can't have someone call at the dinner hour
or when the children are around or something like that.
She also said there are people who want it all
to preserve their deep attachment to one partner
and have romance with others.
I mean, yes, there are people like that.
But I...
Yeah, and they...
But they can't have their cake and also eat that cake.
And that's what she's saying is that we're not programmed
to be able to have our cake and eat it too.
So I wanted to bring that up because that was the one thing
that I thought about.
That was the first expert source at her to talk about this
and I was like, well, that can't necessarily be the case
just based off of what I've seen.
The most recent book that I know of is Sex at Dawn,
but it's by no means the only book.
Some of our anthropologists are arguing that the exact opposite is the case.
That humans were actually designed, not designed.
The ancestral environment was one of polyamorous relationships
and therefore a lot of human psychology and even our physical traits
like the way the penis is shaped is to adapt to a polyamorous culture.
I heard that there are really good criticisms to that.
I have also.
And that one of them is called Sex at Dusk.
I'll find that.
I actually haven't read either, but I know that the penis shape is weak.
Damn.
Yeah.
She's just dissed all her penises, dude.
No.
No, I know.
I know what you were actually saying.
Good.
First of all, what an awesome name for a counter book.
And second, I think...
Just playing off of the original one.
Right.
But I think it seems kind of like, unless it's your job,
I guess, to just talk about these things,
then Dr. Fisher needs to develop an opinion on this
and that's what she came to,
but she should update whatever with better evidence.
It seems like an opinion that she...
It seems like what my mom said.
Right.
Which was, after I made my dad promise not to lecture me,
my mom did it instead.
And she sat me down and said,
it is impossible for humans to do this.
There will always be jealousy.
Anybody who you date, if they truly care about you,
they'll try to take you away from your other partners.
Wow.
Wow.
That's simply how humans work.
And full stop.
There are no...
You can't do this successfully.
But that sounds exactly like something you could say to a monogamous person.
Right?
Yes.
There's always going to be jealousy.
They're going to try and take you away from your female friends
or your male friends or whatever, right?
And...
So it's kind of like they're just rehashing arguments
they already believe without worrying about where they're applying them.
These people also...
When they say monogamy is natural,
I have to question why the hell they have all these rules about monogamy then.
Because we don't have to pass any laws
or discourage people from sticking their hands in fires, you know?
It's just something you don't want to do.
When you have to put this much social pressure on a society
to get people to stay monogamous,
it's kind of an indication that maybe it's not something that comes natural to a lot of people.
If you have to enforce it with this kind of punishment.
In some cases, or I guess in antiquated cases, legal punishment, right?
Yes.
Like if it was just the way things were,
you wouldn't have to have God tell you in the Bible
or have the judges tell you in the courtroom
that you can't have sex with other people.
Right.
And it still is. It depends on where you live.
Yeah.
I don't know, necessarily,
executed for every year for stepping outside of marriage.
It's known as adultery?
Yeah.
But it's not something that you're jailed for.
Not here?
Right.
Oh yeah, that's what I meant.
Oh, okay, okay.
Yeah, I was working in my pretty little bubble of the first world.
We were talking specifically about honor killings and such.
Oh yeah, that's a problem.
Honor killings are generally done extra judicially,
but there are...
Not always done that.
Extra judicially.
That is a hard word to say.
Oh, sure it is.
Extra judicially.
Yeah, very good.
There's also, a lot of times,
they look the other way,
which kind of, even though it is not technically legal,
kind of makes it de facto legal if it is not enforced.
Oh yeah.
I do want to mention something else.
So for when arguments come up like that,
like, it can't work, it can't work long time,
it can't work with children.
Isn't that what all the gay people were told for decades?
Yeah, I'm gonna actually also share a link
to some academic articles by Elizabeth Sheff,
who has nicely spent time studying all sorts of
non-traditional relationships,
including polyamory,
and has a couple books out on the subject.
And I liked that noticing that that's the exact same thing
that people were told about gay people for decades,
or presumably centuries, I don't know.
And what do they do about all the relationships
that are polyamorous and do work?
They pretend that they don't.
Oh, okay.
That they secretly unhappy?
That's exactly how you would, I think, justify it, right?
People are currently taking parental custody away from people
based on the fact that they're polyamorous
or have other alternative lifestyles.
There's a fucking neighborhood of assholes
in, God, I don't remember what state it is now,
but it was going around about a year ago.
There's this family, bought a house together.
I think they were...
Yeah, you remember this, the eight adults.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, they weren't even poly.
They were just...
Well, some of them were.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
But the truth was that they were cohabiting,
and there were multiple, more than two adults,
and there were...
And their kids.
Yeah.
And there was a rule in that neighborhood
that these houses are single family houses,
and only one family can live in a house.
And their assertion that they are a family
was not good enough.
Yeah.
So...
There's no fighting the HOA.
So that sounds more like just being...
drawing a short stick on the HOA than necessarily...
I know it went to court.
I don't know how it ended.
Last I heard of it, it was still in process.
I don't know if...
I don't know.
I remember the neighbors were saying,
they're lovely.
We have nothing against them specifically,
but what about the president?
If dogs and cats will be lying together
if we let this go on.
Slippery slope.
Yeah.
All sorts of multi...
like, all sorts of people who are more than two adults
and children will be moving into houses in this neighborhood.
Disgusting.
Do you have further objections?
These aren't really my objections.
Yes, I understand.
I'm just trying to think of stuff.
So, the last one and on the strongest one.
Okay.
So I went strong, weak, stronger.
