That's how I'm doing this.
Yeah.
Strongest one.
That's the way to do it.
This is a knockdown argument.
This sounds like a lot of fucking work.
Okay, well that one's actually not a bad argument at all.
I know.
This is something that you do if you have extra time.
It's one of the reasons I don't have
very many other relationships,
because I got a lot of shit I try to do anyway,
and that's not entirely fair.
I do like having other relationships,
and it is worth the time.
Well, I think it depends on the dynamic for it, too.
Like, I know somebody, the person I'm thinking of
that made me think of this one,
she was describing how much she put into this.
Yeah.
Was like, no, Monday is guy A, day.
Tuesday's guy B. Wednesday's guy C.
No, Thursday.
Every Thursday's guy D.
I've known at least one person who,
okay, so everyone has that friend in college.
Okay, God, I'm gonna date myself here.
Everyone had that friend in college
who discovered EverQuest while they were in college,
and then basically flunked their next semester.
Mm-hmm.
And, you know, substituted World of Warcraft
for EverQuest or whatever,
MMO is going to be popular
when people listen to this podcast.
But I've known at least one person who,
when they became Polly,
basically their school just kind of stopped
for a bit in all their grades tank,
and it's like, yeah, it can be like anything else
that's new and exciting, take over your life.
And that's true of any relationship that takes you away,
even if you're in a monogamous relationship
or you can have a new relationship
that you're like, I don't have friends,
I don't have work,
I'm just going to quit my job
and follow my boyfriend all around the world.
I wasn't necessarily talking about the person
who's just predisposed to turn it up to 11, right?
Right.
So that could happen with a monogamous relationship.
But if you're putting in the effort
that you're putting into a monogamous relationship
into three relationships,
then it's going to have three times the impact on your life.
Yeah.
And so my thinking is that I don't even like,
I couldn't imagine coordinating just with friends
to meet with four people a week.
Which is exhausting as hell.
That's actually a fairly common saying
in the poly community that love is infinite,
but time is not.
Yeah.
It's true.
And it also depends on when the type of person you are
to the type of person, people you're dating.
Yeah.
Some people don't need as much time as others.
Yeah.
Some people, you can see them once a year
because they're long distance
and maybe chat with them on Skype
for an hour, once a month,
and the spark's still alive.
I happen to be the type of person who,
if I'm in a relationship with someone,
I want to see them a lot.
And if I don't get to see them for a week,
it's hard for me.
But is there a rule that you see them every week?
It's not a rule, of course not.
Is it an implied situation where you see them once a week?
I actually often don't see some of my partners once a week,
especially now that I have four.
Gotcha.
So you're not like the person I'm thinking of,
where it literally is unless I think
heavy, extenuating circumstance.
Thursday's this guy day.
I used to be that person.
As I mentioned, I am updating
how I feel about relationships
and letting them be more flexible
and have different pieces and parts to them.
But yeah, I used to be that person
where I was like, I can have no more than two relationships.
I'm going to dedicate this much time to one
and this much time to the other.
And this was actually really appropriate
because I always wanted more time
from any one person that they wanted.
Ah, okay, yes.
So I was willing to give tons and tons of times
for relationships, whereas some other person
might be like, I can only handle you
because this is a lot.
Well, yeah.
See, I'd never actually thought of it that way.
But oftentimes, if you're in a relationship
with a sexual disparity, like one person
only wants sex very rarely and the other person
wants sex a lot more, one of the common things
that some people suggest is open up the relationship.
The person who wants more sex can get more sex
and you can still have a relationship together.
And this never occurred to me, but yes,
there are people who want much more time spent
on relationships.
And if they're with partners who don't have
that much time to give or don't want to spend
that much time, then yeah, that's perfect.
Open it up and get someone else to fulfill that.
So some people can do that.
I used to be in a place where I was like, no,
each relationship I'm in, I have to have
this much time with them.
Okay.
Or it's, again, I-
It's not a real relationship.
Or it's not a real, it's not, you know,
it's not really what I want in a relationship.
And each relationship I'm in has to have
these characteristics at a basic level,
and then these other things could be different,
but you know, I have to have this.
So there's a lot of different ways to go into it
and you can balance and be flexible
and you like talk to each other.
But yeah, I used to be really put out
if I didn't see somebody like three days,
at least during a week.
Yeah.
And that makes sense.
I think for some, I just have some people
are predisposed, right?
But I guess it was only two that sounds flexible,
but like if it's three or four more,
that sounds like, like I said to me,
that is the noxious argument just like where I,
I don't have the energy to meet with my friends
four days a week.
I just, you know, I want to sit at home and just be alone.
I feel lonely when I'm alone.
You know, even when I was, had no relationships,
I just wanted to have a roommate in the house
like where I was miserable.
Oh yeah.
And I'm not alone.
I'm, you know, so I cohabitate with my partner.
Yeah, exactly.
I sometimes need to be alone.
It was like, and bye.
I'll see you, you know, when Monday comes around,
like on Friday, I'm like,
I'm leaving for the weekend because, yeah.
Or, you know, if you are lucky enough to have
co-share a home where there is enough space,
you can be in different rooms, do your own thing,
which I often do.
It's just really important to me to have somebody
who also lives in the same house.
I have lived alone before and it is kind of just quiet and weird.
It's really hard.
But I do like, that's one of the things that my partner
and I do as well.
I don't know why I'm not naming her, but whatever.
That, you know, if there's never been this sort of issue,
like you described how you kind of used to be more,
the shorthand for that is clingy.
You know, like, used to be, like you said,
like in 2007 or something, right?
So, where it was more about...
That was before I started being poly
or even discovered less wrong.
Exactly.
No, I'm not hating on it, but I'm saying that that's just,
you know, like how you said, I deserve this,
because, you know, whatever...
I've been, I've been a...
It's only clingy if the other person doesn't want
to spend as much time with you as you want to spend with them.
Exactly.
And I've been in that situation as a poly person, for sure.
And I'm not shitting on it, if that's what works for people.
But I guess what I'm getting at is that there's never been an issue
where it's like, hey, so I'm going to spend all night
over here playing video games.
So you can spend all night in the other room watching TV
