Someone put forth the position that if if everyone was polyamorous, then all the really
attractive high status people would get all the mates and no one else would.
And not just not in the polygamy sense, but in the polyamory sense where everyone would
want to have sex with the high status people.
And I was like, I think you're vastly overestimating how much sex one person can have.
Maybe they didn't mean that one person.
Allow me to tell you, it's not that much that obviously not that one person.
But if there's a lot of people having lots of sex, then where is the problem?
I mean, the really attractive people in general are already going to be mingling, even if
it was a monogamous culture.
And there's there's some fuzziness and overlap between levels.
But I guess their argument boiled down to that, OK, well, the people at the very bottom
of the level ladder before when there was monogamy, everyone was assured a partner, someone they
could sleep with.
I'm pretty sure that's not the case.
Yeah, I know.
But it was the people that are all the way at the bottom now, yet no one at all.
And it's going to be terrible and anarchy.
And, you know, to me it was like, first of all, I even hate to like rank people in terms
of attractiveness to me.
Because there's so many different aspects to that.
That feels both and and just unfair.
Yeah, anyways, first of all, every the people who are on the lower end are going to mingle
with each other.
They're not going to be mingling with the people all the way at the very top.
And second of all, if you are so low on the scale that you can get no one to sleep with
you unless you are literally the last dick on earth that they can get because you're
violent, you don't shower, you don't have a job, you're rude and abrasive.
If you are the worst person ever, maybe you should step up your fucking game.
So let me let me let me still man the position a little bit.
So like I'm picturing, say, like the bottom 25% of people, like just on like attractiveness
and otherwise desirability.
Yeah.
Overall, let's go with overalls, that's our ability because like, let's look at Stephen
Hawking, the man is not physically attractive and yet still managed to screw around on
his wife.
Okay.
So he's an incredibly attractive person.
Yes, there's lots of other ways to attract someone than just physical.
Right.
So that's what I'm saying.
There's some, there's some demographic people that happen to hit the center of all of them
diagrams of desirability and just score low points and all of them, right?
And so those people might be able to find mates of similar people in the section, in
the demographic that they're interested in male or female, right?
Unless those people can date somebody a level above them.
And then that's just going to be, that's going to leave some, so I can kind of see where
that might be a bit of a problem for some people.
I guess I'm not, I'm not certainly into that anecdotally.
Yeah.
Please.
So this is going to sound weird.
Anybody who I'm dating just don't take this personally.
I feel like being able to have multiple partners and first of all, the four partners I have,
it's just like way too much of a time commitment and there's difficulty there.
So you're limited by the amount of time and energy that you have to dedicate to people
who you really, really, really want to spend lots of time with, all of them.
Yeah.
We need to spend more time doing group activities, like going on hikes.
Anyway, it frees you up to date people that you wouldn't normally date, I think.
And so people who might be a little bit more of a gamble.
Oh, because you're not, you're not investing like say three months of your entire relationship
life with somebody.
You're not, you're not shutting yourself off from other, there's not the loss of shutting
yourself off from other things and completely pursuing, sorry.
No, that's a really good point.
And other relationships, completely pursuing that one relationship, I mean, there's certainly,
there's certainly costs associated, but it's a little bit lower cost to give somebody a chance.
It's a lot lower cost.
It's a lot.
Yeah, it's a, well, but.
Well, because, because for a monogamous person to take a chance on somebody is going to say,
okay, for as long as we're together, I'm not looking at other people and people, other
people aren't looking at me and we're going to just try each other.
And if this goes a year and it doesn't work out and it sucks, then I basically wasted that
year, romantically, right?
You know, trying things out, yeah.
Sure.
But, but to be able to run that parallel with other successful relationships sounds like
a much smaller risk.
I feel that way and I've definitely been with people and that turned out to be really fantastic
relationships that I, I'm really happy that I went into where if, if it was just that
person and I was going to be dedicating my time to that, I one wouldn't have stuck around
for as long as it took to, to realize that it was a really fantastic relationship and
that I really loved having it long term and wouldn't have even started it to begin with
because I would be looking for somebody who was higher in the initial attractiveness scale
to me.
Right.
That's, that's a, I think that's an interesting point to something to consider as a very strong
counter-argument to what the, what the person, what the argument came across like.
Anecdotal, still anecdotal.
I don't know if that's how other people feel, but it's how I feel and even when I wasn't
Polly, I was, you know, kind of like, this person's interesting and weird and I don't
know if I'm going to like them, but I really want to get to know them and I'm, I'm much
less that way now, but it's lower cost definitely to do that.
Well and, I mean anecdotally, sure.
Just that quote that anecdotes aren't data, but they do just prove universals.
I mean, so, you know, to the extent that you can take the anecdote for what it's at-phase
value.
Yeah.
But assuming all that he said is true, that just proves the universal supposition that
this, that Inyosh's claim got made.
And there are definitely people who, people who I would have left.
I would have felt like I had to leave them, but I wasn't limited.
I, I don't, this wording is awful.
Your wording is perfect.
I wasn't limited to being just with them through the tough times.
So I, I had the, the Polly luxury of weathering that and changing our relationship and either
having a different relationship or going back to the way it was before, you know, something
like that, but some disturbances that would have shook me to the point that I would have
ended it otherwise.
Is this a bad analogy for a monoperson considering this from the outside, that it would be like
saying you can only have one great friend?
You know what I mean?
That's what I feel about it.
That is absolutely how I feel about people who are monogamous and are just like, what,
how could you possibly be emotionally invested in more than one person at a time?
Like really, you don't have multiple, no, I don't have multiple friends.
Well, I only have one best friend and we're best friends forever and there's only room
in my heart for my one best friend.
And I, and I also meant it like, you know, some, some really good friends that you may
have aren't worth keeping around, you know, during their worst time or something.
I guess not necessarily like, because you're going to ditch them and shit's going bad for
them, but because of stressing you out too much to be the only person that they can go
to for their stuff.
Cause you know, they only have one friend too.
Or you had a fight or, you know, and you can kind of circle around and be like, Hey,
years later, I'm really sorry I said that to you, you know, we never talked about it,
and then be friends again.
I know that's happened to me.
All right.
So I have a couple of other counter arguments.
Okay.
Do you want them in order, in any particular order from like shittiest to best possible
counter arguments or shortest or whatever.
How are you supposed to do it in traditional essay form?
I have no idea.
Give us one.
Lead with an almost strongest, do a couple shittiest in between and then end with the
absolute strongest.
Okay.
Um, sorting that for my own preferences.
I've got it.
Okay.
So one counter argument.
So this goes kind of go, this might touch back on what we talked about with rules.
Uh, you know, whether it makes sense or whether it's appropriate at all to establish rules
for poly relationships.
One rule that I should have thought of instead of the financial obligation of having a house
should be the assurance that you will use protection with your other partners because
I don't know where they've been.
I know that I'm currently STD free.
I know that you're currently STD free.
Let's try and keep it that way.
So I don't get STDs, but if you're going to go out and have sex with people then who
knows what I could catch.
And, and reciprocally who knows what you could catch if I'm not having sex with people.
So first of all, is that a common rule?
Is that an okay rule?
That is both very common and okay.
It is very common and it's one that I've had in the past.
And now we do things a little bit differently and I think it works really well.
What do you think, or do you not want to mention, talk about it?
I can absolutely talk about it.
I'm really curious.
So the way that we do it now is I discuss things before they happen and the other thing
that we do is all get tested often and when somebody has a new partner, they get STI information
like they get tested and they get STI information and share it with everybody.
So it's not uncommon for people to politely request, hey, when did you get your last STI?
It's very common.
It's not only not uncommon, it's something I expect.
And that's fantastic.
That's exactly the level of discourse I would require, frankly, if I were to get involved in this.
Yeah, like a lot of mono people think, you know, they're scared of the whole STI situation,
but in addition to, we can get into STIs not being as big a deal as they're often made out to be,
but that's a whole other episode.
That is a whole other episode.
But the incidence of STIs in the polyamorous communities is at the same level as the incidence of STIs
in monogamous communities.
And that's partly because monogamous, as always, is in quotes.
But because...
Socially monogamous.
Yes, polyamorous people are generally very much aware of this exact thing you brought up.
They use protection much more frequently than monogamous people do.
They get tested very frequently compared to monogamous people.
They talk about it.
They talk about it.
Yes, it's not so stigmatized.
And they generally tend to expect protection and have it on hand.
Whereas if you're monogamous, sometimes you're drinking, you're upset at your partner or something,
stuff just happens to happen.
You guys don't have a condom on hand.
Oops, oh well, whatever.
Well, I mean, ultimately, it doesn't need to be a cheating situation.
It could just be you're not in a relationship right now, but you're a monogamous person.
There we go.
Or serial monogamy.
Yeah.
That said, referring to cheating, there actually happened.
There is at least one study that I can think of that I'm happy to link,
