This is the second half of our episode on polyamory.
If you haven't listened to the first part yet, we recommend going back and doing that
first to prevent confusion.
As a content note, after the first half aired we received a number of questions about how
raising kids in a poly household works.
This did not occur to any of us to address this, so this is not covered in this episode.
We will be responding to that in an upcoming episode where we reply to questions and comments
sent in by listeners about previous episodes.
And now, part two of polyamory.
Anyways, the last thing that we said was another steelman topic why people might not
choose polyamory is because you exist in a world that is unfriendly to people who choose
that.
It's like one of the best counter arguments, right?
Wow.
We'll go on.
Well, I mean, I guess it's sort of like a counter argument to being publicly atheist
or being publicly anything counterculture, right?
Yeah.
It's like, is that an argument to stay in the closet if you're gay too?
Kind of?
It might have been 30 years ago, and I think that that, and I guess I say this as somebody
who's not gay, but people, you know, somebody with gay friends who are still partially in
the closet that they do it because they're worried about how it impacts their non-sexual
orientation related life.
I think that's the only reason to stay in the closet if you're not, if you're gay,
right?
I don't know.
I've never understood those kinds of things because I'm naturally someone who wants lots
of attention anyway.
Like, I literally am an attention whore.
A good attention, probably, presumably.
I mean, I prefer the good kind, but I don't care.
You want to be yourself.
You want to put it out there.
You want to live, you know, life true to your beliefs and true to yourself.
Yeah, when I was still in that, you know, other relationship, we would go out sometimes
together and like sit together and it was nice.
I didn't care.
I was like, yes, this is awesome.
Let's do this.
We can be part of the world.
To me, I don't know.
That was never an argument against anything for me.
So I guess, and I don't necessarily know it's an argument that I would endorse, but it's
an argument that I wouldn't say is could be readily dismissed out of hand.
So like saying, you know, if you're on your public Facebook page saying I'm married to
these three people, say if it was multiple marriages or something or whatever, you can't
do that.
So I'm shown as in an open relationship to nobody because you can't list multiple people.
So and you don't want to privilege one person by.
So that's fair enough.
But I guess it's not impossible for me to imagine the position that I should stay in
the closet or hide my true self, whether it's my sexuality or my, I guess a religion is
another example because it could impact my higher ability, my social standing with some
groups that I'm in or something.
One position would be like, well, okay, it's worth it to me to maintain my higher ability
and my social standing.
So I'm going to stay in the closet or hide these things.
And another position is to say, fine, fuck the people who won't hire me and fuck the
people who won't be my friends.
I'm going to be who I am.
To me, that's an argument to changing society.
That's like every now and then you see these, these reports that being transgender is extremely
stressful and makes your life worse.
And yes, because society is assholes to you.
And yeah, so people use that as an argument, say that what transgender is bad or something
like that.
Like how sad they are.
It's like, no, they're sad because everyone's a dick to them all the time.
Right, right.
The suicide rate is much greater.
You know why the suicide rate is much greater?
Because of assholes like you.
Right.
So that is not an argument in my opinion.
And I think, I think you're right.
I guess what I was getting at is that I could sympathize with that position of depending
on where you're at circumstantially.
Right.
I am, I am a privileged person by, by many meanings of that word.
And I can get by with, you know, letting people see that I have tattoos or being openly
polyamorous and, you know, being out with, with my partners and, you know, the weird
thing?
I don't think my parents know I'm poly.
I only see them like once every couple months for like dinner and we don't talk about sex.
Yeah.
But it's not about sex for me.
It's not about sex for me.
In fact, all of my close romantic relationships are not sexual.
Wait, all of them?
No, not all of them are sexual.
Gotcha.
In fact, one of, one of them is not and hasn't, hasn't been for a while, but...
To that point though, being gay isn't about, isn't necessarily about being sexual either.
Exactly.
But people think it is.
So my parents are like, why are you talking about sex?
And I'm like saying that I am in a relationship with somebody who is not my husband, is not
talking about sex, it's, this is somebody who is important to me and we spend a lot
of time together and I love them and mom and dad, I want you to know that because I want
to be, I want to be able to be communicative with you and I want you to know what's going
on in my life and how I'm spending all my time.
It's not talking about sex, just like, yeah, if you're, if you're homosexual, it's not
about sex.
Right.
You can be homosexual with no genitals, right?
You could have had your genitals blown off in the war, but you're still gay.
So...
You can still have sex without genitals.
Fine.
But...
I'm gonna link, I'm going to put a link to a Scarlet Teen article about different ways
to have sex.
That's...
Alright.
I feel bad for Steve because he did not mean to step on that landmine.
It's okay.
I certainly didn't.
Unfortunately, I tripped that meter earlier in a conversation via text message on Instagram,
via the messenger.
So he had a previous warning that this was going to be a thing.
I forgot that this was a thing.
So yeah, no, you're absolutely right.
But I guess it doesn't have to be about sex and you could have it whatever way it would
be, right?
And that's what I was getting at.
Okay.
Shall we continue?
Yeah.
Okay.
So, but see, the issue here is that people do think it's about sex and there are a lot
of preconceived notions that people associate with being, with having multiple partners.
One is promiscuity, which is unfair.
You can be promiscuous and be poly, you could be promiscuous.
Most people who are promiscuous are monogamous, monogamous in quotes.
But yes, most people that are promiscuous are monogamous.
Also, most people are monogamous.
I wouldn't necessarily write that.
Most people, right.
Most people are monogamous.
So that's fair.
But you cannot have sex very often, or, you know, not even being promiscuous, but how
often do you have sex?
You can have multiple partners and not ever have sex.
And there's another association with BDSM in kink, because as kind of a marginalized
community that is involved with sex and sex adjacent stuff, there is a higher level of
adoption of polyamory in that community.
But man, do I hate it when people assume that I am into BDSM because I am polyamorous.
I can only assume from the very distant outside they have this one catch all category for
not monogamous relationship.
And that contains everything from bestiality to BDSM to poly to gay, whatever it is, right?
So like they, they just, they assume that if you're one, it's just this whole big catch
all category.
And what if you have an employer and they have a Christmas event and you bring a partner
and it's not the same partner that they knew you to be with from another time.
And what if they have those preconceptions?
It's not like you can sit down.
I mean, it's a special relationship you have with your boss if you can sit down and talk
those things out.
And thank goodness I had that with my last boss.
You were very lucky to have that relationship with your last boss.
She's like, she said, what does it mean that you're going to have that relationship with
your queer?
Does that mean you're a lesbian?
And I'm like, no, let's talk about this.
Well, what does it mean that you're in multiple relations?
Like what is this?
And we were able to discuss that and it was awesome.
That sounds really cool.
That's not often the situation that you're in.
So you might just have to continue in a kind of awkward situation where your superior, your
employer thinks that you are a sexual deviant and assumes all sorts of false things about
you or maybe even doesn't, but still is really looking down on you for that reason.
Yeah.
I don't know.
If they're not firing me, let them think whatever they want to think.
I don't give a shit.
What about your promotion potential?
Yeah, I have.
I may be unique in that I do not give a shit about my promotion potential right now.
I'm making more than I expect it to make and I don't, I'm like, whatever, I don't care
about this job.
What I'm passionate about is not what I get paid for.
Again, we are coming from very privileged positions.
Very at this point.
I want to say that anybody who is closeted, we totally respect you.
Yeah, that's I think the key with really any situation that involves closeting where you're
encouraged if you have the social means to come out and you've got a community there
to welcome you, but no one should be adding people.
No one should be calling somebody coward or whatever, something like that.
Right.
You should also respect people when they want to be open.
So I guess that's my steel man position is against polyamory is while, you know, it might
even be really easy for you to be polyamorous and you might have people where it works out
really well.
Like, like my experience has been in the last few years, there might be other reasons that
it's hard for you to live like that.
I've heard, I think, okay, so I don't know if this is a steel man or not.
This is what I thought was an OK argument for a while.
Someone, well, I mean, for all five minutes and so I thought about it.
