or playing, you know, working on a computer or something.
And neither of us are going to feel bad about that.
Is that cool?
Totally.
So that's always been a cool thing.
And I've had relationships in the past where it's like...
No, you have to be paying attention to me.
Or...
Or like, why do you...
Why is your alone time so important?
It's like, because that's just who I am.
And like, if that's not what you get, then whatever.
So, yeah, I guess that was our main thing.
And I feel like that's knocked down for some people
that if it's too time-consuming or too energy-consuming,
then it's just not for you.
I happen to be a very relationship-driven person.
That's just me.
What does that mean?
It means that that's what I want to be spending my time on
is having deep intimate relationships with people
and just connecting on that level.
And I want to be spending time doing that.
I'm kind of in this weird position where like,
I enjoy having those connections,
making friends and forging deep connections.
And yet, I wish it didn't take that much time.
So, like, it's kind of...
It's hard for me to put my finger on,
but I've made a lot of friends over the last couple of years
and I enjoy being friends with all of them.
And I wish that, like, it would be possible to be more...
be closer friends that didn't like take a lot of effort and time.
But I guess that's just part of how it is.
Yeah, so I guess the good news for people
who are concerned about time is,
yeah, you can get in over your head.
I often feel like that these days.
I didn't feel like that as much when it was three partners.
But, you know, then they had a bunch,
then all of a sudden they have a bunch of partners
who also need scheduling.
And then it's the rush to sharing our Google calendars
so that we can figure out things two or three weeks ahead.
That sounds just awful.
That's like my worst nightmare.
Coordinating my schedule with a bunch of other people
who are quitting their schedules with a bunch of other people?
Right.
It's hard enough for me to set up...
It was a nightmare for me to set up to go see Batman vs Superman
a few weeks ago, to coordinate it with five other people
and we're going to do it one day at Sunday at two or something.
That was annoying.
I'm never doing this again.
I'm going to go see it with me and one other person next time.
You can do what I do and just not see very many other people.
Yeah, and it was a lot easier before
my partners got several other partners.
It was super easy because they had only maybe one other person that...
I think that's Melissa's biggest fear actually.
Three other things that they would be doing.
That all my time is going to be taken up by other people.
I think that's a somewhat fair concern if she's contributing the primary person.
You know how I approach that one?
Again, I feel overwhelmed now
and I do feel like I'm a little bit in over my head.
So this is time management is something you need to think about.
It doesn't mean that you can't be poly,
but it means that maybe select your partners,
stop before you're overwhelmed, things change
and you have to be kind of flexible with that.
What was I saying again?
Oh, how I address the time thing.
How I used to address it is the amount of time
that my partner spends with somebody else should not be my concern.
What should be my concern is am I getting what I want out of our relationship?
So this actually...
I guess I can think of a few more things to inquire about
that maybe it's just me or maybe some of our mono audiences thinking about too, right?
So we mentioned very early on,
and I'm glad I remembered before it completely slipped out of mind,
was I implied earlier that I got everything I needed out of my one monogamous relationship.
Yeah.
And we took issue with that.
And then there were some fighting words in this audience.
I'm happy to talk about that quickly.
Yeah, so I guess that's where I'm at.
I don't mean like as a challenge, but in what way,
if any one person satisfied everything you needed,
why didn't you need three people or four?
So I have a partner who says that if one person,
he has often said that if he could fill all of his relationship needs with one person,
then he wouldn't date multiple people.
And he has in the past talked about looking for people based on certain characteristics,
saying, oh, I'm fulfilled by a combination you and my other partner right now,
but there's this one thing that I don't get from either of you.
And if I find that person,
then that's the person I'm going to be dating next and additionally.
So that doesn't sound outlandish, right?
So if I got everything I needed from...
It's offensive for one.
Say if I got everything I needed out of my relationship.
With your one best friend.
Right, or my one partner.
But I was really into martial arts and they weren't.
And then I met someone who was, well, hey, new friend, right?
Right.
You can have your martial arts friends.
You can have your, in this partner's case, BDSM friends
and partners who aren't into the same kind of thing in that
or partners who you can go dancing with
versus partners who aren't into going dancing.
I think that there's a huge danger in looking for people to date by characteristics.
I think that what you should probably be looking for
are people who are compatible with you,
who you have fun with,
and who you have great communication with.
There's so many things that are more important in a relationship
than do they do karate?
You look for friends for characteristics,
but not for romantic partners for characteristics.
Is that a fair way to put it?
The funny thing is...
I became friends with one of my partners,
a person who later became my partner
because I was looking for somebody with a characteristic of
would go to metal concerts with me.
So I was like, hey, a friend who would go to metal concerts with me,
so I'm not alone when I'm at metal concerts.
This guy's really into metal concerts,
and he seems nice.
And then I got to know him
and decided that not only is he into metal concerts,
he's actually an incredibly considerate,
kind, sweet, sensitive person
who just goes out of his way for other people
and is just a fantastic human being,
and that's why I dated him.
That's awesome.
And we're still in a relationship,
and I'm still so grateful that he's in my life.
I think that's how many good relationships start.
They don't just start at a vacuum, right?
You share proximity or an interest.
But I feel like you don't look to date somebody
to fill a specific hole.
And I've made that mistake before I told you guys
that I was looking for somebody specific,
and then I was like, that was stupid.
I should never have done that.
But also pigeonhole that partner
into that one facet of your life,
and that would be okay.
What happens if they don't fulfill that for me anymore?
Sorry, you don't fit into my pigeonhole anymore.
You no longer get to be a partner.
Yeah, so that kind of works.
If you have a friend that you go
to sporting events with or something,
and all you guys do is just we go see
the sports games in there in town or something,
but you don't see each other outside of that.
And they're both okay with that.
Also, I mean, you said that
what if you can get everything you need from one person?
People are infinitely diverse
and infinitely interesting.
Or at least very diverse and very interesting.
Okay, yeah, I guess infinite is an overstatement.
Let's not go crazy here.
Because of that,
being able to have a relationship
with more than one person
is part of what I need in a relationship.
And people aren't
like plug and play.
They're complex beings.
And when you have
even a friendship, but definitely
an intimate, emotional
relationship and connection with somebody,
you're with that whole person.
I agree. One way to...
And yes, I love
to explore
connections with multiple people.
That's a thing that I really like.
When I was a young person,
I found out early
that I could be deeply in love
with more than one person at a time
when I was not open.
But in a process of breaking up with someone
and starting a relationship with someone else.
And back then it was tragic
and you had to write love triangle stories and things.
Back then I was like,
I love this person, I don't want to leave them,
but I want to have the freedom
