because I do it every once in a while because people bring this up.
Cheat, she says.
There's a study.
Cheaters, monogamous cheaters have higher rates of STIs and also use less protection than polyamorous people.
That's really interesting.
And yeah, I mean, link it just for so we can back it up.
But I take it, work for it.
It is interesting to me though.
I guess, so it strikes me that a polyamorous person would be at higher risk for any STDs
or STIs, however people like to use it.
But they're more careful, so they get them less.
It is high risk.
So I looked at my health records at my clinic and under problems, they had listed high risk sexual behavior.
I was like, you know, okay.
And then they get really aggressive about it too.
When I'm like, yes, I'm with multiple sexual partners, which is true.
They'll be like, you need to do, you know, this and this and this and you need to consider being.
I was in one situation where a woman told a nurse told me that my partners were probably lying to me.
About them being about STI status, about who they were sleeping with.
And I'm like, we are in a consensual non-monogamous relationship.
We talk about this.
I have a file on my computer where I keep STI records.
Oh.
And I, whenever I get information from a partner, I share it with everybody else.
And I have that so that I can back up what I'm saying if somebody chooses to.
If they're like, oh, I'd really like to see that.
That nurse must not have a very good relationship.
That's sort of what I'm picturing is that she's imagining.
That everyone is like her.
Or like that everyone is like everyone she's imagining, right?
So like, I mean, it's, it could be that she's just predicting from herself when she's picturing.
Well, if I was like a bunch of people or if my husband was, there's no way, you know, or something like that.
But it could just be more general.
I guess I'm trying to charitably think it could be from a position of medical concern, but it sounds like it totally wasn't.
She also told me to put yogurt in my vagina.
Okay, so she had a good nurse period.
So that's okay.
You never went back to her, right?
No.
So another example is like somebody who drives a lot is probably at more risk of dying in a car accident.
Yes.
But you can take substance to mitigate that by being a super careful driver.
And you'll probably be in less car accidents than other people.
I think that people who are in open relationships are aware that there's a risk.
And there is.
There absolutely is.
There always is if you're sleeping with other people.
But I guess that that part of it's talking about your talking to your partners, figuring out what level of sexual intimacy you are comfortable with,
given the knowledge that you have from other people.
You can choose to use barriers.
You can choose abstinence with a partner, maybe for a certain amount of time.
And part of the trick to that is not feeling like you're being punished or acting like you're punishing someone else by choosing a different level of sexual involvement with them,
because we're all responsible for ourselves and our own health.
And as long as we're informed and we can make choices and we can have these discussions, it's okay to make those choices.
I think that those are fairly sound rebuttals.
It makes sense to me that as long as everyone's playing the game appropriately, which is open discussion, honesty,
and what I'm assuming is, like we talked about earlier, the small social circle of that person's gut history.
Well, if you ask that person, hey, what's your STI status?
They're like, oh, I'm clean.
But the word around the water cooler is that they're riddled with STIs.
Well, that's going to diminish their...
The term clean is kind of...
Yeah, I hate that.
Did I say clean?
You did, yeah.
It's okay. It's a common term. It's not like you were doing it maliciously, but it's a...
I don't have the same way that I meant healthy.
Like, you know, if I didn't have...
Yeah, but you can still be healthy and asymptomatic and have an STI.
Right, but like...
That you could potentially spread to somebody who would not be healthy if they had it.
Fair enough. I guess I just appreciate you not reading what Malice and two...
Right.
But I was saying that I didn't know you used the word clean.
I guess I need to examine...
I don't think there's Malice. A lot of people use it.
And I try to point that out, like any I just did right there.
So you mentioned...
This is another issue...
What's the appropriate term?
Really quick.
Non-STI.
Positive?
Positive.
Or negative?
Perfect.
All right. That works.
I am negative for XYZ.
I am positive for T.
I don't know.
Just...
Let's throw some letters in there.
Just in general, the, you know, the clean versus dirty dichotomy.
It treats people like objects again.
Well, I only considered it like I was picturing, you know, somebody with a communicable...
Like someone with a cold.
I would have used the same word there if someone had work.
Yeah, but if someone had work comes in with a cold, you don't call them dirty.
What you don't say...
I wouldn't have said dirty if I finished that sentence either.
They don't call themselves clean.
That's a thing that is specifically an STI thing that people say.
That's so weird.
It's a common slang term.
But it passed through mind and speech without even registering it.
I've done a lot too.
Good catch. That's awesome.
Yeah. It's okay. It's very common.
So this is actually a place to come back to one of the problems with rules.
So whereas I listen to my partners or their partners, or if you want to go really crazy,
their partners, their partners, STI status, I want to do that in a non-judging way.
And I want to make decisions without it feeling like I'm punishing anybody for my own safety
or for the safety of my other partners or just general concern about public health.
But when there's a rule that you have to use protection with partners and you break it,
there's an incentive not to tell.
Whereas if there isn't a rule, but somebody's like,
I really prefer that you let me know if you're going to move to not using protection with somebody
or if you have.
This is a concern that I have because of STI transmission or whatever.
I'm with somebody who's immunocompromised, I don't know.
Or you don't have to be, of course, to be concerned about that.
Anyone can say no for any reason.
Yeah. Anyone can say no for any reason.
And they accidentally maybe don't use a condom.
They get really caught up in the moment.
Every now and then condoms break?
Well, condoms break, that's easy to tell your partner if it's a rule.
All the condom broke, which is probably the lie that people go to.
If they do have a rule, is the condom broke or it slipped or something.
Something like that happened.
I just didn't use one right then.
Free communication and honesty are so much more important
than being afraid to tell somebody because you've broken a rule,
because the stigma around rule breaking,
that's another reason why I choose not to go with quotes and quote rules.
I honestly, the emphasis on open communication,
non-judgmental discourse and just polite approach to touchy issues
is super attractive to me, that's awesome.
I think that's a good aspect of any great relationship
and if the poly community does that better than average,
then kudos to them, that's awesome.
They've put some articles like in Psychology Today
and various other popular publications
and I don't want to say that it's true,
but they're selling it as polyamory has something to teach everybody.
It has something to teach monogamous people about how to have relationships
and I think it becomes really more obvious
when you're in polyamorous, when you're in multiple relationships,
the need, the absolute need for things like open communication and honesty.
That makes sense, especially when it stops being a sort of,
not necessarily option, but when it becomes necessary for things to work.
It's like, well we need to be honest or this just simply can't happen.
Not like it'll happen but worse, it's just like it can't.
Does that make sense?
Okay, so let's see.
Counterargument two was, it's almost a walking straw man,
except in this case it's a straw woman
and the straw woman is her argument.
This came to light, I was listening to Star Talk Radio with Neil deGrasse Tyson.
It's a lot of fun, check it out.
This was an older one and it was a Valentine's Day special
and they were talking about love.
And the guest was Dr. Helen Fisher,
well she's a biological anthropologist
specializing in love, reproduction and relationships and stuff.
And it was all about all kinds of things
but the one thing that I wrote down, and this was three months ago
that I wrote this down because I knew we were going to have this conversation
at some point so I remembered it,
was that he asked her at some point, one small sign on the bike,
from Twitter or something,
but he asked her opinion on polyrelationships.
She's the expert and she came right out and said,
basically humans aren't programmed to do that.
We get too jealous, we're not designed for polyrelationships.
See I think the exact opposite,
humans are not designed for monogamous relationships
and trying to force people into them is damaging.
It sounds like she's not designed for that.
It's really easy for people to fall into the typical mind fallacy
but she is provably wrong.
So for a long time when I said I don't think people can be monogamous,
that's not true.
For a long time I thought that,
I've come to grips with the fact that there are people who are just naturally monogamous
and that is the way life works for them.
But there are people who are entirely naturally polyamorous
and she's just actually wrong.
It's like if someone were to claim a hippo had six legs.
I will caveat this by saying I agree with you
that I think that she is actually wrong.
But to go on with quotes from her,
she would say they're just lying to themselves or to each other or to us.
We could say that about her too.
Exactly, so if you're going to start questioning the honesty of your respondents,
then there's no point in doing the survey.
If you're just going to argue away any result you don't like.
So when I went to go Google and find this source,
all I could find was a Dan Savage article
rashing her being quoted in a source saying something similar to this.
