not have all their energy used up as internal friction and heat. So they can actually do fairly
decently coordinated long term planning. Well, that's just a more effective system,
that's a particular point. So you see that then in the West, you see that the
development of the exponential tech is mostly not happening by the government.
We don't have to see Manhattan project type activities. We see narrow applications in
the military, but the military is not the government. It's not how the state tends to the
people. It's not a better system of democracy. It's not a better system of educating the people.
It's not a better system of creating healthy economy where people have something like
the possibility of upward mobility. All of that's left to the market, but the market that is doing
it, the people who are running it aren't elected. They don't have accountability to the people.
They don't have jurisprudence of those kinds. So you can see that the companies that are developing
the tech are becoming exponentially more powerful companies and they're becoming so powerful that
they're more powerful than countries in many ways. Facebook and Google have more users than
China and the U.S. combined have people and they have more data on them and they have more
behavioral influence over them. That's fucking powerful. And not only is that not strengthening
the U.S. outside of GDP, even though they don't pay taxes proportionally, it's destroying the
basis of the U.S. functioning. Those are running a business model that optimizes people's time on
site, uses AI to optimize time on site, which happens by appealing to people's biases and
in-group identities and all that kind of stuff, which actually polarizes people against each other
so much that anything like democracy becomes impossible. So we see that exponential tech is
making exponentially powerful companies and actually destroying Western democracies and
republics in the process. So that converges towards a new feudalism. And so we have basically,
exponential tech has two attractors. Either it causes catastrophic risk directly and so you
just don't have civilization anymore or you get shitty civilizations. You have two options within
each of those. Shitty civilizations look like authoritarian nation states that are empowered
with exponential tech or feudalism that's empowered with exponential tech. The catastrophic
risk looks like two kinds, exponential externalities, which equals destruction via planetary boundaries
and environment and stuff, or exponential warfare, which looks like different things that lead to
escalation pathways to World War III. So those are the four attractors I would say that are out there
right now. And they're all bad. They're all dystopic. So I'm interested in a new attractor.
And given that only those who are directing exponential tech will have the power to have a
say in the future. But we want to have exponential tech not be used dumbly in a way that causes
catastrophic risk, but also not create a type of civilization that is undesirable for the majority
of the people, right, that is not aligned with participatory governance and high civil liberties
and things like that. Then we get a very clear design constraint. The design constraint is that
the number one imperative of the world of civilization, if they are paying any damn attention,
needs to be the development, the development and implementation of the new emerging categories
of exponential technologies to making new social technologies, to making democracy 2.0,
Republic 2.0, open societies that are both aligned with the kinds of values that we care about,
they'll be different, right? And they should be different. The idea that you just vote on
propositions or the propositions you had no say in and they're made by special interest groups
and they're all bad. If you vote yes, it benefits one thing and hurt something else, which is why
50% vote for it and 50% don't. It polarizes the population. That's not democracy. Voting is not
democracy. Democracy is a way that people can participate in governance. That's a stupid system.
So will the new systems look like just digital voting? No, they'll look like better ways to
actually be engaged in the crafting of the propositions themselves. So we can come up with
better propositions that don't have such unnecessary theory of trade-offs. And so it's not that we're
trying to make exactly the same structure but a digital version. We're trying to make some of
this aligned with the same values of both maximizing the integrity of the commons and maximizing
individual freedoms and creative expression and like that within that. And so how do we
engage exponential technology to make new social technologies, new open societies,
that can preserve the right in advance, the right types of civil liberties and values,
and guide the exponential tech safely so that it doesn't cause catastrophic risk?
To me, that's the only imperative worth anything because if we don't do that, the other things
won't matter. They won't end up being able to happen. So when you asked how do we go about it,
that's an answer at a very high level but it's a starting place.
Brilliant. Thank you. So let me just summarize it, you know, the last thing that you said.
I heard you say that we need to develop a new attractor other than the ones that are currently
dominating and your solution or another alternative is what Elon Musk is doing,
getting ready to colonize Mars because I don't think he hopes or believes that we will be able to
develop our consciousness to the point where we will be able to implement the social engineering
that you are just… If not, we will probably export the same social failures to that system.
So the thing about the Mars colony that's actually great is not the Mars colony itself,
it's the thought experiment. Why it's a good thought experiment is because import is really hard
and so if I'm trying to build a civilization on Mars, it has to do everything without import
and so if I'm in a bubble where we're producing our own oxygen, we're all stuck in the bubble,
do I want any pollution at all for manufacturing? None, nothing, nothing. How many people can I
have in prison that are breathing oxygen and not doing stuff? Nobody, everybody has to be
meaningfully engaged. Well, how do I prevent crime completely and have a better process
for conflict resolution? We have to do our own biotech. In that world, a GDP maximization and
the thing that matters, I don't want sick people. How do I prevent health issues? How do we optimize
health? How do we make sure that all the new stuff we need to make, we can make from the old stuff
because we can't get new stuff easily? What minimum set of tooling do we need to build the rest of
the tools and would we build the tech stack the same way that we did or would we rebuild the tech
stack differently? This is what's interesting about it. How would we do law? Would we import
the same system of law or would we do law fundamentally differently? Would we even have
the values that are the basis of it be rethought through? So the Mars colony is interesting for
Earth. If we take the thought experiment seriously enough that we start thinking about, oh, wow,
we're powerful enough now that designing civilization from scratch is a possible thing.
Well, let's design this one from scratch differently. What does it look like?
So how do we, how do we, and then, you know, you may want to dive into the Concelion's project,
which is your project, which I highly, I'm fired up about it. So how do we begin to design a new
social technology and re-engineer society, basically? What are the, I think, the best words
or what are the best levers to implement that? I mean, how do we begin? I think,
just like Elon Musk is using his idea to go to Mars as a means to achieve the technology to shift
the mind and technology and everything, how can we do an Earth shot on social engineering?
I'm going to take a tangent and just address, because you brought up the word
term social engineering, and that word has a very negative connotation for many people
in the US very intensely. And so I want to speak to that.
When we say social engineering, a social system, a society,
a society or a civilization, we can think about what essentially is that. It's a way for a lot
of people who don't all know each other beyond a tribal scale to coordinate their actions
usefully. That's kind of fundamentally what it's about. And tribal systems before that were
different, because there were not that many people and everybody knew everybody. But if we now have
a place where I have to compromise my actions in some way for people who I don't even know,
and we're all going to kind of get along well, and we, but how are we all going to get along well,
and how are we going to do division of labor and specialization and then share the stuff that we
produced in a way that creates more kind of wealth and possibility for everybody,
we have to have some systems of coordination. So I think of civilization as coordination systems.
Civilizations fail either because they can't bring about the order and coordination necessary,
so they fail in the direction of chaos, or the way they bring about the order is imposed.
So there's some, okay, here's rule of law, and we're going to impose this rule of law by force,
and so then it becomes increasingly oppressive. And then it fails for those reasons. And so
civilizations teeter between oppression and chaos, right? So we say, how do we get out of that? How
do we have something that is not oppression and is not chaos? Well, we need order, but we want the
order to not be imposed. So we need order that's emergent. How would we possibly have emergent
order? This is the idea of a democracy or a republic or an open society of participatory
governance. And you notice that they were aligned whenever they emerged in the world,
they were aligned with some idea of an enlightenment of some kind, a social enlightenment
that had the idea. And if we look at modern democracies emerging out of the kind of European
enlightenment, the key in the European enlightenment was the philosophy of science. And the idea that
we could all come to do the same experiment at the same result, and there was an inherently
unifying property to the nature of objective reality. So we could make sense of the same
world, because what we're trying to coordinate is the choices we make. Well, what's the basis of our
choices, our sense making, and our meaning making inform our choice making, our sense
makings, what do we think is going on? And what do we think in action would be that would move us
towards the thing we want? What do we want as our meaning making our values generation, right? So
ultimately, our ability to figure out what we value and what's going on and how we think we
can advance the values, how we do choice making. So the idea that we need to, if we want to have
coordinated choice making, we need to coordinate our sense making. Can we all come to be able to
assess reality similarly? And we have to be able to coordinate our values. And so can we run a
Hegelian dialectic, right? Can we run a dialectic where rather than just say that, because it seems
like you're optimizing for something else, you're evil, can I try to understand the value that
you're trying to optimize for that has some real value. So at first, you're voting for Proposition A
and Proposition A is going to, as far as I'm concerned, hurt the owls in this area. So you
must just be a non environmental evil fuck, except I'm like, why do you want to do that? Well, for
the economy, what does that mean? Well, it means that you are actually in a resource insecure
situation and your kids don't have job prospects. And that Proposition A looks like it will actually
give your kids a better opportunity to have a good life. So the value for you is the opportunity
space for your kids lives. Okay, well, maybe you're not an evil fuck, maybe that's a real value. And
maybe you don't even not care about the owls, you're just forced into a situation where that
proposition unnecessarily polarized them. Is there a way to care? And but you think that I'm evil,
because I want your kids to be poor for some fucking owls, right? Well, what if we just say,
how do we take all the values and recognize that they are not necessarily opposed and
try to take all the values before we come up with a proposition and then come up with a proposition
that meets the values, the best that it can, we don't even try to do that most of the time. Now,
a special interest group will make a proposition based on some very narrow value that of course
externalizes harm to other things, and we're not even trying to do a better job of that.
So the idea of a democracy, though, and earlier democracies did try because of smaller scale,
like in the US, you weren't making huge choices, they were mostly in a town hall where everybody
could just talk. And so a special interest group was making the proposition, we were all talking,
we said, what about this idea? Well, that's not quite right. Because of this, what about this idea?
And you could leave sometimes without even voting, because everyone would just agree this is the
thing to do. There was a quote by one of the founding fathers of the US, something to the
effect of the death, that voting is the death of democracy, because it means that we didn't have
a good enough conversation to come to shared understanding. And then the vote was a way to
sublimate violence. But the idea of can we get emergent order? Well, if we can unify our sense
making, that we can make sense of reality, similarly, and we can unify our values, can I try to
understand your perspective, you can try to understand mine well enough that we say now
let's put all these values together, and then let's use design process to design a solution
that will meet everybody's values as best as possible, maybe not perfectly, but as best as
possible factoring the physical constraints that our sense making shows us. That's the right kind
of direction to be able to get emergent order. Well, we can see that since the modern democracies
have emerged, the world has gotten much more complex technologically, ecologically, etc.
And our capacity for shared sense making and shared meaning making, meaning our training
in civic virtue to listen to each other well with good faith, and our training in the relevant
areas to understand the world has gotten worse. And so social engineering, the kind of social
engineering that brings about order through imposition, we're not interested in.
What we want is something that actually makes that kind of social engineering impossible,
because the people recognize propaganda and manipulation of those things when it happens,
because they have good sense making capability, and where that is, so it's both impossible and
not necessary, because the people can actually coordinate. So what we're looking for is how do
we socially engineer a world where that type of social engineering is both not necessary and not
possible. Now, another way of speaking to it is conditioning of people is not avoidable. You
can't not condition people. They're going to be born and learn Mandarin if that's what they're
hearing or they're going to learn English or they're going to learn German or they're going to
learn whatever. Just what they're hearing is conditioning them. It's conditioning them to
think a certain way. It's going to condition their aesthetics, their values, their whatever,
based on what they observe. So we have to realize that you can't not condition people.
So given that it's inexorable, what is a meaningful human life? What is a civilization that
enhance, that makes meaningful human life possible? And how do we want to condition people
such that they both have the best life possible and can contribute? That we have a civilization
that makes the best life possible for the people and people that are disposed to live their life
in a way that in turn contributes to a civilization in other people. So I just wanted to say that
briefly about social engineering is that there is an element before you move on.
I'm German. I'm a German citizen, half Romanian, and Germany's been very well known for
voting green. And for decades, we now had the Green Party in a leading political position
in various states within. And now they have the opportunity to really go away, go away from the
opposition into leading at the next election, leading Germany. And one of the, I'm referring
to question as to how to implement what you just said. Because one of the, and I am a green voter,
obviously, but one of the reasons why they were not leading a leading political party
over the past 16 years has to do, although they tried, has to do with, from my perspective,
with the fact that they try to, well, first of all, they went into these
never ending conversations where no decisions were taken, or if a decision was taken,
they were trying to impose it on other people, like eating, you know, not eating meat on Fridays.
And that, of course, that, and I'm, I'm a vegan, so I don't, I don't have a problem with that,
but that led people to not vote for them. So my question is, how do we
optimize for the integrity of the whole, or the wholeness, in trying to come up
to an emergent order without ending, you know, in, in these endless conversations and not having to
impose a decision onto people that do not agree with and lose political power and leadership for
that matter. Am I making myself understood? Yeah. Thank you.
I think the idea of the masses
is class propaganda. I think that if I want to be a ruling class, the idea that most people
are too dumb and unmotivated and lazy and irrational to rule themselves well. And so we kind of
have to rule because we are the ones who know what is right and good. That's a very convenient
belief for those who happen to think that they're part of that class. And so if I, if I look in,
and I'll speak about the US because I know it better. So if I look at the dumb masses
that don't, that think Africa is a country and can laugh at them and whatever, which we see,
right? There's a elite focus. We'll do that in the US. But I look at the schools they went to.
They're shitty schools. Then I look at where do the wealthy kids go to school and go to a place
