Daniel, welcome to the investment turnaround.
It's an outstanding pleasure to have you.
And I'm so looking forward to our conversation today.
So in order for the people to get to know you better,
why don't you tell us what took you
into the present moment in your life?
What path?
What significant emotional and cognitive events
participated to Daniel Schmachtenberger?
Oh, my goodness.
That is such an impossible question.
Because there's so many different ways I could answer it.
So I guess one through line that is pretty central
and is relevant to things I think we might discuss today.
I was homeschooled and by parents
that wanted to kind of run an educational experiment of letting
their kids design their own curriculum.
And this was similar to some of the unschooling ideas now,
but before unschooling was a thing.
My parents' interests were Buckminster Fuller
and kind of design science and Fritschoff-Capron systems
science and kind of the philosophy coming out
of modern physics and world religions
and spiritual traditions and the best kind of thinking stuff
coming out of the hippie movement time period.
And so obviously as a kid getting to design my own curriculum,
being exposed to those things made a difference
because no one's going to choose to study something
they don't even know exists.
And so it was nice to have those.
And so I was studying the sciences
and interested in how the world works,
studying the philosophic traditions
around what we're really here for and what is meaningful.
And then in studying things like the Buckminster Fuller design
science work, thinking about how do we
redesign the technological substrate of civilization.
Fundamentally, those were kind of early interesting questions.
And I got into activism very young.
That was one of the other big areas.
And it got to be homeschool curriculum time.
So I got to do a lot more like frontline activism stuff
and research younger than a lot of people would.
And it started with animal rights stuff
and started with factory farming and then went
to whaling and overfishing and species extinction
and with PETA and Greenpeace and all those types of organizations.
And that was the beginning of kind of existential devastation
for me of how much human induced unnecessary suffering
and just rolling atrocity there is on the planet.
And then how can I consider my life a success
while that's happening?
Like there has to be something wrong with me
that I can disconnect from that and just be happy to party.
And so I remember the very first thing
when I was like nine years old that I had this feeling around
with factory farms was if they still exist when I die
then I failed at anything worth living for.
Because I can't have a world that I feel good about where
that exists.
The hard part was I kept adding things to that list
because then start studying extreme poverty
and then start studying the things that lead to unnecessary wars.
And this was kind of like the centrally torturing thing
for me was everybody said that these all are such hard issues
that nobody's fixed them.
And so it would take all of my life
focusing on one of them to maybe have a little bit of a chance.
And that means ignoring all the other ones and I couldn't.
I just couldn't.
And fortunately, the system science focus
started to give me a sense that maybe part of the problem
was focusing on these things in isolation
and not what interconnected them and the underlying patterns
that gave rise to them.
Why do humans make shitty choices?
Why are we not good stewards of the technological power
that we have?
And so there were things that I knew
I needed to study to be able to even think about it well.
So I went and did university studies and studied math
and physics and things that I knew
would be like important fundamental disciplines
and philosophy and then independently
studying economics and social systems and things like that.
And trying to look at all of the proposed systems
for how do we make a better world?
Looking at the UN-STG kind of model
and looking at the Bildung model.
Can we make the whole world like the Nordic countries
and looking at the anarcho capitalists
and libertarian models?
And it didn't take that long to see how all of those philosophies
catastrophically failed in the face of planetary boundaries
and exponential tech and that they were just nowhere near deep
enough thinking for the actual nature of the problems.
And that was a bummer because I think I thought originally
that there were adequate solutions
and I could just find them and join them and add energy to it.
And so it was very devastating for me
the first time I went and engaged with people at the UN
to see, I remember the first conversation I had
there was the World Food Program Director
where they were looking at a solution to address world hunger
which was great, but their solution involved commercial agriculture
going into areas where it doesn't currently exist
to be able to feed the people in a way that doesn't depend upon
shipping food from other countries, which made sense
except it was bringing more nitrogen based fertilizers
to more river deltas, which will increase the rate of dead zones
in the ocean, which is an existential risk for the whole planet.
When I brought that up to them, I'm like,
okay, well, you're going to feed more people per year for a few years
and then speed up the death of the oceans and everybody.
They're like, yeah, we never thought of that and that's a bummer,
but those are not the metrics we're tasked with.
We're tasked with defeating kids metrics.
I'm like, are you fucking kidding me?
And then I saw that everywhere and I saw that most of the work
was not only not adequate to succeed, but it was causing other problems
in other areas, worse problems because we were defining the problems too narrowly
and the world was more interconnected than that.
And so this just led to having to continue to step back and say,
okay, maybe we just need to do an assessment of the whole problem space
well enough to know what adequate solutions would take.
So that was kind of the central thrust of my life focus
in all the various areas of study where what do I need to understand
to be able to look at that.
So we were mentioning economics.
Obviously, we can see that if I have a metric of optimizing GDP for a nation
or GDP per capita, some metric like that, that war is really good.
GDP goes up under war.
Sick people that spend more money on medicine is good,
that there's a lot of perverse incentive that addiction is quite profitable.
And so it's like, okay, well, that's a dreadful metric.
And yet we can see that underlying so many of the issues like bad medical systems
and bad food systems and driving addiction from supply side to manufactured demand
is an economic system that has perverse incentive writ large.
And there's something like 70 trillion dollars of trades hands every day.
And I'm like, if we got 70 trillion dollars of decentralized human incentive
almost all of which is causing harm along a supply chain of action somewhere.
Even if I had a billion dollars a day to spend,
it didn't even need to make money, just pure nonprofit.
And I was maximally affected with it.
And I'm going against 70 trillion dollars a day that is harm externalizing.
And it's easier to break stuff than it is to fix it or to build it.
I can I can destroy a house much faster than I can build one.
I'm so many orders of magnitude off of being adequate.
So I'm like, anything that does not change perverse incentive is not even worth doing.
So how do we change 70 trillion dollars a day worth of human activity
to not have perverse incentive built in?
Well, it doesn't look like our current economic system.
It looks like a fundamentally new economic system.
So how do we how do we make projects that succeed within this economic system
and externalize a bunch of harm is never interesting to me.
How do we make a fundamentally how do we make an economic system
where the success of that economic system and the thriving of life
are aligned with each other is a different question.
And so, yeah, then one of the things I saw was as I was looking at all these different
problems and how they were looking at how they were interconnected
to see how trying to solve one would move problems somewhere else.
And we'd see that all over the place.
The, you know, example that I gave about nitrogen runoff is one,
but we can take pretty much any example.
And but then also looking at what do all the problems have in common
as the at the level of generator functions.
And perverse incentive is one example,
but there's a number of things that are the underlying system dynamics.
And by system dynamics here, we're not talking like healthcare as a system
or or the judicial system as a system.
We're talking about underneath that the patterns of human behavior.
What is creating patterns of human behavior?
So I started forecasting also.
I was trying to see are these problems or the problems getting better?
Are they getting worse?
And the answer is, of course, both.
And so you can you can read plenty of books,
Pinker and Hans Rosling and all those books on why everything is getting better.
And if you cherry pick the stats and you decontextualize them, sure, that's true.
But you read most any environmental metrics, not any, but so many environmental metrics
and also catastrophic and existential risk.
And you can see how many things are getting not just worse,
but precipitously towards the non viability of civilization worse.
And so when I saw that some things were getting better,
some things were getting worse, I saw a phase of civilization destabilizing.
And that clearly, we didn't just need more of the type of actions that we were doing,
more nonprofit projects, more impact investing, more UN SDG stuff,
more laws being made and more tech solutions, because the whole body of all of that
was not converging towards adequate because every year we were getting
more total catastrophic risks and higher probability on each of them.
When CRISPR comes along, we have way more chance of all dying from bio weapons with
development of AGI.
We have way more chance of dying from AGI based risks with the development of drones
and the weaponization of drones and their ability to take out infrastructure.
So it's like, OK, the total probability space of catastrophe is rapidly expanding.
And if you look at the UN world, we haven't solved any of the SDGs.
They were called the Millennium Development Goals before we didn't solve them.
We never succeeded with this nuclear depriliferation.
Since the UN started, we went from two countries with nukes to lots of countries
with nukes and faster nukes and better nukes.
