in a post-digital world? So we have a series of articles we're building that help people understand
what any civilization that wants that participatory governance needs in terms of an epistemic
commons, why the technologies that have emerged have broke the previous answers completely and
forever, and we can't go back to them, and what the criteria of the new solutions must look like.
Now, exactly how to build it we're not saying because there's different ways. But what we're
saying is these are the criteria that it must be. So now if you want to build a blockchain
organization or you are a nation-state and want to try to innovate as a nation-state or whatever
it is, great, like work on these things. Same with education. What we can show how emerging tech has
destroyed the previous system of education and obsolete it and then say what is education in a
post-technological automation, post-AI, post-information singularity world? Well, must be these things.
So our goal is to basically get the curriculum or the metacriculum. It could be translated to
different pedagogical levels, but the key insight, so the metacriculum that is needed for people to
be engaged in the design of the future of civilization, right, to get that out there.
And then to get it translated to where at least for most people won't be actively designing these
systems, some will, but they will at least be calling for them. So the people who are building
them will be able to have support, whether it's political support, economic support, social support,
whatever. So we're writing these articles and then trying to translate the info and the articles
through things like this, through podcasts and conversations that are able to translate them
and where people who do understand them will be able to translate the message to their audiences.
And so you start to get a decentralized zeitgeist of people caring about what we think is valuable
for people to care about, so as to be directing innovation.
Growing and so building metacuricula, curicula for various disciplines around the world. Ken
Wolver, of which I am a fan, has experienced more than 60 disciplines, you know, that adopted the
integral model. And so it's a long journey for you. Will there be a metacuriculum for investing
and or entrepreneurship? Ken, what is your plan?
So let's say people start thinking about, all right, well, what are the risks associated with
these various areas of exponential tech, what would it take to buy in that? If I'm a government
agency, I can think about what state capacities do we have to do that or could we make? If I'm a
nonprofit, I can think about that. If I'm a business, I can think about or what kind of business could
we build? We can also do things that are more creative than business as we've understood it,
things like a decentralized autonomous organization in the crypto space. So
all of those are different ways of trying to organize people and steward resource to build
something. So, you know, if we look at the Gates Foundation, there was basically a kind of worldview
that informed a philanthropic hypothesis, and it was the like, let's apply business metrics,
kind of business analytic metrics to philanthropy. I would say that what we're talking about would
make a basis for new philanthropy, which is let's donate money to the projects that are
working on building the new institutions necessary, the new civilization systems necessary,
because again, otherwise, the billion dollars that we donate going against 70 trillion dollars a
day, it's not going to matter that much. So how do we actually build new systems that can scale to
the thing that needs to happen? In the same way that that could be the basis of a philanthropic
hypothesis, it could also be the basis of a return hypothesis. It says, okay, if we're not trying to
maximize returns in the short term, no matter how nasty the thing is, but we're trying to create returns
while and through having that capital support the most meaningful things that it could.
And what we're pointing out is a basis of criteria for assessing what meaningful
things are. Is this good design? Is it actually moving in the right direction?
Yeah, absolutely. I hope for that to become the basis of investment hypothesis.
And I mean, even just listening to this, someone can start to think about,
oh, you have a piece of technology that harvests people's individual data and
does personal micro-targeting to be able to direct their attention. That sounds like a very
profitable business towards what aim is it going and what are the secondary effects?
Oh, it's going to be this thing called Facebook. It's really for dating and then it'll be like
for tagging pictures. Well, let's think through it a little bit. How does it pay for itself?
It's going to be an ad model. How do you, so it's, you sell more ads based on more time on site. How
do you optimize time on site when people want to get off and do things in the real world? Well,
through the things that are stickiest. So how do you figure that out when there's a huge amount
of stuff? Well, we use AI and we use their data and we, oh, so the secondary effect of this picture
tagging app is going to be that it drives addiction in the entire population and doubles down on
everyone's bias and limbic hijacks and destroys democracy in the process. Awesome. No, I don't
want to invest in that. So now if you want to change the design criteria, right, this shouldn't
have an ad model. People pay for the service and now the service, they are the customer and so you
have a fiduciary responsibility to them rather than to the advertiser and the people of the product.
Now we can actually do something that's meaningful for the people. Yeah, I'll invest in that thing.
And maybe it has a longer return cycle. Awesome. Long return cycles are necessary to do things
that aren't evil. The short term money on money process, like it's very important to understand
that capitalism is not business. It's not the same thing. Business was pre-capitalism. Business
was the idea of how do I make a good or service that people actually want based on real demand
and how do I make the best good or service at the best value so that hopefully rational person
will make a good choice. And in doing so, I get more money through production only of real value
at a good value, in which case I'm a good steward of that money because I'm going to continue to
produce real value. That's kind of like a very brief version of randian market ideology.
It's not capitalism. Capitalism is once you start doing that and you have a big pool of
capital and you realize that compound interest makes money faster. And financial services of
various kinds make money faster than the good or service because the good or service has a cost
of good sold and the money doesn't. And the money has an exponential return on it. And the other
thing doesn't have an exponential return. Capitalism is about stewarding pools of capital to create
more capital. And you know the saying that down criminals break laws, smart criminals make laws,
they start to recognize, well, who makes laws? Lobbyists. Who pays for them? People with money.
Why do they do it? Because they can make more money if they do the thing. And what do politicians do
after they stop being politicians? Well, they're still economic actors. Oh, great. So if I have
more money, I can also change law in the direction of the interest. So capitalism works to, we can
also create media companies. We can also fund certain kinds of media. We can also fund certain
kinds of research. So what people even think is true is based on the shit that actually got funded.
So to increase those pools of capital, I can pull on the levers of
affecting policy, affecting media zeitgeist and style and like that, affecting even research and
the fundamental ideas of what we think is true can affect all of that. Ultimately, to be increasing
optionality and power. That is not a system that is meritocratic where the more money you have is
a sign of the more good you did. No, it's utter gibberish. I can make money through production.
I can also make money through extraction. And as behavioral economics showed, it's very easy to
compel people to not be rational actors. So I can make money through producing valuable things or
I can make money through producing addictive shit and stuff that drives FOMO, that clearly
makes everyone's life worse. And given that the supply side, if it's a million dollar, a billion
dollar, a hundred billion dollar organization has way more coordinated power than the individual
purchaser does, it's an asymmetric war to influence them where demand isn't driving supply, supply is
manufacturing demand. Well, the intelligence, the whole base of market theory just broke.
As soon as you can manufacture demand, the idea that it is a collective intelligence system is
broken. It's not a collective intelligence system now. It's a paperclip maximizer. It is now an
autopoetic process for converting people and the world into capital.
Why did we go there?
Because you wanted to support our listeners, investors and entrepreneurs to make better
decisions on where to invest and where to buy their capital and their efforts and all of their
resources toward. And I'm grateful, very grateful for that. So financial services were kind of the
beginning of the end of market theory actually having any real integrity. Because now I could
not be producing real goods and services but doing speculation and market manipulation and
blah, blah, blah. And the ability for short-term money on money creating so much advantage that we
didn't invest in real things and then things in the domain of atoms have cost of goods sold,
whereas in the domain of virtual don't. So I don't get unicorns in a year anywhere other than software.
But what's happened is not what the world needs to be better. But all the money is going to flow
away from, oh, we don't have money for green tech and whatever because it flows to the area where
you get exponential returns that are making shit the world doesn't need based on manufactured
demand because it's where the return cycles happen. That shit has to shift. So can you make a return
in the current world with the money you have? Sure, doing some good things. But most of the
opportunities authentically suck. Like most businesses, if they shut down, the world would
be better, not worse. Most new businesses that are emerging will cause more externalities than
the benefit they cause is worthwhile. Most of the ways that people make money will cause enough
harm to the world that the philanthropy they do with that money will still end their life being
negative to the world. If someone wants to claim they're doing impact investing, just fucking be
honest about this. Just don't do it as greenwashing. It's evil. Just be a capitalist. That's fine.
It's better to be honest about it. Otherwise, if you really want to do impact investing, what
do you want to impact? Why? What do you honestly want to impact? Then look at clearly the second
order effects of the things that you're putting it into. There are some things that are worth investing
in. I want way more money going into fusion. I want way more money going into many areas of
energy technology, into manufacturing techniques that get to go close-loop materials economy so we
can make all the new stuff from old stuff into the types of nanotech and manufacturing that can
make that happen. Those are longer-term return cycles. They won't be exponential return cycles
in the same way because they'll have cost of good and they'll have R&D up front. R&D in the domain
of atoms is longer and slower, more expensive than it is in the domain of software. That's
the shit the world actually needs. It can be profitable. It can even be super profitable
because it can solve major world problems. Larger investments that are longer-term,
we didn't get railroads with short investments. Railroad wasn't worth anything until it went
all the way across the country. The industrial revolution required long-term planning.
How long did Notre Dame take to build? The short-term return focus is fundamentally
destructive to life. One of the first things I can say is have a longer-term focus. Then in
the thing that you're investing in, is it solving a critical must-solve problem for the world?
What are the likely second-order effects it's causing? If it's not solving a critical problem,
and if it generates second-order effects that are worse than the problem it's trying to solve,
don't invest in it. Wonderful, Daniel. It's been a great pleasure to speak with you again.
I know it's two o'clock in the morning in your time, so I want to thank you so much for your
graciousness of time and knowledge and information and inspiration. Thank you so much for being on
the program, and we will continue. I appreciate the education that you're bringing to people,
Mary-Anna. It was a delight to be with you and talk with you today. Thank you. Bye-bye.
