So, Julia, you can come to the stage now.
So he is a PhD candidate in philosophy and cognitive science, in co-tutile between the
E-H-E-S-S in Paris, France, and the University of Grenada in Spain.
His presentation is entitled On Pure Consciousness of Autopoyatic Machines.
Well, thanks for the organization of this event.
So I'm going just to start my presentation.
Perhaps the topic of my presentation would be more to understand philosophically and
experimentally what we understand by top-down causation in relation to self-consciousness.
So for this purpose, the presentation is divided in five sections.
So first I'm going to talk about what is the objective of this research and a working concept
of abstraction.
The second section is about evidence and what do we understand by immediate contact to reality
through mental representations and actions.
So the third section is about the concept of autopoyatic machine and what is to be a cause
of the self.
So the further section is about a description of what is pure consciousness and the different
levels of analysis that I'm going to develop and finally the experiments.
So this research project will experiment with the simplest form of conscious experience
of which humans are capable of or minimal phenomenal experience.
Firstly to prove its empirical existence, secondly to disentangle its core causal factors
and thirdly to attest its content properties.
Deleting and maximizing the unit of identification is the phenomenal space to which we direct
our notion of the self and other selves.
So and deleting and maximizing the unit of identification are the two channels for analyzing
empirically the MPE within the model of a certain reticular activation system, minimal
phenomenal self-hood and minimal phenomenal experience, which are mainly the thresholds
of electrical frequencies of the brain during the analyzed states, their correlations and
simulations and subjective reports.
The hypothesis is that pure consciousness as a source of epistemic self causation can
be physiologically isolated in non-dual forms of awareness, such as lucid brainless sleep.
This is an entire whole topic about non-sensory and non-motor but nonetheless cognitive state
which would change our understanding of higher order cognitive abilities if it is the case.
So and the questions are does an old pervading form of conscious experience exist?
Which phenomenal characteristics does pure consciousness entail?
What is the nature of phenomenality?
So the plausibility for these two experiments that I'm going to talk at the end of the presentation
is based on the experiments by Ferrarelli, Massimini and in general the research by Marxist.
And here I'm going to talk specifically about one of the experiments that Sust did in Switzerland.
And it's about learning while in deep sleep, which is supposed to be an state, well I'm
going to talk about in a bit, but it's supposed to be a non-sensory and non-motor state, which
is an interesting case of an exception of learning without such inputs.
So and the description of this experiment I'm going to just read it.
So learning while asleep is a dream of my kind, but it's often deemed impossible because
sleep lacks the conscious awareness and neurochemical milieu thought to be necessary for learning.
Current evidence for sleep learning in humans is inconclusive.
To explore conditions under which verbal learning might occur, we hypothesized that peaks of
slow waves would be conducive to verbal learning because the peaks define periods of neural
excitability while in slow waves sleep during a series of word pairs comprising pseudo words
e.g. Tofa and an actual German word, an actual German word e.g. house, were played to young
German speaking women and men.
When the presentation of the second word of a pair house related to Tofa house coincided
with an ongoing slow wave peak, the chances increased that a new semantic association
between the pair had been formed and retained.
Sleep form association translated into awake ones where they guided first choices on an
implicit memory test.
So reactivations of the sleep form association were mirrored by brain activation increases
measured with fMRI in cortical language areas and the hippocampus, a brain structure critical
for relational binding.
They inferred that implicit relational binding had occurred during peaks of slow oscillations
recreating a hippocampal neocortical network comparable to vocabulary learning in the waking
state.
This is really interesting because, for instance, in the case of Ferrari and Massimini, they
found that experienced meditators while being in deep sleep, where they analyzed their brain
waves and they found gamma oscillations during deep sleep of these meditators which are supposed
to be the markers of cognitive abilities, well, this is the case.
And now, I'm going just to briefly describe this working concept of abstraction which is
based on two different influences on the one hand is the allocentric and negocentric maps
of the experience and realized by research by Jorji Busaki, which is based mainly the
more perspective of an object or landscape or situation we have, the more abstract it
turns.
That's on the one hand and the other hand is maybe the most spread concept and it's the
inference of general rules with few parameters that has been used, for instance, by Francois
Collet.
So now the second section of the presentation.
So here there is a quotation by Max Thiermark, that I like whenever I talk about how experience
may be composed, so an observer can always decompose the world into three subsystems,
the degrees of freedom corresponding to her subjective perception, the degrees of freedom
being studied and the environment.
So I'm here in this chart, I divide it into two models to clarify the purpose of the experiment.
There is this monadic self causality, there is a net of interactions and there is a witness
consciousness which is the asynonym of the concept of pure consciousness.
So I hear a sound, is there somebody, the micro of somebody is coming in?
Okay, so, and this is the other one, no, anyways, so, and for this purpose of researching pure
consciousness, it's important to divide mental representations from mental actions.
Because most of the time these definitions are collapsed.
So, and first we have the phenomena of self model that has phenomena of contents and some
systems have intentional contents in regard to those phenomena of contents.
And for this we also it has been described the phenomena of intentional relations and
the epistemic agent model.
And these have are normally related to what's being called mental actions that it's the
purpose of the research for pure consciousness, which is the main goal of these research is
to find the epistemic self causation of human beings and it's also related to the concept
of insight, lucidity and sense of effort.
And these are divided between mental autonomy and rational autonomy.
So in the case of mental autonomy, we have first order mental action, which is divided
in two.
So it's a tension agency, it's the ability to control one's focus of attention and cognitive
agency.
So the ability to control goal, task, deliberate thought.
On the other hand, we have the rational autonomy, which is second order mental actions.
So it's better control is imposing the rules of one's mental behavior and symbolic reasoning
process.
So it's global input output function to maximize the specific fitness criterion.
So mental actions shape a certain representation of ongoing attentional agency and the ability
to act as an epistemic agent, which is important for the sense of embodiment, the representation
of disabilities, so this is to appearance of the first person perspective.
This, the best example to divide between mental representations and mental actions is the distinction
between mindfulness and mind wandering.
We can have mental representations in mind wandering, but we cannot have mental representations
during mindfulness, at least the non-dual version of the mind.
Yes, there's a micro over there, okay.
So this is the third section, it's just briefly the definition of autoprogate machine, which
is a cost of the self, it's based on the theories of inactivism and neuro phenomenology.
And simply is a unified cost of the self, which has auto projected organization that
it creates its own self, it specifies its own boundaries in the process of server production
and intrinsic attributes.
This is important because normally it's, it's, it has been thought that to give an account
of consciousness is by observation.
So and that's that creates more or less some misunderstandings.
So if a physical, you know, autopoietic systems capable of autonomous exchange of signals
would be conscious, but embodiment is necessary as physical way to exchange signals.
So and this is just to give an example that these type of complex organization may appear
in different scales of description that it's not only restricted to the human one, which
makes the thing more difficult to grasp if there are other types of possible causalities
that other systems could realize.
So and now the description of what it's actually pure consciousness.
So and it's to witness an open space for epistemic availability.
And on the left side, the definitions are that it's a state of a non cognitive state,
less or empty, non sensory, a perspectival, non motor, non egoic, a temporal.
And on the right side, we have that it's the basis of all knowing the pure element of awareness,
self-nominous, different from the empirical individual.
This has been fully researched by also not only by this neuroscientist that I mentioned,
but also in Indian philosophy and some of the meditative traditions in Buddhism.
So PC as a non dual form of awareness is a representation of the state.
This sense of representation can be discussed, obviously it's the thing that it's planned
to be discussed, a state of pure presence and the functional property of tonic awareness.
So this I more or less I would mention that some of the methodologies that we are using
is the judge's thoughts on law and the essential particular activation system to analyze the
levels of arousal.
So and Thomas Metzinga, the philosopher, the German philosopher did this psychometric
instrument in order to analyze pure consciousness.
And there are six constraints, it's way, way, and how to understand those.
So it's wakefulness and the phenomenal quality of tonic awareness, low complexity of reportable
content and absence of high level, symbolic mental content, but also perceptual sensor
motor of emotional content, self luminosity, a phenomenon property of NPE typically described
as radiance and brilliance or the clear light of primordial awareness.
Introspective availability, we can sometimes actively direct introspective attention to
NPE and we can distinguish possible states by the degree of actually ongoing access.
Epistemicity as NPE is an epistemic relation, awareness of if NPE is a sexually introspective
that's also one of the things that we would like to find out and then we would predict
a distinct phenomenal character of epistemicity or subjective confidence.
Transparency opacity, like all other phenomena representations, NPE can vary along a spectrum
of opacity and transparency, it can be experienced as representation or not.
The levels of analysis of the ARAS model and those are based on physical, functional,
and phenomenological levels of analysis.
So it's a browser, purely physical boundary condition, determining the depth of information
processing available to the organism as a world and a vital parameter that must be predictively
controlled.
Tonic alertness, a causal function resulting from the successful control of a browser over
longer periods of time in the absence of an external cue and a functional property causally
enabling capacities like orientation, executive control, attention, and epistemic agency on
the mental level.
Our presentation of tonic alertness and the major component of the phenomenal character
of the NPE, which is the primary dimension of phenomenal state space.
She is just to have an example of the types of body illusory perceptions and on the left
side we have autoscopic hallucination, autoscopy, out-of-body experience, and the type of phenomenal
illusions and the neural correlates on the right.
And this is just a multi-dimensional chart of how these global states of consciousness
and self-loss can be analyzed.
And now the experiments.
So the first one is some lucidity during deep sleep or an exploration of the physiological
and phenomenological thresholds for the emergence of the NPE.
And pure consciousness can be hypothetically isolated during lucid brainless sleep, according
to meditative traditions, mainly non-dual.
I didn't write that.
PC is reachable through trained meditation to witness pure presence without phenomenal
boundaries.
And the question is whether it's possible to have cognitive access to that state, access
consciousness, and prove it under a third-person perspective or to depict empirically what
it's like to be in lucid deep sleep, which is phenomenal consciousness.
Thus consciousness is dependent on observation, which is also part of the whole thing between
observation and intrinsic attributes.
And thus lucid brainless sleep require large-scale gamma activity, which is also one of the outcomes
of Ferrarari's research.
So the description of the experiment.
The candidates, experienced meditators, will listen to a musical pattern in the electrical
peaks of a slow-wave sleep.
This pattern will be composed based on their correlations to neural markers of high cognitive
processes as gamma oscillations.
Once awake, they will describe freely their experience while in lucid brainless sleep
before listening to various musical patterns in order to test if they can recognize the
one previously applied to them.
The sense of describe freely is that we won't get any set of options.
So good experience meditators recognize the musical patterns that they attended when being
in slow-wave sleep once awake.
And now the second experiment.
On the maximal UI, or a virtual simulation of non-dual awareness during wakefulness,
if the physiological dynamics of PC were isolated during lucid brainless sleep, which
is the main goal of this research, and it has already, it is not in the presentation,
but it has already, there are some hints also by a Chinese lab that they create, they develop
