an experiment in order to track just the temporal dynamics of the hippocampus, in order to like
save past information and how these work in present time, in an ongoing process.
So if it's possible to isolate these dynamics, it would be possible to track this behavior
of the brain doing non-negotiable experience like the maximal UI in certain meditative and
psychedelic states, in which the sense of the self and bodily awareness vanish.
So pure consciousness, well, witnesses the open epistemic field in a contentless phenomenality.
The signature of knowing has been called by Metzingo.
Is it possible to become identical with the process of consciousness itself?
Are there any concrete examples of phenomenality without intentional content?
That's also one of the important things to be discussed.
Are self-hood and perspectivalness necessary conditions for phenomenality?
And now the description, well, yeah, the description of how it's going to be displayed, the experiment.
It's called hallucination, it's called the control hallucination that it has been also
used this concept to define consciousness.
I don't know if I agree, but the point here for the control hallucinations by means of
a VR, I agree using this concept.
So a control hallucination of non-dual awareness with VR using a head mounted display and synchronized
multi-sensor inputs could enable us to research if it is possible to ship the UI in waking
state to a non-dual awareness caused by the epistemic agent model.
Synchronous stimuli have been already correlated because self-identification with a virtual
body based on the research, well, there are many, but here I'm just naming the research
by Blankey and Metzinger.
The experiment will simulate body ownership and agency with other types of embodiment
until reaching full phenomenal self-identification with contentless simulation in the point one
of the virtual control hallucination with pure presence.
Here is just a brief chart to describe how agency works.
So we have on top of the cognitive first person perspective is the strong and the weak one
and the strong is the one we have normally in everyday life and the weak one would be
just the purely geometrical feature that interacts with the phenomenal landscape that it's supposed
also to vanish during pure consciousness.
On the side of the embodiment we have, well, the embodiment triggers the sense of self-identification
and self-location.
And finally, just how the actual virtual reality will work.
So just these few steps to simulate a phenomenal landscape in VR that contains a virtual replication
of the candidates, a forest surrounded by mountains, a city, geometrical and auditory
patterns to determine the forms of body embodiment, a bodily replication of the candidates, animals,
movement from the elements of leaves and water, geometrical forms and darkness to synchronize
sensory, stimuli, tactile, auditory and visual with a responsive feedback from the physical
reactions of the candidates coming from the movement of their eyes, hair, trade, body,
temperature and electrical signals from the brain to make available a subjective balance
of the hallucination with the movement of the eyes.
This feature will work as well for giving value to the degrees of virtual embodiment.
And here it's also how this works because the movement of the eyes has been already correlated
in Pusaki's research as the one that enables attention and cognitive gain and abstraction.
So on the final features of the VR is to start with a virtual replication of candidates bodies
before the transformation of other embodiments begins on the reaching non-dual awareness
and to finish with the same virtual replication in an approximate period of two hours, the
virtual events will display from dual awareness and its dissolution through different types
of embodiments and its dissolution in non-duality, sorry, to duality again.
So it's duality, non-duality and duality again.
So to deliver a task, a trip to the forest from the city to swim in the lake beneath the
mountains, and it's important to have a task because that will control the focus of attention
of the candidates while the control hallucination will change the types of embodiment that
they will experience.
And these types of embodiments are correlated to a particular type of phenomenon like the
landscape inputs that they will feel.
So to direct the attention of the candidates to certain elements in the phenomenon of reproduction
of reality in the achievement of the particular task and simultaneously forms of software
embodiment will emerge in a rhythmic process in which the transformation of the outer embodiment
will be coordinated with direct attention to develop the changes in a continuous temporal
experience.
So to change smoothly the simulation in order to make it real, before and after the point
one, the abstract phenomena will be triggered by geometrical patterns taking from realistic
simulation of the landscape.
And while I hear there, there's more information about the types of embodiment than the neural
correlates.
So I will stop here.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Julio, if anyone has any questions, you can now move to the Q&A section on the right and
ask your questions to Julio.
Go ahead, Marco.
Hi.
Thank you for the talk.
That was interesting.
Oh, wait.
Can you hear me?
Yes.
Yes.
Oh, okay.
Sorry.
Yeah, that was interesting.
Thank you.
I got to say it was a bit complicated to fully track.
So if I could just ask some clarificatory questions.
So it was one experiment where it was like a participant is in dreamless, lucid sleep.
And you played some sounds and you, what was it?
You played some musical patterns or latched onto the slow wave peaks and then ask if they
later would recall the break.
Yes.
And can you listen to me?
Yeah.
Okay.
And yes.
And then tracking the physiological dynamics.
Okay.
And so what was the purpose?
Yes.
So what was exactly the purpose or the main question behind the experiments?
And to disentangle what it's called mental action and it's the ability, which are the
theoretically the, the neural marker, well, the phenomenon and neural markers of epistemic
self-accusation.
That makes you be, whenever you are in a cognitive state, you have to, to cause whatever we think
agency is, is that we can create autonomously our, so we can trigger our own cognitive states
that it does not depend only on the dynamics with the, with the surroundings and is that
we can cause ourselves cognitive states.
That's what we are trying to disentangle.
But I'm a bit confused because, so first of all, how does that experiment involve agency?
Because I thought that minimal phenomenal experience would, would be without agency.
And I'm not sure how could you explain how the musical pattern recall would connect to
this notion of agency and mental action?
Okay, the first one, yeah, that's, that's, that's a whole point, obviously, because in,
in a phenomenal sense, in a subjective sense, there's no, there's no subject.
There's, obviously, but in a nontological sense, you are still there.
Yeah.
But, but, but, but, but I'm confused, like, like, like, are you assuming in that experiment
that you won't see agency?
But again, how does that relate to the recall of the musical patterns?
How it's related in the sense, in the first experiment that I showed at the beginning,
it was possible to correlate the sounds in the peaks of the slow waves with a tendency
to, to, to, like, to find, yeah, to, to guess, to guess better the, the type of the, of sounds
and the correlations that they will, that they listen while being in deep sleep.
So the thing is that they were supposed to be without consciousness.
So, you know, what I'm saying, I said, this correlation happened first, perhaps I described
the experiment, the first experiment so fast.
No, I was also very distracted.
So don't leave yourself.
It's okay.
So the thing is that in deep sleep, it's supposed that you are not there.
So and, but there are nonetheless brainwaves.
Okay.
So these two points are important.
So doing the peaks of the slow waves, they, they put some sounds correlate, like, I don't
know.
You, you, as experiment, you do that by design.
So, so, you know, you measuring the slow wave peaks and you're making sure that musical
patterns are correlated with that, right?
Before, yeah, but before it's, it has to be correlated with a type of, of, of musical
sound that it's also correlated to cognitive, not, not every sound is correlated to cognitive
work.
But, but again, I'm very, I'm not sure if I'm misunderstanding something, someone please
jump in and chat or whatever.
But, but, but again, so, so how does music, how does then mental action fit into this?
I'll be honest, I'm still kind of confused about the, what you're actually doing by designing
an experiment with the musical patterns and the slowest sleep.
Like, anyways, yeah.
No, no, yeah.
Maybe the thing is that normally while doing experiments, they, they have a complex set
and within this set, they have the thing that they want to analyze in this type of methodology
that we are using is we take everything away and then through them, the minimal dynamics
that can be analyzed is that we are guessing the type of neural markers that this has.
Wait, but how are you guessing the type of neural markers of, well, first of all, neural
markers.
The type of neural markers are arousal and the peaks of the slow waves and gamma oscillations.
They are particular, they are particular markers.
It's not, this is not to be confused.
And there's also a particular type of response.
Oh wait, so, so, so maybe I'm misunderstanding.
So you're doing musical patterns and you're asking the participant beforehand to somehow
through mental action and dream sleep to, to, to, to change the slow wave patterns so
that they map onto the musical patterns.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
They listen to that.
And afterwards, we ask that, but we have always to, we have a control group.
I said, once that, that were correlated with the peaks of the slow waves and the other
ones that were not correlated and people with meditative and without meditative experience,
because it's supposed that people with meditative experience tend to be aware during deep sleep.
And it's also has been analyzed in the experiments that I showed at the beginning, that people
with meditative experience show in the EG type of gamma oscillations, which are not typical
of deep sleep, such type, such type of neural markers is that we, is the things that we
are trying to, to capture.
So it's not only the type of brain waves, it's also the temporal dynamics that these
have.
It correlated with the type of bodily reactions in general, because it's also important, the
movement of the eyes and the breath.
So there are many other things in, in relation to this.
So whenever we, so once, here, I just described the output of the experiment.
I didn't, I didn't describe how every single stream of the experiment is going to be created.
So you, you are right.
There are many like pieces that, so first, which is to be correlated, what type of sounds
are correlated with cognitive, with a cognitive state.
So that's also, also part of the, of the questions.
But then the second thing was like, how, how was this supposed to investigate mental action?
Because in, in its pure form, a mental action is the, whatever enables you to, to show, like
to have a sense of effort.
So sense of what?
Sense of effort, lucidity, insight, whenever you, you say, ah, this is that, this, oh, you
are trying to solve a mathematical problem, or whatever you are doing, there's this sense
of effort that enables you to be aware of such cognitive dynamics.
It's not purely the cognitive.
So with, with these, we are not trying to tackle the, the, the object of cognitive dynamics,
but the awareness of such cognitive dynamics, I don't know if you get that point.
Yeah.
I'm just, just so confused how mental action plays, like, how is mental action investigated
with that experimental setup?
Yeah, for the, for the, by the very definition that I gave in the, so here it's, it's called
attentional agency.
Oh, right.
So, so, so those experienced meditators would, you're assuming that they're actively
