about like logical fallacies and then, you know, having a base and straw
manning and then knowing steelmanning is the opposite.
I think steelmanning, you can usually get both from context and from association
with the word straw man, things like referring to mollock is much more difficult.
Those we do a good job about, I think.
Yeah, you did a good job with.
Oh, fantastic.
But yeah, I think it's tough in case by case.
Well, I think it's an iterative process.
We'll get feedback and try and do better every time.
You have a thing?
Yeah, a couple of things.
Cool.
One thing I said in regards to which episode, I can't tell.
The last third of this episode is focused on norms.
When pressed to name an example of a norm, the guest said something about how
people would get into these logic loops that led them to undesirable, undesirable
conclusions, i.e. a suicide bomber.
I feel like there are a few implied concepts related to this that were not
brought up, most likely because most of your listeners have already
understand these concepts, mind elaborating further for my benefit.
Your response was to think about reason as mimetic immune disorder, wherein Phil
gets argues that cultural cultures develop traditions, mimetic immune immunity
that neuters the harmful, crazy aspects of their foundational documents, i.e.
religious texts, people who are then taught to rigorously apply reason and
follow arguments and flinchingly to their conclusion, apply that background to
their cultural beliefs.
They lose the cultural traditions that protected them, which is why most
terrorists have studied at Western universities.
That was an interesting one.
There was another thing about.
I, this is all back in April.
So God, my brain is totally gone from there.
I had, it was regarding to, I think, because one thing that I'm very
interested in is how do we encourage and apply rational, how do we encourage
rationality in other people?
Yeah.
Because it's great to sit around in our little nerd rooms and be nerds and talk
about cryonics, but that doesn't really help Joe Schmoe.
I've been to a lot of Trump country lately, and that is not a concept.
None of this is a concept at all.
And I guess, and I don't want to talk about politics here, because I
know you guys don't avoid that.
But one thing that I thought was very interesting is how people seem to
prefer feeling good than being right, or than, than improving themselves.
And that's kind of been a huge feature in our politics recently where people
would rather feel good about something, even though that, that thing is not
doing them good and is in fact bad for them.
Quick clarifier that I don't think that we don't try to avoid politics so
much as this isn't like a political podcast.
Sure.
So like, but by all means, I'm not going to shut down a guest if we want to go
there, I'm always, I'm always looking for an excuse to talk about it.
But I know that, I mean, especially when I'm listening to stuff going around,
it's, it's hard to, uh, the wound's still pretty fresh.
So like it's, it's not like I can't make it funny yet.
But there's, there's a lot to listen to out there whenever you listen to
really any podcast, someone's talking about it.
But that said, as long as it's not every show, I'm completely fine talking
about it once in a while.
So I think in my opinion, you can't talk someone into valuing
this sort of mindset and this sort of thinking.
It's, uh, it's not like you're going to sit them down and tell them about
the benefits of rationality.
And they're going to be like, Oh, you're right, I should totally do that.
Uh, it's the same, I was raised a Jehovah's Witness.
It's the same thing, um, that Jehovah's Witnesses often try to do and
really fail that was talking people out of their religious beliefs.
You just can't do it.
People don't give a fuck.
They have their own religion and you're not going to show them, look, but in
the Bible, this and this says that your soul is actually this and that.
So come to our religion because it knows the Bible more better than yours,
which, which is a thing they try to do a lot.
Um, they never said this, but from experience, talking to people who did
convert and, um, talking to other Jehovah's Witnesses who did manage to
convert people from going to door to door.
Uh, the way they did it was, I don't think this was ever the intention of the
program.
They were just trying to like tell people about their better system.
Uh, but since they're constantly knocking on doors and always telling
everyone about it, they maximize how many people they meet in a week.
And every now and then some small percentage of those people are going
through some sort of major emotional crisis.
Their mom just died and they're like, God send me a sign or they are in the
deepest pits of a depression and they're thinking about killing themselves.
And they just need some sort of group to come and tell them, you are a worthwhile
human being and you are valued.
And because the Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons too are constantly knocking
on doors, they find people who are in these extremely emotional and vulnerable
states.
And then they, in my opinion, swoop in and be like, haha, now we have you
because we can offer you this emotional support and release.
And all we want is the rest of your life supporting the church.
And again, it wasn't intended this way.
It was intended, you know, as a way to share the good news, quote unquote.
But what it really ends up being is preying on the people who are weak
because you managed to find the people who are in those moments of crisis.
Couldn't you then say that rationality could in theory have the same problem
by which groups of rationalists could go door to door knocking on people's
doors and hoping to find an emotionally vulnerable person and then tell them how
to not be emotional and improve themselves.
And that is one of the reasons I don't think we should do that.
What I think we actually should do or what, because you can't talk someone out
of their beliefs just by talking to them and you don't want to be the
predator swooping in on people in their moment of emotional weakness.
What I advocate is being at least somewhat open about how you are
and being excited about it and telling people, you know, like, yeah,
I'm doing this great thing.
And dude, here's here's this awesome thing I'm doing with my community.
And oh, did you know this and that, like being excited about your beliefs
and just sharing them every now and then, not sharing them sharing them,
but not being afraid to talk about them, not being afraid to talk about them.
Yeah, just being enthusiastic and excited and that can often draw people.
They're like, at least I found I am really getting fucking sick and tired
of the culture wars.
And I just want to opt out and be around other people who are excited
about life and are excited about cool new technologies and where the human
race is going in the future.
And hey, let's talk about this cool thing that might happen when we can augment
our brains with cybernetics or replace our limbs with, you know, cool new
better limbs, which I mean, obviously long time coming.
But I mean, ballpark, I met a guy, I don't know, last year who had also
my uncle has the the old version.
It's a hook that he flexes his shoulder to open it and close his rubber bands.
I met a guy at the car dealership what in April?
And he had one that he could control open and close and it popped off.
And I think he said, I still don't know how he sent impulses to it.
It must have been through his, you know, brain.
But I think it he mentioned something about Bluetoothing to his phone or
something like that.
But I mean, that seemed cooler than ours already.
Yeah.
As soon as they can take a punch, like it's already better than ours, right?
I mean, depends on what you want to use it for.
If you're optimizing for being a killing machine, sure.
But I would want my hand to be able to feel a booby still.
And I couldn't do that with my robot hand.
So that's true.
But if you add back in touch perception for like some of the attachments,
because he could just pop it off and handed it to me.
Yeah, well, not just handed it to me, but I think we could pop it off
and pop on like a power drill.
So he's working on his car, working on his house and like, you know,
but not just touch perception on my part.
I want the person who I'm touching to like that, too. Right?
Yeah, I guess. OK, so you're making this harder and harder.
I want it to be literally better than the arm I have right now.
Well, he's talking about boobies, so something's getting harder.
So that that is a high bar to clear.
There is nothing right now that can clear better than my current arm.
There you go. Yeah. There you go.
I really liked we were going with the shall
we call it evangelizing rationality discourse, because I think that's
ultimately what we are talking about or talking about doing or not doing.
Because I feel like there is an interest and benefit in spreading these ideas
and they don't spread themselves.
Yeah, the place I get it most is when, as we were talking downstairs,
is when I meet up with deathist ideas.
That is the time I most often push back and be like, no,
the future can be so much better than infinite death for everyone.
All right, so that is a concept I do not know.
OK, so deathism, deathist really quick before we jump into that,
I wanted to say that as far as I guess my version of proselytizing,
I've got two quick thoughts.
One that our message is a harder sale.
So even if we found people in a moment of crisis,
unless all we were preaching was like transhumanism or something,
then you could get people, you know, you could save desperate people or whatever.
But for the most part, a message in the opening paragraph is pretty bleak.
It's like, hey, so there's no magic, there's no easy cures,
there's no guidance from, you know, from a higher power.
There's no afterlife.
So you come to somebody who's already feeling kind of down and tell them,
hey, you know, all the shit you're holding up, holding up hope for
basically isn't true until you get to paragraph two and you start talking
transhumanism stuff.
But, you know, I guess my my version of proselytizing,
this sort of thing is recording this and putting it out to people who are interested
rather than just doing this downstairs over coffee.
So and you also, I mean,
that's more the atheist side of things.
And yes, atheism and rationality go very much hand in hand, as in my opinion,
they should. But there are rationalist Catholics.
There's rationalist Orthodox Jews.
There's rationalist Mormons.
There's you can be a spiritual, religious person and believe in God
and still be a rationalist if you do the right mental tweaks,
which I found fascinating.
The mental tweaks. Yes.
And I want to write like a short story or maybe a novel based on those
mental tweaks at some point, because they were so fucking cool.
That is very cool.
I think rationality can offer things to people who might still be dependent
on the concept of an afterlife or some sort of comfort.
So one thing we've talked that's been talked about a lot in the podcast is simulations.
Are we living in a simulation?
How this that anything that makes me live it?
Oh, I that's a I hate that idea.
OK, one, because there's no way to prove or disprove it.
