doing that would be just giving people the option to kind of wipe out their old mind
and say, all right, I'm going to try this, but I'm going to start from this upbringing instead.
Kind of just like, you know, you choose your own adventure style book,
except you could start your own or like a.
Rewroll your character.
Exactly. Rewroll your character sheet.
And you're like, I'm going to try and be, you know, this for 10,000 years.
And maybe at the end, you know, you can, I don't know how this would work.
You can revert back to who you were before.
Yeah, you could revert back or you could, you know, collapse all those into one mind.
You'd be like, all right, well, that was fun.
Now I have all these five different generations of experiences.
I'm going to try this one next.
That might be one way to get new or novel minds into the,
into the world without having to like create them, right?
Yeah. I remember my thought.
My thought was you are overestimating our ability to say, remember all of the types
of minds we might encounter that could possibly exist.
That's true.
Because if you are assuming that all humans, all future trans humans all have perfect recall,
and then we're, well, then we're effectively computers at that point.
Well, I don't know how much, how good I feel about that.
But at that point we're computers with infinite memory, which is not possible
because nothing is infinite as possible.
So I think you are over, you are underestimating people's ability to forget.
Okay. And I, as, as for the boredom thing, I just, I don't really see that as an issue.
I think there are so many different things you can do and so many ways to combat boredom.
And I mean, you could even just erase parts of yourself if you wanted to to retry things like,
God, there's some movies I wish I could just completely erase my memory of having watched
the matrix because the first time you watched the matrix, you're like, holy fuck, my mental is
the same way. The first time you watch Memento and you get to the, the end scene and everything
snaps into place, it's just like, wow, I will never have that experience again with this movie,
because I already know how it ends now, you know.
Right. But you also gained a lot of cool stuff.
Yeah.
I have, by the virtue of having experienced that.
Yeah.
If you erased that, then whatever growth you might have gotten from that experience is now wasted.
And if we're talking about a silly little, you know, if we're talking about a knock,
knock joke or something, then no, nothing really matters.
But when I saw the matrix, that opened my mind to a lot of interesting concepts.
A lot of, you know, media does that to us.
We're like, I never thought of that before.
That's super cool.
And you carry that wisdom with you for forever on.
I don't know if that's valuable to say, well, I want to be able to just hit the repeat button
over and over and over again and have that.
Turning to a loop intelligence.
Yes. Then you, then you just, then you've just made yourself into,
I mean, how different are you from an experimental rat who hits a button to get a drop of cocaine water?
Right.
But I think there are a lot of experiences that can still be had.
And if anyone ever really does get to the point where they have done literally everything
that is possible to do and interacted with everyone that it is worth interacting with,
which is, I think the harder part, if there are trillions of people out there,
like even getting to know one person really well takes a long time and they still keep surprising you.
And, and I just don't think you would run out of stuff.
But if you ever did completely run out of stuff and just be bored,
and you could always just kill yourself at that point.
But okay, I'm done. I have finished this game.
Yep.
Make way for a new person.
I actually think a lot about the mortality issue in regards in the context of computer games.
Because if you ever have, it's sort of like, if you ever turn on God mode, you're bored, right?
It's like, well, there's no, there's no more challenge. There's no more, more interest.
It's fun for about two minutes to go crazy. And then you're like, oh, man.
Well, that was a waste of my time.
And so one type of game that I actually really dislike playing are sandbox games.
Okay.
I can't, I'm sure there's many examples of them.
But I never like them because I never, because there's,
there stops being a point pretty quickly once you kind of get your head around what's going on.
And it just kind of continues in perpetuity and there's no real point.
And you just kind of go, okay, well, I'm here.
And I guess that's cool and whatever.
But there's a lot of people that like them.
I know. And I don't understand that.
I think those are the sorts of people that are good at making their own meaning.
They're like, you know what?
I'm going to make a giant calculator out of Minecraft.
That's exactly the example I was going to raise.
Just because that would be neat thing to try to do.
Someone made a binary calculator in Minecraft where they use the electric currents,
which is that you can use to power carts and doors and stuff.
And they made a, a big binary calculator that could do math and everything.
Like it's massive.
The logic gates are literally big enough for your character to walk through because it's Minecraft.
But, but it works.
Yeah. Those are the kind of people that can take, you know, a pointless sandbox game and just like,
what can I, and they think the pops, they think of just the possibility space of everything that
they can think of, and they can find a fun target that's hard to hit and grab it.
I'm not that kind of person.
I don't play a lot of Minecraft.
I, I'm like you, I played it till I got, you know, oh, this is how the game works.
Well, in order to do anything like you can keep digging for like harder to get resources,
but that gets old really fast.
So, but luckily, I don't think our lives are really that kind of sandbox.
You know, it, because there are things that you, well, I guess down the line,
things could get different where, where there aren't things you have to do.
Because in Minecraft, you could just sit in your mud hut all the time and just go out and
grab food every day and go back inside, right?
Like, you don't have to build a cool house with electric doors.
Just like real life.
Yeah, just like, just like real life.
Hide from the monsters in your mud huts.
Except the monster's depression.
The monster, if the monster can't chase you, it's probably sad.
You'd give it a meaning, you'd give you a purpose by letting it chase you.
Oh.
Plus depression can get you inside your mud hut.
So, yeah, that's true.
But that aside, I think that, you know, for the most part,
there are things that we feel compelled to do, whether it's because we need,
you know, money to pay for like housing and food or just to alleviate boredom.
There's, there's more of a drive to get stuff done than like you need in a sandbox game.
So I don't know if that's the best, I see where the analogy is,
but I don't know how strong it is to like actually translating to real life.
But it could be more closely applicable to distant simulation lives that people could have,
right?
Because that might be much more sandboxy.
Here's my, here's my counter to that.
So you ever, you ever notice how the busier you are, the more interesting things seem to be,
the more work you get done, the more interesting things you encounter.
And if you just have, if you've ever had a phase of life where you've just been kind of stuck
somewhere and not a lot's going on, and you kind of, all of your desires, all of your interests,
just kind of crater.
I'm sure there's some people who can, who can actually use that time really productively.
I'm just not one of them.
But a lot of life desires, a lot of what makes living worth it.
What it's sort of like how if you sit around all day and it sucks,
but then you just decide to go take a, take a little walk or a little hike and all of a sudden
like, look at the world, look how cool this is and all it inspires you, it makes you productive,
it gives you inspiration.
If you have a transhuman society in which you don't have to leave your mud hut,
because there's a food replicator there and there's infinite good TV that's always really cool.
And you can always, you know, future Skype with your friends across the light years,
and you have no, you have no reason to get out of your, your whole.
Then why are you there?
Are you, you're, you're, you are existing, you are not thriving, you are not evolving,
you're not growing.
And the kind of the point of this immortality thing almost seems like you,
you're wanting to have something in which you can infinitely grow and yet infinitely stay the same
at the same time.
And those don't seem, those seem to be counter purposeful.
Yes, they are at odds.
I do have a couple of quick thoughts.
One that I sort of assume that your food replicating machines in the future will have
like either that or your biology will have like anti-depressants 2.0 in them.
Like, you know, they'll make you just less depressed in general.
Like that sort of just like boring on-we feeling that you're describing.
You know, it's like, you'll have, I don't know, for the most part, when I'm feeling like that,
you know, that closed off, like just sitting and doing nothing all the time,
that's mainly just like, I have this like lack of energy and drive.
And hopefully that won't be a problem.
I'd like to think that that's a fixable issue.
But the second half of that, you're getting into describing like utopia problems.
And that's not something I'm equipped to tackle.
That's a, that's a really hard line of thinking.
Because yeah, how do you keep people happy and engaged in a society that is like also safe
from, you know, accidental death and that sort of thing, right?
There's got to be challenges to overcome because that's super satisfying.
That's part of why people like doing stuff.
Right. And Inuyash had a thing about this quite some time ago
about having the AI protect us from asteroids.
And if the AI protected us from asteroids and other bad things,
and the humans feel like they can't do it themselves,
then the humans aren't going to be very happy with that.
Because then what is the point of the humans being there?
Why not just have the AI just be everything?
Right.
And you, I believe we're in favor of, were you in favor of the AI,
basically being our babysitter or not?
I can't remember.
I was not.
I was definitely in favor.
You, you, you were in favor of the AI.
But I think that's absolutely real.
If we feel like we don't have meaningful choices and also danger is fun.
Why do people do stupid things all the time?
Because the ones who survive the thing are like, whoa, I survived the thing.
It's amazing.
It's amazing.
And of course the ones who don't, well, they're dead and nobody cares.
Danger is fun, but the species going extinct isn't.
That's sort of why I was in favor of like having the AI be the,
the guardian sort of role, right?
Just of extinction.
I mean, yeah, or catastrophe, right?
You know, if we lost 70% of people, that also would be kind of a drag.
Like your stupid mistake shouldn't kill off half the planet,
but if it kills you and that was a risk you're willing to take, then, you know, okay,
I can bite that bullet.
I do want to go back to what Steven said just a minute ago, though, where he said,
but these are utopia problems.
And I think that's, that's totally the point.
That yes, these are problems and they are things we will have to address,
but we can find better solutions than killing everyone is what I always come back to.
I don't think anyone is advocated for that yet.
Well, no, but a lot of people do.
They're like, and that is why nobody should be immortal.
