consensus is this, well, there's a huge benefit in science to overthrowing a paradigm, right?
Right, not just because the person's smart, but because his peers will call him out if his reasoning
isn't good. Yeah, so that's, I mean, I'm still trying to think of people I know that would be
good candidates for this. We'll have to give it some thought. Okay, you gotta know someone,
like even people you're related to. Yeah, but I don't know if they would want to do a podcast.
They would have to drive all the way down. Or like even just want to talk, right? So I don't
know, this is this is tough. Maybe you know more people than I do. I mean, I try to keep the people
that I know fairly broad. I never thought that I would be dating an actual witch. But I was like,
I maintain that you're not. I now also agree. But for the first few weeks, I was like,
it's expanding my sphere of people. Let's give this a try. Yep. Well, I'm saying that I don't
think I think that she says that she thinks she's a witch. I don't think she actually thinks she's
a witch. She doesn't think she's, she says I'm doing spells and stuff, but you're not actually
doing stuff. You're meditating. And I feel like that's, and like I point out, I feel like that word
game is uselessly complicated and doesn't help anything other than a herd herd made a goal of
challenging social or challenging expectations. Well, it also does a pretty good job of filtering
out people who will not put up with that shit. Like even just a few years ago, I would have been
like, Oh, so you're a crazy person and not bothered. But you know, lately I was like, whatever,
everyone's crazy. Let's see what sort of crazy this crazy is. And if it's a fun kind of crazy,
that's cool. And it turned out to be not that crazy after all, just trying to filter out people,
you know? Yeah, I know a lot of people who wouldn't go to rational, who wouldn't go to a
rationalist meetup and, you know, who enjoy good conversation. I think so I'm not, I don't want to
give the impression that like I only have like 10 friends and I'll go to less wrong meetups.
But I only have 11 friends, 10 of them go to less wrong meetups. So,
and the 11th, I don't know if they'd want to do a podcast. I'm being somewhat facetious.
You can ask people. Yeah. And then ask them what, like, what's the topic? Do you want to talk about
like general or do you want to grab a list of topics? Okay, you'd probably have to start with
something you don't agree on. Probably to stimulate conversation. Oh my God, we might have to learn
this double crux thing people keep talking about. That's fun. I've been reading about it. Oh, good,
then you should do it. You should teach me about it on an episode. Because double crux. I thought
it'd be fun to do it like as an exercise on the air. So double crux is where I think quickly
paraphrasing, say Inyosh and I have different have a disagreement about a factual claim. We then say,
okay, well, I believe this claim because of this. And then I believe the opposite of that claim
because of this. And then that's our actual disagreement. We don't disagree about. Oh,
yes, you did cover this a little bit. This was, yes, I think this was covered at some point.
But I thought it'd be fun to like do an actual double crux game on the air. But
until you eventually get to a single belief that you guys both say,
this is a thing that this is I believe this. And if this certain thing were proved to be untrue,
I would change my mind. Exactly. And the other person believes the other way. And then you go and
try to find out what the actual truth about that claim is, right, which seems like a very
fucking hard thing to do. It is a lot of beliefs don't necessarily boil down to just one thing that
you can find, which is I guess part of the game, trying to find the one thing that's part of the
game. But it doesn't have to be one thing that like your entire belief depends on, I think.
It could be that just sufficient to change your mind. Yeah. So like,
like I don't know how you would double crux like abortion is good and bad because I think souls
exist. And I think they don't because you can't go empirically verify that claim. But you could
say like, I think gun, I think banning guns is a great idea because two people murder each other
with them. And then you could say, okay, well, let's compare that to other means to murder people
and other places that have have banned guns and what their murder rates look like. And at the end
of that, somebody should change their mind, right? In theory. I'm actually on a path of that exact
question. Are you? In regards to gun ownership. Okay. So I have a friend who is quite libertarian,
but as I would also say is probably would be or could be defined as a rationalist. He may not
use that term for himself. And we had a three hour discussion about gun ownership and gun rights
after Las Vegas. It was mostly me asking him questions just because that is not a headspace
I'm in. And I don't really understand a lot of the common pro gun arguments. And I was just
I was interested what he had to say because I'm quite anti gun. And he, you know, has his kind
of research and what he believes. And it was really well reasoned and really well argued.
Is he in the Denver area? He know he is in San Antonio, Texas, he's somewhere in Texas.
Although I'm sure we could find plenty of people in the Denver area that also hold that.
Oh, I'm sure you can find people everywhere. Just this is this is a guy who is extraordinarily well
read and smart and able to convey it in the able to convey it in a conversation. And there were,
you know, some fundamental things that I think we did come to that I just simply just couldn't
wrap my head around in terms of he firmly believes that it's good to have guns in case of
government takeover something. And I don't really know if I agree with that. But it really has spurred
me to start really critically thinking about some of these issues like what Steven just said about,
well, there's lots of way to kill lots of ways to kill people. And I have a lot of research that
I'm planning on doing to kind of really confront my own belief about it because I kind of haven't.
Dude, that's awesome. If you like modify your beliefs in any significant way, or even if you
do a lot of research and don't modify your beliefs, would you be willing to come back and
talk to us about it? Yes, I would. Fuck yeah. Hell yes. I would I would I would love to do that.
That sounds awesome. What else was it? Net neutrality left over? Yes. And since we're at about an
hour and 30, it's probably a good time to switch over to net neutrality unless we want to talk about
utilitarianism at all. Or if you remember any other things that you were like, these guys are
fucking crazy. I for I again, should have been keeping notes. Right. Because but you didn't know
that we were going to rope you in after after no, because I've been a year now that you've been
editing. Since Mario close, close to maybe we'll call it nine months. I think I can find out. I
can easily look it up. We did an episode that dove into different ethical systems. Back before
you started editing, I forget what it was called. But any questions you have about utilitarianism
might be might be addressed there just like about what the system talks about. At least I tried.
I recently read a really cool, I think it was a blog post by Ozzie. Maybe it was a Tumblr post
by unit of caring anyways, about the the four ethical schools based off Hufflepuff based off of
Hogwarts houses. And the question for if you're a Ravenclaw is does normative thinking on ethics
and ethical theories have anything at all to do with how you should act in real life? And if the
answer was yes, the the prognosis was congratulations, you're in house Hufflepuff, you're in house Ravenclaw.
I was like, what is that not 100% of humanity? Does not everyone think that actually looking
at an ethical system and judging it has some implications as to what your ethics should be?
And apparently no. That was one thing that I thought was true of all humans, which is apparently
not true of all humans, because a lot of people are not house Ravenclaw in terms of ethical systems.
It was one of those bizarre things that opened my mind. I'm like, there's some people that really
just don't care about that sort of calculation. And apparently there there is.
We might be in a bit of a self created bubble with our own house as it were.
I mean, yes, but just that it's like those people who are colorblind and don't realize that
they are colorblind until they're much older. Or apparently that this wasn't really anything person
who had no sense of smell didn't realize that there is a thing like a sense of smell until
their mid 20s. They always thought people were being like, I mean, they would literally hold
their nose and go pew and someone pulled out stinky socks. But just because they thought
that was a thing people did like a custom or a ritual, you know, and whenever someone says,
Oh, that rose smells really good. They thought it was a metaphorical thing, you know, to imply
how pretty it is and how well how nice it made them feel. And yes, this was one of those things
where I was like, Oh, I just did not know that some people didn't think about this sort of thing
and think that it was very important. Hmm. I mean, if if we were to run with the idea that
we're missing out on something analogous to smell or seeing colors, how would we ever be aware of
that through introspection, right? So that sounds like a rather tall problem. Let me really quickly
read what the actual I looked up what the actual question is. The infallible single question test
for identifying Ravenclaw primaries is is normative ethics boring and or completely disconnected
from any actual moral reasoning you do in your everyday life? And if your answer is no, welcome
to team Ravenclaw. Who does who thinks that normative ethics and moral reasoning is completely
disconnected from from? I would say people who don't know what normative ethics is. Okay. Or people
who don't care about it. I mean, if you explain it to them, then they would still say no, that's
disconnected to what I do when I do morality. Yeah, I don't understand the question either
than either. What would you define normative ethics? What would you say? If I said I don't
understand the question, the thinking of how things should be and actually having a formal
system for ethics that applies universally and preferably in all cases when possible,
but like a systemized ethics. And people will say I agree that that's a thing,
but that doesn't relate to how I actually conduct my good life. Yes. Pausing to think.
So much so that the people who don't say that are Ravenclaw.
So you could say, yes, that's all fun, hoity-toity conversation that people like Peter Stinger
have. But at the end of the day, we're going to just do whatever we want, right? Professor Quirrell
might be a good example. Professor Quirrell would probably be a Slytherin primary based on the
post that I'm going to, I guess, have to link now. That seems appropriate.
Right. Yeah. But no, they have other reasons like Gryffindor's do the right thing because it is right
because their emotions tell them it is right as opposed to because some stupid utilitarian
calculation that you did says that it's right. And what do you mean by utilitarian? The Ravenclaws
or the Hufflepuffs? The Ravenclaws would be utilitarians. Well, I could see them also being
Conteans, you know, if they have their ethical precepts. It doesn't have to be utilitarian
necessarily, but it has to be something like a deontological imperative.
Some sort of actual formal system that thinks about these things.
That's weird. Yeah. What criteria the Gryffindor is using to say this is?
The emotions that have been instilled in them about rightness and wrongness by their culture,
I would assume. So then they're like, yeah, okay, cool. On paper,
saving 10 people over one looks great, but at the end of the day, I'm going to save one because
it's more of a row way. Sure. Because it is the right thing to do. Like scoff.
Like they would say on paper, it may be better to kill 10 to kill one person, harvest his organs
to save 10. But that is an evil thing to do. So I won't. Whereas, you know, the Ravenclaw,
the utilitarian has to come up with reasons why it's actually worse to kill the one person to
save 10 within their system of ethics, be like, well, you shouldn't actually do that because
at least of these other bad effects, like people would no longer go to the doctor ever.
Right. And that's actually my biggest, as long as we're on the point, my biggest
annoyance with anti utilitarianism arguments is that people are like, yeah, but looking
up bad things would actually be, well, then you're not actually defending utilitarian position,
right? If like, if the idea like, oh, yeah, but society would fall apart if this,
well, then that's not what utilitarian would advocate. Right. Utilitarianism likes society
to keep going. Agreed. Okay. So I wanted to talk about net neutrality, because it has been going
around a lot in the social spheres that I, that I frequent. And I think with a very reflexive and
almost, this is going to betray my position, a reflexive and tribalist, really attitude,
where people take their position because it signals their loyalty to a group rather than
due to the actual matter at hand. Yeah, sure. They take the loyalty to the group of people
who advocate for freedom. Right. So that is why I wanted to talk about it. Okay. Because I had
seen that a lot from basically everyone I know, even last episode, when I said, we should talk
about this next time. And Stephen's like, what's there to talk about? Are you for against freedom?
Basically, I don't know if I came off quite that strong. Okay, quite that strong. And I may,
although I probably did something just like that now, maybe it was being something. It wasn't just
like that. But but the other thing that I thought was sort of futile about talking about it is that
we're past the point where like, the citizens can do anything because the board of private appointees
is voting on this. But I would still like my friends to not take positions based purely due
to the color of the politics and also to not be really upset about the internet being destroyed
if it isn't actually. Okay, so I'm curious what you guys think about this and found out before I
my spiel on it isn't I think as well researched as yours. I'm curious what you have to say. Well,
I mean, your spiel on it is like basically the standard spiel, including the John Oliver spiel
and what I see all over Reddit and basically everywhere where there is an internet that I
interact with. And just so did you want to quickly give the standard? Yeah, sure. I think the standard
spiel, so net neutrality is the idea that when you open up your browser, you can go to whatever
website you want. And your your ISP, your internet service provider can't say, Oh, you know what?
Facebook is free or excuse me, Facebook comes with your plan. But in order to go to
CNN.com or something, that's another $10 a month. So it's the idea that you get access to this
utility and people who are pro net neutrality, think of the internet, I think rightly as a utility,
in that your ISP shouldn't be allowed to dictate to charge you differently based on what you're
doing with it or where you want to go. An analogy might be like your electric company charges
you per kilowatt hour, they don't charge you if you're running refrigerators or servers or power
drills or whatever it is, they just they want they're just charging you for the internet or for
the electricity. Actually, they kind of do because if you choose to run more power consuming things,
then you will pay more money. You're paying per kilowatt hour, but like it doesn't they're not
you're not paying because of what you're doing with electricity, you're just paying for the
electricity. Okay, okay. So yeah, I think I think and that's the fair way that the internet works
now like you pay often with data caps or something, right? So yeah, you can't be using a terabyte a
day transferring data because they're you know, that's clogging up their infrastructure or the
infrastructure not theirs. That's kind of important. But the idea that they can't dictate what you're
doing or what you have access to without, you know, the other way to think about it, if you're
online at all on some circles, you know, there was this big explosion over EA, they put out Star Wars
Battlefront to this new video game that would take some what 2100 hours to unlock all the characters
organically using their in game gambling system that you get for you earn credits to gamble with
in game to try and unlock characters like Darth Vader. So as opposed to just unlocking different
lightsaber colors or cosmetic things, you're unlocking like key players with either having to
spend many hundreds of hours of in game time, or you can just spend micro you could spend money
on microtransactions and spend some many hundreds of doll I can't remember the numbers with some
hundreds of dollars to unlock everybody if you wanted maybe more. So people who are worried
about net neutrality going away are kind of worried about that's how the internet could work out.
You know, if you enjoy browsing Reddit or Facebook, or getting your news from whatever
news source you like, it could be that if your ISP safe, like Comcast, whatever for whatever
reason decides, you know what, Fox News, and Breitbart, and what's that other insane news channel
Info Wars all come with a standard package of 40 bucks a month. If you want access to partisan
news sources, or no, no, I mean, like, I just just throwing this out there as an example,
you know, that's going to be an additional 60 bucks a month or $2 for every minute you spend on
the page, like the idea that they could have those sorts of decisions that that be under
their control is kind of horrifying. And part of the other thing, another crux of this example is
that there is a basic monopoly on internet service providers. It's true that there in many places
there are competitors, but and I can't remember the numbers and I should have looked these up,
but in many parts of the country, you have one service provider if you want more than like
five megs a second. Can you define many to maybe three? No, no, no, can you define many parts of
the country? Oh, I think I can't without Colorado is one Colorado is definitely well, I mean, you
can have you have at least two options here. That's what he meant by two. Yeah. Only one of
