That's not what I mean at all.
I mean that because people will often choose those instinctive,
this is going to feel good right now type behaviors.
It's going to feel really good to punch that guy in the face,
even though when my hand hurts the next day and I've got the cops chasing after me.
Hmm.
Did that, did that, did that get me to where I want to go?
Right.
You know, I think there was the Nazi punching thing has come up a lot in this,
which I haven't listened to those episodes, but I find that, that whole train of thought
really interesting.
And that there are lots of people who say, yes, we should, we should punch Nazis.
And I completely disagree with that.
And the main reason I disagree with it, you know, free speech aside is that it does not
improve, it does not get the Nazi puncher closer to their goal of no Nazis.
In fact, the more Nazis you punch, the more Nazis you create,
the more you make your own point of view look bad.
Yeah.
But when you talk to-
Which is basically what we said too.
Yes, I would assume you would have.
When you talk to sort of, I guess, the Antifa type folks, they don't seem to care about that.
They don't seem to care that their behaviors and their way of thinking actually makes their
own problem worse.
I think that's probably because their goal isn't actually to reduce the number of Nazis
in the world.
It's to satisfyingly vent their anger at Nazis, right?
So yes, they have short term, and I would say, poor goals.
But, you know, the Nazi puncher is probably actualizing their goal of hitting a Nazi,
which is all they really want to do is feel good about it, right?
They want to violently act against someone who they dislike.
Which isn't a great goal to have and not defend it.
No, no, no.
But I'm saying that I think I can see how they-
And they probably assume that that is the most socially acceptable person to violently act
out against.
Yeah.
So I would not have thought of a person in that way, and that their goal is not to prevent
Naziism, their goal is to punch someone.
Their goal might be, they might say they really want to, like, reduce the number of
Nazis, and this will actually stop it.
But if you showed them evidence that that actually didn't do it, they probably wouldn't
care.
It's what I'm saying.
Yeah, they'd still want to punch the Nazi.
Yeah, their bottom line, which is another kind of jargony phrase of, this is my conclusion,
now I'm going to just back it up with arguments that I'm going to make up on the fly.
Their bottom line is, I want to hit a Nazi, and then they're going to make up arguments
to support that position and why it's a good thing to do.
If you showed them, like, hey, you know, some of those arguments are wrong, they're going to be
like, I don't really care.
All I really wanted to do was punch Richard Spencer in the face.
So I strongly suspect anyway.
I'm sure somebody probably would be like, oh, I thought this would actually help, but
you persuaded me otherwise.
I'm going to stop violently opposing people talking on the streets.
And I heard it grew out of an area where punching Nazis actually was something you
had to do to prevent, from the 80s punk scene, where the clubs were basically, the police
didn't go in there unless they were just going to break the whole thing up and take everyone
custody bash ads.
And so it was basically a lawless anarchic place and people had to act as their own police
force.
And that was how they enforced the, you know, keeping Nazis out was you had to punch a Nazi.
But the streets of New York City is not the same thing.
Or the streets of Berkeley, which I think is all this campus nonsense that keeps happening
that makes me very unhappy.
Exactly.
So I understand there are some situations where, yes, that's sort of, I mean,
that's how we keep people from breaking the law in general, right, the threat of violence,
where you have to have that threat of violence.
And since there's no police around the community has to enforce it instead.
But it's gone way out of hand.
And really, I think a lot of it is just the desire to punch someone.
I remember someone saying, they were talking with a friend of theirs who got in a big old
fight, I think it was an antifa versus alt-right thing.
I don't remember exactly.
But she said, yeah, she talked to her friend.
Her friend said, yeah, we came there looking for a fight.
They came there looking for a fight.
There was a fight.
Everything was good.
Because they just wanted to fight.
And I mean, that's a thing that young men do want to do often.
And that's great and all.
But there's a time and a place for that, like when people are meeting for a rumble,
as opposed to when you are being interviewed by a reporter.
Yeah.
If you're scheduling a rumble and you want to go out and just have a fight club thing,
kind of, go nuts, right?
Yeah.
Well, it's having no problem with that.
I have no problem with that.
If you're scheduling a rumble, it's like showing up at a club and ruining
someone else's evening out.
But I was being sort of prestigious.
But yeah.
But I guess in the case of the antifa versus alt-right, there are a lot of other
bigger consequences to that.
Yes.
I've seen little mini-documentaries on Russian soccer supporter clubs who routinely
practice street fights because they expect, oh, we, the Russian supporters of our Russian
team, are going to go to another country and we're going to be hooligans and fight
the supporters of the Hungarian team or whomever it is.
And this is definitely part of that.
We are a street fighting culture and we think that's fun.
And I'm sort of okay with that in that context.
Because it's consensual.
It is consensual.
There is some nationalist kind of creepy political stuff that goes with it,
but it's not nearly like we see with what the antifa versus alt-right thing that's
been going on now, which really does kind of color all the debates happening in our
country in a really negative way.
And it makes people who would otherwise you would think would be sane who are people
saying Nazis are bad.
Well, now they also look bad.
And that should not be, but they've done it themselves.
Is there an anti-antifa symbol yet?
Not yet.
No, but if I could start the anti-antifa, I would.
Okay, technically I can, but I'm not going to do that.
Because their symbol is basically the Nazi cross with a circle line through it, right?
I don't know.
The no Nazi symbol?
Maybe.
The swastika, that's what it is.
Yes.
Yeah, I don't know.
And I feel if I were to adopt a no swastika symbol, that would just kind of look like
I'm pro-Nazi, which is not what I want to do.
Or if you just have a swastika with a line through it inside of a circle with a line
through it, I don't know.
Yeah, that would also sound like pro-Nazi.
I don't think there's a way around this.
No, there's not.
All right, are we ready to do death-ism?
I think so, shall we?
Can I give it a colloquial definition and correct it for me?
Do it.
My colloquial definition is that it's the slur term for people who are anti-immortalism.
Okay.
So, if someone's pitching a transhumanist idea of would it be great if we all lived for as
long as we wanted, as opposed to just a few decades, and then they come back with like,
no, because death is great for insert reason here.
I think those people, we call death-ists.
I don't think anyone says, I'm a death-ist and I stand proud and I have a badge and everything.
Right.
No, no one does that.
Yeah.
Is that about right?
Basically, yeah.
Yeah.
The thing with death-ism is that it is so pervasive in culture that no one even really
seems to notice it.
And I think Eliezer put it really well one time when he said, if it was just a fact of
life that every day someone came and hit you with a bat in the head and there was nothing
you could do about it, no way to prevent it, it was just, it was the same as the sun rising
every day or the rain coming just every day.
Someone whaps you, appears, whaps you in the head with a bat and then disappears and that
happens to everybody on earth forever, then you come to deal with it.
You're like, secretly, this is a good thing.
This allows us to enjoy all the times in our life when we're not being whapped in our head.
This gives meaning to life.
This gives us something to struggle against.
You know, there's, it just, it becomes, you have to integrate it into your life because
otherwise, what the fuck, life is too horrible to deal with if there's someone whapping you
on the head every day.
It's unfair.
And so you have to come up with ways to deal with that sort of thing.
And it is, it is just crazy in the culture.
Like whenever you say to someone, wouldn't it be better if people could live for 200 years?
They're like, no, that's, I can't imagine living that long.
What would, what would you do?
And you'd be so bored and tired and what's the point?
No, I just want to rest once I get to 70.
And, and it's, it's really frustrating, which is why I think we have come up with the slur
of deathest because there's just, if you look at it, if you run into this sort of thing,
it is apparent that there is a lot of people who are, without knowing it, pro-death.
If you sometimes get arguments like, well, if no one ever died, then there would never
be any social change.
And one of the arguments is that science advances by the funerals of old scientists,
right?
Which first of all is bullshit.
A lot of scientists update their beliefs on new evidence, but there is a thing that,
yeah, the old guard always stick by their pet theories.
And it's not until they die that science can advance.
And I'm, I'm like, so your answer to the fact that social progress isn't happening
at fast enough is that everybody that has ever existed should be killed.
Like not all at once, of course, the human race keeps going, but everyone will die.
That is your answer to this problem.
You can think of no better way to solve this problem than murder everybody.
And people don't think of it that way and actually would get very offended if you were
to put it in those terms because they're not pro-murdering everyone, except they secretly are.
I think the short, shorthand would be like Stockholm syndrome with regards to death,
right?
It's like, no, no, this is really a good thing.
I know it sucks, but like, let's, now that it's a fact, we can just accept it and talk
about, you know, good it is.
Death gives life meaning.
There was actually, this is right around the time, what was this like four years ago
where you did that panel discussion with P.C. Meyers, L.A. Iziodkowski.
