And David Brin.
David Brin.
It was, it was more than four years now, I think.
God, I'm old.
Because I remember, oh, you're right, it was five-ish because I was at CSU when I was,
when I watched this.
Oh.
And I was talking to somebody at school about-
Was this before I knew you?
Right around the time.
Right around, okay.
Yeah.
Back when I was just a secret fan.
So I'm, oh, this is actually a quick aside I'm going to interject.
I'm trying to make more of an effort into the show notes, even if it's like extra
curricular links.
I'm gonna think I'm gonna try and expand those to make them more of a resource,
rather than just like references for things we talked about, maybe adjacent things.
So in an effort to do that, I'm taking notes as we talk,
and I just put Enya's death panel as one of them.
Now, is this a death panel where I decide who lives or dies, or where the panel
decides whether I live or die?
Because Enya's death panel could go either way.
This is to remind me of that panel discussion that you had,
or that four-way conversation.
But that's how I chose to note it to myself.
So I was talking with somebody at CSU, and she, I think this was just,
this was the worst thought-out position I'd ever heard from somebody that was
defending death, but they were, it was seriously a fertilizer argument.
Oh, God.
And she was like, yeah, no, it's good because, you know, we need the stuff that makes up
our bodies to go back into the ecosystem, and then it's good for, you know, flourishing of...
Which is totally what happens when we preserve bodies, put them in coffins,
and stick them in a graveyard.
Yeah, and like embalm them, too, which is terrible.
But even if we were to grind them up into fertilizer, I said,
you know, there are better sources of fertilizer than people, right?
And she was like, yeah, but I still think it's a good thing.
And so like, that's clearly another example of bottom line thinking, right?
Yeah, she just hadn't thought through her position.
Yeah, well, I mean, the fertilizer thing was just, that was, like I said, the worst.
Yeah, I'll take overpopulation as a more serious problem.
I'll take boredom as a more serious problem, resource allocation, whatever it is,
but fertilizer, come on.
Well, things do need to die so that of new things can live.
That's pretty...
Do they, though?
That's pretty standard in nature.
Yeah, but that sucks.
Yes, in nature it is, because nature does suck.
That might be like the one sentence definition of transhumanism.
Nature fucking sucks, we can do better.
I like, you gotta add the we can do better part.
Yeah.
Yeah, otherwise it sounds like a downer.
It can be nature, nature fucking sucks, dash, we can do better.
Yeah.
All right, perfect.
Yeah, but I mean, that depends a lot on like, are you making the argument that there's just
not enough space because we can solve that problem?
Oh, yes, we could certainly launch off into Mars and wherever else.
Right.
I would say that the limitation of suddenly not having death be a problem is,
does humanity then decide to infinitely reproduce?
Because it's part of, as part of life experience, children is often a thing that people want.
Yeah.
Well, if nobody...
Right, Inyash?
Oh, yes.
Often, not always.
Yes.
Inyash just gotta vasectomy.
Yes.
He's still recovering, that's why it's funny.
Right.
Ha-ha.
But if you have a scenario in which...
My pain of music, Steven.
I thought it was super, super poignant because like people often want to have kids and you're like,
actually...
No, but sorry.
But that, I mean, that might be...
People do often want to have kids.
They often do.
In more, I don't want to use the word advanced, in more...
Okay, fine.
In more modern countries, birth rates often decline pretty precipitously.
That's what we've seen over the past 100 years.
Mm-hmm.
Where as...
Yeah, below the replacement level.
So that just seems to be a thing that just happens and I don't...
I'm sure there's studies about that.
I know I personally have struggled to meet single women who are smart and cool and awesome
and beautiful who actually want kids.
It's becoming pretty rare.
And if you go into less developed areas of the world, they all want kids.
So that might be like an internal sub-program thing that our nature has put in there to
stop us from overpopulating too much.
I don't know, that's a total riff.
I have a number of thoughts about that, but none of them are supported by anything,
aside from my own bullshit.
So anyway, sorry, keep going.
That's fine.
Well, so my concern would eventually be, sure, there's a...
The universe is practically infinite.
Sure, you could keep shipping off ship loads of people to go places and colonize and do
whatever the hell heck they want.
But in terms of, since we haven't figured out faster than light travel yet and probably
aren't going to for a while, we do eventually run into a problem of...
They're being too many people and they're not being enough resources.
And also, they're not being enough things to do.
Because if we have solved mortality, that means we've solved a lot of other scarcity-related
things.
And that means you've got a bunch of people sitting around going,
okay, I'm going to be here for 500 years, 1,000 years, and there ain't nothing to do.
So addressing the two concerns in order, yes, you are correct.
I think Robin Hansen once made a calculation that even just like a very slow growth rates
of 1% or less, in what is a fraction of the time that the universe has to exist,
there will be more people than there are atoms in the universe.
Which obviously is not sustainable.
There are potential ways to get around that.
Even uploading doesn't fix it because you still need energy to run people.
But you would at some point have to do some sort of thing where you just take out that
desire, which is a real big can of worms, because some people are going to not want to
modify to take that desire away, even if it is harmful for the universe.
And then what do you do with those people?
Do you have to declare a galactic war against the
reproducing cancer people who will not stop making more of themselves?
It might be as easy as just making new generations of humans,
making fertility an opt-in feature, right?
Right, no, but there are people who would opt in.
Yes.
But I think that, I mean-
And then those people would take over the galaxy because, by definition,
they're the ones who are reproducing at a fast rate.
Yeah, I mean, that's true, but you could slow it down substantially, maybe.
Yeah, you can potentially remove the desire with enough brain hacking,
but you're going to have to do something about the people who don't want to remove that desire.
Which is a problem for future, Eni Ash.
I think Darwin did a calculation that was like with elephants, and it was a surprisingly
short number of generations to where just the landmass on earth would be completely
covered in elephants of every one of their children survived, and we're not quite in that
boat because we have more than just the earth and we can, like I said, simulations give us
wide opportunities to change that up a bit, or even just space travel.
As long as there's enough energy to keep people alive and happy or whatever it takes to do that.
Yeah, I guess I hadn't given a lot of thought to the idea that the people who want to
reproduce would necessarily eventually outnumber the people who don't,
and removing that would take something out of what they want.
That would also kind of make us not quite human anymore.
Yeah, that's what people point out. They talk about the 4Fs, and I'm not super sold on those.
Am I less human because I don't want to reproduce?
You were less human three days ago, yeah.
I'm just kidding, because I don't plan on having kids either, and I don't think that I'm less human.
I mean, I guess there's a few grams less human in my physical form.
No, I didn't know. You are still human, but you consciously chose to not reproduce,
whereas if you did a global brain hack on humans, all humans basically took the
desire to reproduce out of our DNA, that's kind of modifying us to where we are not the thing that
we were. That is true, but we also modify us to be not the thing that we were when we get rid of
things like cancer. That's just part of the human condition, or the desire to murder people.
That's arguably not innate, but there are a lot of things you do to make humanity better,
which makes them different from what evolved on the earth, but better nonetheless.
Whether removing the desire to reproduce makes us better or not is up for debate.
That is true, but it might be necessary.
Uh, possible. It would take a pretty draconian system in order to have
true eternal life, accommodating the desire to have children,
in that some people will choose to die.
Yeah, you could always have a death credit that you are allowed to have children, but
if for every child that you have, your maximum lifespan...
Like, if you have one child, your maximum lifespan is kept at 10,000 years,
and then for every extra child you have, it's reduced by another 1,000 or something.
Like, if you're willing to die, you should be able to replace yourself, right?
That's a great idea.
That may be the thing. If you have a couple, they are able to have two children,
and they have to die at some point in the not-too-distant future.
So that'd be one way to opt in to having kids and not overwhelming the universe.
I also think that there's also a great deal of positive utility gained by introducing new minds
into the universe. Yeah.
Because new minds always do cool things.
Yeah.
And if you just have the, let's say there's only a million people,
million humans in the universe, because we've figured out everything and we have no need to
make new ones, I guess, then, well, that's kind of boring.
And the whole point of living eternally is to have lots of fun all the time,
and new minds are usually really good at coming up with cool new things.
Yeah.
So.
Although, I think there's probably an upper limit to how many minds,
how many different types of minds there can be, at least over the human architecture.
Like, it wouldn't surprise me if there was maybe no more than a few quadrillion types of minds
that could exist. And after that, you just kind of got mind clones.
Well, not pure mind clones. They have different life experiences still.
Well, you're also assuming that, oh, dang it, I lost the thought.
You're also, oh, it was such a nice thought. Come back.
Oh, thought you were so good. Damn it, why am I tired?
I was making a stupid assumption, though.
No, no, no, no, no, no. Oh, there it goes again.
And like, I'm like Sam Gamgee for getting his rope.
I can, I can start and if I trigger anything, then you can just cut me off.
I could, I was going to say that as far as introducing new minds, another avenue to
