them is actually a high is can be considered a proper high speed company. And that's Comcast.
The other one century link. It's high speed DSL, but it's not it's not nearly as robust.
They're getting to places with fiber and stuff too. So like there are competitors emerging,
but I can't remember what it is. I want to say the number 70% is in my head somewhere where they
I think it's between 70 and 75% people that have at least two. Well, I think I thought it was 70
that had access to one good internet service provider. I mean, good again depends on how you
define it, but I was 70 to 75% of people that had access to two or more providers that provided at
least 10 megabits per second. Okay, so 10 might be I mean, it's a little on the slow side, but it's
enough for most people. We might say being able to stream Netflix could be like the baseline.
Not everyone needs, you know, instant pings for online gaming or something. But if you internet
can't can't stream Netflix and each in high quality, that's not like the most important thing you
could do with the internet, but it might be a good baseline as to whether or not it's a good
plan, right? I find it very interesting that you brought up Netflix specifically. I meant just
for online streaming. No, no, no, I understand. There is a reason I find that very interesting
that I will get into later. Well, I guess the last point I'll make is that it's hard for it's
basically just I think more or less ubiquitous that utilities with a physical infrastructure
more or less always monopolize or essentially monopolize. Like if your water sucks, you don't
have six other water companies, you can ask to say I'm going to go to them instead. If you guys
don't up your game, right? It's not like there are six different water hoses connecting to your
house that you can pay to use one of them. So that's sort of how the internet works. And much of
that was put together with taxpayer money as well, which is another argument for it being
staying public and neutral. That's the quick version of the central argument, I think.
I'm curious as to what the argument against that the argument against that is that that is basically
the net neutrality debate is basically large corporations fighting with each other base
over who has to pay what in order to deliver content to us and getting the government involved in
that to support their side. And that this what you have been told is basically a load of horseshit
that it is theoretically possible just like it is theoretically possible that I could create a
nuclear bomb in my backyard, but it's not actually going to happen. And before you ask, yes, it is
theoretically possible for me to create a nuclear bomb in my backyard. Well, I think the comeback
that might be that making it legally legally barring you from doing so is still a good idea,
even if it's really hard, right, or really unlikely. Yes, but that is not what the so-called net
neutrality does. And whoever branded it net neutrality was a fucking genius, because it is it
is a great name. But basically what it is is regulation of the internet by the government.
And first of all, I am in general against the government being a highly regulatory thing. I
think they have screwed the pooch hardcore in most things they try to regulate the FDA kills a lot
more people than it saves. And it made the war on drugs possible, which has fucked much of our
society. There is there's so many examples of regulation being awful that I distrust it inherently.
And I think even more so in the fast moving quick changing tech sector, which governments cannot
keep up with. But to give the quick recap about what actually the issue comes down to is when
people say net neutrality, they kind of assume they have the vision of the internet as it was
back in the late 90s and early 2000s still, where there was just like a central net, and anyone
could connect to the net and get data from anyone else on the net, right? And that it like so you
would think that Netflix has their servers, where they have all their movies, and they connect to
the net to make them available to people. And your computer connects to the net, and you can go
wherever you want on the net. And if you want to, you go to Netflix, and you get their movie stream
to your computer over the internet, everything's great. And at some point, they have to go through
your ISP obviously, because your internet service provider is the company that provides the internet
to your house, which is not actually how it works anymore, due to the fact that there has been
much concentration of back in the 90s and 2000s, like, everyone was on the internet,
there were lots of small things, it was like mom and pop Wild West, there was no mega corporations
yet. Now on the internet, half of all, I think it was either 50 or 60% of all internet traffic
comes from 30 entities, Google, Netflix, Apple, Amazon, Amazon, Facebook, Facebook, yes. And
those companies have a problem with getting all their content to their various people that want
to use it fast enough. So they no longer connect to the internet and then route it to your house,
they go to your internet service providers and set direct pipelines from their computers
to the internet service providers. So you don't have to go through the, you know,
the wider net itself, you just get it directly from your ISP. In some cases, and the term here
is peering, they actually take their computers and install them in your ISP's building, so that
you can get directly the shortest path possible. And the ISP charges them for this. Well, sometimes.
At first, they didn't because it was a wonderful idea on everyone's behalf, it reduced the amount of
net traffic out there to have, and this is a reason like Netflix, there's not just one Netflix
server with their movies on it, they have in various ISPs across the country, their computers
set up in the, you know, in the same building connected to the ISP computers. So you get it
directly from there. Netflix, when it was getting really big, had a problem with one of their
providers, I believe it was Cogent, who sold them, they could give them all this bandwidth. And it
turned out they couldn't give them all that bandwidth. And so they started prioritizing
who got what data and some data was more important. So during high, high traffic peak times,
Netflix data was throttled back. Netflix was not very happy about this at all. They went and put
together peering agreements with Comcast and other ISPs. But Comcast wanted to charge them some money
for this, as they charged everyone else. And Netflix was like, we're huge, give us a break.
And Comcast said, no, we charge everyone for this. And Netflix said, oh, yeah. And then the net
neutrality debate began, where they said, you know what, this is an issue of free access to the
internet. Comcast is preventing us from having free access to the internet. This should not be
legal. And the really fun part is after they won that debate in 2014, and had the net neutrality,
quote unquote, rules passed that made it illegal for Comcast to charge them for this, they probably
dropped out of the net neutrality debate, and they are not doing anything about it nowadays,
because fuck, they got theirs. What do they care now? But it's not, it's not about getting to your
house and restricting what website sites you can and can't see. It's about corporations
charging each other for large data services. And the reason it's important was I grew up
back in the AOL days where there was not that much infrastructure, and you actually did pay by the
minute to connect to the internet, because there just wasn't enough ways to get to the internet
for everyone to be on it all of the time. And then the 2000 early 2000s late 90s happened,
huge investment bubble, greatly overbuilt the internet backbone. So there was more bandwidth
than anyone knew what to do with. And we just didn't have to bother with that sort of thing
anymore, everyone could get on all the time. And lately, we've started hitting up those limits
again. And now people do have to throttle traffic and decide that some data might be more important
than other data. And they do this actually right now already. Text data generally gets lower priority
over things like video streaming and music, because those things are much more sensitive
to interruptions. Whereas text data, you can wait an extra three to four seconds to get your email.
So there is already that sort of discrimination going on. And now there needs to be some sort of
way to fund the expansion of the infrastructure and charging the people who use more data like
Netflix, like Amazon, more for that is probably a logical way of doing it. And the reason I
dislike the term net neutrality quote unquote, is because when the internet first came to be,
there was basically no restrictions or regulations on it at all. And everyone is like,
things are going to become horrible, the various ISPs will will start, you know,
you have to pay extra if you want to go to non Fox websites, if your ISP is in bed with Fox.
But that never happened before the regulations that were played in place in 2015. And
everything worked fine before because generally private enterprise doesn't want to piss off its
customers like that. People would probably riot. They ride is a bad term. But that is a way for
ISPs to piss off their customers. And the thing that usually happens when that sort of thing
happens is people switch carriers to someone else. And you say that there aren't a lot of options for
a lot of people. But most people have at least two options, some that aren't great. But there is
the option out there. More importantly, there's more and more options being provided. Fiber is
being laid down in lots of municipal districts, Google is putting their own fiber programs in
place. Wireless is becoming much more reliable to the point where sometimes I go on my cell
network rather than my home Wi Fi because it is more reliable at times. And that is the that
having the government regulate the internet more makes it harder for newcomers to get in its
stifles competition. New ISPs don't show up as much. And so it locks the monopoly down for the
people that are already there like the Comcasts. And what we want is more providers, more competition
so that if they do start pulling shenanigans like that, we can jump ship to other people. I mean,
that's how the internet worked before 2015. When these net neutrality regulations were put into
place, the FTC enforced some transparency rules. And aside from that, it was the Wild West and
no one did do that to people. You didn't have your connections throttled.
So you've clearly no more about this than I do. Well, which makes it hard for me to,
like we talked about with that example from the guy Burning Man, the climate science guy.
I don't have the ammunition to challenge everything that you said. But you know,
that just shows that I didn't do enough homework. I think what we really need to do is talk to Chase.
I trust that Chase knows the right answer here.
Chase probably has some opinions.
I mean, so like there's a handful of things, like there was a big hub of that, I think 80%
of all net neutrality comments were sent by bots. And 95% of the actual humans who wrote in about it
were in favor of net neutrality. So that shows that the overwhelming majority of people who
actually are behind this and not the systematized distortion of the data aren't going to get what
they want. Yes, but I was also in favor of net neutrality after I saw the John Oliver piece.
And it was only in the last few weeks when some people pointed out, look, this is just corporations
fighting each other over who gets to pay who and getting the government involved. It has nothing
to do with my access that I was like, well, that sucks. I have bought into the propaganda really.
And that's when I started reading up on it. But I wonder if you bought into new propaganda.
I know that is possible homework. Yeah, I did quite a fair
bit of homework. And it's possible that I have bought into new propaganda, but it seems less
likely there's, I mean, I saw just this morning, even Tyler Cohen came out against the net neutrality
thing, where he said this is probably bad in the long run for the internet to have more government
regulation. Well, so I agree that like government regulation is hard to defend, right? And that's
why people who like small government and staying out of their business, you know, have a point.
Because how do you get some big monolith to like, especially a big monolith full of 70 year olds who,
you know, don't know how use the same password or everything on their phone or something, right?
Like these aren't the people you want making the calls on technology breakthroughs. But I guess
the comeback that I might think of would be the whole net neutrality thing for however you want
to brand it does make it illegal for say Comcast to like, if you wanted to start a YouTube competitor,
because people don't like YouTube for lots of reasons that make sense. But YouTube gives
Comcast, I don't know, a million dollars a month, not that's more than that, whatever.
Well, you can't do that if you're trying to build a startup, and they're just not going to connect
to your service, or they're going to extremely throttle it, because they get to decide the
priorities. Yeah, but that's already the case. YouTube is part of Google. They're one of the
people that put their servers in Comcast building. So you get faster. I mean, have you ever wondered
why it is that if your connection is bad, and you're not watching, and you can't stream the
daily show very well, you can go over to Netflix and watch their higher res stuff that streams just
fine. It's because Netflix has their servers in right there in Comcast and and Comedy Central
doesn't. And yeah, there are places like Vimeo or Daily Motion that are kind of YouTube competitors,
and they are slower because YouTube has their servers in Comcast and the current regulations
does don't change that. So where do people like John Oliver and the people who buy into the the
version that he sells? Why are they? Is this just seriously like a, a weight like a distraction that
people made this like a fake debate to keep people busy? Or like, well, they actually did they care
about something that's actually real? I mean, they care about something that they think is real,
but there are very good PR people on now on both sides, originally just on Netflix's side when
they said fuck you to Comcast and took it to the public, who are good at swaying people that this
is the way things are and that they will be harmed if the government doesn't come in and, you know,
support Netflix's side of the argument. I'm out of talking points. I think it'd be fun to talk
with Chase about this. And I hope that people don't just entirely believe me and look into it
themselves. But I want to at least get the view out there that, hey, this thing might be complete
bullshit. And don't just don't just believe that it is for a neutral internet. It's actually about
corporations. Please send me the stuff you read. Yeah, cool. I'll link it on the on our the basin
conspiracy.com as well. Cool. That sounds good. Did you have anything to add? Where are you on this?
I don't I don't have enough knowledge or opinion to really to really say it does. I do agree with
the New Yorkers argument that it is against the incentive of an ISP to charge people for things.
I would say the the only scenario in which that could be a case if there was some kind of a race
to the bottom in terms of pricing, where Comcast says if you only really want to like have Facebook
and like a couple other things will only charge you $9 a month. But of course, we sell our full
bundle, which doesn't has restrictions for whatever, you know, whatever absurd price they charge.
And you could conceivably have a price war between competitors. But that only works if you
have a diverse marketplace of competitors, which we don't have in most communities where two is
not enough. You would need New York City has quite a few options. I had Verizon Fios for a while.
Oh, my God, that was really nice. Oh, really? Verizon Fios was great. So, but I mean, for example,
in Colorado, Comcast has gotten much better in the past six, seven years. And I think it's very
much due to CenturyLink coming in and being a decent competitor. They're not as good as Comcast,
but they're also cheaper. Yeah, they're cheaper. My grandmother has CenturyLink and it's fine.
I got CenturyLink. It works for me. Yeah, it's fine. And Comcast also just became the butt of
jokes of everyone in many places because it's like we hate you. We desperately hate you because
you are the worst ISP in the world, but we don't have a choice. So that is a scenario in which I
see kind of the kind of pricing tiers that people are kind of raising. I think that is a
false fear. Because like you said, ISPs are incentivized to provide good access to people.
And I'm also not necessarily against that. My phone plan costs me about $12 a month because
I only have 500 megabytes of cell data a month. That's all I ever use. And I was like,
I don't want to pay $80 a month for unlimited cell when I don't use any of it. All I ever use my
phone for is texting and occasionally calling. And oh, and the GPS constantly doing that because
God, that thing is useful. Yes. And I'll check my email on it every now and then. But all of those
are not data intensive things. I can get by with $12 a month for 500 megabytes a month.
And I'm very happy to do that. If there's some people out there who's like, look,
the only thing I use the internet for is Facebook. Can I just get Facebook for five bucks a month?
Why the hell not? It's hard for me to argue with that. I feel like it opens the door to being
slippery slope. But I think that's still where I imagine people with draw contention is saying,
look, yeah, that sounds fine. But slippery slope arguments are where you say, if you grant this,
it opens the door for a whole bunch of bad things. And it's a fallacy to say, if you grant this thing,
all these bad things will happen. Right. Like if you allow men to marry other men,
then all of a sudden, where does it stop? Sure. But just because it's a fallacy to say it will
cause this or whatever, it doesn't mean that slippery slopes aren't real, right? I'm trying to
find how much data I use last month. And I think it was like 13 gigs. I use a lot of stuff,
but I just rolled over on the first. So I don't have, I can't find my previous months.
I use about between two and five months. But I pay all 80 bucks a month of Verizon for it.
And I could I could certainly get a much lower cost plan if I wanted to.
