I mean, every now and then I'm like, oh, I can't watch YouTube out and about. But then I'm like,
oh, I saved $60. So I don't think it's necessary for one to be able to watch YouTube,
walking around. I don't that's not necessary. Yeah. The only thing it's necessary for is,
oh, look at this funny cat video that I'm just going to show my friend on the sidewalk. You don't
need to do that. Although I do appreciate that. Stephen does have that data plan because every
now and then he'll show me cool things on YouTube on his phone. Yeah. That's great. Thank you. That
is that is a cool service you've provided me. So basically you're a mooch in some cases.
He mooches off my good looks and interestingness. I'm currently on your Wi-Fi. So
this works out. But yeah, all the all the net neutrality was basically implemented in 2015.
There's been some various minor regulations going on since I think the mid 2000s. But
things were not this horrific hellscape that people paint them out to be before 2015. And
so I don't think net neutrality is really that big a deal. See, I found a list that I started
to dig up that was, I don't know, something like 20 cases of where it was this hellscape,
where people's stuff was being throttled and they were paying for stuff they couldn't get.
And that sort of thing. There were conflict of interests of ISPs who also provided a phone
service or other things like that. They would basically completely block VoIP services or
things like that. Right. I do remember AT&T doing something like that. Quite a few companies would
do things like that because it's like, well, we sell phone plans and we don't want people to use
Skype because it's free. So they have a natural incentive to not do that.
Right. And I believe some sort of case was brought against them, right?
I believe that in pretty much every case where things like that happen that a regulator said,
no, you can't do that. So government and a regulation did a useful thing.
It did. Every now and then it does. I just don't think the current debate is about that so much.
EFF and the ACLU are all of all just bought into this propaganda machine.
Are they in support of the current net neutrality rules?
Yes. So far as I can tell. According to net neutrality bought on Reddit,
they're one of the places that are linked to that you can give money to support net neutrality.
Well, I love the EFF and I will continue to give them money every year,
but I will read whatever statement they have put out as to why they are in support of the
2015 net neutrality over what is being proposed right now.
I would say getting, speaking of the conflict of interest problem,
I would say Comcast actually would be a great example of someone who has a huge conflict of
interest in that because they provide phone services and they charge a lot for it,
they also provide television bundles and charge a lot for them.
It is currently not in Comcast's interest to have all of this free TV online, Hulu,
Netflix nonsense, because that means that Comcast can't sell its TV packages.
I agree, but it's also not in their interest to throttle that sort of thing if there is a
competitor that will charge the same amount or less and give someone access to all that stuff
anyway. That is possible, but in the cases what seems to keep happening is that regional
monopolies do seem to keep cropping up. Yeah, and I think the main argument about the current
net neutrality rules is that it makes monopolies easier and more entrenched and if the changes
that are being proposed go through, it will make it easier for small ISPs to break it and provide
some more competition. And how exactly would a small ISP benefit under fewer rules than the
ones that are currently in price? This part I was not able to understand because I'm not an
economist. I just read Tyler Cohen coming out against everyone else and he gave various lists
and reasons why he thinks that this would be better for the internet and the long-term
encouraging competition. I was like, I generally trust Tyler Cohen.
And this is in line with other things I've heard about how regulation tends to make
starting up a new business hard. I've never heard of a regulation making it easier to start
a new business. And so it fits with my priors as well and therefore I think that is the case.
I also have priors against the current administration doing anything that benefits me.
So weigh those priors against each other. So the EFF has a thing here that says net neutrality,
the idea that all internet service providers should treat all data that travels over the
network fairly without improper discrimination in favor of particular apps, sites, or services
is a principle that must be upheld to protect the future of our open internet.
It has a principle that's faced many threats over the years such as ISPs forging packets to
tamper with certain kinds of traffic or slowing down or even outright blocking protocols or
applications. So the EFF does seem to be in favor of what's called net neutrality.
Are they in favor of the 2015 regulations over the current proposed ones?
This is written in 2017. I can only assume so I'm just giving this. Anyway, we'll check it out.
This will be fun. Maybe we can double crux this thing. But I think since we're not economists
and network designers, I don't know if we have the tools to do this quickly, but we can figure it
out. Cool. Awesome. So yeah, that is the two takes, hot takes on net neutrality. Do we have
anything else? Nope. Okay. My brain is fried. Yeah, mine too. Let's call it an episode. Sounds
good to me. Oh wait, we have to thank someone. Oh yeah. First of all, personal thanks to our
sound engineer Kyle Moore in all seriousness. I don't know if you check out the subreddit or
see some of the... No, I don't know. I should... Especially once like shortly after you started
and people weren't used to it, they were like, everything sounds better now. And the fact that,
you know, like I said, I do this, you know, over the airwaves instead of over coffee because I like
to disseminate these ideas. And I personally enjoy conversations like this and there weren't
enough podcasts like this. So I was like, fine, I'll do one. So making it palatable for people
your drums is very important part of that recipe. So thank you for making that happen.
My, my, thank you. My welcome. Thanks. You're gonna say my pleasure if we didn't want to lie to
us. Oh no. My thousand years of torture. Okay. Did you want it or should I this time?
Oh, go ahead. Okay. We can take turns. All right. This week, we would like to thank Beth Smith,
a supporter on Patreon for helping to make this possible and bring it to all of you guys. Thank
you, Beth. Thanks, Beth. Okay. That's it for me too. We'll do actual listener feedback from the
forums and stuff like that. Sounds good. Cool. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.
