Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Eneosh Brodsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber and today we have with us a guest, a special guest.
The specialist of all guests.
You are far too kind Eneosh.
I'm Kyle Moore.
I am the fellow in charge of editing this podcast.
Yes.
The poor fellow.
It is my duty to listen to Eneosh's and Stephen's voices loop on repeat inside my head.
There are quite a few interesting dreams I have.
There are a few tortures that I can think of that would be worse.
Yes.
Perhaps we can include that torture in our utilitarian discussion today.
Is it better to have Kyle listen to Eneosh's voice an endless loop for a thousand years
or cause a single negative utilon to happen to every life form that will ever exist?
All right, everybody listen to it once.
The jury is still out.
Oh, that's so cool.
So the reason we have Kyle on is actually Stephen, did you want to take it?
Because you said it very much better than I could have.
Well, we're going to talk about a handful of things, but I thought one thing that would
be fun to talk about was that most people I think who are listening to the show right
now went to go find it on purpose and are listening to it.
And Kyle just was asked to edit before he really knew what the topics were.
And so he's sort of like a captive audience for every episode.
And I was curious to get his take on somebody who didn't seek out this kind of material,
what your response was to it.
Are we all insane?
Are we?
Jury is still out.
Just a very short version of the story.
We have a mutual friend and former host Katrina Stanton, and she just happened to mention this
podcast off-handedly.
And at the time I was very much looking for an opportunity to edit podcasts because I
love listening to podcasts, you know, this American life, Radio Lab, the usual fun things.
And I had no idea what rationality was.
I had no idea what any of the concepts that you guys talk about quite frequently.
So it was all new to me.
And I had met you guys very, very briefly and kind of showed you some recording stuff
and I didn't really know what to think of it or what it would be.
And then I started listening to what you guys had to say as the captive audience, as Stephen
put it.
And I was really quite fascinated with it mostly because it felt like a natural way of thinking
that I already was sort of in that groove of it and it seemed to, oh, I don't know how
to phrase this properly, more like it was a natural, I already said natural way of thinking.
It felt very, I felt very at home with the concepts.
And while I don't necessarily agree with every conclusion that you guys have made or that
your guests have made, I have respected how they got there.
And I really respect how people can discuss these really interesting or difficult issues.
And it's really more about getting to what is more right or less wrong as you would say.
And that is a feature in today's modern discourse that is just completely absent and it's very
upsetting to me.
Yeah.
That's a very good way of putting it.
I think most people who came upon this, I mean, I certainly have the same experience
where it was like, this is already how my brain works.
It's just that I don't generally meet people whose brain also works that way.
I mean, you know, like a few people in high school, maybe that I hung out with a lot,
but then having discovering that there's this whole actual like movement and community
and all these writings by someone who's really good at writing about it and putting what
I am feeling into words on a page was like, it was fantastic.
And that's, that's, was that your experience too, Stephen?
Um, yeah, mostly I think I found out about this kind of stuff from trying to think historically
I found a Brian Dunning's podcast Skeptoid when I was, I think shortly after it started,
it's almost 10 years, maybe 10 ish years ago.
And then at some point I found Julie Galev's rationally speaking podcast, which I really
enjoyed.
And then at the end of each of those episodes, they will do like their rationally speaking
pick, which is like the favorite like paper or book or whatever's tickling the rationally
fancy that week.
And Julia plugged methods of rationality.
And I remember I was driving at the time and I put it in my phone to look at later and
months later I got around to looking at it and I was like, Oh, this is awesome.
And at the beginning of the book at the eyes, there says, if you want to learn everything
Harry knows and more, go to less wrong.com.
And so that's, that was, I think I was a good case example of what he wrote that to do bring
people on board in a through, through fun fiction.
Yeah.
So that was my coming into it.
Awesome.
I've heard something like a quarter of the rashless community now has come directly from
reading methods of rationality.
So holy shit, good job there.
That worked out very well.
We're referring to Harry Potter and the methods of rationality.
Yes.
Okay.
I don't know of any other methods of rationality.
I have not.
This is a podcast, right?
It is a fan fiction that was written and I mean, I did make a podcast of it as well.
So there's an audio version too.
But yeah, the, which I guess, I guess there is now just a methods of rationality podcast
because I kind of rebranded it after Harry Potter and the methods was done.
And now I, you know, did Metropolitan Man and I'm going to be doing another thing soon,
hopefully once I have my work life stables out here.
But yeah, yeah.
So, so it's worked for you.
Yes, I would say that it's worked for me and it's of course taken quite a bit of time
for me to integrate my head into all of the different concepts that you guys bring up,
utilitarianism being one of them.
And that would be a great example of something that I always kind of thought seemed right,
but it was like I didn't have a word for it.
And then there are all of these rationalist words for things that I'm like, oh, that's
a word for a way of thinking that I kind of already had in some way.
And here is a definition of it and an exploration of the concept.
How cool is that?
Yeah.
That's awesome.
So did you not know like people in your life in general that were similar sort of mindset?
I have, but not in a capacity to where they had, again, the same words, again, I'm going
to keep using utilitarianism because I don't, again, I'm still pretty new to all of this.
So certainly I would have intellectual friends in college and things like that.
And they were very much intellectual discussion type people.
They weren't the yelling, angry, shouty, I'm right, you're wrong, you suck thing.
Because nobody, well, some people do enjoy that, unfortunately, especially these days.
But yes, I did have people like that and they having those discussions with those friends
really helped train my mind because at the end of the day, I realized I was much more
interesting in knowing what the right answer was instead of wanting to be right.
Being right is nice, but I would rather there be a general improvement of knowledge or truth
or whatever as opposed to I'm the guy who's right because that's dumb and doesn't help
anyone.
It's a really perfect encapsulation of kind of what we're trying to go for, right?
Yeah, I'll say.
I was going to say, speaking of some of the vocabulary, is there any like, do you find
that the conversations are like too jargon heavy or do we do a good job kind of distilling
the jargon or explaining it?
Mostly yes.
And I think that's where kind of a rationality one-on-one episode would be super handy for
folks like me.
I have osmosed some of the jargon or I've researched it myself.
And of course, I remember the first couple of episodes, there were a few concepts and
words that I just I had no idea what you guys were going on about, especially in regards
to AI related things.
Rationality so far seems to think about things in very much a computer-y type standpoint.
The term meme comes up a lot, which at first thought, what are we doing talking about cats?
And then I realized that you were thinking of it from a programming perspective.
And I'm not a programmer at all.
I have zero desire or ability or interest in doing that.
And I think your cryonics friend from the other week, you know, talked about the brain
a lot like it was a computer, like you could program it in certain ways.
My understanding of the brain is that it doesn't work that way at all.
It works in ways that we cannot fathom, and it is not like a computer where you can just
throw in a chip and make it do stuff.
Oh, well, certainly isn't right now.
No, the hope is that maybe someday we'll be able to figure out how to emulate a brain
in a computer process.
But yeah, no, you certainly can't throw in a chip and do anything right now.
No, no, of course.
But I think my understanding of it, and of course, what the hell do I know?
Is that it is totally beyond our fathoming in terms of how it actually works.
It is not.
I don't think it can be reduced to ones and zeros.
Oh, certainly not.
Because, you know, the soul and stuff.
Oh, well, now you're just trolling.
Yeah. Oh, dear. Oh, dear.
You caught me. Stupid souls.
Real quick pause.
I actually just realized a great way for me to think of some things
that we have that I've been interested in is I've sent you emails on occasion.
Yes. Where I've said, Inuyash, what is this?
Yeah.
Could I quickly look on my phone and see some of those things with that?
With that interest you to talk about?
Yeah, absolutely.
I thought that would be a good idea.
I was going to bring that up because you sent some of them, I think,
to Inuyash and some of the Bayesian conspiracy accounts.
Like the things that you either don't understand or disagree with
or things that we are quite interested in.
Yes, I do.
Just before we came up here downstairs, Steve mentioned that I was steelmanning
a position and you asked me what steelmanning was.
And so we explained that it's basically the opposite of strawmanning
where you take your opponent's argument and you try to make it better
instead of making it worse so that so that you're fighting against an actual opponent.
But this brings to me the question of how often we should repeat things.
Because I know in one of our very early episodes, we had
explained steelmanning and defined it and given some examples.
But that's been like over two years ago now, I think.
Yeah, coming up on two years, I think.
OK, so yeah, it's been about two years and obviously we can't expect
people to go back and listen to what is it like almost 50 episodes now
at about an hour and a half each, 75 hours of audio to get caught up.
So I wouldn't wish that on anybody.
No.
So how often do should we repeat these sorts of things?
I think about that once in a while, because I listen to a handful of other
podcasts that are adjacent to this sort of thing.
And they do a good job about covering much of the new vocabulary,
but you can't do that every time to everything.
Right, because then it just gets tedious.
So I don't know.
I think a lot of these like steelmanning is a quick Google.
You know, so if they're curious what that is or if they're if we do a good
job, you know, discussing it, it'll become clear through the conversation
of what happened. Right.
And they'll be like, oh, that's probably what they meant when they met steelmanning.
Yeah. But yeah, if you're coming into this, you know, without a history of knowing
