The following is a conversation with Judea Pearl, a professor at UCLA and a winner of the Touring
Award that's generally recognized as the Nobel Prize of Computing. He's one of the seminal
figures in the field of artificial intelligence, computer science, and statistics. He has developed
and championed probabilistic approaches to AI, including Beijing networks, and profound ideas
in causality in general. These ideas are important not just to AI, but to our understanding and
practice of science. But in the field of AI, the idea of causality, cause and effect, to many,
lie at the core of what is currently missing and what must be developed in order to build
truly intelligent systems. For this reason, and many others, his work is worth returning to often.
I recommend his most recent book, called Book of Why, that presents key ideas from a lifetime
of work in a way that is accessible to the general public. This is the Artificial Intelligence Podcast.
If you enjoy it, subscribe on YouTube, give it 5 stars on Apple Podcasts, support it on Patreon,
or simply connect with me on Twitter. Alex Friedman, spelled F-R-I-D-M-A-N. If you leave a
review on Apple Podcasts especially, but also Cast Box or comment on YouTube, consider mentioning
topics, people, ideas, questions, quotes, and science, tech, and philosophy that you find interesting,
and I'll read them on this podcast. I won't call out names, but I love comments with kindness
and thoughtfulness in them, so I thought I'd share them with you. Someone on YouTube highlighted a
quote from the conversation with Noam Chomsky, where he said that the significance of your life
is something you create. I like this line as well. On most days, the existentialist approach to life
is one I find liberating and fulfilling. I recently started doing ads at the end of the
introduction. I'll do one or two minutes after introducing the episode and never any ads in
the middle that break the flow of the conversation. I hope that works for you and doesn't hurt the
listening experience. This show is presented by Cash App, the number one finance app in the App Store.
I personally use Cash App to send money to friends, but you can also use it to buy, sell,
and deposit Bitcoin in just seconds. Cash App also has a new investing feature. You can buy
fractions of a stock, say $1 worth, no matter what the stock price is. Broker services are
provided by Cash App investing, a subsidiary of Square, and member SIPC. I'm excited to be working
with Cash App to support one of my favorite organizations called the FIRST, best known for
their FIRST robotics and Lego competitions. They educate and inspire hundreds of thousands of
students in over 110 countries and have a perfect rating on charity navigator, which means the
donated money is used to the maximum effectiveness. When you get Cash App from the App Store or Google
Play and use code lexpodcast, you'll get $10 and Cash App will also donate $10 to FIRST,
which again is an organization that I've personally seen inspire girls and boys
to dream of engineering a better world. And now, here's my conversation with Judea Pearl.
You mentioned in an interview that science is not a collection of facts by constant human struggle
with the mysteries of nature. What was the first mystery that you can recall that hooked you?
Oh, the first mystery. That's a good one. Yeah, I remember that. I had a fever for three days
when I learned about the cart analytic geometry. And I found out that you can do all the construction
geometry using algebra. And I couldn't get over it. I simply couldn't get out of bed.
What kind of world does analytic geometry unlock?
Well, it connects algebra with geometry. Okay, so the cart had the idea that
geometrical construction and geometrical theorems and assumptions can be articulated in the language
of algebra, which means that all the proof that we did in high school is trying to prove that the
three bisectors meet at one point and that all these can be proven by just shuffling around
notation. Yeah, that was a traumatic experience. For me, it was. So it's the connection between
the different mathematical disciplines that they all... Not between two different languages.
Languages. Yeah. So which mathematic discipline is most beautiful? Is geometry it for you? Both
are beautiful. They have almost the same power. But there's a visual element to geometry being...
Visually, it's more transparent. But once you get over to algebra, then the linear equation is a
straight line. This translation is easily absorbed. And to pass a tangent to a circle,
you have the basic theorems and you can do it with algebra. But the transition from one to
another was really... I thought that the cart was the greatest mathematician of all times.
So you have been at the... If you think of engineering and mathematics as a spectrum.
Yes. You have been... You have walked casually along this spectrum throughout your life.
A little bit of engineering and then done a little bit of mathematics here and there.
Not a little bit. I mean, we got a very solid background in mathematics because our teachers
were geniuses. Our teachers came from Germany in the 1930s running away from Hitler.
They left their careers in Heidelberg and Berlin and came to teach high school in Israel.
And we were the beneficiary of that experiment. So I... When they taught us math, the good way.
What's a good way to teach math? Chronologically.
The people. The people behind the theorems. Yeah. Their cousins and their nieces and their faces.
And how they jumped from the bathtub when they screamed Eureka and ran naked in town.
So you're almost educated as a historian of math?
No. We just got a glimpse of that history together with the theorem. So every exercise
in math was connected with the person and the time of the person. The period.
Period also mathematically speaking? Mathematically speaking, yes. Not the politics.
So and then in university, you have gone on to do engineering.
Yeah. I got a B.S. in engineering and a Technion. And then I moved here for graduate work
and I did engineering in addition to physics in Rutgers. And it would combine very nicely with my
thesis, which I did in LCA laboratories in superconductivity.
And then somehow thought to switch to almost computer science, software, even...
Not switch, but long to become... To get into software engineering a little bit.
Programming, if you can call that in the 70s. So there's all these disciplines.
If you were to pick a favor, in terms of engineering and mathematics,
which path do you think has more beauty? Which path has more power?
It's hard to choose now. I enjoy doing physics and even have a vortex named on my name.
So I have investment in immortality.
So what is a vortex? Vortex is in superconductivity.
In the superconductivity. If you have permanent current swirling around,
one way or the other, you can have a store one or zero for computer. That's what we worked on
in the 1960s in LCA. And I discovered a few nice phenomena with the vortices.
It pushed current and they moved. Pearl vortex, right? You can google it.
I didn't know about it, but the physicists picked up on my thesis, on my PhD thesis.
It becomes popular when thin film superconductors became important
for high temperature superconductors. So they call it pearl vortex without my knowledge.
I discovered it only about 15 years ago. You have footprints in all of the sciences.
So let's talk about the universe a little bit. Is the universe at the lowest level deterministic
or stochastic in your amateur philosophy view? Put another way, does God play dice?
We know it is stochastic. Today we think it is stochastic.
Yes. We think because we have the Heisenberg uncertainty principle and we have some
experiments to confirm that. All we have is experiments to confirm it. We don't understand why.
You wrote a book about why. Yeah, it's a puzzle. It's a puzzle that you have a dice
flipping machine or God and the result of the flipping propagate with the speed faster than
the speed of light. We can't explain it. But it only governs microscopic phenomena.
So you don't think of quantum mechanics as useful for understanding the nature of reality?
No, diversionary. So in your thinking, the world might as well be deterministic?
The world is deterministic. And as far as the new one firing is concerned,
it is deterministic to first approximation. What about free will? Free will is also a nice
exercise. Free will is an illusion that we AI people are going to solve.
So what do you think once we solve it, that solution will look like once we put it in the
page? First of all, it will look like a machine. A machine that acts as though it has free will.
It communicates with other machines as though they have free will. And you wouldn't be able to
tell the difference between a machine that does that machine that does not have free will.
So the illusion, it propagates the illusion of free will amongst the other machines?
And faking it is having it. Okay, that's what Turing tells us all about. Faking intelligence
is intelligent because it's not easy to fake. It's very hard to fake. And you can only fake if you
have it. That's such a beautiful statement. You can't fake it if you don't have it.
So let's begin at the beginning with the probability both philosophically and mathematically.
What does it mean to say the probability of something happening is 50%? What is probability?
It's a degree of uncertainty that an agent has about the world.
You're still expressing some knowledge in that statement?
Of course. If the probability is 90%, it's absolutely different kind of knowledge. And
if it is 10%. But it's still not solid knowledge?
It's still solid knowledge. But if you tell me that 90% assurance smoking will
give you lung cancer in five years versus 10%, it's a piece of useful knowledge.
So the statistical view of the universe, why is it useful? So we're swimming in complete uncertainty.
Most of everything around us. It allows you to predict things with a certain probability.
And computing those probabilities are very useful. That's the whole idea of
prediction. And you need prediction to be able to survive. If you can't predict the future,
then you're just crossing the street will be extremely fearful.
And so you've done a lot of work in causation. And so let's think about correlation.
I started with the probability. You started with probability. You've
invented the Bayesian networks. And so we'll dance back and forth between these levels
of uncertainty. But what is correlation? So probability is something happening,
is something. But then there's a bunch of things happening. And sometimes they happen
together, sometimes not, they're independent or not. So how do you think about correlation of things?
Correlation occurs when two things vary together over a very long time. It's one way
of measuring it. Or when you have a bunch of variables that they all vary
cohesively, then we have a correlation here. And usually when we think about correlation,
we really think causally. Things that cannot be correlated unless there is a reason for them
to vary together. Why should they vary together? If they don't see each other, why should they vary
together? So underlying it somewhere is causation. Yes. Hidden in our intuition, there is a notion
causation because we cannot grasp any other logic, accept causation.
And how does conditional probability differ from causation? So what is conditional probability?
Conditional probability, how things vary when one of them stays the same. Now staying the same
means that I have chosen to look only at those incidents where the guy has the same value
as previous one. It's my choice as an experimenter. So things that are not correlated before
could become correlated. Like for instance, if I have two coins which are uncorrelated,
and I choose only those flippings experiments in which a bell rings and a bell rings when at least
one of them is a tail, then suddenly I see correlation between the two coins. Because I only
look at the cases where the bell rang. You see, it's my design, with my ignorance essentially,
with my audacity to ignore certain incidents. I suddenly create a correlation where it doesn't
exist physically. Right. So you just outlined one of the flaws of observing the world and trying
to infer something from the myth about the world from looking at the correlation. I don't look
at it as a flaw. The world works like that. But the flaws come if we try to impose
causal logic on correlation. It doesn't work too well. I mean, but that's exactly what we do.
That's what has been the majority of science. The majority of naive science. The decisions
know it. The decisions know it. If you condition on a third variable, then you can destroy or create
correlations among two other variables. They know it. It's in the data.
Right. It's nothing surprising. That's why they all dismiss the Simpson paradox.
Ah, we know it. It's not anything about it. Well, there's disciplines like psychology where
all the variables are hard to account for. And so oftentimes there's a leap between correlation
to causation. You're imposing. What do you mean a leap? Who is trying to get causation from correlation?
Not you're not proving causation, but you're sort of discussing it, implying
sort of hypothesizing without ability to prove. Which discipline do you have in mind? I'll tell
you if they are obsolete or if they are outdated or they are about to get outdated. Yes. Yes.
Tell me which one do you have in mind. Well, psychology, you know.
Psychology, what is it? SEM, structural equation? No, no, no. I was thinking of
applied psychology studying. For example, we work with human behavior and semi-autonomous vehicles,
how people behave. And you have to conduct these studies of people driving cars.
Everything starts with the question. What is the research question?
What is the research question? The research question, do people fall asleep
when the car is driving itself? Do they fall asleep or do they tend to fall asleep more
frequently? More frequently. Then the car not driving itself. No, it's not driving itself.
That's a good question. Okay. And so you measure, you put people in the car because it's real world.
You can't conduct an experiment where you can control everything. Why can't you can?
You could. Turn the automatic module on and off. Because it's on road public. I mean,
there's aspects to it that's unethical because it's testing on public roads. So you can only use
vehicles. They have to, the people, the drivers themselves have to make that choice themselves.
And so they regulate that. And so you just observe when they drive it autonomously and when
they don't. But maybe they turn it off when they were very tired. Yeah, that's kind of thing.
But you don't know those variables. Okay. So that you have now uncontrolled experiments.
Uncontrolled experiments. We call it observational study. And we formed the correlation
detected that we have to infer causal relationship, whether it was the automatic
piece that caused them to fall asleep. Oh, okay. So that is an issue that is about 120 years old.
Yeah. I should only go 100 years old. Okay. And oh, maybe it's not. Actually,
I should say it's 2000 years old because we have this experiment by Daniel. But the Babylonian king
that wanted the exile, the people from Israel that were taken in exile to Babylon to serve the king.
He wanted to serve them king's food, which was meat. And Daniel as a good Jew couldn't eat a
non-kosher food. So he asked them to eat vegetarian food. But the king overseers said, I'm sorry,
but if the king sees that your performance falls below that of other kids, he's going to kill me.
Daniel said, let's make an experiment. Let's take four of us from Jerusalem. Okay. Give us
vegetarian food. Let's take the other guys to eat the king's food and in about a week's time
we'll test our performance. And you know the answer? Of course, he did the experiment. And they were
so much better than the others. And the kings nominated them to super position in his king.
So it was the first experiment. So there was a very simple, it's also the same
research questions. We want to know vegetarian food, assist or obstruct your mental ability.
And the question is very old. Even a democrat said, if I could discover one cause
of things, I would rather discuss one cause and be a king of Persia. The task of discovering causes
was in the mind of ancient people from many, many years ago. But the mathematics of doing this
was only developed in the 1920s. So science has left us often. Science has not provided us
with the mathematics to capture the idea of X causes Y and Y does not cause X.
Because all the questions of physics are symmetrical algebraic. The equality sign goes both ways.
Okay, let's look at machine learning. Machine learning today, if you look at deep neural networks,
you can think of it as a kind of conditional probability as the nators.
Beautiful. So where did you say that? Conditional probability estimators?
None of the machine learning people clubbed you, attacked you?
Most people, and this is why this today's conversation I think is interesting, is
most people would agree with you. There are certain aspects that are just effective today,
but we're going to hit a wall and there's a lot of ideas. I think you're very right that we're
going to have to return to about causality. Let's try to explore it. Let's even take a step back.
