ISIS, we are capable of Nazism. Yes, we are, but the question is whether we, after we have
gone through some Western education and we learned that everything is really relative.
It is no absolute God. It is only a belief in God. Whether we are capable now of being
transformed under certain circumstances to become brutal. I'm worried about it because
some people say, yes, given the right circumstances, given bad economical crisis,
you are capable of doing it too. That worries me. I want to believe it. I'm not capable.
Seven years after Daniel's death, he wrote an article at the Wall Street Journal titled
Daniel Perot and the Normalization of Evil. What was your message back then and how did it change
today over the years? I lost. What was the message? The message was that we are not treating
terrorism as a taboo. We are treating it as a bargaining device that is accepted. People have
grievance and they go and bomb restaurants. It's normal. You're even not surprised when I tell you
that. 20 years ago you said, what? For grievance you go and blow a restaurant? Today it's becoming
normalized. The banalization of evil. We have created that to ourselves by normalizing, by
by making it part of political life. It's a political debate. Every terrorist
yesterday becomes a freedom fighter today and tomorrow it becomes a terrorist again. It's
switchable. And so we should call out evil when there's evil? If we don't want to be part of it.
If we want to separate good from evil, that's one of the first things that
in the Garden of Eden, remember the first thing that God tells him was, hey,
he wants some knowledge. Here's a tree of good and evil. So this evil touched your life personally.
Does your heart have anger, sadness, or is it hope?
Okay, I see some beautiful people coming from Pakistan. I see beautiful people everywhere,
but I see horrible propagation of evil in this country too. It shows you how populistic slogans
can catch the mind of the best intellectuals. Today is Father's Day. I didn't know that.
What's a fond memory you have of Daniel?
Oh, many good memories. He was my mentor. He had a sense of balance that I didn't have.
He saw the beauty in every person. He was not as emotional as I am, more
looking at things in perspective. He really liked every person. He really grew up with the idea that
a foreigner is a reason for curiosity, not for fear.
At one time, we went in Berkeley and a homeless came out from some dark alley and said, hey,
man, can you spare a dime? I retreated back, two feet back, and then he just hugged him and said,
here's a dime. Enjoy yourself. Maybe you want some money to take a bus or whatever. Where did
he get it? Not for me. Do you have advice for young minds today dreaming about creating,
as you have dreamt, creating intelligent systems? What is the best way to arrive at new breakthrough
ideas and carry them through the fire of criticism and past conventional ideas?
Ask your questions. Really, your questions are never dumb. And solve them your own way.
And don't take no for an answer. If they are really dumb, you will find out quickly
by trying an arrow to see that they're not leading any place. But follow them and
try to understand things your way. That is my advice. I don't know if it's going to help anyone.
No, that's brilliantly. There is a lot of
inertia in science, in academia. It is slowing down science.
Yeah, those two words, your way, that's a powerful thing. It's against inertia,
potentially, against the flow. Against your professor.
I wrote the book of why in order to democratize common sense.
In order to instill a rebellious spirit in students. So they wouldn't wait until the
professor gets things right.
So you wrote the manifesto of the rebellion against the professor.
Against the professor, yes.
So looking back at your life of research, what ideas do you hope ripple through the
next many decades? What do you hope your legacy will be?
I already have a tombstone carved.
Oh boy.
The fundamental law of counterfactuals. That's what it's a simple equation.
What a counterfactual in terms of a model surgery.
That's it, because everything follows from that.
If you get that, all the rest, I can die in peace and my student can derive all my knowledge,
my mathematical means.
The rest follows.
Yeah.
Thank you so much for talking today. I really appreciate it.
Thank you for being so attentive and instigating.
We did it.
We did it.
The coffee helped.
Thanks for listening to this conversation with Judea Pearl.
And thank you to our presenting sponsor, Cash App.
Download it, use code LEX Podcast.
You'll get $10 and $10 will go to FIRST, a STEM education nonprofit that inspires hundreds
of thousands of young minds to learn and to dream of engineering our future.
If you enjoy this podcast, subscribe on YouTube, give it five stars on Apple Podcasts,
support on Patreon, or simply connect with me on Twitter.
And now, let me leave you with some words of wisdom from Judea Pearl.
You cannot answer a question that you cannot ask, and you cannot ask a question that you have no
words for.
Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.
