I guess one of the nice parts about God, I hate saying this, one of the nice parts
about growing up evangelical is that you, if you were spreading this thing out, you
have to defend your beliefs a lot to people.
And so you want them to be as firm as possible.
And that's one of the things that drove me anyway, to make sure that I did have these
things figured out.
And I could explain things and meet challengers when they were like saying, but evolution
is true because of this.
And I'd be like, no, have you seen this thing?
And that's one of the things that eventually led me to be like, oh, wait a minute.
And you would have said back then that seeking the truth was a really important goal to you.
It was.
I mean, was it?
Yeah.
Well, eventually I kept seeking the truth until I got to it.
Well, so I think you cared about the truth, but you didn't know how to find it.
And so when you found that there was an actual recipe to get things right, you were eager
to find that and you were stoked if I'm reading this correctly.
Well, the thing is I had heard about science before, you know, it's not like I didn't
know that scientists exist, but I guess as the average person, you don't really think
of the scientific method all that much and certainly not as something that's applicable
to yourself in your day to day life.
Or that you can do, you know, really without tools for the most part, just with just with
testing something.
Yeah.
Just test your own beliefs.
Yeah.
I think some people have that spark if they want to know stuff, right?
And so you can find those people, you can engage with them street epistemology style
or you can.
And I think David mentioned this on the podcast I did with him months ago.
And I think this came up with Matt too.
If there was a community of badasses, you know, who were just crushing it at life and
what did they all have in common?
Oh, they all, you know, are part of the church of rationality or whatever it ends up being
called.
Yeah.
They're all rationalists.
You know, I remember this was impactful when I was first getting into the rationality community.
I forget what podcast this was on.
It was one of the few that Eli Zou's been on.
It might have been pale blue dot.
I think he's in one of the last episodes of that podcast.
He was asked about why back then it was the Singularity Institute was doing what it was
doing.
You know, why, why aren't you guys doing something else?
And he said, there's got to be one project that is the most important thing humans can
be working on right now that we need to get right.
And we had the Singularity Institute, we're rationalists over here.
We think we found it.
That's why we're doing this.
And that, and it sounds, you know, preachy, but when he said, we're rationalists, this
is, this is it.
I was like, oh, that's, that's, that's awesome.
Yeah.
You guys figured, you know,
I love that about him.
Yeah.
He never tries to, to weasel away or anything.
He just leans right in.
And he does it in a way that I didn't find off putting it all.
No.
And so if anything, I found it dangerously entrancing.
So I've seen him on a number of, of those podcasts or talking head things where with
almost everyone else, they would be given some sort of challenge.
I'd be like, oh God, here comes the back pedaling.
And he'd just be like, no, I own it.
You know, there's, I'm, I ain't ashamed.
And I think that's also another big part of it.
Like as, as Jehovah's Witnesses, we were often told to stand up and be proud and be
like, I am a Jehovah's Witness and I am a witness unto the Lord with my actions.
You know, and if people are always like embarrassed and ashamed to say they're
rationalists, then that's going to come through.
You know, if you're willing to say, yeah, I'm a rationalist and here's, here's my
life, then that makes a big difference.
Like I don't know how many rationalists there are out there, but I'm pretty sure
there's some that just aren't willing to say it out loud.
I think it's probably a lot of them just because, you know, it's part, the exact
problem we've been identifying here, that it's awkward to identify as part of a
group, because that's something that every, every other dime a dozen weird group does.
I don't think even aspiring rationalist is a great term.
Like just rationalist.
I, I like aspiring rationalist for the, what it conveyed as like martial artist,
you know, like I'm getting better, you know, like I'm a rationalist.
I'm a black belt, right?
Okay.
Yeah.
But I realized that's not the connotation that it's now commonly used, but that's
the way that I always thought about it.
So I can, I'm happy to move away from that.
In fact, aspiring rationalist almost sounds more culty, right?
I haven't gotten all the, the degrees yet or something, right?
I don't know.
Right, right, right.
I'm only level, what?
Level one.
I haven't gone clear yet.
Right.
Still got some fatins in me.
I still need a few more thousand dollars.
Yeah.
So I think the approach like that, um, and this is what, like I said, we talked
about before is more of like a ground up approach, you know, grassroots, get groups
of cool people, you know, that eventually draw enough attention or somehow evangelize
enough, whether it's through, and we could talk about the different mediums to push
this out.
In fact, I've seen, you know, attempts to do this with like TV with, you know,
skeptics and stuff too.
Um, but it's hard to sell.
Um, but the other approach, and this is what something someone, um, uh,
quantical on the less, a commenter on that less wrong post, uh, pointed out the
other approach that I thought of too, but unfortunately they also thought of it
and wrote it down first.
Um, which was fortunately, cause it saved you the trouble of having to type it
up.
Well, that's true.
And they probably put it better than I did.
They, they top down, you know, rather than bottom up, have people at the top,
you know, they named, you know, like Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates or something.
If they said, Hey, you know, rationality, that's where it's at paraphrasing.
What I put after that was, uh, yeah, get famous badasses to start touting how
awesome rationality is and how it was a central role in their success.
So the closest I can think of was like when Sam Harris was introducing LAIs,
LAIs are on his podcast.
He said he'd read and enjoyed the sequences.
Um, that was like the most famous person I've ever heard say, other than, you
know, other rationalists say that they've read these and enjoyed it.
Nice.
Um, so I don't know how many people he got to dive into them.
I don't know if they're even linked to on the episode notes, cause no one
looks at those.
Um, actually I sometimes do, but I never do.
If someone mentioned something that I thought was interesting, I checked and
see if it was in there.
Okay.
Um, right now, unless there's people out there that are like that and haven't
come out of the closet yet, then this group of rationalists, this generation of
rationalists needs to grow up, be badass and then say like, this is why.
Um, you can be as badass as I am.
You need to do this.
Yeah.
And that was, again, this language didn't turn me off at all, but I can see how
it would in methods of rationality back when it was just on fanfiction.net and
the, you know, it still is there too.
Yeah.
But when I was reading it on there before it was on somewhere else, it was like,
if you want to know everything Harry knows and more, go to less wrong.com.
Yeah.
And I read, you know, I'm reading from Harry's perspective and he's a fucking
badass and like, I want to know everything Harry knows and more.
Yeah.
Um, so that was a fictional example of this, right?
So, you know, doing it in fiction is one way to get people interested.
I think, you know, doing it textbook style will attract a very small and lower
people doing it sequence style, um, attracts more with, it's more engaging.
Everything's in a nicely separated and coherent order that for the most part
is digestible and written in an engaging way, you know, with, with fun
hypotheticals, anecdotes and little bits of this and that.
You know, a segment that we should have on this show every week, we should
like read one or two of the sequences ourselves and then just comment a little
bit about them at the end of the episode.
I can dig it.
All right.
Not every week, but every episode, I guess one sequence per week since we do
these every other week.
Wait, a sequence per not a sequence, but a post.
Okay.
Yeah, it's going to say I, I'm a slow reader.
Yeah, but one post per week we could do.
Yeah.
I mean, I've got a dozen favorites.
I could go back and, you know, just, just so I'm not from the start.
Go through the whole thing.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like an old school Bible study.
I mean, that sounds worth a try.
No, I'm serious.
Awesome.
Um, yeah, I'm totally down for that.
So the other avenues to get it, get it popularized.
I really, we can sit here and think of some, but the point is, is that I think
the, the meta point to make is that people are afraid to do that.
That, you know, it sounds like it's, it's too close to something that
unfavorable groups do.
It's got bad associations.
And I think Matt's point, and I think I'm sold.
It's like, dude, just own that.
Like whatever.
Yes.
It's got bad associations, but so does literally every successful cool group too.
Right.
Probably.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm trying to think of examples, but you know, if it's a great tech company,
you know, the employees, their tech pros, well, they're tech pros and they do tech
bro-y things, but they'll also say, man, we here at Apple, we love working
here.
Maybe they don't say that at Apple, but, you know, at Amazon, they do say, we get
