Cool.
I did, I did a lot of that.
Yeah.
If, as long as we're recommending games next week, I'm going to recommend one.
I don't want to like step on yours, but yeah.
Go for it.
No, no, no.
I got one for next week.
Yeah.
No, it's fine.
Oh, but I can drag it at you because you'll probably forget by next week.
I wrote it down.
All right, fine.
We'll save it.
Yeah.
All right, cool.
Only one regular game recommendation per week.
All right.
We can touch another thing, which was funny.
Well, it's up to you.
Yeah, go for it.
Actually, it's too long to get into.
We'll save it.
Okay.
The Intellectual Dark Web phenomena, which I hate, I think started off as a joke,
and now it's like this idiot brand.
It's like if someone else called atheists brights, and then like the atheists,
like I guess we'll just roll with it.
Yeah.
No, no.
It was maybe kind of like the new atheists.
Okay.
Except more obnoxious, no, except actually obnoxious.
The new atheists were great.
I don't know.
Intellectual Dark Web has that kind of like on Batman thing, you know?
Yeah.
Or it's like all dark and.
Except all that it is, is people are willing to say like,
there might be a correlation between genetics and IQ or between race and IQ.
Right, right, right.
And it's like, oh my God, you can join the Intellectual Dark Web.
Yeah.
And the reason I thought of it was it was really funny in that same episode of
Very Bad Wizards, Am I Wrong?
In the description, it starts off and they joke about the Intellectual Dark Web
phenomena a bit too.
And so I could just read this and I don't know their names from their voices,
but the one who isn't Tamler, I guess, I could just hear his voice saying this of like,
Tamler wades into a Twitter controversy about Serena Williams.
Could this be his fast track pass to the Intellectual Dark Web?
Nice.
But it's like, oh yeah.
Oh man, you're so in it now.
I just thought that was a funny joke.
And their their first half of episode 148 that we talked about today is on that phenomena.
So yeah, they talk about Louis CK doing more stand up and other stuff.
It was a good episode.
Yeah.
So anyway, that's that's I think what I got.
Oh, that was all for your back today.
Well, I thought we could dive into why I think it's a stupid thing.
Why you think what the Intellectual Dark Web is a stupid thing?
I don't like.
All right.
So I like the name.
I think the name is just kind of cool sounding.
That's true.
It sounds dope.
Yeah.
But if it wasn't like, you know, brooding pictures of Jordan Peterson and Ben Shapiro
and all these shitbags who are only, I mean, excuse me, not shitbags.
I will say the pictures also got me because I like the darker aesthetic.
You know, I mean, I guess as a goth, that sort of is my thing.
But I was like, these pictures are cool.
The name's cool.
I like it.
Man, what a cool branding they got when I was when I was a wee lad.
I used to my Facebook picture was black and white kind of like this.
But I think I guess I can't tell if they're leaning into it as a joke or if they're embracing it as
like an actual thing.
I mean, at this point, it looks like it's an actual thing.
And yet Dave and Tamler were leaning into it as a joke.
Yes, they were.
And so that I enjoyed.
Yeah.
Leaning into it as an actual thing.
I'm like, yep, we're the brave ones who are willing to ask these questions.
It's like, no, you guys are just jerking each other off and you're making really bad friends.
So that's that's my bird's eye view of it.
All right.
That's all I got for this week.
Okay.
In this episode, we keep saying week like we do it weekly.
Sorry.
It's every two weeks.
We're it's we're not busy.
We're lazy and busy.
And you know, she's busy.
Aw.
I'm lazy.
I do.
I don't do that many things.
But we'll eventually maybe do this twice or every week.
Take that out.
No.
I'm not committing to that.
I mean, you can if you want.
I still will not be able to join you every week though.
Fair enough.
Yeah.
All right.
Why have you been thinking about doing it every week?
Well, we keep saying it.
There is there is rationality from at least that's at least 50% enyosh every week.
On on Bayesian conspiracy weeks, you get this and on the off weeks, you get crystal society
or whatever.
Oh, I see what you're saying.
Whatever the rationality podcast is.
Okay.
Right.
Yeah.
You do it.
No.
You do to biweekly podcast, which come out on alternate weeks.
Yes.
I guess so for me, it does feel more like a weekly thing.
So maybe I'll do another podcast that comes out on the other on the other week, you know.
What's your other podcast going to be about?
But you see what I was saying the other week between the two, you know,
you can't alternate weeks and then have another week somewhere in the middle.
Oh, I was being, I thought it was funny.
Both time turn our way into this.
Yeah.
We'll figure something out.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I was just kidding.
I know.
But we're clearly what would you do if you had another podcast?
I wonder if I could talk Scott or Matt into doing one on video games.
That'd be fun because they do do media for, you know, TV, movies and books.
Yeah.
But video games are more of an investment.
Yeah.
Like, like I said, to really play this game, I probably didn't need to spend all 70 hours,
maybe 79, but probably at least 45 of those.
And that would have to be like a monthly podcast.
And even that's a pretty heavy investment 10 hours a week.
Not everyone has that kind of free time or the desire to do that.
So.
Right.
I mean, but a lot of people do.
The thing is, it's not work if you're playing the games anyway, right?
That's true.
But at some point I'd run out of games I want to play.
And I had to play games that people were like, hey, you should try this.
I'm like, I got to drag my ass through Undertale now.
You didn't like Undertale?
I tried for like 10 minutes.
Oh my God.
You'll try again.
The thing is I grew up on Final Fantasy.
I actually played the original Final Fantasy all the way through, but also two and three.
And I played a lot of the old JRPGs.
So Undertale wasn't Final Fantasy.
Ask.
It was a text based game, wasn't it?
No, no, no.
Undertale was totally JRPG.
But you're just talking to the things and like you can you can fight or you can talk
your way out of these altercations.
Am I thinking the one where it's like the little white creatures?
Yeah, I know you're you that's Undertale.
That was totally.
I mean, I know you haven't played like the original Final Fantasy games, but that was
I played Final Fantasy 7 back in the day.
Well, okay, that's similar.
Final Fantasy 7 is basically it looked good.
Yeah, right.
Sounded good.
Okay.
So it had all the things this game doesn't have.
But the battle system was you're on one side, the enemies are the other.
And you choose from a menu about what to do, right?
Sure.
And then after a little time period, you choose from a menu for another character.
After a time period, you choose from another and it's not like doing things
actively with the controller.
You're choosing from a menu every time a timer comes up.
Okay.
That's seeing the results.
Yeah.
Okay.
And now someone's listening to like Stephen, you should never do a video game podcast.
Yeah, I really enjoyed Undertale because it it was a it was a meta video game.
It was a video game about the whole conceit of JRPGs.
Okay.
So I'll give it another shot.
I think it's like, I tried to watch Twin Peaks going into it and like, oh,
