cause some of them might have been from Central America, but let's just say
Mexican immigrants for now.
Uh, one or two, everyone was like, cool with them.
Like, yeah, that's Maria over there.
She does good work, but, um, more and more started coming into the city
and, uh, eventually it got to the point where there was maybe only one out of
any, any 20 people there, uh, was not a, you know, Mexican native.
And, uh, and everyone spoke Spanish, the few people from the, that originally
had been in the town, like, didn't have anyone to talk to at work.
And they felt like really cheated because they, like you said, had taken all
the, these, these jobs for a lower amount of work and less, uh, and worse work
conditions.
And so there were a number of people in the town really upset about the whole
immigration thing, but they, someone came in and like looked at the town
economy overall and all the people coming in and working at the, the chicken
factory, now we're spending the money in the community on other things.
And that created new jobs in places like, you know, stores and yeah, like it's
possible that people may not realize that they're better off even though they
are by having people do these jobs.
Well, and some of it too might be, um, I, I now they also get much lower
prices on their chicken when they go in by chicken.
That's true.
And I mean, I saw a thing on Reddit just a couple of days ago.
I think I spent too much time on Reddit is what's coming out of tonight's
conversation, but, um, the, all thanks to the great Apollo app for iOS.
Sorry.
Uh, someone, you know, grabbed their chicken thing.
They're, you know, you buy that thing of wrapped chicken from the store and it's
like already pre-cut and it's got that wet, soppy thing in the bottom that
brines it or something and, um, they took it, you know, it was like $1.99 a
pound from Walmart and they bought four pounds worth of whatever and they put
on a scale and it was like three pounds and two ounces or something.
And like, yeah, but the whole wrapper and everything, it's four pounds.
And it's like, yeah, you're paying for the whole thing.
And the top comment was some Canadians like, I don't know how you guys
could possibly have chicken for $1.99 a pound.
Like that's the, that's the takeaway from this, right?
Is their chickens fucking super cheap.
So you're right.
The cool thing about cheap labor is that you get cheap products.
And I'm sure there's all kinds of terrible outcomes to that, that you get
nightmare factories, you know, where, uh, our iPhones are made from, you know,
people that don't want to make them.
And, uh, or I guess would rather have other options.
Maybe sometimes, I don't know.
I have mixed thoughts on such ops too.
Cause I don't think there are products that you're buying in the West that
often that come from people who are changed to desks, but some people work
there because they want to, you know, but it's one of those weird exploity things.
It's like, yeah, you want to cause or else.
And, you know, the or else thing is, you know, a real thing, but it's,
but I mean, the or else thing is just, it's a fact of life.
Like, even if there were no factories like that, your, your option was,
would be, I grow my own food or else I starved to death.
Well, totally.
I don't know.
It's something about when I first heard that argument, particularly that I
felt just like this kind of weirdy pugnance in my mind went straight to like,
cause I do this whenever I hear like a new argument.
It's like, all right, let's turn it up to stupid and see, see how it's, how
let's turn it up to 11 and see how stupid it sounds.
And it's like, all right.
So let's like go to, you know, war-torn Sudan and, you know, talk to some
refugees and like, Hey, you can come live in my house and clean it and do all this
stuff and I can have sex you the never you want, but, or I can leave you here.
What would you like?
So it's like, it's the exact same argument.
Kind of, but no one I think would say that's okay, unless you're going to just
bite the bullet and say, I guess she would rather be raped three times a week
than, you know, dying in, in this, this war-torn nation.
So, I mean, to be fair, I
would rather be raped three times a week than die, but I'd rather neither of
those happen.
Yeah.
And I think the person, yeah.
Making, I think the person making an offer is a bad person.
Yes.
And that's, that's my takeaway.
Not that like they shouldn't take the offer or whatever it is.
It's just like, okay, yeah, I see what you're saying and yet you're still kind
of fucked up for saying, you're not, not for saying it for, for being the kind
of person who wants to do that.
Yeah.
Um, I think that basically comes down to people saying that there's a
difference between getting raped and money.
That, that is where people would argue with you.
They'd be like, you know what, those are two very different things and you
cannot compare them in that way.
Yeah.
And like giving you literally no money is wrong, but giving you not joking a penny
a day, that can't be less, I guess, technically less wrong, but it's not good.
It's not better.
They're never going to not be able to not be your slave because they can't ever
save that money and go do something else.
Right.
Yeah.
So I don't know.
It's a whole thing.
And I'm standing probably like an idiot to anyone who knows anything.
So let's just, let's just pivot.
Okay.
Um, where do we want to go from here?
Spamming microintensions to generate willpower.
Yeah.
This was fun.
That was really cool.
All right.
Spamming microintensions to generate willpower, which is another post on less
wrong by Matt Freeman, AKA more than a male, AKA do podcast media fame.
Um, he's going to keep plugging that, that podcast, aren't we?
Well, I like it.
Yeah, I do too.
Actually, I've been really enjoying it.
And holy shit, their coverage on their last episode of We've Got Ward.
Yeah.
Uh, did you read enough of Worm to get to any of the interlude chapters?
Yeah.
So they did one for a character that, for really complicated reasons that
takes a long to get into, you never really see all that much.
You see him about half the time, maybe less.
Um, half the time, what?
Of the story that he, that, okay.
So he shares physical, he shares a body.
He shares physical space with his twin brother.
They both triggered with their met with their superpower at the same time.
Okay.
And for whatever reason, the, the way that powers work, they don't care.
I guess about twins being separate people.
So the womb, they're the same.
They, uh, basically, did you see Get Out?
Yes.
Yes.
They got that going.
So yeah, one of them is sitting in the chair, watching through the eyes.
Another one's driving.
Okay.
And then when they switch out, they switch bodies.
Another one's in the chair.
Okay.
And it's, that's that's as bad as it sounds.
Um, you know, they, they don't get along well.
They, they, they triggered during a fight where they were basically killing each other.
Oh, like it escalated.
One was strangling the other one.
The other one started stabbing them with a pen because he couldn't breathe.
Wait, how could they kill each other if they're never in the same?
This was before they triggered with their superpower.
So then, then the one wakes up and he can't find his brother and because they
don't know the other ones in there.
Um, so like they're not aware of it.
The, what happened is that from, since it's the interlude chapters, everyone
should read worm and ward.
So they, you get to follow the story of the protagonist from their point of view.
And then the author throws in, usually at the end of arcs, but sometimes in the
middle, a chapter from a perspective of the non-protagonist, some random character.
And it's never the same character twice.
And if it is the same character twice, well, they're a different person now.
So in this one, um, this is another part of the protagonist's team.
It just, it's really well done.
Everyone should read this.
Um, why did I talk about this?
Oh, cause I'm, I'm playing up to media and we've got ward.
Um, anyway, the coverage of it was really well, really well done.
And because they actually like read it with the intention of discussing it.
They, they typically read it more than once.
And they said what I, what, well, I only read the chapter once and they went
through and did a really balanced version of it.
And like, how the hell were you guys worked that hard to come out that fair
to the other person in this?
And they were like, on my first read, I was totally on this guy's side.
I was like, Oh, okay, that makes sense.
Cause I only read it once.
Now it's on this guy's side the whole time.
But then they point out everything that, uh, really makes it a much more
balanced situation.
It's now I'm totally going on about it too long, but if everyone liked how
articulate Matt was a couple of weeks ago, they're that great on their show
all the time.
And it's really funny.
So check it out.
Anyway, speaking of Matt being super articulate, he wrote a great post, which
tied into our one a few weeks ago with Jess, um, on spamming micro
intention intentions to generate willpower.
Yes.
So yeah, this was a really good post.
Yeah.
And it's like, and what I like about the new less wrong format is that what I
hate about it for one is that for whatever reason on my browser, text is
like the middle third of the page with these gigantic white bars and the white
on the side and the text is small.
So I got to zoom it in to read it, which is, I don't know if that's just me in
any case.
So that's the downside about the new less wrong website.
But I think that's like an aesthetic choice that a lot of places are going to
right now and everyone hates it.
Yeah.
Everyone hates the new Reddit design.
Everyone hates the new Gmail design.
Why do people take good things and destroy them like that?
Our friend, uh, Zeke Iran made a good, good argument on, or pointed this out on,
