Um, was it on, he was on Sam Harris's podcast too in the last year.
So back before his podcast started sucking.
And I'm kidding.
But some of them are okay now.
Um, he's bouncing back, but, uh, I think effective altruism is probably one of
the greatest PR moves that rationality has.
That's a good point.
Yeah.
Cause rationality was a large part of the, the takeoff of effective altruism.
Probably definitely seen.
It wasn't all of it, but it was a large chunk of that initial getting it going.
Getting it, getting it popularized for sure.
Yeah.
Cause, cause rationalists saw it and like, yep, that's optimal.
Let's grab that and, and run with it.
Right.
Um, so like, I think I'm sure he wasn't the first, but you know, this, this got
popular, this was in what, New York times or the, another big journal.
I forget in 1975 was Peter singers, famine, affluence and morality essay.
Um, where he illustrated the whole, you know, walking past a kid drowning in a pond
thing, um, you know, well, I'm not going to go in cause my $50, my $50 shoes will
get ruined and you'd be, you'd be a complete monster.
And he's like, yeah, that's the situation we're all in now, except it's a kid
across the world and it's not even a $50 shoes.
It's your daily Starbucks or, you know, you're, you're, you're totally superfluous,
whatever, right?
So how do we put that in context of this essay?
Um, because most people would say, um, if you see a kid drowning in a pool, you
are obligated to go in and save it, even if it would ruin your suit, but that
conflicts with the, you are not obligated to give someone more life if it would
destroy your own property, right?
Hmm.
I think this may be a counter-argument.
Well, my first thought is that that's a lot of the like counterintuitiveness
pushback that singer got and that effective, effective altruism still gets.
And it's like, it's not my fucking job.
Right.
Um, so it's not your fucking job when it's someone across the world, right?
But if there was literally a child dying next to you, anyone who didn't sacrifice
their suit to save the child would be considered a monster.
I guess maybe like, you might feel more pressure to like, if your neighbor was
displaced due to a fire, you might say, Hey, spend the night at my house till you
get your back on your feet, but you're not going to like put up an ad to like
house refugees from across the world.
Yeah.
So I think that might just, I don't know if it contrasts with this essay or not,
but it might just be the same kind of psychological distance thing.
You know, that's them over there.
I can't see them.
And, you know, I can see my crying neighbor standing on the street watching
their house go up in flames.
I think that's, I think that's a decent pushback against this saying that, you
know, lots of times people use these systems of incentives, social incentives
to push back just past a property rights morality that property rights would say,
yeah, you're not required to save that child.
But since the loss of value of losing a child is so astronomical and the loss
of value in losing your shoes is so minor in comparison that if you are not
willing to lose your shoes to save somebody else's child, you will be very
harshly punished by the rest of society because that is just too much of a, um,
a defecting in one of those situations.
You defect when you don't save the child, you get more utility at the great
loss to the child's parents.
Whereas in a cooperative scenario, you lose your shoes, but the society as a
whole is a lot richer.
And so you get punished if you didn't cooperate there.
Yeah.
I think that requires some rewiring of our like other intuitions about how to
operate in society though, right?
Because we don't feel that way.
And it's weird.
Um, don't we?
Not really.
Like, I mean, I remember seeing someone dying.
You, you definitely feel that, but, but, but we don't feel that way with
people across the world.
No, no, well, because the purpose of the systems of social punishment and
reward is to make it so that you can coordinate with the people you actually
interact with, right?
Yes.
And no, I mean, I remember seeing numbers about like how many billions came
in donations, like the 3000 families affected by the 2000 or the 2001 September
11th attacks.
Oh yeah.
And that was, you know, billions came in from other citizens of the United
States going over to new, you know, families to people who worked in New York.
Yeah.
Um, I think I sent 10 bucks.
Sounds like a sixth grade.
Um, but that's because we all felt like family at that moment, right?
Yeah.
And so, but these aren't people we'll ever see or interact with.
And yet they're part of our tribe.
Yeah.
And so maybe that's the thing.
So our tribe doesn't have to be people we see every day or ever, but it has to
people that we feel identified with.
Right.
And that's why I meant that we'd have to recalibrate our moral intuitions to just
feel that way about everybody.
That is interesting though.
Cause yeah, I mean, when Florence is unraveling, it's, it's hurricane business.
I'm sure there'll be, you know, outpouring some money from people from citizens
of the United States to help them out.
Like there is every good hurricane.
And yet, or if anyone has numbers to the contrary, I'm happy to see them.
But I bet it's far less than like every other major crisis that hits the rest of
the world.
You know, we just don't care when a million people are displaced from Sudan
because not our problem.
I say that with the, all the contempt that that should feel.
But, and yet I didn't give anything.
I don't know why.
Um, I know exactly why they're very far away.
And it's not my problem.
I, I cannot literally help everyone.
That's true.
And yet like, I talk about being a nice person trying to do nice things.
And yet like, you give your 10% of the most effective places
as you can, right?
And hopefully as we knock more and more problems down, that 10% will move
to higher and higher places.
And we can rationalize and say, Hey, you know what, these, these large
scale problems will hit the news and other people will give money to them.
So I don't have to.
But like the against me layer foundation isn't the sexy charity to give to,
right?
But, you know, the save, save the kids from, you know, the salvation or not the
salvation army, the, um, salvation army too.
I was thinking, uh, what the, the Lord's resistance army.
Um, you know, that's, that was a valuable thing.
And I'm sure that got lots of people to participate.
Yeah, this is muddy.
I don't know.
But that said, Katja's essay short, and it's really interesting to just feel
the weird tickle when you realize like, Oh shit, I feel the same way
about my stuff is to do about like my morals.
Yeah.
Katja did also, um, make a point, which you pointed out here that, uh, it's
interesting, the article isn't trying to argue that property rights are good.
And, uh, it asks that maybe we should write off some of our moral
intuitions and reasons on consequential grounds or some of our moral reasoning
on consequential grounds, if they are outgrowths of property rights intuitions,
because property rights does not seem like a correct consequentialist way to
think of things like overall beauty of the human race.
Yeah.
Just had to throw that in before it moved on.
Um, well, yeah.
The article is not pro.
We should base all things on property rights.
It's just thinking about that.
It's just, it's just noticing that that is a thing that's out there.
And it's kind of interesting to notice and raise the question of how to
react to that.
I think it was the most recent episode of the Very Bad Wizards podcast was, uh,
well, they talked about another thing that I want to maybe touch on as a joke.
And we've ever gotten around to the, uh, random things to indulge Stephen
slash stir the pot section, but the, um, okay, we'll find a better name for that.
But, right.
The touch Stevens pot.
Yeah.
The second part.
So if you ever listened to very bad wizards, they, um, first of all, they
do that nice thing where they break up their sound file with like flags that
some players can see and say what section you're in.
So you can skip right past the intro, right past the, uh, thanks for, you
know, thanks and solicitations and all that.
Um, and so their first section is usually about something kind of random.
That's like between them.
And then the second one's first section is usually my favorite.
It's pretty good.
I'm like, I like hearing them talk about random shit that's going on.
It's good.
Um, but then the second one on this one, they talked about, uh, paper by George
sure called, um, could I be, or no, that could I be wrong?
Was anybody the episode?
I don't know if you're interested, look up the very bad wizards episode.
Could I be wrong?
But basically it talks about, um, among other things, cause it's
philosophy paper and I don't listen to podcasts, like with a pen and paper in
hand, I tend to just be doing other things.
And you know, I'm playing on my phone on the train ride home.
I'm catching most of it.
So it was much more in depth than this, but he talked about how people's
different lived experiences will come to different moral intuitions than you.
Duh.
But does this cast out on our moral intuitions because we're obviously
right and they're obviously wrong.
Um, can we, you know, I'm actually going to look up the name of the episode
because they put it really well.
Um, am I wrong?
I think it was the name of the episode.
Yep.
Number 148.
What happens once you realize that our moral convictions are not better
justified than the convictions of people who disagree with us?
Does this mean it's no longer rational to act on our moral intuitions?
And is the problem deeper from moral beliefs than it is for empirical or aesthetic beliefs?
I kind of had some issues with this episode because, um, it came from the
assumption that my moral beliefs are something that I arrived to because due
to, you know, how my life circumstances, how I was handed them and that everyone
