else is more or less the same.
And so we should consider them equal.
And this, this just sounded like arguments made by people who have never had a
significant revision of their morals.
And I, I have a number of times in my life very closely looked at my morals and
made significant changes to my morality.
And so I do have a bit more, at least it sounded compared to them, a bit more
grounding and more certainty that I am as bright as I can be in the situation.
And I realize I'm not completely right.
Certainly not about everything.
There's some things that I haven't looked into that much, but I'm right about
everything I know about.
The things I don't know about, you know, maybe I'm not right about it.
Well, I mean, not even necessarily that.
There's things I can be mistaken about too, right?
But they were just like, well, you know, nobody's morals really got there
through any sort of logical reasonable process.
So we should assign all of them the same amount of uncertainty.
I'm like, no, no, there's a few things that I am very, very sure of.
And I don't think that's what they landed either.
They entertained it that way.
It sounded like they were saying that.
But they even said flat out, like we're never going to decide that rape is okay.
You know, that's not, that's not an ethical belief we need to be unsure about.
And anybody who says it is, is just wrong.
Same with, you know, murder, torturing kids, all the obvious things.
Yeah.
But, you know, those are the obvious things.
They were talking about some less obvious things, right?
Like the value of religion, or they specifically called that abortion several times.
And that is one of the ones that I'm actually rather sure on, you know?
And, and I am too.
And yet I can think of, like, I guess it wouldn't be so much like personal
experiences, although I could think of some that might flavor my, if, if are
somebody, you know, if I had known two girls, you know, who had, you know, I'm
not sure what the death rate is for getting an abortion, probably one in a
million or something really small, right?
But it's got to be non-zero.
So if I knew somebody who had died getting one, I might be, I might be more
anti-abortion than I am, right?
Especially somebody I really cared about.
So, you know, but I'd like to say, you know, nope, she wasn't normally, everyone
else would still have them, they're safe, whatever.
But I could see how far some people that might be an argument.
That one's maybe less, less defensible, although I could certainly think of
empirical judgment or empirical observations that could be made that
would immediately change our mind on the subject.
But, um,
Oh, unabortionment?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, if we, if we, like, if you could prove that an embryo was a person or a
soul or a soul is a real, like, you know, well, no, if souls are real, then
all abortion should be mandatory because the soul gets right to heaven without
having to worry about sinning.
What if you could prove that an important soul went to hell?
Oh, well, yeah.
So, so, you know, whatever, you can twist that.
But, you know, or like, if you, if you learned that there's some weird magic of
physics, you know, some, you know, hitherto unjumped of biology where, you know, at
eight weeks, an embryo is more sentient and alive than you'll ever be as an adult.
Right.
Then it's like, oh, shit, we definitely can't do it at that point.
Right.
Maybe wait until they're born or something.
I don't know.
But, um, so I could think of empirical things to change our mind on that.
But I was trying to think of one, and this one actually worked because it got me
uncomfortable just thinking about, but like, I could see how someone's position
on something more gray, like immigration in the United States.
Um, that, that's probably almost largely colored by personal experience or lack
thereof, right?
Like my life's never been adversely impacted by, uh, immigrant, by, I'm trying
to say immigrant immigrants from legal or otherwise status.
Um, and yet I know people who have, um, you know, if you, if you work in a
rural part of the country and you're only good at manual labor, but you're
trying to, you know, live a life with a couple of roommates or whatever it is and
you know, make a living.
And yet there are people who are willing to do it for way less than you because
they're willing to, I guess, live in conditions that you're not willing to live
in, well, you're out of a job and I know people who've lost jobs that way.
Um, not in the last decades, but I'm sure it still happens.
But, um, in those things, I say, nope, this, I've seen it, it ruins small
economies and small areas or something.
And so they're, they're, they're justified in believing it for that reason,
right?
They're going to say, nope, that's why I'm against it.
And yet where the rest of us cosmopolitan people are going to say, no,
no, it's how good to be bad, um, or whatever it is.
I'm not sure, you know, my opinion on it is not very well calibrated.
Yeah, I know.
Um, so that's one that I think is pretty, uh, when we can assign a certain level
of uncertainty to your belief.
And so this is where, um, and McCaskill talked about this on his episode of, uh,
very bad research, which might have been the most, the previous one, 147.
He talked about making moral judgments under uncertainty.
And he used, he used a lot of the same language from the, you know,
the rationality papers, um, that you can, you can make estimates on what
your confidence is in on these moral propositions and then run your
Bayesian calculation and do whatever it says, um, just like the rest of us
good rationalists should do with all of our other beliefs.
Anyway, fun, fun episode.
I thought it lightly related to this and that, um, not only are our
intuitions for some weird reason tightly coupled with our beliefs about
property rights, but they're also, uh, some of our less, um, so, you know, I
could be 99% sure that abortion is a good, is, is a, it's valuable to have
around and that everyone should, they should be how to build Clinton.
Put it, um, safe, affordable and rare.
Um, so, you know, some, some of the people will say people should have
abortions all the time and they should be, you know, you should get 20 bucks
for getting one or something, but that's, that's not me.
So, uh, like if you'd be willing to get an abortion for 20 bucks, you
probably should get the abortion.
That's actually a good point.
Yeah.
Um, I can't think of actually money that if you're, if any amount of money
that you're going to offer somebody that said you probably shouldn't get it,
right?
That's going to give you $2 million to get one.
You should definitely get an abortion for $2 million, right?
Well, I mean, if you're going to have a kid, first you have an abortion to
get $2 million so you can finance the kid and the college and everything.
That's right.
Yeah.
Um, it did make me think that if we ever find something we really disagree on
that we can crux, uh, with a double crux game style thing that make for a fun
episode, that would be awesome.
So do we disagree that strongly on anything?
I don't know if we disagree on anything strongly that is empirically, I think
part of, part of the double crux game is that like your belief rests on
something that's true or false, that we disagree on the fact of something.
Right.
And that's the other thing about moral intuitions is that many of them come
down to matters of fact.
And so people, you know, like as long as pro death penalty or anti-death
penalty, I think they use this in the, in the episode too.
Um, you know, it comes down to like what you believe about redemption for people
or how much it costs to keep somebody alive in prison versus how much it costs
to kill them.
Um,
But the deterrence value of the death penalty is right.
And so I heard a wonderful point recently that, uh, their death penalty should
never be used for, uh, crimes of passion, uh, generally things like murder assault
because the argument was that people are usually not fully in their control of
their rational capabilities when they commit these crimes.
So the fact that there is a death penalty for them doesn't,
doesn't really deter them.
Totally.
Uh, whereas the place where you really want to implement the death penalty is
things like white collar crimes.
That's what I was going to say.
I hadn't heard this argument, but that's exactly where I knew it was going.
Yeah.
The cold, calculated crimes that you carry out, you know, are fucking people,
but you're okay with it.
If you embezzle a hundred thousand dollars, sorry, death penalty, because no
one's ever gonna embezzle money again.
Yeah, it's not true.
Some people still would, but it'd be more of a deterrent.
But it would actually be a deterrent in that case.
Whereas, you know, for a, uh, a flight of rage murder, you're not deterring anybody.
Everyone knows it's against the law to kill people.
I think it still deters some people possibly a flight of rage murder.
Like something in the back of your head being like, I could be killed for this.
I don't know, enough killers, I guess, to have a good mental model of what it's
like to, to murder, to decide to murder somebody.
But I've got to think that if you're deciding to, that's, that's, in
effect, the, the law takes that into account, right?
If you decide to murder somebody, then it's different.
And, you know, it, it's also me deciding to murder you.
If you and I are having a fight and I grab a pen and stab you with it.
But that would probably be punished differently than if I, you know, went off
and got poisoned and slowly killed you over the next two months with it.
Right?
Yeah, yeah.
Like I'd be a much more sinister monster for doing that.
And everyone recognizes that.
Yeah.
Um, I don't know where we're going with this.
Uh, and it matters the fact of being the crux of our position.
I think actually the, the immigration thing is a matter of fact, right?
Yeah.
Like you can actually test whether, um, loosening immigration laws leads to,
in general, better or worse outcomes for people in low wage industries.
Well, yeah, but they didn't have to make a moral judgment about whether
that's an okay consequence of doing the right thing.
I mean, that too.
Yeah.
So I do remember hearing a story about, uh, on NPR, of course, uh, about a chicken,
you know, one of those chicken plucking factory poultry farms.
What do they call them?
Where they kill a bunch of chickens and process them for food.
We'll just call it a chicken factory farm.
I don't know if there's a name for them.
Okay.
But, uh, basically chicken factory chicken factory, there was, uh, it started
like 10 years ago, what they hired one or two, uh, Hispanic people, um, and
Mexican immigrants, I think they were, uh, I don't necessarily want to say that
