paid a fuck ton here and that's, that's their marketing point, right?
Granted, it sucks to work there for the most part, but, you know, if you want to
make a baller amount of money and never have to look for another job, because the
second you just change your LinkedIn profile to looking for a job, you'll be
getting inundated at emails.
You know, that's the kind of thing that it's, I don't know, putting it on your,
your life resume rather than your professional resume.
So I don't know.
I, I feel like this is the kind of thing that maybe we could do some more arguing
about whether or not this is a worthwhile endeavor, but I'm sold that it is.
So I feel like if anyone agrees, spend five minutes thinking about what are some
ways to actually get this out there.
You know, maybe it's even just like, talk to your friends, share a blog, share a
post to the friend, whether it's, it doesn't have to be any of the Canon less
wrong stuff.
If you don't want it to be, it could be an adjacent article.
It could be a rationally speaking podcast.
It could be the Bayesian conspiracy.
It could be a Slate Star codex.
I don't know.
I think preferably not this episode where we talk about that.
Yeah.
This might be a hard, too, too steep of a jump, but honestly, I'm going to
share the, um, Matt's essay with a bunch of people or at least a few.
I'll have to come out slowly.
Like people who aren't rationalists even.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
I want to know, I want to know what reaction you get when you share that then.
So I have that, uh, I don't know if I can get them to read it.
And honestly, I mentioned, uh, actually Matt was here.
I have that smart co-worker who, you know, had heard about Roco's
bassist, bassist and was like, Oh yeah, I've heard of that lesser on community.
I'm interested to get his reaction, but honestly, he's so much smarter than me.
He would be very, you know, he's not mean, but he would make a very, I anticipate
a very compelling counterpoint and, uh, I would be intellectually defeated.
But I think that might be a fun endeavor anyway.
So why not?
I'll share it with him too.
If he has an eight minute time to read this.
So yeah.
All right.
I'm ready to move past that one if you want to.
Okay.
Uh, yes.
What was our next thing?
Uh, yes.
The, our ethical asymmetries from property rights, uh, which sounds like a hard,
that almost sounds like a typo in that.
I know what it's saying, but that sounds like a hard way to phrase that point.
So I, I like it.
It doesn't sound like a complete sentence to me from property rights.
I guess I'm just dumb.
That's really just me.
That's, oh, I see.
Okay.
It is, it is kind of like pointing in the direction of just a concept.
I actually don't know what it is tripping with about it.
It just doesn't sound like a complete sentence.
That's not a point about the article.
It's great.
I just dumb.
That's all I'm pointing at.
So, all right.
No, I guess it could have been, it gets right to the point, which I like our
ethical asymmetries, consequences of property rights are derived from or parallel
to, or due to property rights instincts or something.
Are they from property rights?
I, you mean like a place?
Again, it's my, I get what you're saying.
It's my hang up.
No one else's.
That's fine.
Yeah.
And this is not being such a nitpicking jerk.
It's just me being too thick.
Like I read it like three times and like, am I?
Dislexically reading that headline.
Anyway, this is from Katja Grace also on less wrong.
Heck yeah.
And Katja and I've Katja.
I don't know how to say it.
Okay.
Actually, I think it is Katja.
Oh yeah.
And she did like four or five podcasts with Robin Hansen like eight years ago.
Okay.
Way back in the day, I can't remember, I couldn't even find them.
I remember they come up way back on iTunes and I'd search for Robin Hansen.
And they were actually really hard to listen to because they recorded them
outside with a microphone and you could hear like people walking by and birds and
stuff and they sounded far away from the mic.
You could hear the wind, but they were fun.
Oh dude, did you hear the episode of Skeptics Guy to the Universe that they
recorded at DragonCon?
No, that sounds like a drag.
Their microphones broke.
And so the recording is from like, I don't know, someone in the audience
with a with a phone.
Yeah, it's I could not listen to it.
After about a minute, I was like, nope, can't understand anything.
This is horrible.
Yeah, sorry guys.
Oh, okay.
So the article are ethical asymmetries from property rights starts out pointing
out some ethical intuitions that people often have, such as that you're not
required to save a person, but you're definitely not allowed to kill them.
You're not required to create a person, but you're definitely not allowed to kill
one.
You're not required to create a happy person, but you're definitely not
allowed to create a miserable one.
You're not required to help a random person who will be in a bad situation,
but you definitely are not allowed to put someone in a bad situation.
Actually dire.
I don't know why I rephrased that to bad.
Okay.
You're not required to save a person in front of a runaway train because we always
have to come back to the trolley problem, but you're definitely not allowed to push
someone in front of a train.
By extension, you are not required to save five people in front of a runaway train.
But if you have to push someone in front of a train to do it, then you're
definitely not allowed.
Here's some other ethical intuitions.
You're not required to give me your bread, but you're not allowed to take mine.
You're not required to lend me your car, but you're not allowed to unilaterally
borrow mine.
You're not required to send me money, but you're not allowed to take mine.
Catcher points out that the former are ethical intuitions and the latter are
implications of a system of property rights.
But they look very familiar, right?
It almost seems like the former ones are just ethical intuitions, applying
property rights to people and welfare.
That your life is property and I'm not allowed to take your property, but I'm
not obliged to give it to you if you don't have it by default.
Your welfare is the same way.
I'm not allowed to lessen what you have, but I don't have to give you more.
Which is when it comes down to things like, why aren't people, why don't people
feel like they're obligated to give away all their money to people on the other
side of the world who have a lot less?
It's because we're not utilitarians at heart, right?
Yeah.
And the parallels between those things are stark as hell, right?
You can basically just sub out letters and like that's what she does.
The sentences are the same and they feel just as intuitive.
And like the Charlie Problem stuff, people have done those large surveys and
those all pan out to be true with how people actually feel.
So it's not just us odd people who feel that way about these.
God just says that further evidence that these intuitive asymmetries are based
on upholding property rights, we have moral feeling intuitions that are just
straightforward property rights.
Like stealing is wrong.
A wonderful one that I've always liked and that I've argued is that people
often say that if someone is worse than average, like for example, someone
that's got an IQ of 80, it'd be good to have a medical intervention that raises
them up to IQ 100.
Or if someone is in very poor health, it'd be good to have medical
and for intervention that raises them up to normal health.
But if someone is already at IQ 100, the average, not only is there no
ethical obligation to raise them to 120, it's sometimes even considered a bad
thing, right?
If someone is already in good health, there's no obligation to get them to
an even better level of health where they can do lots of things and have tons
of energy and be very capable all the time.
And these are the sorts of asymmetries that you talk about.
Eleazar wrote in one of his most famous essays that if more intellect is good,
when you're 80, there's no point where it stops being good to have more
intellect.
When you're IQ 80, it's good to go up to 100.
When you're IQ 100, it's good to go up to 120.
But that's not the way ethical intuitions seem to work out in the general public.
And I think a lot of it is due to the same kind of thing where people feel
if you have less than 100 IQ, something has been taken away from you.
And it's good to bring you back up to everyone else.
But there's no reason to give you even more that other people don't have.
So I totally agree.
And you're singing the beginning passages of the transhumanism songs, right?
Yeah.
Average, normal, whatever you want to call it.
Middle, middling is good, but there's no push to go beyond, to transcend
averageness.
That does strike me as distinct from the intuitions that she's making, though,
or the intuitions that she's marking out.
So because we don't feel the need to make other people average with regards
to really anything, right?
Right.
We walk, many of us walk past beggars every day and we don't feel compelled to
say, Hey, you know what?
I've got expendable income.
You clearly need some help.
You know, let me put you up for a night.
You know,
There is some social pressure to do that though, right?
Like there's a lot of people will cross the street when they see someone
begging because they don't want to feel that pressure to give them money.
Yeah.
I mean, just to be fair, people cross for other reasons too.
Like being asked is uncomfortable, but not like there's walking past them
silently.
It's also uncomfortable, but then being asked or being kind of hounded or
whatever is also super uncomfortable.
