But yeah, the, but I guess the, the back to the, the actual property rights,
the whole ethical injunction to create many happy people does not exist.
Which is weird, right?
Because it seems to follow from many of our professed moral precepts, right?
That, Hey, you know, I mean, all of your caveats with what, uh, David
Parfit's repugnant conclusion aside, like a hundred happy people is good.
110 people should be more good.
We should be that much more good, goodness, however you want to measure it.
And yet we don't have that thing.
And yet we would say if they all fell down to 90, that's a drag.
We should get them back up to a hundred.
Or at the very least you're not allowed to reduce the number of happy people.
Right.
Yeah.
What was, what was the sentence he said about, um, cause I couldn't
paraphrase it faithfully.
It was, uh, your life is like your property or your, uh, what, how did she put it?
Ethical intuitions seem to be just property rights as applied to lives and welfare.
Your life is your property.
I'm not allowed to take it, but I'm not obliged to give it to you.
If you don't, by default, have it.
Your welfare is your property.
I'm not allowed to listen to what you have, but I don't have to give you more of it.
Yeah.
I like that.
Um, if you see a sick person, you're not ethically obliged to.
Put the rest of your life on hold and try to work to make them better.
And yeah, if you go to work sick, you're an asshole.
And certainly if you deliberately get somebody sick,
Oh my God, yeah.
your monster, if you like put tuberculosis in their cup or something.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, this is like the murder offsets question, right?
The, you remember the meat offsets, right?
Yes.
Okay.
Well, the murder offsets being the same kind of idea.
If I save three people's lives, can I kill two people?
I'm still not one life positive.
Our intuitions say no, right?
Yeah.
Um, and I think I guess I wanted to run at the spirit of this, of this post, like,
what should we conclude from this?
You know, our, does that mean that we should reexamine these, these moral
intuitions?
Do we just say that makes perfect sense that these we are intuitions?
Cause, you know, as apes, we care a lot about our stuff.
Well, I mean, we certainly do care about our stuff.
So the property rights and intuitions make sense.
Um, I don't know exactly when this happened sometime in the past decade,
maybe even longer ago than that, but I, I've, I'm of the opinion that ethics is
really a way, what did they, uh, what did Katja say here?
Um, property rights at least appear to be systems for people with diverse goals
to coordinate use of scarce resources, which is to say, somehow use the resources
with low levels of conflict and destruction.
In my opinion, ethics is basically the same thing.
Ethics is a way for people to be able to live with each other and do things
together with low amounts of conflict and destruction, which is why if you are a
single person alone on a deserted island, there's no such thing as ethics.
Right.
There's nothing that is morally good or nor morally bad that you could do on
that island because there's no other persons to interact with.
Unless you're a virtue ethicist or something weird, but even then I don't
think virtue ethics exists, but I think Plato would say you're living life
wrong or Aristotle would say you're living life wrong with your
pissed all the time or something.
Right.
You're not, you're not flourishing.
I will have to dig up a virtue ethicist for somewhere.
Well, I feel like I am a virtue ethicist, but I again, I wouldn't care.
You can have any virtues that you want once you're on a deserted island.
Okay.
So yeah, I think we're, I think this is just tangent, but the Greeks, I think
they use these ethics morality differently than we do.
Like to them, it wasn't just like this set of beliefs about like right and
wrong, it was about like living a good life in a well rounded sense.
They had certain virtues that they aspire to, but you know, the virtues are
determined by what works, right?
And on desert island, it doesn't really matter.
Well, I think what works to make life, to make society function or to make life
worth, make life good, even though it was just your life.
I think, I think you're right, it did actually do.
Yeah.
A lot of it was like, what is the good life?
Not just like, how do I interact with other people or how do I not go to
jail?
Yeah.
Um, but I think we're getting bogged down, uh, but the problem of how to, I
don't know, inject this is bringing to mind, uh, another thing I just heard, but
I don't want to get us off of the post just yet.
Um, but the very last very bad wizards podcast was on a very similar topic.
So yeah, well, I mean, Katja says that since, um, economic systems and
property rights, those systems don't have any specific goal, right?
Anything that is labeled as good.
It's just smooth sharing and resources and making things work together.
And when we think of ethics as, as utilitarians, we have a goal, right?
Maximize utility.
Uh, but I don't, I don't think ethics in general really has that goal.
And so utilitarianism is, it is, it is separate from ethics as it is normally
understood by people, I guess, because I don't think people are trying to
maximize utility.
Uh, it doesn't seem like that is the function of ethics in society.
And if we impose that goal on ethics, we may be misinterpreting what the
purpose of ethics is.
I feel like it's time to taboo ethics.
Okay.
You used it too many times in the sentence.
Oh, you're right.
Sorry.
Well, no, no, but I mean, I mean that not, not in a way just to, um, to be pedantic,
but also just because in a way, you're right.
Cause people are different.
I, I, it's hard to like argue people.
Oh yeah, that's ethics.
That's morality.
That's whatever it's like, no, I'm fine.
Let's just talk about making the world better.
Yeah.
Or making you a happier person or, you know, making, or making society happier.
And yes, happiness is whatever your intuition says, minus all your philosophical
objections to happiness.
Um, which was, uh, how Julia Gale of defined defines eudaimonia.
Um, which is the, what the flourishing that Aristotle talked about.
How does he define it again?
Uh, happiness, minus whatever your philosophical objections are to happiness.
Um, which I think, I think lands really well.
Um, it takes a philosopher to say happiness is a bad thing.
Or what do you mean by happy?
I mean, exactly what everyone thinks.
I mean, quit, quit being an ass.
Right.
Right.
So yeah, I think it depends on what kind of question you're answering there.
Right.
How do I be the best, best me I can be?
How do I, um, be the best me in society?
How do I make the best society that I can with or without me?
Yeah.
Um, I guess I just, I found what I'm saying is I think utilitarians are almost
sort of a good heart's law example, good heart's law being, I don't remember
the exact wording of it, but when the metric becomes the goal, it stops being a
good metric, uh, being like the purpose of school ostensibly is to educate the youth.
And we measure if we're doing a good job or if that or not by giving tests.
And once everyone realizes it, then the goal starts to become get students
better at tests.
Uh, and so we have lost the true purpose of educating students for this new
purpose of doing very good on the metric.
And it almost feels like utilitarianism is the same kind of thing where what we
want is human flourishing and happiness and people to work together.
And that is measured through utility.
And so utilitarianism now tries to maximize utility, even though the whole
point of making the flourishing happen is not necessarily maximizing utility, but
getting humans to live alongside each other in ways that are conducive to
cooperation and anti conducive to conflict.
Yeah, maybe.
I mean, at least that's my opinion of what most ethical systems, that what their
purpose is, I think you make a good point.
I think it does make sense to maybe compartmentalize utilitarianism as this
thing you do when you're sitting down with your checkbook every year, like,
where am I going to give my charity money to, um, you know, in your day to
day life, it's hard to think of, um, maybe in things that the average person
does every day, you know, what is the way I can maximize the goodness from what
I'm doing on this random little thing.
But you can be like courteousness and that things that cost you very little,
but are, you know, make a big deal to somebody else, um, or, you know,
make you both happy because you get your happy helping them, like giving up
your seat on the train or something.
Right.
And I think utilitarianism may be a very worthy goal.
It may be a great idea to try to maximize the amount of utility in the
universe.
I just don't think that's necessarily what systems of ideas of how we should
live together is for trying to taboo the word ethics here.
You did a good job.
Um, I think I'm not a moral philosopher, but I think some people, some moral
philosophers might just say, yeah, you're probably right.
Um, but I think the most eloquent utilitarians more talk about like, how
do we make the world suck less for the people who are having the hardest time?
Yeah.
Or for the things that are having the hardest time, you know, so like not
factory farming animals or not factory farming your meat rather, um, or, you
know, helping the bottom billion of the planet, you know, just not be sick and die
young, like that's the kind of thing.
You don't have to be a moral philosopher to say, yeah, we should do those things.
And so, you know, the utilitarian might say, okay, then let's try and find out
the best approaches and actually do those.
Whereas, um, lesser moral frameworks might just say, just do whatever makes you feel
good or something.
I don't know.
I'm straw manning on purpose.
But yeah, I think, um, I really like listening to like people like Peter
Singer and Will McCaskill talk about, um, what they're doing.
So I'm like, Hey, what do you do as what's an effective out to us to do and why?
Um, in fact, Will McCaskill was just on very bad wizards podcast too.
And, uh, I heard that one.
Yeah, it was fun.
And he's very eloquent.
I love hearing him talk.
And he does a really good job.
