is shouting flee the predator and so on.
It would be a very bad idea for these movements to occur simultaneously
because the lamprey can't do all of them at the same time.
So to prevent simultaneous activation of many different movements, all these
regions are held in check by powerful inhibitory connections from the basal
ganglia.
This means that the basal ganglia keep all behaviors in off mode by default.
Only once a specific actions bid has been selected, do the basal ganglia
turn off this inhibitory control, allowing the behavior to occur.
And Matt goes on to say, think of the mind as an assembly of sub minds who
are bidding for control of the body, sweep all the complexity aside for the
moment and think purely of that bidding process.
It seems evident that sub minds can win the bidding war by being weak, yet
insistent.
You can get your mind to pay close attention to your breath by repeating
tiny intentions at a high frequency.
You can make yourself to push ups by the same means.
You're effectively hacking the bidding process by taking advantage of an
exploit.
I was like, that's makes perfect sense.
And it's really cool.
And it also, you know, reminds me of a certain rational fiction podcast
thing that I'm doing right now.
Before he even talked about the sub minds thing, that's exactly what occurred
to me.
And I would bet a hundred bucks that Max, Max Harms has read the, um, or at
least is familiar with the same neuroscience.
If he's not, then he's a fucking, he's already a genius, but that was way too
close.
Yeah.
What he's describing here is basically the, the, the crystal society, uh, the,
which itself is based, I think Max said off the, uh, the, well, partly based
among other things, uh, society of the mind, which was a book about neural, how
the brain works, I don't know, 10, 15 years ago.
That's right.
We talked about that when he had him on the show.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
But anyway, so it was, it's fun to think about, and this is, I guess it's
knowledge I had in the back of my brain somewhere because I knew this, you
know, that there are different parts of your brain competing for stuff and this
and that.
Um, and yet I never applied that to this kind of intentionality before.
And yeah, you're right.
Parts just win.
In fact, um, this is, this is really demonstratable, right?
Like you could say, I'm going to fast for as long as possible.
Eventually you're going to stop, right?
Um, in fact, I just had a friend, one of my co-workers yesterday, um, was
fasting for Yom Kippur, which apparently you do from the night before to the
morning after.
Oh, it's like a 36 hour fast.
Yeah.
So I'd ask him was like midnight to midnight, was it dawn to dusk?
And he's like, no, it was from last night.
And I accidentally had, I accidentally had a midnight snack, but, um, he said
the hardest part was like caffeine cause he drinks three, four cups of coffee a day.
So you can't even have liquids.
Um, he said that you're not supposed to, but in his defense, they were at sea
level, the, the, you know, the Jews in the desert where all this
tradition came around and he's in Denver.
So he's like, I can allow myself to have water.
On the other hand, the desert's pretty dry place.
Yeah, I was going to raise that point, but this was yesterday.
So maybe I'll bring it up tomorrow with him about, uh, you know, that I, I
think that's cheating because you're right.
It's thirstier than it has been, but, um, yeah, apparently, you know, caffeine
doesn't count.
And I asked him was like, does like aspirin count?
Um, and then I was like, you know, et cetera and has caffeine in it, but
shit.
Now that I told you that you probably would feel guilty, you know, cheating that way.
If I'd said here, this will make your headache feel better.
You might have taken it, but now I told you that's caffeine in it.
And that would be a, anyway, wait, even just caffeine, like just caffeine pills
counts.
I don't think it was in the Bible.
So I think that when in doubt, if you think you feel, if you, I think, right,
I'm guessing as far away from potential sins as possible, I guess.
Yeah.
If, if you can considerably feel guilty about it, then you can't.
I think that's the, the thrust of religious discipline.
I don't feel guilty about anything.
That's right.
Um, anyway, this, this post is awesome.
And it's, you know, meta point about the posts, which I already said, but I'll
reiterate because it's late.
I'm getting repetitive is that, um, this was just a good application of the
kinds of things rationalists can do.
They can read about one cool thing and transfer that seemingly fun nugget of
trivia, or maybe something that helps with one small domain to be like, wait,
this kind of thing looks like it would work really well over here.
And that's, I think just generally something that smart things and people
can do, but rationalists are good at finding those things, maybe, or something.
Trying to sell us is awesome.
So yeah, yeah.
Cool.
Yeah.
Alrighty.
I think we've been going on for a while.
Are we about ready to wrap things up?
Let's indulge Steven for five plus minutes.
All right.
We'll start with the nice one.
All right, let's touch Steven's pot.
Let's find a different way to put that.
Um, okay.
I think we can have a section.
Maybe it'll be just me because I'm the only one who cares about throwing random
stuff in, but we all can have a grab bag random quick things section on our notes
here, grab Steven's bag.
Well, that sounds less bad.
All right.
So, um, I played, I'm not sure if the hour count or if I got it before we did our
last episode, but something I'll, I've still got the receipt.
I'll find out something like 70 hours this month during the last five weeks.
I played the hell out of horizon zero Don, which was a game that came out in
2017 and would have easily won game of the year if it had come out three days
before breath of the wild, but it was amazing.
Okay.
Um, so I don't know how much I can talk about what made it amazing and might make
it appeal to people who are interested in sci-fi and rationality, um, without
spoiling some of the plot, but if you play video games and you like, um, it's
similar to like, um, kind of like shadow of, of, of Mordor or, uh, Batman,
Arkham asylum, um, but basically if you want to know why a world that you're
fighting T-Rex robots and with a bow and arrow, if you want to know why that
world makes perfect, awesome sense, play this game.
Okay.
It has, uh, this is something that I noticed because Rachel watched me play
it quite a bit too, um, that I was happy to notice and share was like, this has
a like very positive representation of basically everything.
There's, you know, this is, this is a society that doesn't care about like
skin color, though it doesn't care about tribes because it's, you know, they're,
they're shooting bows and arrows.
It's all about tribalism, but it's not a skin color based tribalism.
Um, the protagonist is the most badass woman ever and the, see this is where I
don't know if it's spoilery or not to talk about.
Yeah.
No, it's, it's spoilery to get into.
Okay.
Um, anyway, it was dope.
And I didn't know until I was watching the credits at the end.
The main character is voiced by Ashley Birch.
Who was that?
She came, she was my first favorite female representation in a video game or female
character in a video game, female voice acted character, whatever.
She played Tiny Tina in Borderlands.
Okay.
Oh my God.
I vaguely remember playing Borderlands.
I don't know who Tiny Tina is.
She's the world's most dangerous 13 year old.
She's, she's insane.
She talks like everyone in that game is fucking crazy.
I love it so much.
Yeah.
There was that mission of like, you know, shoot his name was like shooty mix,
shooty face and the quest to shoot him in the face and he's like, shoot him right.
He's like, shoot me right here.
Shoot me in the face.
And the quest was like, shoot, shoot, shooty mix, shooty face in his face.
Do you shoot him in his face?
Yeah.
And then, then he dies and you get, you beat the quest.
It's just like the dumbest little thing ever.
These games are brilliant.
So, um, she did Tiny Tina and she did, um, Hey Ash what you playing?
Which is like a short lived, uh, YouTube video series where they would, you know,
showcase the game for like five minutes and they were just these random little
videos that she and her brother.
Yeah.
I remember, uh, a friend showed me an episode of that that they really liked.
I was like, yeah, this is cool.
Yeah, they're funny.
Um, and she, I think did a couple other web things that didn't really take off, but, um,
yeah, she also voiced, um, I didn't play these games, but I watched someone play them
because I have too much time on my hands called, uh, Life is Strange.
Oh, yeah.
She did not the main character, but the main character sprang the whole time.
Okay, cool.
Um, I played through the first chapter of that.
It was, it was really interesting.
Yeah.
I never got around to playing more of it.
I have a really hard time with telltale games.
Yeah.
It's not really gaming, it's storytelling and it's fun, but that's what makes
watching someone else do on YouTube just as much fun for me.
Right.
Um, because it is basically, yeah, like watching a movie, I guess.
And it, some might argue it's to choose your own adventures.
So doing yourself is the same, but it's really not.
I did the Game of Thrones one and like, no matter what you do,
your, your character gets killed in the end of the first hour or whatever.
Like, so whatever, spoiler alert, this Game of Thrones, everyone dies.
But anyway, really fun.
And she did a great job and I didn't know that she had that kind of range.
Like I've never seen to do like really like good emotional acting.
So yeah, fantastic game.
Everyone should check it out.
