um, might have been on Facebook, which I somehow saw this week.
It was, um, that I think he had a good word for it.
I'm sure it's probably the tech word, but basically they, they plateau it.
What is good, but they can't leave it that way because it gets stagnant.
So they've got to just change it with the sake of changing it.
And that means doing whatever is popular, whatever.
So I am, people don't like how Gmail is now around as opposed to sharp
corners on things and this and that.
It's everything looks like it's made for five year olds.
It's, it's fucking ridiculous.
Yeah.
So that's, we'll see how this all shakes out with the end of the trends of, you
know, in a couple of years, things will be different.
Well, it's fun to seize.
All right.
Now we're getting way off track, but here we are.
So, um, you can, I can try and find this image if anyone cares, we can just
look it up of the evolution of app icons over the last several years, especially
Google's, um, they used to all look different.
And now they all look exactly like every other Google one.
So let's see where's my Google apps.
Uh, Gmail is a G, you know, in a white background.
The docs is a document with a white background and the document little
icon is smaller inside that little icon.
I don't know whether Google apps are, but point is they all look like
that every Android app too.
They all, they all do the same thing where they just get smaller versions of
themselves and they get rounder.
Okay.
That's the bad thing about the less wrong website.
Okay.
The good thing is that it shows the read time at the top of the article, which is
fine.
And I'm sure that's generated from the average person's reading speed, you
know, times the number of words in there or whatever, or divided by the number
of words.
For me, it's three times that cause I slow reading, but for me, it was a 10 minute
read, which is great.
And, uh, so for a three minute read, you can discover.
Did they say this is a three minute read?
I think so.
Jesus Christ.
Who reads that fast?
Hold on.
Let me double check.
Well, now that we're here, we got a, okay.
That said, the less wrong website looks great on a phone.
Cool.
My grand intentions.
Three minute read is what it says.
That's what it says.
Three minutes.
That's ridiculous.
There's no way I could read this in three minutes.
All right.
So it'll take you 10 minutes.
Who cares?
What is, this isn't a 10 hour investment to read this book or whatever.
It's a fun little thing that, um, I really liked and I'm eager to give it a
shot and I was going to, when I was reading this, cause he gives part two of
the post is here's an example to try in real life, but it was almost time to
come over and I didn't have time to do it.
So, um, I didn't have enough time to do enough micro intentions to make it happen.
So you didn't get the part two.
I, well, I read the part and I didn't have time to actually generate enough
micro intentions to get, to actually make myself do the thing.
Did you do 10 pushups and you read part two?
I did not.
Oh, well, I mean, I was at work.
Okay.
Yeah.
But so anyway, the idea, um, it, it, he was inspired by a, a Reddit post on, uh,
meditation sub Reddit and basically, um, the takeaway for the applicable part
here is that if you have something that you want to do, but you're having
difficulty generating the motivation to do it, especially if it's something
small, like I got to take out the trash or fold my laundry or whatever it is.
All that's required is a very light touch of intention as if you're trying
to brush a fragile snowflake with the tip of a feather.
When this quick, gentle intention is repeated consistently, perhaps with
every breath cycle or even two or three times during each breath, it grows in
the mind, eventually it complies.
I call these micro intentions to highlight their quick, light, gentle quality.
What's fun is that in the good rational sense, you find some synergy between
something unrelated and makes it to something that he can do more often,
um, with, with more applicability.
So, um, your first micro intention appears to do nothing because you're
just touching it with a feather.
You're just, it's just there.
But if you spam yourself with this thought and that's part of what you need
mindfulness, that's why this is a meditation thing, just over and over, you
know, every couple of seconds for a minute, you know, uh, maybe two.
And he, he talked about this and I got to this point in part two where he says,
it occurred to me that sustained micro intentions could be a very generally
powerful tool.
I've tested it enough to certify, certify it as something that I'll keep in my
toolkit and I figured I would just share it since I think it would be
replicable in the, its most basic implementation.
He says, all right, so try it out.
You probably don't want to, you probably don't want to do 10 pushups right now.
If you give yourself a push to do it and intention, you'll probably
encounter resistance.
If you don't encounter resistance to doing pushups, then find some other
small activity that you really don't want to do right now, but you feel, and
that you feel resistance to doing, but when in principle be doable.
Um, that's why I mentioned laundry or whatever.
He says, now that you found that resistance, just start spamming micro intentions.
That push you just tried to test for resistance, just do that again, but lighter.
So lightly, so lightly that you don't even really care if your body complies.
Just doing it roughly every one or two seconds or as frequently as it feels
right.
This is important too.
I found that it also helps to sustain a meta intention of producing micro
intentions to do pushups.
Otherwise there's a risk you'll quickly get bored or distracted because it's a
weird thing to ask your brain to do, especially if you don't have any evidence
that it'll work.
And about 15 to 45 seconds of sustained little pushes, you may suddenly start to
feel a little weird, like you're suddenly uncomfortable just sitting there.
None of the other activities that were on your immediate docket seem at all
the appealing anymore.
It may occur to you that the only way to alleviate this discomfort is just to
get up and do those pushups.
Then if you do them, it'll feel natural and inevitable to do so.
And there's, and the resistance is no longer present.
What I love about this is that I do a less, um, less gentle version of this, but
I'm going to try this, uh, next week, cause I'm not going to work tomorrow.
Um, cause I go to the gym over lunch and most days no one wants to go to the gym.
Occasionally, like if I haven't gone over like a three day weekend, I'm like, I
need to go to the gym.
I feel, I feel weird.
Yeah.
But even then, like, you know, the 10 minutes leading before it, you know,
you, you're going to go work.
It's not fun.
And yeah, I keep telling myself, no, you're going to feel great.
Let's do it.
I'm going to try this and just like, you know, sit at my desk for a minute and
just spam this over and over and be like, no, no, just, just get up and do it.
Get up and do it.
And I, but I, I did this with a pushups thing, even though I didn't actually
get around to doing the actual pushups.
And I felt that kind of like, I don't want to sit down anymore.
Maybe it was cause I, maybe it's cause he's steady.
You don't want to sit down anymore.
Maybe he's, he's mind, mind whammying us.
Right.
That I, I mean, I first time read this was today, but I work out when I get home
from work and I lots of times I also don't want to, but I'll just like flop
down on the bed and be like, ah, like, okay, gotta get up and do this.
Just think about doing it for a while.
Like visualize myself, myself doing it.
I'm like, yeah, I gotta do this.
And after about like three, four minutes, like not only do I get a bit rested
from laying down on the bed, but I'm like, yeah, I gotta do this now.
And then I do it and I never thought of it as sparing myself with micro
intentions, but yeah, totally, it seems to have worked for me at any rate.
And for me, I think it might be, and I'm not sure if one's more effective than
the other, but this is distinct.
I think from sitting there thinking, I gotta do this.
Oh yeah.
No, you can't just think the words.
I gotta do this or visualize doing it.
Well, that, that may be too, but I think that that's even more intense
than what this is saying.
Okay.
This, you know, this is just a light kind of like, if you ever tried meditating,
just that kind of gentle thing you do when you realize you're distracted and
just kind of get back to focusing on the breath or whatever noise you're
listening to or whatever.
Let's just get back to that.
Just that kind of just like, nope.
Yep, there it is.
Just that whatever, and it's, if you're, and I'm not a very
practiced meditator, but I've done it a bit, like I said, that realigning to
like getting back into the mindfulness part of it, when you realize you've
stopped being mindful and are being distracted, that's a gentle thing.
It's not a, if you, if you pull the brakes and, you know, are harsh on
yourself or whatever, you're not doing it right.
It's, it's a very just gentle correction.
I think it's, it's more like just that, that, that light little push.
So I, what I found fun about that was that I, it was just that kind of weird,
like, oh, I do want to do this.
Um, whereas like when I talk myself into going to the gym or to doing
whatever it is that I don't want to do laundry, it's more like, I finally just
like, all right, fine brain.
I'll do it.
Shut up.
It's not more like I want actually to do it now.
It's more like I want you to, I want me to shut up.
Um, so I'm, I'm really good to try this out and I'll report back.
Um, can I read something from the comments?
Yes.
Like this was short enough of an article and I was into it enough that I was
like, I want to read more.
So I just kept reading into the comments.
Uh, in one of the comments, more than a male says, part of what led me to think
of this was the recent straight slate star codex on motivation, quoting the post
now the straight, straight home, the straight home receives bids from other
brain regions, each of which represents a specific action.
A little piece of the lamprey brain is whispering mate while another piece
