someone, you know, Rachel's really into that show.
I tried like two episodes.
I'm like, this makes no fucking sense.
Everyone's crazy.
Right.
And then I was talking to somebody like two years later
about the philosophy of David Lynch's production style.
And it's like, no, dude, he just does weird shit.
Like it's a it's like a dream, you know, things are just happening after
and he talked about one of his movies where it's like a lot like that.
You know, in one scene, he's like having a fight at the kitchen table.
Next scene is off doing something else.
I'm probably butchering this.
Point is, it is just like sequence of events that aren't a story like you're used to.
I'm like, oh, okay.
I was going into it looking for like the kind of thing I'm used to put on a different hat
and go into it with different expectations.
I could probably enjoy it.
So I'll try Undertale again.
I was going into it looking for quote, a good game on quote.
Okay.
If I'm going into it looking for a different kind of experience,
maybe I can get nothing, something else out of it.
Yeah.
What's the classic text based video game?
Sorg.
Yes.
Okay.
I found that fun.
Oh, okay.
But you know, that's because I knew what I was getting into.
Okay.
Anyway, I think if there's a still going on the episode that's clearly gone too far.
If anyone's still left, thank you so much for listening.
Oh, and thank you specifically to KBrem, who is one of our Patreon supporters.
We really appreciate you guys showing that.
You like the show and you love us and it keeps us going.
It really does.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks, KBrem.
That support means, I don't know.
It does mean a lot.
You just said it, but I don't know how else to put it.
It's nice that it helps keep the show funded and keeps lots on, keeps the equipment functional.
But it also just means a lot that, all right, we're going to go on for another minute.
The episode that Sam Harris did with, it was episode 136, digital humanism with Jaren Lanier.
And they talked about how the kind of idea of consuming content for free,
everything on the internet should be free, all the information should be free.
There's all kinds of ins and outs that I don't really get.
But they talked about how, one thing it did give was pay for content that people actually
want to subscribe to, like HBO or Netflix or something.
And Harris made this argument on his podcast and I skipped through whatever his pitch for
donations because I've been giving, I donned it a dollar a month because the show got less
fun this year, but just enough to stay in the donation circle and get this stuff.
Yeah, that's still something.
Yeah.
A dollar a month adds up even if you have enough listeners.
Totally.
But I meant for the kind of, let me rephrase that because people give us a dollar a month
and it's very nice.
So I don't know if you want to chop that or if I can just salvage this.
I feel like you would be giving more if you liked it more.
I used to give a dollar an episode, which wasn't much, but that's what I give to Skeptoid.
Because in fact, Skeptoid's episodes have been getting better and better.
Oh, nice.
Can you choose to do whether it's a month or per month or per episode?
On Patreon, you can do whatever you want.
Or not whatever you want, it is per month or per episode.
Or no, what you can do is you can do per episode with a limit of X.
Okay.
It's all to give them a dollar per episode at a max of one per month.
Got you.
So cool.
But what I really like about that is that I only give to a few content creators and I
should give to more.
I should give to Wild Bo, who writes Worm and Ward.
I should give to more to Doof Media and We've Got Ward, the podcast that I like.
But I think I give like a dollar a month to Bending with Babish because he's that chef
on YouTube that I really like his stuff.
But the idea that you're funding things that you care about, and I like this model a lot
more than just buying a cable plan and you watch commercials and that's how they get
their money for making this worth it.
We do it because we love it, but the fact that you care about it enough to help keep
it going means a lot.
Man, I make really long points.
I'm not feeling eloquent.
So I thought it was a good point.
Okay.
Well, thank you.
And I think I should probably go and support a few more things on Patreon that I am right
now because there's a lot of things that I really enjoy.
And I would be sad if they went away.
Well, in hard part too, as long as we're on the subject, people don't really, at least I don't,
I don't buy books that often anymore, which is a drag because...
I still make it a point to buy every book that I read.
And you would.
That's a bad thing because you're an author.
Right.
And you know what it means.
I mean, but I've been doing that since I started having a job and having my own money.
Oh, they were raised that.
I'm not stealing books.
No, no, no.
I know, I know.
I'm just reading less.
Oh, okay, okay.
Maybe because it's investment, but also...
A lot of people in my book club, we meet twice a month.
A number of them just go to a library.
Oh, I see.
I mean, I don't fault them for that.
They pay their taxes and a couple of them are retired now.
And so they're on a fixed income thing.
And I'm like, one of them is like poor students.
So I totally understand.
I don't begrudge them that, but I'm in the position where I have a regular,
you know, middle-class job.
I can buy two books a month.
Did you read Frankenstein like two years ago?
About a year ago now, I think.
So the author's not getting any respect for that book.
No, that's true.
I guess I probably could have and should have pirated Frankenstein because it's been
over 100 years.
Or borrowed it or something.
Right, right.
Or yeah, it's probably public domain at this point too.
But in any case, I like what you're saying.
And what I'm getting at is that when you decide to give money to it,
that's a real, like he said, unit of caring.
Every single book that I've reviewed on my website,
I have bought even the ones that I didn't like.
And honestly, a review on public is another way, hey, of showing that you care.
Oh yeah, yeah.
So like, works for this show too.
But that was what the hey was about, was tying this in.
But yeah, I mean, talking about it, sharing it with your friends,
you know, me pitching, I'm not getting any money for pitching Apollo over and over,
or pitching Horizon Zero Dawn.
I wasn't involved in making that game.
I just loved it.
I thought it told a great story.
And it was really well done.
So talking about stuff you like too.
All right.
Jesus Christ.
We've gone on for a while.
I almost feel like this is one of those seven-minute Sam Harris,
why you should give money.
Yeah.
All right.
So we are done now.
What we're saying is thanks, guys.
You're the best.
We appreciate it.
Thanks.
All right.
Good night.
See you guys in a couple of weeks.
Bye.
