vote, you might have, you might incur positive externalities.
Of course, the other thing is whether or not you even can have people at different values
if we vote for two different things, is it because one of us is more informed on policy
than the other, or is it because I really like Doryos and you really like Numenos?
I don't know.
I still think that that externality thing is trying to count the same effect twice because
you still have almost no chance of making a difference.
And therefore the actual externality of your vote in most cases is zero.
The, yes, it is very close to zero, but then the same is true of driving your car.
If you drive down the street, the amount you contribute to climate change is so negligible
as to be completely not worth your time.
And so the way it factors into your personal decision making, just like the instrumental
value of the difference between candidates are lower, the probability of deciding the
election is very low, just like that.
The way that externality factors in your decision making is smaller and smaller.
The lower effect it has on you, the less you will take into account in your decision making,
and the more it is spread across the entire world, the less it's going to be put on you
and taking into account the probability of deciding elections, put on you even less.
So if people like to vote for reasons that are expressive, non-instrumental, so on, and
people are not good at voting, the conclusion is that for a large number of people, their
voting is a negative externality on the rest of us, that they don't take into account in
their decision making.
Well, I will.
That's the thing about externalities, if it's something that you do not take into account,
right?
Yeah.
Less than would be societally optimal.
I do think it would be, in this case, important to go back to the timeless decision theory,
though, because in the case of timeless decision theory, when you make a choice, you are literally
making the choice, the same choice for everyone who has a decision theory that is identical
to yours, and in a way, making the same choice for everyone who has a decision theory very
similar to yours.
So when I choose not to vote, then everyone who is sufficiently like me also chooses not
to vote, and that is a problem, because that means that people who are like me won't vote
and won't be represented.
Whereas if I choose to vote, then I can be assured that everyone else who is sufficiently
like me, and has thought of these things, will also vote because they have come to the
same conclusion.
Yes.
But it might not be a good thing if you are a lousy voter.
Well, if you are a lousy voter.
That's the voter server.
And you make, and you have a decision theory that says, I'm going to vote no matter what,
and everyone like you votes no matter what, then negative externality is all around.
I'm sure if you are a very well-informed and good voter, then you would want a decision
theory that encourages you and other people to vote.
So the thing with the negative externalities, you don't take that into account, and so you
get too much of it.
The same is true of positive externalities.
You don't take into account so you can get too little of it.
So a timeless decision theoretic agent would hopefully have a decision theory that says,
I will vote on things where I am very well-informed.
I will not vote on things where I am not well-informed.
Now the other thing with this whole probability of a vote deciding election being very low
is that voters don't have very much incentive to get informed.
And if you want to read more on that, you can read Carpegne and Heater's What Americans
Know About Politics and Why It Matters.
If you want to just be a guest of absolute horror of how ignorant your fellow citizens
are about even the basics of anything in our government, that's the book for you.
So the answer is everyone who's listening to this podcast should vote, but encourage
everyone who isn't listening to the podcast to not vote.
That's, yeah.
I don't know.
Do we have a lot of reactionary listeners, because...
I don't know, actually.
We don't know who our listeners are.
No, we haven't ever done any poll or anything.
Well, they don't believe in democracy anyway.
That's true.
I'd be going against their intrinsic values.
Okay, well then I was going to say, you were talking earlier about other possible reasons
to vote, even if you aren't necessarily well-informed, I think.
Did you say that earlier?
I did.
I mean, there's other reasons to vote.
One might be you feel good, you're cheering, rah, rah, rah.
You have a significant other who is irrational and, for some reason, really thinks that you
should vote.
That's a little bit of a mea culpa right there.
I apologized.
And...
How do you feel about the bowling hack?
I don't know about the bowling hack.
I don't know if that's actually what it's called.
That's how I remember it.
The hack being the best thing to do is to find someone who you like enough to bowl with,
but who you know is going to vote the opposite of you on just about everything.
And instead of going to the polls, both of you go bowling.
So that way, your vote will have been nullified for your positions, but his vote against you
would have been nullified.
The net effect would be no difference to the actual voting results.
But the two of you have a wonderful time bowling and maybe build some bridges between the political
divide.
You should.
Yeah.
That's great.
You should go bowling, but you also...
Or you could just not show up to vote and have a party.
And it doesn't matter what people...
If people have different opinions on what candidates or policies they want to back.
Because the chances of either of you making a difference are so vanishingly small that
there is really no need to do that.
I actually have an acquaintance who hates Donald Trump and says that in this election,
he will vote for Donald Trump just to prove to everyone how little his vote matters.
So that sounds like the biggest waste of time.
He can prove his point.
I can tell people to read Andrew Goleman's paper.
I don't like the idea of the party so much because most of the people will be like you.
I like the idea of finding one other person who's opposite of you.
Yeah, you don't want to go to my party, that's fine.
Oh no, I'd love to go to your party.
Are you having a party?
Sure, maybe.
So let's go to Katrina's No One Votes Party.
It doesn't matter anymore.
I think the Buller Act...
There seems to be some benefits to say since we all know Katrina's going to vote for Trump
and I don't want Trump to win, I'll cancel Katrina's vote by voting for Bernie Sanders,
right?
Yeah.
So I think that's...
Well, by voting for the Democratic candidate.
Right.
So that's as realistic as me voting for Trump.
Right.
So, oh wait.
Bum bum bum.
We need this Trump bone effect right there.
But Bernie Sanders winning the nomination is as low probability as you voted for Trump.
Yeah, so it's always significantly high.
You think it's high?
Pretty close, it's currently giving 3%.
Yeah, I would have signed something like a 1 in a million chance to vote for Trump.
But the idea is that if for whatever reason you can't convince this person to go out and
bowl with you and make it with a friend, at the very least you can nullify one vote for
a party that you don't like, right?
But I'm not sure.
Is that a complete waste of time or is there any merit to that?
It should have exactly the same effect as not voting at all.
So...
I guess you're right.
If that's the only purpose of doing the vote, then yeah, it's probably a waste of time.
So yeah.
If you're really worried about being that one guy who you could have cast a vote and
it would have made the difference and you don't want to be the guy who fucks everything
up for everyone, you just find one guy from the opposite side to go bowl with you and
it's all good.
Or if you're that kind of thinking of what if I'm the one in a billion and you should
just spend all your...
I'm surprised you don't spend all your time with the gas station buying a lot of your
tickets.
So although you would have to be absolutely certain that that one guy would have voted
if you hadn't had intervened with the bowling.
Right.
Yeah.
So there's another...
I was reading...
There was an essay by Peter Singer that I read years ago and I wouldn't found again
today so I could find the right quote.
And in Australia compulsory voting is the law of the land where everyone has to vote
without good reason and they get like 95% turnout.
People are pissed about that too.
Yeah, a lot of people don't like it.
Peter Singer does argue a favor of it, but he argues a favor of a lot of things.
I think just to be contrarian on his website, there's a lot of essays that I think he just
writes just to be thought-provoking.
This might not be one-on-one.
So what's his argument for?
His argument for it sounds sort of the ontological, right, where if everyone follows the line
of reasoning that, well, it's a waste of time to go stand in line and vote or even just
take the three minutes it takes to fill out the mail and ballot and drop it in the mailbox
next time I'm there, that time could be spent somewhere else and the odds about making a
difference are so small, it's just not worth it.
But the problem with that is then it would, let's see, quote, yet if many people follow
this line of reasoning and do not vote, a minority of the population can determine the country's
future, leaving a discontented majority.
And that seems to make sense in the fact that, say, if only 5% of the population cares about
voting, well, they're going to decide everything, right?
Right.
I think this goes back to the legitimacy of government that, you know, before there was
democracy, how did you decide if a government was legitimate or not?
Well, it's the government that God chose.
God decided that this government is legitimate, so who are you to argue with God?
And once we kind of did away with that whole notion of God chooses the government, there
has to be some other societally accepted excuse for why this group of people gets to make the
laws and control all of our lives.
Well, if they really don't care and they're really uninformed, then they shouldn't be
voting because of the negative externalities of voting.
Basically, yes, but also no, because if a country has high voter turnout, that gives
the system legitimacy.
And if you like the country you're in right now, well, because it is psychologically,
people think if the vast majority of people have voted, then this is the will of the people.
So they're less likely to, what, revolt?
Yes.
It's basically an argument for if you like your society and you want it to stay stable,
you try to increase voter turnout.
If you want the society to become destabilized and maybe spark some sort of revolution or
a populist uprising that gets like a Trump, for example, into office, you want to reduce
voter turnout as much as possible so people will have less space in the system.
Hmm.
