vote is the only probability that matters, at least in the United States.
Because if you were outvoted by a million people, then there would be no policy changes
if you had voted.
So you have to have decided the election or the policy to have everything to multiply
the policy changes by, and then the policy changes themselves, they can't just be, it's
not just the value of your candidate's policies, it's the value of your candidate's policies
minus the alternative candidate's policies.
And if the differences between the candidates are very small, then that value is going to
be rather small.
If the differences between the candidates are large, then that could potentially be,
you know, a very, very large number.
I have a question.
It's about mail-in ballots.
So we've been talking about instrumental reasons to vote and non-instrumental reasons, and
it seems to me that non-instrumental reasons are probably pretty important in our voting
culture.
How do mail-in ballots impact that?
Because people can't see you voting if you're doing a mail-in ballot, and you can even lie
to your parents and wait.
And you can even lie to other people and tell them that you did vote when they asked you.
And you know, aside from the negative feelings associated with lying about it, you'll kind
of be in the same position as far as other people's signaling, as far as signaling goes.
Yeah.
It's a great question.
So if people were voting for mostly instrumental reasons, mail-in ballots lower the cost of
voting.
You don't have to go outside, stand in a cold line, you can just write some things that
are the mail.
But if people are voting for largely expressive reasons, then the mail-in ballot might actually
reduce votes.
There was a particular country, or maybe a county in a country, I think Sweden, where
they adopted a policy of just a big campaign to get mail-in ballots to every single household,
and voting went down.
Wow.
Yeah.
Because I vote much more now that I have my mail-in ballot.
Right.
I don't have to wait for the hour or two of my life.
But if people are voting for largely expressive reasons, you're not going in and getting sick
or anyway, probably no one's even going to ask you, but if they do, you can say, I don't
know.
But yeah, voting participation actually decreased slightly.
So people in that country don't think their vote makes a lot of difference then?
It probably doesn't.
So you were talking earlier about what the chances are of something of one person changing
a vote in a state that can make a big difference.
It's a swing state.
There's a much closer to 50-50.
A big difference is some heavy quotes around that.
So there are a whole lot of ways to model the probability of deciding an election.
Standard models, you will sometimes see economists give very, very low numbers for the probability
of being the size of a large election, like the US presidential election.
Those numbers can be, you could win the power ball dozens of times in a row before you ever
decide an election.
Andrew Gelman, I hope it's pronounced Gelman, has been doing some more empirical work and
modeling a bit differently, trying to take into account things like swing states, trying
to take into account the models that give those very low numbers are fairly primitive.
They sort of treat voters as if they're ointasses.
So Andrew Gelman's work has shown that for some states, a few swing states, if I remember,
I can only remember two, New Mexico and Colorado, I do not remember the others, that if you
live in one of those states and you do not have extra information from polls or something
like that on the day of the election, telling you that one candidate is utterly dominating
the other, if you have good reason to think it's pretty close in those states, it can
be as low as one in 10 million.
That's your chance of making a difference?
That is the chance of one vote deciding the US presidential election in one of the four
states.
That's actually pretty high.
One in 10 million?
Well, compared to in...
Compared to one in several billion, but then there are states like New York where I believe
there's a lot closer to one in a billion, and the power ball, I think, less I checked,
was a little lower than one in 300 million, so you could win it three and a half times.
See, if I had to kill two hours of my day for one in 10 million chance, I don't think
I would take it.
Right.
So it really strongly depends on what you think the policy difference between those
candidates are and whether or not you think they are large enough to justify it, and
it depends on where in the United States you live.
But yeah, to give you...
Just for comparison, there have been 56 US presidential elections in the country.
So one in 10 million is much higher than those other estimates, it is still not very high.
It is absolutely possible the policy differences could be large enough to make voting rational
in one of the states, probably not so much to New York.
But if you have the opportunity to get a whole bunch of people to vote, candidates obviously
put a great deal of effort into not only getting people to vote, but pleasing voters.
Right?
Yes.
So it matters to them to move large groups of people.
Yes, absolutely.
And so if you could spend the same time that you would have spent voting, encouraging successfully
encouraging 10 other people to vote, then you have done 10 times what you could do by
yourself.
Right?
So yes, encouraging other people to vote can be far, far, far more effective than voting
yourself conceivable.
Are we potentially doing something bad here by telling people that it's irrational to
vote?
I actually have.
Not that we're telling people that, but could that be a bad thing to tell people that it's
irrational to vote?
I want to interject that really quick.
So that one of the reason people might want to go out and vote rather than say mail it
in is that your employer has to be OK if you're taking the day off of work or taking the time
off of work.
A lot of people hate their jobs and they are excused for those hours to go vote, right?
I don't think they are.
Really?
Yeah.
I'm pretty positive.
They are.
Yes.
Oh, OK.
But they don't get the paid.
No.
No.
But you can't be fired for having taken the time off to vote.
I see.
That would be you would get your butt sued.
I do actually have a couple theoretical rational reasons to vote, but I wanted to get through
those in a little bit because we were talking just now, you said, that it'd be worth it
to if you could spend the time you would use voting to get even two or three other people
to vote.
That's much more worth it.
Isn't that kind of putting us in a red queen race, though, where everyone is best off using
all their time, getting everyone else to vote, and we're dumping mass amounts of resources,
wasting, basically, mass amounts of resources and time in something that we could not waste
those resources in if we just all agreed not to.
Yes.
OK.
Yes.
Voting is costly, it takes time, it takes lots of people to calculate votes, it takes.
Voting is expensive in the larger country, more expensive it is.
You can significantly reduce the cost of taxpayer expense by reducing the number of people who
vote.
Oh.
So, to go back to my question, would it be a good thing to encourage people not to vote,
or if we were in a position to actually make any kind of difference, or would that be an
absolutely terrible thing because we would potentially be getting more educated people
to vote less compared to potentially other demographics?
Who are you targeting in your don't vote campaign?
Well, let's say we are targeting fans of rationality and less wrong.
Or generally, stupid or amenable to, like, decision theory-based arguments, right?
So that won't appeal to the emotional order, but it might appeal to somebody who is thinking,
is it worth it to me to vote this year or not?
They might be, for whatever reason, hear this, they might be swayed, like, you know what,
okay, forget it.
So.
I want to give a round of applause to you guys.
Were you reading up on decision theory before this, or did you guys just come up with this
on the fly?
I was in a little homework, but how did that weigh in formally?
Oh, I was just wondering because the time of decision theory has something to say about
voting, which is very similar to what you just said.
Oh, sure.
I didn't read up on time of decision theory today, but I'm vaguely familiar with it.
Did you want to tackle this, or?
No, go ahead if you've got it.
Well, one of the things that Eliyzer works on is artificial intelligence.
And so he has a slightly different perspective on things, one of those being if you have
a single intelligence programmed artificially, you can replicate that intelligence many,
many times.
And so it's important to make an intelligence that is okay cooperating with itself.
For example, in Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality, there's one point where Harry
Potter is talking with Draco Malfoy, and they talk about Pansy Parkinson.
And Harry says, look, if two pansies were to run into each other, would they team up
and become more powerful and take over the school, or would they just backstab each other
and be awful and be even worse off?
And the answer in the story is Pansy Parkinson, obviously, would not cooperate with herself.
And so it's bad to have more agents like her.
But any ideology that depends on it not being spread because it's toxic, I think is going
to fail eventually.
So you want to have a decision theory that if everyone else were to adopt your decision
theory, the world would be better rather than worse.
Should we articulate the prisoner's dilemma for the sake of formalizing that argument?
I think we've done it already in the previous episode.
If we're talking about voting, it's probably closer to just externality or public goods.
So does everyone know what an externality is?
I do, but please tell us again.
In economics, if you have a two-party transaction, any effects they have on third parties that
have no say whatsoever on the transaction as an externality, they can be positive or negative.
So I buy a really nice shirt from some store, and someone sees my shirt and we're like,
oh, that's nice.
They weren't part of the transaction, but we got to see the nice shirt.
Or if I drive my car, it's carbon in the atmosphere and contributes to climate change, that negative
externality because I bought the car, I bought the gas, no one, the people in Africa being
affected by climate change, definitely didn't have anything to say about that transaction.
So that would be negative externality.
And voting can have either a positive or negative externality because you go and vote your decision
very incrementally, just like pollution, very incrementally to a very small degree affects
a large number of other people.
So if you vote well, you can have a strong positive externality on the world.
If you vote minor positive externality.
The expected, right, just like the expected utility, the expected effect is very small.
But the thing with externalities is they add up.
So externalities are not necessarily going to take all of that.
Okay.
The plot thickens.
Go on.
So if you are informed and you know a whole lot about public policy and so on, and you
