So Brian Kaplan's argument was voters aren't just ignorant, they're biased.
The myth of the rational voter, he calls it rational irrationality.
Since that term might be confusing to all the rationalists out there, maybe rational
bias now still doesn't work.
Does it mean it could?
And it's not this.
It's this idea that people, people get some kind of utility for having beliefs that are
kind of dumb makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, I, I saw a pen and teller bit where, and, you know, he does some half-assed thing
with, he's like, here's the card and shuffles it really half-assedly back in the deck.
And he's like, do you believe that card shuffled well into the deck?
Some guy in the audience and I says, yeah, it's like, I have 50 quid in my dressing room.
I, I'm willing to go get it and bet you.
Do you still want to tell me that that card isn't, no, as soon as you impose
a cost for believing the crazy thing you don't believe like that happened?
And if voters have these biases, then things are actually a lot worse, a lot worse than
you could get in the sort of rational ignorance world where people are just ignorant.
They don't care if special interests are capturing things because, well, so what Katrina
brought up was that voters do not necessarily vote their self-interest.
It's a robust, robust finding of decades of political science research.
Everyone knows voters vote their pocket books except for political scientists who know pretty
damn well if they don't.
Older people are not more in favor of social security payments.
Younger people are more in favor.
Men are more in favor of abortion rights with women.
People who have children have no different opinions on busing than people who do not
have children take an issue.
There, there are, there are some issues where people do seem to vote their self-interest like
smokers are really opposed to anti-smoking laws.
But the cost for them is different.
Well, yeah, the cost for them is immediate obvious, significant.
Most people, it seems, vote based on ideology.
And ideology tends to be, you know, a set of values.
I think most people are actually fairly civic minded when they vote.
I think most people actually are trying to vote for what they think would be best for
everyone in the country.
So if people are voting their self-interest and are quite rational, that can get you better
policy, right?
If people are voting their self-interest but are irrational, that might not get you better
policy, right?
You might, oh, I'm going to vote what's best for me.
Oops, accidentally voted what's best for everybody and screwed me over, right?
Conceivably might not get you better policy.
So I have a question then about voting your ideology in a two-party system.
Let's say, for example, that Bernie Sanders does not get the nomination and runs as a
third-party candidate or even doesn't run as a third-party candidate.
There's still, you know, the Greens and the Libertarians out there, which a lot of people
are like, I will not vote for Trump and I will not vote for Hillary.
Yes.
What's the implications of voting for a third party?
Is it throwing away your vote?
Is there some use to it?
Is it kind of like voting for the other guy?
We should pause this and finish talking about the irrationality thing.
Because that is a kind of topic.
Oh, is it?
Okay, no, go ahead.
I'll put that up till later.
So, yeah, just to quickly finish the irrationality bit.
If people are ignorant, not biased, but altruistically minded, that can get you good policy
per Donald Whitman's argument.
And for Brian Kaplan, if people are both not self-interested and not rational,
worst of both worlds.
Everyone is trying to help everyone else, but they are wrong about what will help everyone else.
And...
Is that the world we live in?
Altruistically votive student.
I think it is.
I kind of agree.
I mean, Michael Humer put it this way, if there's a large consensus of experts who agree
on a certain topic and you disagree with them, but you cannot even explain their best arguments
for that topic back to them, you are probably wrong.
And the central finding of Brian Kaplan's book is that the public's
opinions about economics significantly diverges from the economist's opinions about economics.
And so you might say, well, economists are all just voting their self-interest,
or just arguing this out of their self-interest.
He controls for income, it doesn't.
But every economist I've heard say that is also of the neoliberal school.
Is there...
So that is the other one.
Well, maybe it's just ideological.
An economist survives.
He controls for ideology as well as results get stronger because the actual,
the typical economist is a moderate liberal, and they were moderated somewhat in their
beliefs for learning economics.
So even controlling for ideology, it seems like the problem is even worse than what's already
previously believed to be.
So that might be an even stronger argument for definitely not compulsory voting.
Right.
Jason Brennan has a book with someone.
He's a political philosopher, his book, I don't remember her name,
but they trade chapters arguing for and against compulsory voting.
And the title of one of his chapters is, Should We Force the Drunk to Drive?
So the, I think one way to respond to that is, should we allow the drugs to drive,
which is kind of what we do now, right?
Well, there...
In our current voting system, we allow people who are very poorly educated,
and maybe they're altruistic and irrational.
We encourage them to vote.
Yes, we do.
Right.
So that's what I was going to get back with.
You wanted to know if we should allow them to vote.
Well, I, earlier, I was telling the idea of, before we got on the air,
I was talking about the idea of compulsory voting, what they do in Australia.
And that was the line that came up from that chapter,
Should We Force the Drunk to Drive?
But all we do now is we don't force them, we just strongly encourage them to.
Right.
Yeah.
So I mean, I guess, how is that really that much better?
Or is it just not, and it's like, well, this sucks, this sucks too,
but that's not an argument in favor of this also.
Well, you can also kind of imagine how it sounds like to someone else.
They're like, oh, all these economists are telling us only economists should vote.
Right.
I mean, well, I mean, so that's persuasive to me, right?
Only the people who know what they're talking about should vote.
So I'm not, I'm not.
And as he was saying, the pocketbook is usually people's last concern.
Right.
So of course, there are problems with these sorts of oligarchical or technocratic systems as well,
which is, you know, if you like, it is possible in the systems.
And I think probably likely that, that self-interest motive probably increases
the narrower the voting pool.
So things change.
It's also one of the arguments that the new reactionaries make,
that the royalty or, you know, whoever happens to be installed as the rulers
have very strong self-interest in making sure society stays stable and continues.
Much more so than the average guy on the street who owns nothing.
It doesn't matter.
It doesn't care if the whole system burns down or not,
because what has he got to lose?
I think that seems kind of hitter-ness.
I have a question.
How do prediction markets play into this?
So prediction market is a market where you can buy shares of whether or not a future event will
happen.
So for example, who's going to win the presidency in the upcoming election?
You set out a bunch of shares for Trump and a bunch of shares for Clinton,
and people buy and sell those shares.
And the price of those shares then corresponds to the market-predicted
probability that the event will recur.
So I mentioned predict-wise earlier.
I'm going to call for not going into that a little more carefully.
Predict-wise is a prediction market website.
And it's just that people can buy and sell shares of a future event.
But not presidential outcomes, as it turns out in the United States.
Depends on how much you're willing to break the law.
The US does have some anti-gambling laws.
That's why the previous leader in this one stopped accepting money from US citizens.
But it keeps happening.
More websites are popping up.
You can find several.
And if you want to flaunt the law or just nebulously sort of.
I guess the question is great.
So that changes incentives in prediction when your money is behind it, right?
Yes.
Versus the uselessness of making a vote, right?
There's a quote by somebody, might be Daniel Gilbert, that betting,
or I guess betting in a prediction market, is a way to call yourself on your bullshit.
So whereas you might just say, no, no, I'm pretty sure this is going to happen.
But then the second, like you said in the Penn and Teller example,
that you're asked to put your money down on it, you're like, oh, no, I'm not that confident.
Despite how confident I said I was a second ago, I'm certainly not confident enough to bet $5.
Yeah.
So yes.
So for example, right now predict-wise gives Hillary Clinton around 97% chance of taking the
Democratic nomination and Democratic Party a 67% chance of the election.
If in fact the true probability is lower than that, you can make yourself a little money
because you don't have to wait until the election is done.
You can sell your shares when the price changes, right?
So if you just are really sure that the Clinton Trump race is going to be super close,
then go make some bets, go prove to the world that you're right.
Is predict-wise taking money from American?
I'm not sure, actually.
Okay.
Because I would be interested in.
I'd like to draw an anecdote.
In one of Stephen Hawking's earlier books, he mentions how he originally bedded a friend
against the existence of black walls because he thought they didn't exist.
So he bet that they did exist because he said then that way,
if they did exist, at least I'm on the bed.
So this makes you want to go bet or to go put money down on predict-wise for Trump.
To be fair, Stephen Hawking usually bets his actual opinions.
Right, but I like just a joke.
If society is going to collapse, at least you get a thousand bucks out of it.
Yeah, but Stephen's right.
You can actually use a prediction market as insurance against some desired outcomes.
I don't think many people use them for that purpose, but it is if Trump winning is worth
negative $1,000, do you go out?
That's the money on Trump, right?
But if enough people do that, doesn't it lose its value as a prediction market?
Probably not.
Because when you introduce more money into these markets, it increases the liquidity.
So some other people are like,
let the probability change.
For now, the probability is wrong.
I'm going to go take their money.
So it tends to increase interest in the market, increase money in the market.
