Seems like a very dubious empirical plan to me.
It could be, but I think it would be a great reason for the neo-reactionaries to try to
discourage voting as much as possible.
Because when almost no one is voting, how can you say, I have the will of the people
behind me and that is why I have the right to pass these laws?
Well, oh, that gives us several topics.
First, two comments on paper's quote.
One, there's an equilibrium.
The fewer people...
You said finger.
It was Peter Stinger.
Oh, I thought you said Stephen Stinger.
Peter Stinger.
Peter Stinger.
He's sort of a literary teller.
Yeah.
Wait a minute.
Yeah.
Sing it.
Okay.
Well, one, there's an equilibrium.
The fewer people vote, it increases the probability of deciding the election, increases the instrumental
value of deciding...
Right.
So...
Economics.
The second, though, this idea of a popular mandate or rule of thumb, is everyone familiar
with Error's Impossibility Theorem?
No.
I'm not either.
No.
Okay.
Kenneth Arrow in 1967 wrote a paper proving that no voting system could satisfy a list
of several desirable qualities.
Error's Impossibility Theorem states that there's no voting system that can fulfill
a few very desirable axioms.
Those axioms being one, non-dictatorship.
One person doesn't just get to override one or even however many people's votes are saved,
what they say in the matter.
No topics, policies, bills, laws, whatever are off the table.
Everything is allowed to be voted on.
It's really nice.
It's called Unrestricted Domain.
In the United States, we don't quite have this, the Bill of Rights.
I mean, we can't overturn any bill we want in the Bill of Rights, but it requires a supermajority.
So we have taken some topics off the table effectively.
Monotonicity, which is the idea that if a candidate gets more popular with anyone or
any group of voters, that should not hurt their chances of winning.
Some voting systems actually have this flaw that if one candidate rises in popularity,
it causes them to lose.
I don't remember the exact ones, but lots of voting systems have ranked preferences,
and that causes some of these oddities.
Oh, because ranked preference usually results in the candidate that is least hated, not
the candidate that is most liked.
The independence of irrelevant alternatives.
So just for example, you're talking with your friends and say, oh, should we eat?
Indian and Italian, and everyone, everyone says, let's go eat Indian.
And then someone else says, well, wait, wait, should we go eat at this vegan restaurant
instead?
And then you say, I don't want to eat there.
Let's all go eat Italian.
You can introduce alternatives, you can introduce candidates, and it can cause the most favorite
candidate to lose popularity, even though everyone still preferred that most favorite
candidate to the introduced candidate.
And there are some other desirable system, desirable properties you might want.
I don't think they're strictly part of the impossibility theorem, but for instance, if
you are going to allow people to rank their preferences, it's going to be useful to rank
the intensity of people's preferences.
If you just have a board account, for instance, it allows you, if there's five candidates,
one gets five points, one gets four points, one gets three points.
But if your candidates are, I don't know, Trump, Romney, Bernie Sanders, Hillary Clinton,
and Hitler, giving Hitler one point does not quite capture just how much people really
want to avoid that all through.
And so you can get weird preference orderings.
The end result of this impossibility theorem is that, at least theoretically, this will
of the people or the democratic mandate or so on is not possible.
There is no such thing.
Oh, rationality, basic rationality.
If you prefer A to B to C, then you cannot prefer C to A, right?
But you want some voting systems, you cannot satisfy that requirement.
Like if you have majority rule with runoff, depending on the order that you do the runoff,
just like football tournament, you can prefer A to B to C to A.
But for government legitimacy, isn't the important part not necessarily that they fulfill these
things, but just that society accepts this as a method of making a legitimate government?
Sure.
Maybe you could get society to accept any kind of method.
Well, yeah.
Originally, it used to be the Skyfairy said it's okay.
Right.
So maybe it's not really required to have significant amount of people voting.
Maybe society will accept, well, for instance, I saw a proposal that was we will pick a random
lottery of people, 1,000 people, 10,000, whatever.
They all have to vote, and they all get $1,000 for doing so.
And it will be random, and so we don't have any issues with just having certain sub-segments
of the population being the only ones who vote.
They will be paid, and that will get rid of all those problems of over-ignorance and
so on.
I would really like that.
But that's only 1,000 or 10,000 people would people accept that as legitimate?
I don't know.
The cost would go a lot down.
The cost would go down significantly, yes.
Depends on how statistically literate people are, I guess, and also if they trust the system
to actually be truly random.
Right.
That's another thing.
That was the first thought that I had.
I'm like, oh, yeah, random.
Yes.
So, but I mean, I think what you can get people to accept as far as what you were mentioning,
Enya, is that we are used to Hitler, so we can just jump straight to another verbally.
North Korea is a thing, right?
Yes, it is.
So, I mean, many people that live there reputedly are okay with the way things are set up.
Well, I mean, that's the way neo-reactionaries would like it.
I personally like our current system, which is why I'm trying to lend it more legitimacy.
Those people are ignorant, just like our voting populace.
Actually, they don't actually want it to be like North Korea.
I think they believe that if you institute a monarchy, you can get something more like
Singapore.
I guess I meant that by those people, people who live in North Korea are kept very ignorant.
They have low education.
They don't have adequate information to make decisions.
That's quite true.
And a lot of people in the USA, which is the country in which we are right now, they either
don't have adequate information or don't have adequate reasons to acquire that information.
Well, I mean, significant reasons not to acquire that information.
Yeah, there's big information.
Because the leaders, you know, it makes you an enemy of the state here at USA.
You mean, I thought we were so long on North Korea.
I said that there's a there's a comparison there.
So I guess what I'm trying to get at is we want people to be well educated.
And if people are well educated, well, maybe they would accept other voting systems that
might work a little bit more towards having better policy outcomes.
OK, maybe I think that any any situation, as you mentioned before, where we are trying
to withhold information from people in order to increase the legitimacy of the government
is probably not sustainable, right?
Right. Yeah.
For the record, I do not advocate withholding information from anybody.
I think that people who are very ignorant or very biased vote poorly.
That is the negative extremality.
That's not good.
So I am strongly against compulsory voting because compulsory voting does not solve the
problem of getting people to actually investigate learning issues, learn basic social
science or anything like that.
I have a question.
I brought up earlier the myth of the rational voter.
Yes.
So I've heard a lot of people recently, a number of people talking about how people
vote in their own self interest.
And I was made aware that maybe that is not the case.
Could you talk about why people vote?
Right.
Or how people vote?
How people vote.
So the myth of the rational voter is a book by Brian Kaplan.
A little backstory about public choice.
Public choice started with this insight that voters do not have much reason to get much
knowledge, but special interest groups do.
And so public choice is kind of writing for a long time on this idea that special interest
capture policy voters do nothing about it.
You know, you means are an organized interest, but unemployed people are not.
For example, Donald Whitman, I believe in the nineties, wrote a book called the
myth of democratic failure, where he argued that our political institutions are actually
efficient, do capture voter preferences very well and do get us good public policy.
So some of the things that the public choice theorists have been criticizing were, for
example, the party system bundles issues and lets you maybe hide some issues from
voter.
You know, if you have one issue voters, you can give them that one issue and then
give whatever you want to whatever lobbyists are capturing your votes.
The party system actually could increase accountability, right?
You have it maybe not anymore, but at least in the nineties, when everyone's
right, I think you could say that you knew what the Republicans were for, what the
Democrats were for.
If you voted for that candidate, you pretty much knew what you were getting.
It also turns out to be the case that most voters, political beliefs, values and so on
are serial, serially aligned.
So what does that mean?
Well, even things that may seem unrelated, like, for instance, wanting to spend more
money to send people to college and gun control, I don't see a connection between
those two, but most Americans do.
Or if they don't see a connection between those two, it doesn't matter because their
beliefs on them are serialized, serially aligned anyway.
And so the parties mostly are just collating what people want and you can just, you know,
symbolize information.
That's just one example of Donald Whitman's arguments.
He has several chapters, very interesting book.
Ryan Kaplan's response was the myth of the rational voter.
Oh, well, sorry, I should go back.
Donald Whitman's central argument is if you have these voters who are ignorant, that
doesn't mean they're biased.
If you have rational expectations, you will have some people who are, well, let's see,
I'll joke about rational expectations.
You shoot, you know, 10 bullets on the left side of the dartboard and 10 bullets on the
right side and oh, wow, I got all 20 right in the center because it's, because it's an
average of repreferences, but an average of repreferences.
Funny old joke, that's my precious self esteem.
So if you have a whole bunch of people who are wrong about a policy one way and a whole
bunch of people who are wrong about the other way, they cancel it out, be informed voters,
then we decide to vote and you get a good policy.
