If it's a voting system, all votes are made by one person.
Some of them have some pretty bad properties.
I really like the idea of monotonicity.
If candidate gets more popular, they shouldn't lose.
So I'm not a big fan of the, you know,
range of preference.
Essential.
No, the-
Run-offs?
Yeah, run-offs.
Yeah, run-off systems.
But I do not have a strong answer for you.
I think honestly, the biggest problems we have are voter irrationality.
And I mean, I think that's probably the biggest problem.
Well, then in that case, which voting system is the most entertaining?
Rule by Kim Jong-un.
See, I think that one's really boring.
It's always Kim Jong-un.
Like, I grew up in a very political family,
and every four years it's like the Super Bowl of politics.
But have you seen the advertisements that they make about
they're going to blow up America?
They're faffling and crazy and funny if they weren't so terrifying and sad.
The things that Tim finds most interesting are different than other people.
He has a special taste.
I am not a big fan of American political theater.
I never listen to political speeches.
I never watch debates.
The way candidates talk makes my skin crawl.
I found I can get around some of that by finding transcripts online
and having my computer read it out.
The monotone chops up language.
And that way you lose the emphasis and the voice and the power.
And you can just get the message and then you find out it's just what everyone else is saying.
I used to actually enjoy listening to political speeches, and then I met Tim.
He ruined it for me.
Yeah, it's probably about time for us to wrap up.
This has been great.
Thank you so much for lending me your expertise and economic wisdom,
public choice wisdom.
Sorry, I got it wrong.
Thank you for having me.
And if I said anything that was wrong, it's Brian Catlin's fault.
Is there anything you want to say before we go,
or anything that you want to plug or promote?
No, sorry, I've got nothing.
I did not come prepared to answer that question.
Okay, if that changes, let us know with everything out there.
Yeah, we'll put in links.
I was hoping we'd be able to solve the problem of how to fix the voting system.
Today?
Yeah, today.
Yeah, just right here right now.
That's what we're trying to do is we try to find the problem
and then solve it within, you know, under 90 minutes.
When does that work?
Not once yet, but so far.
I didn't realize that was the goal of this podcast.
That's the goal of life.
Wow, you got big goals, man.
Solve all the problems.
First step is to become God.
I think Plato equated democracy with anarchy,
and then Franklin said, yeah, it's the worst,
but it's better than all the other ones out there, right?
Yeah.
I heard that attributed to Churchill.
Yeah, I heard it.
How about Lincoln or Mahatma Gandhi?
That man's name?
Albert Einstein.
Use the Force, Harry by Gandalf.
You can't believe everything you read on me.
Well, thank you for listening,
and we will talk to you soon.
Bye.
Thanks.
Later.
