Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy.
My name is Katrina Stanson.
Hi, I'm Nini Oshbrotsky.
And I'm Stephen Zuber.
And Katrina, why don't you introduce our guest and our topic for today?
Our guest is Tim.
And he's here.
We're going to be talking about voting, so a very topical topic.
And Tim is especially the right person to talk about this because he has a master's
in economics from GMU, from George Mason University, and he especially focused on voting and voter
theory.
Public choice.
Oh, right.
It's called public choice, public choice economics.
Thank you for the correction, Tim.
Is public choice just a fancy term for voting?
No.
No?
Public choice economics of political decision making?
It's economic analysis of public policy, not just of what policy is or looks like or how
it affects the economy, but how it gets made.
What sorts of policies do get made and why incentives involve things like that?
So lately, I've noticed that it's been all the rage to say that it is not worth it to
vote.
Do.
Yes, go ahead.
So before we dive into that, I wanted to say I'm anticipating at least one listener saying
George Mason University, that's where Robin Hansen teaches, taking classes under Robin
Hansen.
I did not take any classes with Robin Hansen.
I've met him.
Oh, okay.
That counts.
I had two classes with Brian Kaplan, who is also somewhat community adjacent.
I've heard him, too, yeah.
Here outside of rationalism, Brian Kaplan is the more well-known name.
Oh, nice.
Brian Kaplan did the myth of the rational voter, didn't he?
That's right.
And he also has the Martial Revolution blog.
No, that is Tyler Kaplan and Alex Tocque.
I was with Tyler Kaplan and Brian Kaplan mixed up.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I'm just sorry to both of them, too.
So you did get to meet him in real life, though?
Yeah.
Is he nice?
He seems like a fairly nice guy and very, from what I've seen of him, like kind of shy
and unwilling to speak much.
He is not unwilling to speak.
No, okay.
Who does the food blog?
Tyler Kaplan blog scope.
Okay.
Now, that was my run-in with Tyler Kaplan is how Tim and I would decide what ethnic
restaurant to go to.
Katrina actually got to see Robin in action.
I did?
Yeah.
Do you remember when we saw friends to ball speak?
I do remember that.
Yeah.
Oh, you mean the questioner?
Yes.
Yeah.
Thank goodness.
Thank goodness there was somebody there to put that guy in his place.
He was just going off the rails talking about animal behavior and why you need to be kind
to each other.
I don't know.
The connections were very poor.
Friends of all is a very...
Famous primate researcher.
Yes.
Primate researcher.
He is extraordinarily knowledgeable about empathy in animals.
That does not give you enough information to say that we should be more empathetic in
public policy.
Which was what he was trying to claim?
Yes.
Actually, it seems strange to hear you disagree with him just now since you seem to like animals
quite a bit.
I do like animals quite a bit.
I just don't like logical stretches.
Yeah.
There's Daniel Dennett has a quote, but there's nothing that bugs me more than that argument
that was just not agreed with.
It's like, oh, I like where you're going with this, but I don't like how you got there.
Can we talk about this differently?
Yeah.
I totally feel him.
Absolutely.
And I felt that way during the Friends of All talk.
And I felt that way with all the people who wanted me to read Ishmael by Daniel Quinn.
What's wrong with you people?
This is so poorly argued.
What's Ishmael about?
Oh, it's mostly about how, gosh, I think his conclusion was we should all go back to subsistence
farming or something.
It was a strongly Malthusian novel.
And the conclusion, if any, I think is that population control would be necessary, especially
in Africa.
It's been a long time, but it did not take me long to decide that I did not like it
and that all the people who recommended it have poor taste in novels.
Population control is especially needed in Africa.
It seems like a somewhat self-serving argument.
This might be something worth Googling.
Let's not put words into anybody's mouths for things that I've read 15 or more years
ago.
Right.
And, yeah, instead, you know, it would be awesome.
Let's talk about voting.
Let's talk about the voting.
So yeah, back to the question I started out with that I've heard lately, it's all the
rage to say that it's not worth the time and effort to vote.
That strongly depends on your utility function.
What's the utility function?
So should we start just explaining decision theory?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
What does my utility function look like when I'm deciding if I want to vote or not?
Right.
So the artifice of economics and several other disciplines is that people are modeled as
individual agents.
They have utility functions, which means they have states of the world that make them happier
and try to attain those states.
Those utility functions can look like anything in actual practice.
They, at least in humans, have a rather specific structure.
Can I, as a quick aside, confirm something that I've suspected but never actually confirmed
before?
The term function in utility function, is that an artifact from calculus where a function
is like a graph, a long equation with a number of variables in it?
I mean, a line.
Does it look like a line?
Yes.
Like, do I have any?
Thank you.
So I might have an exponential utility function regarding, or a logarithmic one, regarding
Oreo consumption.
Right.
So a utility function along two dimensions will look like a line.
In fact, our utility functions are many, many more than two dimensions, but the idea is
we start with two dimensions, derive some conclusions, and try to generalize them.
So it is okay to think of it in terms of an equation?
Yes.
It absolutely is an equation.
They are usually f of x equals u, has utility to the something power, and what that power
will be raised to will be a function of risk preference.
If it's raised to power of one, risk neutral, power less than one, risk averse, or greater
than one, risk loving.
So it's a way to quantify what people want in a mathematical way?
Yes.
And it strongly relies on the concept of expected utility, utility being, again, states of the
world, make you happier, give you utlons, whatever, some measure of happiness.
Utils?
Utils, yes.
I like that better.
I do too.
Expected meaning that you obviously do not have perfect prediction of the future.
You have some estimate of probability states of the future, and you act according to those
probability states.
So expected value of a coin flip, for example, is if you assign head zero and tails one, the
expected value is 0.5.
So expected utility would be the expected value of your utility function, and give you
some extra set of actions.
So it kind of seems like you dodged the question, though, by saying it depends on what your
utility function is.
The arguments I've seen are along the lines of your individual vote has such a small chance
of making a difference that you're just as well off playing the lottery as you are going
to the voting booth, especially because the payoff for the lottery is much greater than
the payoff of getting one candidate that's only slightly different from another candidate.
Right.
So it's not a dodge.
People mostly, I think, do not vote to accept that.
There are reasons to vote that are instrumental.
Like, the candidate will give me this and I want this, or the candidate will give me my
friends this and I want my friends to have this.
There are reasons to vote that are non-instrumental.
Like, I got it and I voted sticker and it makes me feel happy.
It's instrumental in the sense of you are getting something that you want.
It is not instrumental in the sense of it has to do with public policy at all.
Lots of people, I think, vote for non-instrumental reasons.
We have an American culture, civic religion, whatever you want to call it that strongly
encourages voting since you have the duty to vote.
People take more pride out of it.
People vote for expressive reasons, like the same reason you chaired a football game.
One person sharing is not going to make your team more likely to win, but it's fun to cheer.
So that's another reason people might vote.
But are there reasons to vote?
If we ignore the more expressive reasons, what you would call the non-instrumental reasons
to vote, are there actual strong instrumental reasons to vote generally?
It is a function of the probability of your changing the election and the size of the
difference between the candidate's positions and the instrumental value for you.
So first, the probability is how we, you know, the expected thing.
You have to multiply by the probability of something happening.
Indeed, it is true the probability of anyone individual's vote deciding an election is
very small, especially a very large election.
Since we are talking about a winner-take-all system, the probability of being the deciding
