Would you have an entire episode about prediction markets at some point?
Because I love prediction markets.
Yes, they are great.
And Robin Hansen is a system of government based on prediction markets.
Yeah, he calls it futarky.
Futarky.
Futarky.
As long as we're bringing Robin Hansen into the mix, didn't he not get in some hot water?
Well, a little bit.
It wasn't one of his prediction market things strut down because they had an option to bet
on when the next terrorist attack will take place.
Yes, and there were some silly frenzy over
over whether that would financially encourage people to do a terrorist attack.
But the cap on spending in that market was $100.
He's already really wanting to do it.
It's like, oh man, you know what?
That $100 is really going to put me over the edge to set off that bomb.
It was very silly.
There are people who worry that prediction markets could increase the incentives.
But basically, the more money there is in the market,
the less you can push the market in your favor by introducing money to it.
So if you really don't want people to do that,
you should really encourage prediction markets.
I wasn't agreeing with criticism of Hansen's thing.
I was just bringing up that it was a thing that happened.
Yeah, that was funny.
Sad.
What was Best Buy's competitor, Micro Center?
No, Micro Center's still around.
Circuit City.
Circuit City, yes.
Best Buy actually used prediction markets to protect the success of Blu-ray over HDDVs.
Really?
Yes, and now Circuit City is out of business.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I don't like either of them.
But it's cool to use prediction markets.
Are we ready to change?
No.
Do you want to ask the question again?
Sure.
The question was, in a two-party system,
what is the rationality or the impact of voting a third party?
Are you just throwing your vote away or basically voting for the guy you hate more
by voting for a third party, or is there any good reason to do that?
So in the United States system, I think I've never seen a voting system that is not subject
to tactical voting, tactical voting, meaning we do not vote your highest preference in the
hopes of helping someone else win.
So lots of people, for example, their highest preference is Bernie Sanders or Gary Johnson,
but they will switch their votes over to the Democrat or Republican because they feel like
he's throwing their vote away.
There is a law called dubergé's law, which says that any first pass the post system,
like the United States, strongly tends to a two-party system for exactly this reason,
tactical voting.
So voting for a third party is a rejection of tactical voting.
Is it throwing your vote away?
Well, since I think your vote doesn't do much to begin with,
I think do whatever makes you feel good.
But does a popular third party candidate running that can change the outcome, yeah?
Everyone thinks so.
I heard the reason that Bill Clinton won was because Ross Perot was in the race.
That is the theory.
But in point of fact, people, they pulled Ross Perot voters and they would have voted
in the valuable parts for Clinton and Bush.
Yeah.
And if you go to Bush versus Gore, a lot of people say, well,
Nader cost Gore the election.
But it turns out we pulled those people that most of them said they wouldn't have voted for Gore
anyway.
They were excited about Nader.
They didn't actually care about voting.
They never cared about a candidate.
So which is probably mostly what you get when you have a popular third party candidate.
So it seems plausible that that could happen.
Introducing a third party candidate could siphon votes away from one candidate,
lead another to winning.
Of the two best examples we have of it in recent history, it seems not to be the case.
I say go vote for third party.
Have fun.
But your third party candidate won't win anyway.
It's more a signaling thing.
I've heard that the main two parties that are more closely aligned with the third parties,
if they see a third party gaining a lot of popularity, will try to shift their views
slightly towards them to pull in those voters the next election.
Can you actually make your preferred party lean slightly more your way by voting for a third party?
I don't know.
There are competing models of voting.
I think the one most people are familiar with is the median voter theorem,
which says that candidates trend towards the median voter because the further away you get.
So if you say it's just a two issue thing, and like I said before in the United States,
it kind of is.
Say it's just a two issue election.
You know, I've left and right.
And if you both start 25% between left and center, 25% between right and center,
then you can scoop up some of the votes that the other person has by moving a little bit
closer to the center.
And this process continues until those parties are spouting the exact same thing.
So that's the median voter model.
And in that model, the answer is no.
If you move closer to one of those third parties, then you are losing some votes
that are just, you know, a little bit further away from the tail of the right.
And so on.
So you trend back to the median.
There are stochastic voting models.
They're a little weird.
They treat voting as if it's called a trembling hand.
Basically, voters make mistakes.
Oops, I flipped the switch for the wrong guy.
So it doesn't actually seem like a very good model.
It doesn't actually have to be that one.
You could just model it as, say, politicians make mistakes in calculating what voters want.
It can give you the same results.
Or voters make mistakes in calculating what politicians are giving them.
In those models, you actually do get something a lot closer to the social welfare function
if you want to believe that such thing exists.
And so if there is a strong market for far left beliefs,
then that will be reflected accurately in political outcomes.
What is the social welfare function?
That's a utility function for the greater betterment of social welfare?
Aggregated utility function across.
Across an entire population.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's an economic artist.
It's useful for some analysis.
Probably such a thing doesn't really exist because people aren't actually utility maximizers.
Well, people are biased.
I don't think anyone here will disagree with that.
So I don't know which of those models actually predicts things better.
That is a constant battle in journals.
And I simply cannot give you a good answer.
But one thing we can say about first pass to post voting
is that even if a third party does become large enough to become viable,
they'll simply become the new second party.
And we will be once again stuck in a two party system.
Yes.
Okay.
That is Duverger's law.
It is not absolute.
There are countries that have first pass to post systems that more than one party.
No.
Just a few.
Okay.
We can put it as a link for the listeners,
but I have a grass someone measured.
They measured what they call effective parties.
The United States actually has less than two effective parties.
I don't remember how they measured it exactly,
but there are a few countries,
but the trend is very obviously strongly towards two parties.
But I think South Korea is one.
I can't remember.
There are a few.
Huh.
Okay.
You had a question earlier.
I thought your question was about what's the best way to run things
or the best way to change things up.
I think that we talked about that.
I think that we already covered that when we were talking about
arrows and possibility theorem,
and then maybe even Robin Hansen's rule by prediction markets idea.
Or voting lottery.
Or voting lottery.
Yeah.
So we've gone over a lot of that stuff.
I think.
Would you prefer a single,
like a single divisible vote system or a randomized lottery?
Or what would you like if you had your druthers?
You're a pretty educated guy.
Rule by Kim.
Hard to argue with that one.
That's not true.
What is it really?
We all know we just have to find the right vocabulary.
I am not smart or informed enough to answer that question.
I have some things that I would prefer to what we have now,
but I'm not sure that I prefer them very strongly.
Like I like the idea of a voting lottery.
I like the idea of voting systems that rank candidates
because those tend to trend towards the least unpopular candidate.
So if you have very divisive candidates,
those voting systems tend towards the least divisive candidate.
So those have some very nice aspects.
But the range of voting possibilities is so large.
I want to keep things democratic, but how democratic?
I mean, if we can incentivize people to actually learn something about policy
and be educated, informed, expressing their opinions honestly,
like I said, I don't think any voting system is immune to tactical voting,
but some are worse than others.
So you're not of the opinion that first passed the post is the worst?
No.
No.
What's the worst voting system you can think of?
Rule by Kim Jong-un.
That's not a voting system though.
It's one person, one vote.
They are a democratic republic of North Korea.
Didn't you see the country name?
