truths from that person. That's the fueling the whole process. Otherwise, what, what, what would
you be in it for? Well, the four things that I try to reduce my objectives to, and this is
subject to change. In fact, you somewhat frightened me, maybe I will have to change it based on what
you're about to say next, are truth, meaning, fitness, and grace. So something can be truthful,
but it can lead to a reduction in my fitness as a creature. So a self-extinguishing truth
is not an interesting truth to me. Jordan Peterson tried to fold fitness into truth itself,
and he got into trouble with Sam Harris who was having none of it. Then there's a question of
meaning. Maybe something is true and it means that I will be fit, but it actually robs my life
of meaning. When somebody I care about deeply is regarded as an aggregate of hadrons and leptons
and force particles, that may be true, but it completely robs that person of meaning. If I
realize that, you know, with 26 letters, let's say, and a few spaces, I can take, let's say, an
alphabet of, I don't know, 40 characters or less and raise it to a very high power and say that
Hamlet is somewhere found within, that may be truthful, maybe that there are a finite number
of works possible, and Shakespeare merely selected one from a giant lookup table, but that tends to
rob the work of any majesty and meaning. And then there's an aspect of grace, which is that even
if I can find meaning and fitness and truth together, if the solution is brutal and cruel and
lacks some sort of ineffable quality of mercy and kind of, I don't know, simplicity of heart,
I tend to turn against those things where one has to do something absolutely despicable,
for example, to perpetuate one's group's fitness. So I don't know how to get beyond
those four subject, those four subcomponents of an objective function. And what I'm always astounded
by is people who are crazy about truth. Yeah, good. So maybe can I defend being crazy about
truth? Okay, so first of all, like, I think anytime you divide things, and like philosophers
disagree about this, like some philosophers are fine with the sort of thing I'm about to describe,
but like, I think you can't just divide things into four things. You're like, here are the four
things. These are the things I found. I'm like, well, what's the principle of division? Like,
is that just something you made up? Like, what if we come up with a fifth one? So I want to
understand. I'm totally amenable to. I want to understand sort of how the whole is articulated
into those things, until I understand that I just don't feel like I've understood anything.
Like, why not? Okay, why not pleasure? Why isn't pleasure one of them enjoyment?
Well, in part, that is part of meaning. And it's also part of grace is as long as the
proximate of pleasure. See, pleasure arises in my concept concept as the as proximate to fitness.
So the way in which that we're structured as animals is that our ultimate concerns, like
nutrition and consolidation of long-term memory, are encoded as hunger and sleepiness. And the
proximists cause us to take actions to service the ultimate. So pleasure is in some sense the
divorcing of the proximists from their ultimate goals. I just ate a cupcake and I really shouldn't
but the proximate pleasure because my body thinks that I'm starved for sure when in our
current environment, it's abundant. So I am. You just gave an argument that suggested that
pleasure does not fit into fitness because the proximate pleasure can be divorced from its
ultimate goals. Right. So at least some people might think that would warrant putting pleasure
into its own into a separate category, but I don't want it. Right. But what I'm saying is the fact
that you don't want to that indicates that for some reason you're wedded to this quadripartite
division that if, which is not, did you just say quadripartite? Yes. I've never said that.
But so let me, let me tell you how I would divide things. Okay. Okay. So I would start with thinking.
Okay. There's thinking, right? Anytime you're doing, and I think conversation is a form of
thinking. In fact, a lot of times it's the best form of thinking. And I think that any thinking
has to have a goal. Well, there's an exception, but okay. The main case, thinking has to have a
goal. And I think there are two goals that thinking can have. One of them is understanding. Okay.
Where truth is a necessary condition. It has to arrive at the truth in order to be understanding.
It's not sufficient because there are just truths that are not important to know.
And so, so a lot of thinking that we do will end when you've understood whatever it was you're
trying to understand. You're like, I got it. There we're done. And some forms of thinking are
wonderful. Like a lot of mathematical forms of thinking are wonderful precisely because you
reckon it's really clear when you've gotten to that point. And you have this like a ha moment.
Plato actually described that as almost like you're remembering something you knew before,
because it has that recognition like memory. Okay. That's understanding.
Then there's another kind of thinking. And I think of it as very different. And you are right
that some people want to collapse these two. And I don't think they should be collapsed,
which is thinking that aims at the good in some way. And that's deliberation. So it's reasoning
about how to achieve some good. And I also think we often do that with other people.
And so we might want to bring something about and we think about how to do that.
I think those are the basic aims of thinking, either understanding or some good that we're
trying to bring about. And I don't think they're the same. And some people, especially like some
like economists, I think are especially prone to collapsing them, you know, Marx's idea,
the point of philosophy philosophers have tried to understand the world. The point is to change it.
It's amazing. Cause the Humboldt, the philosophy department in Germany in the,
you know, the, the Humboldt University actually has that as their slogan. And I was like,
guys, you are philosophers. How can that be your slogan? You're trying to,
you're not trying to do this. You're the one people who should not have this as your slogan.
But in any case, that idea that Marx, but not just Marx is trying to collapse the theoretical
and the practical, the idea that understanding is a goal. And it's like the only reason you
would ever have to understand is that you want to achieve some good. That's a way to collapse the
two. So I don't think they should be collapsed. I think they're separate. But that's the basic
division. I actually think we do some thinking that doesn't fall into this division. That's very,
very interesting. I think some of the kind of emotional upheaval in our life doesn't fall
into this division. But for me, see, that's a principle division, right? And truth has a part
in it. Now, I think a lot of the things you're worried about with meaning, like,
are there these truths that rob my life of meaning? What I would say is that those are
situations in which you have accepted a descriptive analysis as a reductive one.
So like, it's true that I'm made of atoms. Okay, that's true. I think it's true. But that doesn't
tell you who I really am. It's a truth about me, but it's not a good answer to a certain question.
And so you shouldn't confuse the idea that something is a true proposition with the idea
that it's a good answer to a question. In a sense, the question, who am I really,
is like the question you were seeking an answer to when we first met. And if I had said, oh,
I'm a bunch of atoms, like that wouldn't have satisfied you. It wouldn't have been an answer
to your question. So I would fold the meaning into understanding with the proviso that you have to
hold on tight to your question and make sure that what someone has said in answer to it
isn't just a true statement, but actually an answer to the question.
To my way of thinking, I would not say it's a category or that questions or as physicists
would call them observables are tied to a strata and that there are certain questions
that are badly suited to a particular strata. So your description as atoms and your description as
Agnes correspond to two different, let's say, effective theories, which is sort of the Tower
of Lies where there are more lies when I call you Agnes than when I specify each of the atoms in
your body. But the point is, is that the question about what is Agnes like is not really a question
at the atomic layer. It's a question at this personality layer where the, so in fact, it is
a kind of category error to explore. Meaning doesn't belong at the atomic layer. There is no atomic
meaning. Right, exactly. But that's why I think that you don't need a separate meaning box.
You just need to keep track of your questions. Well, that would be just the way you polar
versus rectangular coordinates are two different ways of talking about something. I think you
could make that point. But I think what I'm trying to get at is that I watch people,
the reason I've never taken a particular interest in philosophy is that once you've
taken a particular interest in mathematics, you understand just how sensitive many of these
things are to small issues of language. And this is partially what happened to philosophy,
is that there were a lot of big, interesting questions. And then there was a period of time
where it became a focus on language rather than on big, meaningful, meaty questions.
I don't know that the human layer supports this level of analysis because of some of
the reasons that we're talking about. I don't even think, for example, that there is a status
game. I think that there's a panoply of status games and that they're taking place simultaneously
in a million different dimensions. And the key question is, can we isolate the principal components
of some of those so that we understand what is, where's the majority of the action happening?
Or are we actually doing violence to the problem by virtue of the fact that we've singled out a
few of them and then we've misnamed it? Well, that was going on in the status game. So for example,
any univariate measure has the property that it has an ordering on it. But every bivariate measure,
unless there's a metric, does not imply an ordering. Like if you have one attribute that's
positive that is greater than mine and one that is worse, until we can say in some sense how those
two things interrelate, we can't say Agnes is better than Eric or Eric is better than Agnes.
However, if there's only one attribute, like who can run faster, then one of us is better and the
other of us is worse, unless there's a bizarre tie. Now, what I'm trying to get at is, here we are,
21st century beings, and we're outside of the confines of the academy. And the key question
is, what is this philosophical modality doing in our lives? Is the examined life
really aided by philosophy? Or is there a sort of infinite tower of questions and that it's
sort of an intellectual check kiting scheme by which you keep getting into deeper and deeper
water by noticing something, only to find out that the noticing created a larger problem than the
previous one that you had? I think one way to put the case for philosophy is like, you have to have
a right, you have to, you can't just draw a distinction, you're just not allowed to just
draw a distinction. That's why I said the thing about the quadripartite, you're not just allowed
to slash the world up into bits. The place where philosophy comes from is, Parmenides was
really the first philosopher. And this is pre-Plato, this is the pre-Socratic philosophers,
and like Zeno's paradoxes are sort of woven into Parmenidianism. But the basic idea of Parmenides'
basic thought is that there's only one thing you can say, it is. So there's just one thing,
it, and there's one thing you can say about it, that it is. And you're like, well,
Parmenides, no look, there's also like this chair is. And Parmenides says, well, if you say that the
chair is, and you want to say that the chair is something and it's different from say that table,
then you're saying that the chair is not the table. So you're saying that the chair is not.
But you're also saying that it is. Parmenides and generations of people after Parmenides
thought this was like just this really terrible puzzle about how non-being can be. How can,
how can there be anything that isn't like this chair not being this table?
And the problem of non-being is, has a lot of different manifestations. So difference is one
manifestation, change over time, how can the chair at one time exist and then later it's
collapsed and it's not there anymore. And, you know, Parmenides thought was that our,
like our thinking cannot support this way of talking. It's like, it's just words when we,
when we, when we talk about the diversity out in the world. And there's only one thing we can
coherently say. There's only one thing where when we say it, we've understood what we said
and that's it is. Now Plato comes along and he's like, no, Parmenides, that's nuts. We have to
be able to talk about some kinds of difference, but you're right that the entire world as we see it,
right? The entire sensible world, that's just nonsense. That doesn't make any sense. That's a
bunch of contradictions. But there are these things called forms, okay? Like the beautiful or the
just or whatever. And at least the beautiful, it's always beautiful. The only thing that's true about
it is that it is beautiful. And that's something I can say. The beautiful is beautiful. The just
is just. So at least I'm, I'm like one step beyond Parmenides, right? I'm like, I can talk
about these forms. I still can't talk about the chair, right? Okay. And then you get Aristotle
and Aristotle is like, no guys, we have to be able to talk about like human beings and things and,
and we need to enrich our language further. Now the reason I bring all this up is that the basic
philosophical impulse is that when you draw distinctions and you carve things up and you
talk about layers, okay? You've in a sense, you've in a sense collapsed your own thought
into a bunch of different things that are like not unified, right? And you need to be able to see
the unity of them. If you can't, you haven't actually had a thought, like you haven't thought
anything. You just said words. So philosophers are constantly attuned to this worry that we might
just be saying words and not having thoughts and that there's a standard for the unity of a thought
that's like a pretty high standard. And, and so like if you draw a distinction, you need to
understand the unity that underlies the distinction and what legitimates the distinction. And so
like if I say, you know, if I say even like I ate the cookie, even though I knew that it wasn't
the right thing to do and you're like, well, wait a minute, you freely ate the cookie, you chose
to eat the cookie. Yes. So that was an intentional action. Yes. So an intentional actions when we
have a reason. Yes. So a reason means that you think that it's all things considered the best
thing to do. Yes. That's what a reason is. Wait a minute. You just said you thought it was all
things considered the best thing to do. And you thought that there was something better that you
should do. You just contradicted yourself, right? And Parmenides thought that contradicting yourself
was written into this is a chair and this is a table, right? And so, you know, so we've come
really far. We can talk about so much now. But only I think because only if we can sort of
back of those checks that these distinctions have some way of like holding together.
Breathe with me. Yeah, I don't,
I don't know why I'm so singularly unmoved by this kind of thinking.
Well, object to it. Where did I go wrong? I don't know. One place I went wrong.
You know, Hegel at some point said, the absolute idea, the idea's unity of the subject of an
object of idea is the notion of the idea. A notion whose object is the idea is such and for which
objective is idea and object embracing all characteristics in its unity.
Okay. When I talk like that, I sound insane to myself.
And the key question for me is what is an idea that settles down when its analysis doesn't
sort of alter and destroy it? It's sort of a fixed point, if you will, under analysis.
So if I communicate, the problem, let's say with the status game with which we began our
discussion is that in some cases, when you call attention to your need for status,
you diminish your status. That's also true. I think that's not the only reason why you
can't call it. But there are ways in which you can try to call attention to your status in which
the amount of status that you achieve by calling attention to your status remains constant,
that the calling doesn't effectively alter the problem. For example, you might signal
that you're comfortable enough in your own skin to talk about a part of your mind's petty needs
and a part of your mind's reasonable needs for status. I have both, for example. And I don't
think it's a terrible thing to say that there are times when I simply want to be regarded
because I am and that there are times that I want to be regarded because it is important
not to derange a conversation. Let's say I only have 45 minutes for something and if we begin
with the wrong notion of who I am, it will take too long. So there's always this question in
the bad breath example. The problem is, is that the talking about it has to do with an
interpretive complex around client side and your interlocutor's mind. And so your input stimulates
a process that is transpiring within the client side architecture and it leads to an uncomfortable
and unpleasant and not untrue outcome. If I could find the input, which when processed
remains the input, in other words, it's like an eigenvalue of truth, an eigenvector of truth,
then that's something which is philosophically interesting to me. What concerns me is the
tower of concepts and conflicts which don't seem to settle down the more we understand them.
So one thing is, I really liked what you said about Hegel. When I talk like that, I sound crazy
to myself. So I think that is Parmenides' point about saying that something is not. Parmenides is
