the wheel. I panicked. Everybody understands a momentary split-second decision to have a series
of documented meetings in which we deliberated over this and then it plays out in an actual
intersection somewhere in North Dakota. And suddenly, two baby carriages are taken out
so that a collection of school children are spared. That situation is like, well, who made
this decision? And then it becomes a very thorny issue that we're not capable of. And we may choose
to exist in an ignorant state and forego the benefit of a technology because we can't bear
to take responsibility deliberately for what we must commit to do.
Right. Right. But this question exists at a lot of different levels. And so it's like,
one question is, you're right that we can hide behind the panic, but suppose that I just had
the time. So many of these TV shows, like 24 or whatever, are about cases where you're like,
yeah, there's time pressure, but the person has a minute to think about it and they have to make a
decision. And I might have to make a decision. And I think it at least has to be possible for me
not necessarily to approve of the decision I make, even to be able to live with the decision I make,
but to accept the fact that I made a decision. I think that has to be possible. And so it has to
be possible for me to entertain the question. But the question of whether we can, as a society,
deliberate together about that question and come up with an answer that we can then all
live with and in some sense be governed by, that's like a whole other level. And there are many
levels in between. Right. Well, the question of, should we derange what it is that we know about
the world so that we can live with a noble truth that may be foundational to our society?
You know, if we came to understand cognitive... A noble truth or noble lie? Sorry, noble lie.
Right. No, noble truths are easy. You're correct. Thanks for catching me. It was a noble on top
of being... No, but like it's very disturbing to those of us who believe in evolutionary theory,
that people who claim to believe in systems of selective pressures are unable to accept
the basic premise, which is that they operate on systems with heredity, variation and differential
success. And the differential success is the aspect by which one group carries an evolutionary
advantage over another. The idea that there should be evolutionary advantages and disadvantages
relative to different environments is toxic to many of the lies that we've told ourselves
to create the foundation of our society. And so to be able to say, well, absolutely,
I would never question Darwin's theory of selection. However, I also believe in all
of the lies that are necessary and that this is an unresolved conflict has to do with the
partitioning of the mind. I don't see how you could do it otherwise. And the deep partitioned
mind doesn't seem to be a healthy state. I know that my friend Sam Harris has this idea that he
should have kind of a uniform interoperable access to all aspects of his mind, but that seems
like madness to me. I mean, it's one thing to think, like I should at any given time have
access to all of it. It's another thing to think that with respect to any particular bit or I
don't have access, I can be sort of okay with that and be okay with the awareness of not having
access. You can't just straight up deceive yourself, right? You have to sort of deceive
yourself behind your back. No, that's not true. I mean, I can't say to myself. Do you go to
synagogue? Sometimes. Okay. Don't you find yourself straight up deceiving yourself?
Let me give you an example of what I mean by straight up deceiving and you can see whether
I would say no, not in synagogue. But suppose that you were like, look, I'll pay you a million
dollars if you believe that I'm wearing like a red suit, right? I can't form that belief. It would
be so advantageous to me to believe it, right? But like, I can't do it. I'm like, self believe it.
No, it doesn't work. It doesn't work like that, right? So that's what I mean by I can't deceive
myself. There's a kind of fundamental will to truth that is just built into thinking and that
I can't override manually. So I could certainly come to believe that you're wearing a red suit
through very funny channels, right? I might even be able to take a pill. If I knew a certain pill
would induce me that belief, I could decide to take the pill and then take the pill, right?
And that would be kind of obscure way of coming to have the belief. So that's what I meant by
you can't straightforwardly, right? You can indirectly, I think, and people do very few
layers of indirection. I think that's right. But not with zero, right? That's all I like this point
a lot. And so I think that that limit is like a certain kind of, that's maybe where Sam Harris is
like, there's a certain or something that's right about his position there is that there's a certain
kind of thing I couldn't accept a relation I couldn't accept to myself of opacity.
And when I, you know, feel like the story that you told about the hierarchy case, right? And
the way in which somebody sort of unraveled that for you, the romantic hierarchy, right?
And brought it brought to your own understanding what was happening. And gave you, it's like,
it's like shed a light on yourself such that you now can, can articulate it in a way that like
makes sense to you, right? When we're not, when we're not in that position with respect to something,
it bothers us. And when we get into that position, that's a real and very significant kind of progress.
Interesting. Let me ask you a different question. It's been bugging me a lot.
I think that the Rawlsian veil of ignorance is there's something terribly wrong with it.
And I see it as having a trim. It's an example of a piece of philosophy
that is got a lot of purchase outside of philosophy departments. And I'm worried that it may be
deranging us as a society that this idea that identity should somehow be fungible and we should
say, okay, we don't know who we're going to come back as. And in fact, it means something very
bizarre to say that we would come back as the other. Is there something wrong with Rawls
in which if we predicate too much and we lean on that pillar too heavily,
we may do ourselves great damage. It's an intuition.
Yeah. So I think, yes, actually, I think I maybe a little bit, I'm somewhat in agreement with you.
Let me tell you how I would put this problem to myself. The Rawlsian move is a species of a genus
of stepping back moves, right? It's like, look, there are these facts about you,
but you could imagine that they were not the case. Just abstract them away and now make your
decision. But why assume you can do that? That is, why assume you have that kind of
metacognition available to you? And it's like, look at Rawls and look at all the people that
Rawls influenced and the Rawlsian tradition. There's a very characteristic set of, say,
political and social and economic views that go along with those people. And did they really
step? Did they abstract from those sufficiently in producing the theory? Like maybe not, right?
And so I think that there is, at the very least, there's that assumption there that it is possible
and it may be possible just maybe that you can't do it so easily. Maybe that you can't do it merely
by entertaining like a thought experiment or something like that. It may be possible to really
learn to abstract away certain parts of your identity through a lot of work, right? Through a
lot of cognitive work and through like experience and stuff that you do. But the idea that you
could do it just by entertaining a counterfactual, I think is not right. I'm not sure exactly what
the implications are of that. I mean, that is, it seems to me that this problem is like it's
an instance of something more general that I've criticized. But have you ever seen John Belushi
and Joe Cocker singing Feeling All Right on Saturday Night Live?
No. It's one of the great moments in television history.
I will listen to it later.
John Belushi becomes Joe Cocker. And Joe Cocker is so idiosyncratic that to have Joe Cocker
watching himself acted by John Belushi, they collaborate on the song is disturbing and funny
and beautiful because Belushi is actually amazing as Joe Cocker as a singer. In that moment,
I came to believe that John Belushi could run a version of Joe Cocker at least to first, second,
and third order in emulation. Right. But that was like talent, right?
Well, this is the thing, which is I have people that I could come back as and I have people
that I couldn't come back as to varying orders of approximation. And so that aspect of non-fungible
identity to me dooms the entire Rawlsian project in a way that I can't explain to people who are
under its spell. I guess the,
so maybe what I'm willing to agree to is slightly more limited. That is, I'm willing to agree with
you that the idea that one can subtract away the commitments and concerns of identity and in
effect, right, what we're really arguing about is sort of Rawls is the sort of the conceit that we
can separate away comprehensive doctrines, right? Oh, imagine if I didn't believe in God or something
and like, you know, but that might be really important to me that I believe in God. It is
important to me, right? So, and so I'm like, so I sort of agree that the sort of conceit
that identity is so thin and trivial that you can separate it away and then do your reasoning.
That's a real problem. But the thing I don't agree with is that there is some particular
barrier of identity, namely, like say the set of people who you couldn't be born as,
where you couldn't, over time, spend enough time with those people and talk to them to the
point where at the end of that process, you're like, I could be born as them. Right. It's like,
now you can't imagine it. We have the diachronic again for our drinking game. But like, you know,
and so the real, for me, the real objection like is that there is a difference between what I can
do merely through the like, through a mental operation that I engage in alone,
and what I can do by learning from people. And I think,
I work with somebody who I can't run very well in emulation. I do a really basic Peter Teal
impression, but I can only go for about 20 or 30 seconds. And then it becomes very clear that
it's just mannerisms because the guy's operating system is wildly idiosyncratic. There's one guy
who can do a better job of it named a Jay Royan who probably gets his second order. And I'm kind
of just blown away by it because Peter's just too hard to model. I don't think that that's a
convergent process in general, even when you spend a lot of time with somebody. Let me, let me switch
gears. You can have the last word on that one if you want. I don't mean to cut you off. There are
two topics I want to get to after that. Can I say a quick thing about that? I think that,
I want to distinguish the question of whether you could model them from whether you could get
yourself into a position where you could imagine being born as them, I guess. Okay. And so, but
yeah. Okay, good. Now, I want to get into one issue, which is that this doesn't really talk a
lot about feeling. And I get, I worry that critical thinking is something we talk a lot about and
critical feeling is something we neglect. I agree. Group think, yes, group feel, no. Overthinking,
yes, over feeling, no. These, every place that you talk about something in terms of thinking,
if you substitute the word feeling and you realize that feeling is a kind of enhanced
cognition, we somehow don't feel comfortable. So I want to talk about something that happened,
as we sat down in these chairs, where I'm very comfortable talking to you about thinking and
I'm not very comfortable talking to you about feeling. Okay. So you were saying that you'd
reviewed some episodes of the show and I said, did you find them interesting? And you quite
truthfully said you did. And then I said something like, were they worth your while because you'd
also expressed an idea that you would prefer to read things rather to listen because you value
your time and the time is very expensive and long form podcast. Sorry, can I correct one thing?
It's not only that. It's that I process information much better when I'm reading. And so in terms of
what I can remember and think about, et cetera, given that I heard it, it's like less of that.
That's true. But it's also the case that something is lost without seeing the inflections, the
body language, hearing the warmth or the coldness of the tone. So it's an interesting
point as to whether or not the transcript is the interview.
Right. What information? So the question, what information do I prefer to preserve?
Yeah. Exactly. Which really is the feeling actually.
Right. But then you sort of said that, no, that wasn't really a great exercise for you or something
like that. That hurt me. What are your reactions to that? I think that the show is quite a bit
better and particularly one or two of the episodes that you listen to, I think are extraordinary.
And it made me feel that you could not possibly have seen what it is that I saw in those one or
two episodes because it would have been worth 10 hours of your time because it was so rare.
Now I could be wrong. So it's very interesting that of course I have a vested interest and so
I'm budgeting something for my own distortion. I'm also thinking about what the feedback I've had,
how specific the feedback made me question whether or not I viewed you as a reliable
receiver of the content of the show. Had I over-invested in my image of you as the person
capable of processing what we're doing here? And it made me wonder whether or not I'm doing
something outside of the Academy, which the Academy sort of realizes is some cheap version of
intellectualism and storytelling and narrative that would never survive in a rigorous academic
context. So I went through a bunch of self-doubt, accusation, negative feeling, question, and
uncertainty about you, myself, and the project that we were going to sit down to create an episode
together. This is a great question. So I guess let me report a bunch of different things. So the
first thing when you said, you asked me like how does that feel to me when you said like that hurt
me. And immediately I felt hurt. Like I felt like a reflexive, totally not conscious empathetic
response. So I didn't at the time when I first said it, it didn't hurt me to say that to you.
But often I don't- Well, I should say both of us are quite disagreeable as people.
And that's my perception that both of us feel comfortable contradicting something. It's an
issue about the courage of your convictions. And I think that you in general have very high
courage of your convictions that are willing to share. But also it's an issue of I had no
perception at all that it hurt you when I said it. And I'm often bad at picking up on those
signals and that makes it easier to be correct. I was masking it because it was obviously a
vulnerable question. So the last thing I wanted to do is to signal to you that I could be easily hurt.
Fair enough. But perhaps also I could have, you know, if I were somewhat otherwise,
I would predict that or something, but I didn't at all actually. So I guess,
so that was just my instinctive response. And now like, you know, yeah, I think that
your subsequent ruminations, maybe the most interesting bit in them is the bit about academia,
right? So what's interesting to me is that at the moment at which I have this response,
it is attributed to me as an academic, right? Like it's- Episode 19 of this show is about
the kind of things that take place in universities all over the country that I'm
alleging that has not filtered out to some extent to the general public. Like there's a
tremendous amount of pressure to survive in academics, causing people, in my opinion,
just as we say that- Well, let me say it differently. Concentration camp survivors
from World War II, death camp survivors will often say something if they trust you, which is
don't celebrate us because the ones who survived weren't the good ones. We did what we had to do
to survive. It's the ones who perish that you're really thinking about. It's a very tough thing to
say. In general, when I meet somebody who's succeeded in academics, they're always under a
cloud if they did it under this era because the pressures are simply too severe. Now,
some people do better than that. You know, if you're good enough, you can have a peacock's tail
that you in fact are an ethical academician. But in general, people are going to have to take
intellectual and moral half-measures in order to survive in this competitive of an environment.
So I was trying to talk about that in episode 19, not actually attempting to single out an
individual. There's the weirdness that simply talking about a problem in a particular case,
when people haven't understood that problem, will tend to privilege an individual. But by the
hundredth case of it, you start to realize, oh, this is a general feature pervading the society.
Good. So maybe a couple of different responses. So I found that the sort of, first of all,
just the scientific, it was all new to me. I didn't know anything about this way in which
the kind of the propensity of a cell towards becoming tumorous,
like that that cuts against its ability, like if you want to cut down on that,
you have to make it bad at repair. That was so interesting to me to learn that.
That is weirdly the central insight rather than the narrative and the drama of interpersonal warfare
within the academy. Just what is death? Why is it baked in?
As I say, there are a lot of different things. And for me, that was actually super interesting.
And I went and read the abstract of the paper. You're awesome. Thank you.
But I guess the thing is, I did feel that the sort of thrust of the episode was supposed to be like,
this is how things can go wrong. And I get that on an interpersonal level, it is that,
