the guy who realized, when I talk like that, when I say the chair is not the table, I sound crazy to
myself. You're really used to talking that way because that's just how we talk. Parmenides saw
the giant crack in everything. And so if you think about how, when I hear someone say, I know I
shouldn't have this cookie, but I really feel like it, so I'm going to have it. If I talk like that,
I sound crazy to myself. And so I'm like, I can't talk like this. I have to find another way of
talking. Okay, so that's the idea that at some level, first of all, you need a primary description.
Most of us understand weakness of will intuitively, but we don't understand weakness of will as a,
is emergent from fundamental principles. And I think you don't understand it intuitively. You
just think you do. Well, again, you can pick out the phenomenon. You can point to cases of it.
To your point about the practicality, you may be able to work with it at a practical level.
So for example, I might be able to sell a product where you put cookies in a time release safe.
And so you, you can't get it your own cookies until one is dispensed to you. People will
immediately understand that. But the key question is, you know, can I take a placebo and get the
placebo effect if it's labeled placebo? You know, these are the sort of unstable, non fixed points
of the, of the philosophical problem. One of the reasons that I really love physics as an
alternative to philosophy at its ground level is, is that it tends to be stable under analysis
when we have an idea of it. Now in quantum mechanics, the propagation in quantum mechanics
has a very stable interpretations and it may be wrong, but we think we know what's going on when
we're asking how an electron moves. It's when an electron gets measured, when you're asking a bad
question, which is, are you in state A or state B and it was in state A plus B, then the multiple
choice nature of that quantum mechanical question is bizarrely accommodated by the system somewhat
randomly falling into state A or state B as a weighted probability. Now that bothers us because
we have the sense that maybe that's not really a fixed point. Did we know what we were when we asked
the question, were we part of the quantum system? Did we hold ourselves aside and keep ourselves
classical while asking that the electron be considered quantum mechanically? Was it in a
semi quantum semi classical state? So we're not really sure whether we've committed a sin against
God and logic in that case. Yeah, good. I mean, I think that a lot of your worries about the,
the tower and the, um, I still think they go back to something. Um,
there's a question whether we ever make any progress in a conversation. That seems to me
to be the real question there. Like, um, can we learn from each other? Um, and can we learn from
each other in some sense, um, um, without making, um, any, um,
without taking as the frame of our conversations, something that we just happen to get slotted
into and that we don't question, right? Um, and, um, and I actually think that it's true about
philosophy that you are not guaranteed in any way that the answer to that question is yes.
You don't know that it's yes. And you've had epiphanies in conversations which have changed
your life. Uh, my problem is that I have too many of them, but yeah. Um, um, it's not,
that must be an awesome life. It's not a dearth of epiphanies. It's a total instability. Um,
but can I just say there's, there's, there's this moment. Okay. Um, like I feel like you're,
you're Meno. Okay. This is the soccer, this is Plano's Meno and they're having this conversation.
Socrates is like, you're, you're a big opponent of excellence. Um, Socrates, Meno comes to Socrates
and he's like, I want, I want excellence. How do I, how do I get it? Um, and Socrates is like,
well, let's start by figuring out what it is. And Meno's like, that's not hard, right? Um,
that's super easy. Meno says it's easy about like seven times in a row. It's really funny.
Uh, he's like, here's what it is. Here's what it is. And Socrates like refutes a bunch of times.
And at a certain point Meno's like, look, this is not going anywhere. Like obviously you can
just sort of come up with more words against my words. Um, how do we ever know we'll ever get
anywhere with this? Right. And Socrates actually at that point turns to math and they use a
mathematical example about finding the double square. So if you have a square, um, and you want
to find the square whose area is twice as big as that square and how, um, somebody who goes
into that problem, making a certain set of assumptions will never find the answer. We
talk about if you want, it's a great example. Um, but the point is afterwards Socrates is like,
yeah, the truth is there is no guarantee. We don't know. Right. But, um, I think that it is better.
We will be better men and braver if we believe that we ought to inquire than not. And you know,
you say you like physics, but I don't see it as an alternative in the sense that it's not going to
give me, it's the layers levels problem. Right. It's just physics is not going to give me the
answer to the questions I have. And I can't just abandon those questions and I would be a coward
if I didn't try to find answers to them. Coward is in a very high state of the stack, high level
of the stack. Right. In some sense, the questions that really have come to animate me throughout
my adult life have to do with this question is how, how can we improve upon it is without
involving ourselves in the equation. Maybe that's a good, um, I'm mostly interested in the equations
that essentially involve me. Right. So that may be a big difference. When you say coward,
like I think in some sense, courage is what makes life worth living. Like I wouldn't, if I didn't,
if I thought I was, um, if I thought I didn't care about courage, like if I thought I was okay
being a coward, I would think that my life might not be worth living. I think courage is the sense,
the, at least the sense of the importance of courage is the sense that life is not merely a biological.
That life is worth something. Well, okay. So I mean, first of all, let's just say something
about your background. You are not only Jewish, but Hungarian Jewish. Yes, that's correct.
Notice anything. I mean, you want to talk about a group of non-cowardly human beings. I would say
Hungarian Jews are about one of the most courageous groups of people I've ever dealt with.
Ethnically, courage is a huge trait different even from other parts of the Ashkenazm.
I think it was very courageous of my parents to come here. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but, um, I don't think
that they like, um, I don't know, did they, did they, I don't think courage is something you can
hand down in that way. Though I do think that you can facilitate the conditions of its acquisition,
and you can kind of help someone. I'm just saying that there's a system of selective pressures
that existed in Hungary in the Jewish community that produced an exaggerated extremophile response.
Right? I mean, Edward Teller came from a firmament. There was the, you can't look at a giraffe
in isolation from the trees on which it feeds. Sure. That, that could be right. Um, that mood of
thinking is one that it's a little bit like the Adams, you know, it doesn't, for me, shed light on
like, um, like the circumstances in which I have to fight and what I have to fight for under those
Courage and take another look at it. I mean, in other words, this is the, this is part of the
problem, which is that there are, there is that, which you feel, and I'm not going to use anything
personal because I, I eschew going into somebody like, I, you know, I had this, um, erotic actress in
your chair not too long ago, and I didn't want to ask her about the details of her sex life.
I wanted to talk around sex, not about her sexuality, which is what happens in every,
so I don't want to talk about anything that you haven't already surfaced. But for example,
you held a seminar at the University of Chicago with an ex-husband talking about divorce. Yeah.
Now that is an incredibly courageous position from many, from many perspectives,
right? Because you're dealing with something that would usually cause feelings to well up
and might touch on things that would actually alter and perhaps deform your life. But you felt
that you had enough ability to do that with strength and distance, that it was something
that you were not only willing to do, but interested in doing in front of an audience.
Right. So maybe one thing it's interesting about the personal, you know, I think I wrote this
to you in an email that, um, I, it's just, I guess this is, I just a psychological fact about, no,
it isn't justice. I think it is, it's connected to some philosophical things, but I don't, um,
things that other people would find like too personal and uncomfortable to share. Um, I often
have to consciously classify in my head, which of those, which are those things and be like,
don't say that way. Yeah. Yeah. And so like I, um, like I've just learned by experience,
it will make other people uncomfortable if I say things to someone I don't know that are too personal,
but it doesn't make me uncomfortable. So I don't have an inner sense of that. Um, so there isn't
really anything where I would be like, um, I mean, maybe there is, but I can't think of it.
And it wouldn't be interesting for me to go there to prove to you that that exists for you.
Right. But that's relevant, I guess to the divorce thing. Like I think it's not as
courageous as it would be for other people because it's not as courageous for you as it
would be for other people, but are you really looking like, I think, you know, another person
who sat in that chair was Brian Callan, the comedian and actor. And he made the point that
there are no tough guys that, um, ultimately the human condition is so frail and so prone to
abuse and insult that in the face of actually, you know, incredibly destructive pressures,
we all fold. And you can discuss that's true. Okay. So then courage is also important to me.
One of the reasons I'm doing this, the show and the whole idea of naming the intellectual dark
web and all that stuff has to do for me with answering the question, what would I have done
during the McCarthy era is that I watched my family terrorized by this government and I wanted
to know what I have stood up or what I have cowered under a table. So it's a particular kind
of courage. And by the way, it's been very unpleasant many days, but it's also a kind of courage to
which I am partially well suited. Okay. So my question is, isn't it a question of marginal
courage and the marginal courage to which you in particular Agnes are particularly well suited?
I mean, the act of bringing another life into the world turns us all into cowards. I guarantee
you that you were a coward when it comes to your child. Um, I actually think that question
of courage with respect to one's children is much, much more fine grained. Like it comes up
a thousand times a day in my interactions with them. Um, so it's, um, but certainly, certainly
there are circumstances in which that, um, you could say I'm a coward with respect to my children
and other circumstances, I think I have to exercise a lot of courage with respect to them.
No, no, no, but I don't want to talk about your child because I find it actually,
I brought that up and I would like to, that would be the last time I would actually bring up
your actual child. Okay. If I think about Sophie's choice, I get very angry at the existence of that
book, right? Because the issue of deforming people by choices involving their own children,
where they lack the power to choose what items should be on the smorgasbord and are forced to
choose between the chit-soup flay, the chit salad and the chit-soup. There's an evilness to simply
making us participate. I'm thinking about Saddam Hussein's penchant for executing a family member
and selling, sending the bill for the ammunition used to the family so that they're forced to
become complicit, right? Everyone who brings a child into this world is it almost without exception,
either a monster or a coward. And in fact, this is the Abramic sin.
I'll tell you the version of that thought that I have, and then I want to answer the marginal
question about courage. The version I've thought of that thought that I've had is,
like, there are things that, so when you invest yourself in anything, right, it's a point of
vulnerability. And if it's your child, then in a sense you've invested like your mind into them
in this way, where there are things that could happen to them that you would never recover from.
And so it's almost like you've made yourself someone who could become insane,
because you have opened your mind to be wounded by the world in certain ways that you cannot
control anymore, right? And I don't know what that is. I don't know what the name for that,
if that's, certainly in order to prevent those things from happening, you might do anything.
And so that would be the cowardice, maybe, right? But it's more than that, right? It's this kind of
this kind of exposure of yourself where, like, in a way, your mind isn't your own anymore.
In a way, maybe that's even deeper than the question about courage.
Marginal question about courage. So the way Aristotle would think about this is that
there's a lot of different circumstances a person can be in, and we call them courageous
relative to a set of circumstances that are also relative to them. And that's how you were
thinking about the marginal point. So, like, there are certain circumstances so extreme that we
couldn't expect of anyone to do anything but be crushed by the pressure of those circumstances.
And we wouldn't call them a coward for not responding. But then there are also circumstances
where we would sort of expect of anyone that they would stand up and we would call them a
coward, right? And then there's the intermediate case. And, of course, it's intermediate relative
to us in some way. So what I mean is you have to care about courage, and that is a way of putting
the point about the margin. I have to care about not just immediately caving to certain
pressures. I mean, can I give an example that I actually think is a better example than the
divorce one? Please, but I will never attempt to interrogate your person if you don't offer it up.
Yeah, that's fine. You know, in a way, this sort of reveals our difference. It's like,
I think through my personal life that that's like the lens or something.
You think you think through your personal life, but there are levels at which I could
interrogate that would be different than the levels at which you're interrogating.
Yes, absolutely. But I might still have those in my head, even if I don't say them.
So, like, when I, like, having that conversation with my ex-husband, who I'm good friends with,
we were divorced, you know, 2011, it's a long time ago, right? That really wasn't so hard.
But there's a thing I did in 2011, which is that I gave a talk about getting divorced in 2011.
Because our divorced caused a huge, he's a faculty member at Chicago, and it caused this huge sort
of emotional response in the whole community. And a lot of people hated me. A lot of people
still don't really talk to me as a result of it. Just because of your divorce,
even though the two of you have accepted yourself?
Correct. But it was like, you know, sometimes there are wounds that are created, and then
they get supported. I don't know what the right word is. It's like they get scarred over.
Doesn't it sound like it comes from the divorce? It comes from the etiology of the divorce?
Yes, right. But I gave a talk about this, about getting divorced and falling in love,
and what love and marriage and divorce are. And I gave this talk because I was worried,
I didn't mind if people didn't like me or my choices or whatever, except my students. I was
worried about my students. I was worried that if the students that I had taught came to sort of,
I don't know, accept a bunch of gossip and rumor about me, that it would both undo the teaching
that I had done of them, and get in the way of potential teaching in the future. That it was
like a professional obligation that I had to clarify the situation for my students. Like,
I don't mind if people gossip about me, but I do mind if the people I'm trying to teach.
But I don't even think you're, I mean, I don't believe you that you don't mind if people gossip
about you. You may not be able to control it. Right. That's all I meant. What I meant was,
I don't have a moral obligation to try to correct that. But I did feel I had an obligation. And
there was a lot of pressure, like people, you know, through back channels were telling me,
like, don't give this talk. Do not, like, you know, do not give a public talk about your life.
And it was like- Can you say what the contents of the talk were about? Or is that-
Absolutely. And someday I'll publish it. Okay. Someday.
It was, so, I mean, really, in some ways, the talk was quite academic. It was a talk about love.
So it was, it started with the circumstances, which is, I was married to someone and I fell in
love with someone else. And then I was like, I didn't think that that was like the kind of person
I was, the kind of person to whom that could happen. But it did happen. And I tried to explain it.
And I tried to explain it using some of, some of the texts that I think shed the most light on
my own situation. So they were, I think I talked about this passage from Henry James's Wings of
the Dove and from Plato's Symposium, about what I thought love was and how it was related to the
kind of quest to become a person. So that, that's what the talk was about. But it was like,
it was like, I wanted to give to my students my own understanding of what had happened to me.
I felt very much like this might be self-aggrandizing, but I felt like Socrates when Socrates says,
in the, in the apology, I want to show to you the meaning of what has happened to me. And he's,
he's speaking there after they've condemned him to death. And he says, and he's already spoken to
the people who condemned him. He's like, to the people who voted not to condemn me, to my students,
to my friends, I want to show to you the meaning. I want you to understand. And it was really important
to him that those people understand because he didn't want to sabotage the educational project
