that they had been involved in. And that's what I felt at that time. So in other words, in order
for me to infer why you would do this, because it's a rather odd thing to do at one level and
very understandable at another, I would have to surmise and infer that you would, in fact,
invested certain teachings of yours to your students with the personal, therefore calling in.
I mean, you see, one thing I know, I actually know, that's not quite right. So first of all,
I don't have any teachings. So I didn't, I hadn't invested. You teach ethics?
Absolutely. Okay. I can't imagine wanting to teach ethics.
Because if I'm aware of my own ethical failings, and, you know, there are many,
there are many and varied and unremarkable. The idea of getting up and talking about
ethical failings of others and why you shouldn't fail ethically, you know, I'm friends with Sam
Harris, and he really doesn't believe much in lying. Now, he's not absolutely fanatical about it.
He knows that there are certain cases where he has to lie. But I would never want,
but I would never want, because I'm trying to be aware of truthfulness and fickleness and
all of these sorts of things. You know, status, for example, I have a need for status.
It's not a standard need for status in some ways, in some ways it's boring. But I don't mind talking
about it because I can make contact with it. I don't feel diminished by inheriting a human
condition. The thing that really distorts me is that I feel like we're all handed this white suit
that we don't want at birth. And then as we live our lives, all of the things that we do when we
spill our soup, or, you know, we spend time in the barn, end up soiling this white suit. And people
look at us and say, my God, you know, look at you. My question is, well, who ordered the white suit
to begin with? Wouldn't I rather start with a baseline that says, I bet I'm a fairly standard
person. And if lying is a problem, and if hypocrisy is a problem, if injustice and bigotry are
problems, wouldn't I want to give myself a budget in all of those areas? And the key question is
trying to live within one's means. I think that's absolutely right. So when you said, like, I have
all these flaws, like, that's why you want to teach ethics, because you want to understand them.
I mean, the thing about the white suit, so I think that's a really pervasive myth in our society,
and it's maybe a bad, there are a lot of good legacies of Christianity, but it's a bad one,
the kind of virtues of innocence idea, the idea that we all start out ethically good, right? And
that's related to the status game point about how we get something for free, right? And the idea is,
well, maybe you can sully it, maybe you can sort of, and then clean it up again, and that can be
your ethical agency, right? But I don't think that children have some kind of innate virtue. I think
virtue is something you have to acquire, like, and you have to come to an understanding of what
matters. But the point is society foists the white suit upon you, right? So you can't, so you have
to say, I reject this white suit, I will fashion my own, if you don't want to disappoint people,
right? Now, the problem there is that I believe that your privacy, like for example, we see very
few of our colleagues naked. There was a professor that was probably the closest to being my official
advisor. I didn't have a PhD advisor, but the person who signed my thesis as if he was my PhD
advisor had a home in Martha's Vineyard, and we would swim naked together, you know? Because
that was what one did, he was a sun worshiper, in a Hungarian joke, by the way. The fact that we
don't see each other naked means that we're stunned whenever we do catch a glimpse of somebody
out of context in which they are in their most natural state. And this has to do with the fact
that we are handed these clothes and told to wear them at all times, and then our simple
underlying reality is totally shocking. So it seems to me very sad that you would have to give
the lecture. I'm not saying that you might want to give the lecture, you might enjoy the exhibition
of it, you might enjoy the courage exercise of it, you might enjoy the intellectual puzzle of it.
But the idea that there's a compulsion, so as not to ruin your students, has to do with the flaw
of having accepted the white suit to begin with, and therefore losing your privacy.
It's a really good point. So I think that...
Can I do a victory dance?
But I think, and I see what you mean, and I think what you're helping me to see is that
I've somewhat framed what I was doing slightly wrong. It's the point that thought isn't like,
well, if I don't give this talk, then my students will think I did something evil,
and then they won't respect me anymore. And so instead, I need to excuse myself,
and I need to show that actually I'm as white as they thought I was.
And that's definitely not like... For instance, that's not at all what Socrates does at that moment
in the apology. Actually, what he says is that you might think that some really bad thing has
happened. What he goes on to say, you might think some really bad thing has happened to me. You
might think this is terrible that they're putting me to death, which is what everyone thinks about
Socrates. Oh, look, Plato showed that you can't have philosophy because look at this terrible result.
And the whole point of the apology is Socrates is like, this isn't a bad thing. No bad thing
happened to me. Yes, they're putting me to death, but a good man can't be harmed, neither in life
nor in death. And I'm not... It's bad for them because they're doing something unjust,
so it's bad for their souls, but it's not bad for me. Don't feel sorry for me. Don't feel bad for
me. Okay. And I guess as much as... And I think you were right in picking up on the
kind of self-excusing nature of the way that I put it. But if you think about what I
told you as the content of the talk, it was more like as much as anything,
it was an opportunity to say something truthful about love that I had never had such an opportunity
because I had never... One of my colleagues came to the talk and he's like,
this was not a compliment. This was sort of a criticism. He's like, you talked as if you were
Moses come down from the mountain. As though you had so much knowledge, as though you thought
you were Socrates or something. And I'm like, yeah, that's what I felt like. I felt like I had
all this knowledge and it was wonderful and I had to share it with my students.
So it was sort of... It was almost like there's two points of correction. So one point of
correction would be to get to the white suit, but the actual content of the talk was to go
this step further. This was an educational opportunity. And I think that I let myself
not frame it that way in telling the story. Maybe somewhat under the pressure of the idea
of self purification, but it's not a truthful way of telling the story.
Well, but this is the question about whether to use the avenue of truth,
you see, because at some level there's an aspect of grace and meaning that is present here, which is
the... Whether you know it or not, and I don't know that you know this,
at least in the male arousal takes place on two different systems, both of them within the
autonomic nervous system, one sympathetic and one parasympathetic called psychogenic and
reflexogenic arousal. And it's not under the conscious control of the prefrontal cortex.
It's a much more primitive system. Nature's not going to trust the reproductive system
to the prefrontal cortex. And a friend of mine, Lisha Lee, just came out with a company,
I think called Rosebud AI, that generates faces of people who never were. And you can find that...
I'm sure she will release a tool at some point in which she finds your phenotype and can hone to
a fairly well and create a person that you cannot tell has never existed and put them in all sorts
of situations so that you can fall hopelessly in love with that which is not. Okay, now because
that's taking place, effectively your prefrontal cortex is like your parent trying to get control
of a child who's been asked the terrible question, who wants ice cream and the child is now out of
control? Okay, you can't really talk about this because this is happening everywhere in a certain
sense. I mean, we can talk about it in the general but not in the specific. So for example,
you can say that self-gratification is natural and normal and that the world engages in this almost
without exception. You cannot say, I'm sorry I was late for the meeting, I spent the morning
lost in onanism. And as a result, that kind of layer of indirection and including in this
situation using a language layer of indirection is a necessary part of the distortion of the
truth that's needed for meaning, fitness and grace different from pure truth. And I think that you're
caught in the bad breath problem in this story. In the self-purification, we come from a tradition
where there's a ritual bath known as a mikvah and these purifying rituals are necessary to do,
we don't have to, unfortunately it got tied to the issue of menstruation and whether or not women
are intrinsically dirty through the process of renewing themselves. But simply the concept
of a mikvah as a ritual and the fact that our brains have a place to allow us to be reborn
is an incredibly powerful facility that people focused on truth very often.
They try to do things through the truth channel, it doesn't work as well as doing it through the
ritual and meaning channels. It's interesting that mikvahs are used for conversion too.
Yeah, right and being born as a Jew.
Well, and another thing, if you've ever read what prayers we say on Yom Kippur on the day of atonement,
it's terrifying because you sort of start by atoning for your sins and then you get into
we are sorry for pretending to atone for our sins when actually we're not really sorry at all.
You know, it's like holy cow, that's written in.
So I think that the idea that we can step away from being so concerned with truth and move over to
you know ritual and meaning and something else, it's like it's as though you can step outside
of thinking and do something else with your mind than thinking. Like and my view is there's only
thinking, there isn't some other operation. There are other things that happen, like there are other
things that happen to your brain, right? But there's only kind of one thing you can do with your mind
and there is no way to not care about truth, even in your dreams, you kind of care about truth.
In no way, look, if you asked when Rabbi Walpie sat in your chair, we got to the end and there was
an issue about how does a final theory of everything affect our concepts of ourselves, right?
And I said to him, you know, at some point the hard thing is to conceive of what we mean
by a theory of everything because there's that which is left undone in the theory of everything
and it usually would, what I believe it means is that we are no longer searching for mathematical
improvements at that point, but searching for something ineffable, some kind of gossamer that
we can't touch without disintegrating at our touch. Or, you know, this issue of what is the
meaning of life and to the extent that I've been able to try to distill it into a sentence that
doesn't crumble on me, I've said that the meaning of life to me is the struggle to impart meaning
to meaning. And the reason I constructed it that way is that if you just say that you're 100%
clear look, even on what that means, then you're no longer struggling. And so as soon as the struggle
disappears, the meaning disappears. On the other hand, if you say there is no meaning to life,
you know, the Shakespeare quote about sound and fury signifying nothing, then you've also lost the
meaning of life because you've sort of crapped out of the game. And so it's only the active part
of turning this thing over in your mind that keeps us animated.
I think there have to be completion points, even if they're provisional. That is, I don't think it
can just be struggle, like, because the short version of your answer is the meaning of life is
struggle. No, this without a qualification. Yeah, it is the, it is a particular struggle to impart
meaning to me. Right. It's a particular aspect of struggle. Okay. But my point is the genus is
struggle, right? Correct. Which is like something kinetic, right? It's a motion.
Not necessarily. If I'm struggling to pry a top off of a ketchup bottle,
there can be a static moment where I'm simply putting pressure and there's not much kinetic.
Fair. And metaphorically, I mean, obviously it's not really about ketchup.
Right. But like, even if there isn't, in order, imagine you just saw a frozen picture of you
like this with the bottle, right? Even if your muscles were tensed, you wouldn't know whether
you were trying to get the top on, take it off or just keep it the way that it was, right?
Struggle is in a way diachronic. We can see the struggle through a longer.
By the way, every time you say diachronic, the next time we meet, we're going to drink.
Okay. I don't usually say it this much. You're bringing this out in me.
I love that. This conversation is going incredibly well.
So I think that, look, there's this, something else you said in your conversation with Rabbi
Wilpe was that you hate when people say that happiness is the meaning of life. So I'm going to
say that. I think happiness is the meaning of life. Spite is the meaning of life. I think it's
true, but I think it's obvious. There's no other answer. It's completely trivial truth.
No one can disagree with this. Because of something I would call the value deferral problem.
And I think this is the number one ethical insight of the ancient world. It's super simple,
which is that it's something like this. The value of my life, my life, can never be
somehow something outside of me, something to be found outside of me. So like, I mean,
suppose like, okay, here's a thing that Aristotle considers a bunch of possibilities
for like what a really good life looks like. The most interesting thing about the possibilities
that he considers is one that he leaves out. So nowhere, he has that the life of money making,
life of honor, the life of the intellectual life, the political life, etc. It goes on and on.
But one thing he does not consider is like, what about altruism? Okay, what about the altruistic
life? Like, suppose that I say the entire point of my life, right, is to make you happy. Okay,
I'm an altruist. Is that what it means? Let me give that as an instance. All right, all right,
all right. Let me give that as an instance. I suppose you're an altruist too, though, right?
It's okay. So you go on and you make someone else happy, right? You just double the number
of counterfactuals I'm entertaining. I'm going to keep going. Okay, here's why Aristotle didn't
consider the possibility of that as a good life. Okay. Is that as an altruist, instead of like
deferring the problem of the meaning of my life onto you, and I'm like, well, the point is like,
the point is that Eric be happy, right? And suppose you defer also, right, to somebody else.
It's like, we can't keep deferring somewhere along the line. Someone's actually got to do the
happying, right? And I think it's got to be me who does it for my life. It's not my children.
It's not my students. No one can do the meaning of my life for me. And that's just what sort of
ancient eudaimonism is, is the realization that the, that the value of someone's life has to come
home to them and be available to them in the form of something like an experience, something,
you know, not a pleasure, but no one, I mean, no one, none of the people thought it was pleasure,
but something that is in a way transparent to them and available to them as a meaning, as an
experience. And that's what the word happiness is supposed to capture. At least insofar as it's
say a translation of the Greek like Eudaimonia, right? So, so like, and I think the idea of struggle
is kind of another way to get into a worrisome deferral problem, right? Like you're always
struggling and the thing never happens. Then no, no, no, wait, wait, no, come on.
If the meaning is the struggle. Yeah, but the, no, no, look, there is so much work to do. And
there's so many partial, you know, to your point where you didn't say the word milestone, but I
think what you talked about is partial completions on the road, right? So there are so many milestones
and partial completions that are part of the struggle. I would never wish to suggest that it's
just pure Sisyphean pointless struggle. Well, you defined it as a struggle.
So you can change your definition and you can say that I'm sorry, implicit within the struggle
is a progress movement, partial completions. Okay. I mean, I guess I wouldn't hear that
as implicit, like that is to me,
the arrival somewhere, like it's like there's going somewhere and then there's arriving, right?
I'm a huge fan of arriving.
This idea that the journey is what's important never makes sense to me.
Right. But I think your definition suggests that the definition that the meaning of life
is the struggle to impart meaning to meaning is a version of the journey view.
In the long, but the idea that life is one airline, long airline flight with no landings
or takeoffs doesn't really enter into that. Well, so I get that, like you don't think that,
but what I'm saying is you're saying that. So, so there's like, there's like, how you view life
and then there's the way that you have of articulation. It's weird with like academic
suit point footnotes. So there's a footnote on that. Yeah. Okay. But I actually want you to
bring the footnote up into the main text and modify your definition and say that, you know,
the pursuit of meaning essentially involves these two components that are actually really hard to
fit together. And this is one of those distinctions we're going to need to like back up, right,
