but the way I hear the story, there was this incredible scientific discovery that happened,
partly because of an academic context, and it happened and the truth got out. And it's your
brother. And so you love him and you're heartbroken about stuff that happened to him,
but he's not my brother. And from my point of view, look what academia did. It got this amazing
truth out. Are you fucking kidding, Agnes? Let's actually do this as emotional and cognitive.
Good. Who gets to leave children? People get to become professors. If you look at the professors
who are left by a great professor, the idea that the thought is what got out there. And by
virtue of the fact, in some sense that there was a conflict, this is called the horse and rider
problem, which is the idea, let's knock the rider off of the horse. And as long as we have the horse,
then that's what matters. This is a complete misreading of history, because the key thing
that we find is a Michael Atiyah, for example, great mathematician, will leave multiple fields
medalists as students, people who are at the very top of their game. This whole thing is about
the train of transmission. When you actually effectively castrate
or give a hysterectomy to a professor so that they cannot reproduce,
what you're doing is you're harming the ability to propagate the specialness that allows the machine
tools of those discoveries. You're confusing the important measure of the tool and the machine
tool. The machine tool is the tool that makes tools. I think it's an incredible opportunity.
And you also have written on the subject of anger. This is a question of functional
anger. I find that outrageous what you just said. And I don't think that I find it outrageous because
I'm flush with chemicals. And I don't think it's because it's my brother. If you were to talk to
me about Douglas Prasher, Douglas Prasher was one of the people who gave us green fluorescent protein
or GFP. He was driving a shuttle bus in Huntsville, Alabama. Before I was championing my brother,
I was championing Douglas Prasher, because how could it be that the person who should have been on
the Nobel Prize for GFP in full view of the academic community was driving not only a shuttle
bus in Huntsville, Alabama, but after being featured in the New York Times with a full top
above the folds picture of Doug, a year later, he was still driving a shuttle bus in Huntsville,
Alabama. And I mean this with all academic rigor. What the fuck is wrong with that thought
process that that's what you think? So I think like I'm not sure you're clear in your own mind
as to exactly which bit of this you find offensive. It seems to me that from the way that you're just
talking about the Douglas Prasher, that a lot of it for you is about credit and who gets credit.
It's about reproduction. So your problem is that Douglas Prasher didn't get to have students.
Douglas Prasher didn't get to have students. This is just like an amazing inability to
understand what the game is. Your brother did get to have students. No, he didn't.
Well, I mean. No, he didn't. He went on to teach. Didn't he have students? He taught at a weird
undergraduate institution with no graduate program. You're really not getting it. But didn't he choose
to teach there? And didn't he see that teaching? His description of that teaching
there was that it was extremely valuable to him. Yes, it's a very sweet story. And right now,
for example, I have a discord group and I'm teaching people with no formal background
how to see gauge theory. The key point is that you don't understand what a university is. It's
a very special place and who gets to reproduce and who doesn't is the story of our future.
I mean, this is about, so we belong to this Jewish tradition and I always use the same phrase,
lador vador from generation to generation. What has gone wrong in the academy that it
sees things in terms of credit status and all of these things. It's about the resources
and the ability to reproduce students in an incredibly intensive relationship
where there is a transmission. You see, in my field, in mathematics, the top mathematicians,
they have not externalized what they know into their papers. It's a fraction of what they know.
You still can't get at these relationships from reading work. You actually have to go and you
have to sit with the people who produce the papers because it's the machine tools.
I mean, it's weird to me that in some way we agree more than I thought I would. I thought we
would on that point in that, look, I think that teaching is the fundamental activity
of a university. I don't think so. So there's some other magic way that this reproduces?
Research is the fundamental activity of the research. The problem with the university is
that it's a confusion. And if you think about the biathlon, which is what I always give as an
example, the first time I heard about the biathlon, I laughed. Cross-country skiing and
riflery, what the hell are these two activities doing in one sport? Well, if you live in Finland,
you know exactly why you would want to combine those two activities because you've got Russians on
your eastern border. And so in general, this is an activity that's important in Norway and Sweden
and Finland and Russian places like that because you shoot the enemy while on skis.
Okay. The teaching university is an incredibly confusing object to many people. Because of the
Vannevar Bush pact called the Endless Frontier, we agreed that we were going to have the federal
government's investment in blue sky research only done through the universities effectively.
And that meant we took an incredibly important facility and we confused it with teaching.
Now, there's an extent to which those are symbiotic, that they boost each other, that
teaching and researcher sort of happy compliments to each other. And there's a way in which they
conflict. But I don't understand how you think this reproduction, so there's, suppose
you're going to reproduce yourself in me. How do you do that without teaching me?
Well, the kind of teaching that we usually talk about when we talk about teaching,
it tends to be very focused on the undergraduate. So when you said, didn't my brother get to
leave students, you're talking about a relationship of graduates and you're talking about a relationship
to undergraduate students because there is no graduate student there. For me, that line is not as
heavy. How many members of your department on the faculty don't have PhDs? Don't have PhDs?
Right. Like Freeman Dyson doesn't have a PhD. I believe all of them have PhDs. That's new in
philosophy. That is like the older generation, there were a number that didn't. But now you
have a situation in which you have a requirement in order to be able to reproduce where you have
done research, this kind of close teaching, this apprenticeship.
Good. And so like, I think that you can say, so this helps clarify the situation. So you
can say your brother was deprived of an opportunity to do a certain kind of teaching.
Let's talk about Douglas Pressure. Douglas Pressure was fully deprived of
opportunity to do any kind of teaching. Furthermore, he wasn't able to do any
more of that kind of research. He couldn't get resources. He in fact gave over his work
because his grant ran out. Right. I'm thinking, okay, I'm not as interested in the person who's
good at administrative games who got to stay in the game. I'm more interested in the Douglas
Pressures and getting the predators the hell out of the way so that these guys can continue to
work. In other words, they need a starker, the Yiddish for a strong muscle. So you need muscle
to make sure that the sweet people who actually can do great work aren't preyed upon. You have
sharp minds and sharp elbows. And the key point is somebody's got to break the sharp elbows.
That's very important to me. I mean, but look, there's a question about,
and maybe you've seen many hundreds or thousands of these cases. I would say thousands. I would say
tens. Right. And in listening to that podcast, that was listening to it for me, one case.
And then I also have to go with my own experience. So you haven't seen much of this. I mean,
you're at the philosophy department. I know nothing about how you guys do. What I will say
is that in situations, let's take a situation where there's no skull-duggery within academics,
but a career stops. So every galois couldn't be a more important mathematician. More or less
created group theory and galois theory the day before he died in a duel. Right. Does it matter
that he died? Yes, hugely. Why? We have galois theory. We have group theory. Thank you very much.
Right. We could have more. We could have much more. And so the issue of just sort of the casual
indifference to saying that the system works, that the story and the work could proceed,
is a stunning fact to me. Like, to me, you know, race, it's a locator. The thing speaks for itself.
And the idea that that is a normal part of academics is effectively the proof to me that
there's something wildly wrong. Yeah. I mean, I guess I just think that there's a question like,
so part of that story was a lot of like, venality and pressures that come from people wanting credit
for things and people wanting, you know, caring about name and reputation and etc. And there's
a question there. Suppose we got rid of that. Suppose we could somehow change people's psyche
so that they didn't care about that. Suppose we had the ability to leave students and gain resources
within the system without needing to care about that. Let's proceed from there. Because I think
this is going to be more or less almost the last thing. So it comes back to status, which is where
we began with. So my claim is, is that status is approximate. And the ultimate is the ability to
transmit and create knowledge. And the key issue here is, is that lacking a PhD and lacking the
ability to compete for grants handily, which are status mediated, means that your line becomes
self extinguishing. That's the real issue. Yeah, but I do think that this actually where it gets
back to is happiness, right? Okay. That my life can't be about whether my line is extinguished or
not. My life has to be something the meaning of which comes home to me. And like, it's not that
that's not integrated into an activity in which I try to put something forward. But like, the point
of the pursuit of knowledge can't be to be always handing down the tools to get to hand down the
tools some more, right? What a beautiful place for a next disagreement. You were taking the point
of view of Soma, I have germ, you have the self and I have lineage. So I think we have a great
opportunity to begin our next conversation. And I just want to say, I find you utterly charming,
a huge workout mentally. It's a great pleasure. You're welcome to come back any time. And
thank you so much for dropping by. Thank you. All right, you've been through the portal with
Dr. Agnes Calard from the University of Chicago's Philosophy Department. Please subscribe to us on
Apple, Stitcher, Spotify, wherever you listen to podcasts. And if we could ask you to go over to
YouTube and not only subscribe, but click the bell icon to be notified whenever we drop our next
video episode. We'll try to tighten up the time between the audio and the video releases. Be well,
everybody and hope to see you soon.
