to be able to cash that check. But it involves both the, you know, a kind of movement, a kind of
struggle towards something like and, you know, in putting meaning and meaning or understanding or
maybe there's more than one at kind of endpoint. And then, and then there's something like being
at the end point, right? And there has to be a, what it is like to be at the end point. And that
has to be part of what the meaning of life is, what happiness is. Let me give you a little
completion story that actually made a huge difference in my life. You ever heard somebody say,
when you complain that you just keep having a problem and somebody says, well, what's the
only common factor to the seven problematic relationships you just described, then you're
supposed to say, it's me, isn't it? Right. Right. Okay. So I was going around and saying,
to a close friend of mine named Michael Grossberg, I keep having the following bizarre hierarchical
relationship problems. It's clearly me. He said, no, not in the sense that you mean it.
I said, what do you mean? He said, look, I know you very well. And you're imagining that you're
doing something really wrong. He said, in fact, think about a different problem. You've got someone
with a compromised immune system. They're the only person who's actually seeing the world of
pathogens correctly because they're actually not defended against the pathogens. Everyone with a
non compromised immune system is oblivious to what's actually going on in their environment.
He says, the problem that you have is that you're the only guy who isn't oblivious
to the problems in these hierarchical relationships because for whatever reason,
you do not have the immune system that the rest of us carry implicitly. So to that extent,
if you want to say that that's what you're doing wrong, but that's a really bad example because
the pathogens are real, they're not imagined. Okay. That totally changed my life. It completely
reframe something. I thought I effectively had a de facto proof of one thing and somebody's
better insight came in and made my life much richer and I stopped worrying about that particular
problem. Now I could move on to the next problem. That's an example of a milestone of completion.
I never had to go back. It's a very durable insight. Okay.
That is part of the struggle to impart meaning to meaning, to get to these higher forms where
you're not trapped in the same problems that everyone else has. It gives you an ability to
teach, to share, to give paradigms. And I don't think that they're tied to personality. So one
of the things that's really important to me, for example, and I talk about it a lot on this show,
I think, or in other interviews, is the fact that in mathematics we honor our Nazis,
that there were Nazis who contributed major insights. And it doesn't mean that they're
not sons of bitches, but part of them that contribute mathematical and physical insight
is not compromised by their goddamn evil Nazis and those fuckers. Right? Okay. So
the ability to divorce to some extent, the human, you don't have any choice in mathematics. If
somebody finds something essential and that person happens to be a son of a bitch, you don't
have the right to edit that person out of history because it's inconvenient for you that that
happened. Right? So I think that the moral failings of the people who do the teachings
should be assumed by the students. Now, the key question is, do those moral failings compromise?
Let's say the teachings themselves, in some cases they do, particularly it comes from a point of
sanctimony. If the teacher has not struggled as much as the student, then in fact, the relationship
maybe would be more profitable if reversed. But I think it matters a lot. So here, the theoretical
practical divide is really helping you out because I think that mathematics is very squarely
theoretical. And the more we move towards the theoretical, the easier it's going to be to make
that kind of divorce. A lot of people would find it harder with music. My mom is very torn about
Wagner. For me, the very hardest case, and it's one that I personally struggled with is Aristotle.
So I think that Aristotle's views on women and natural slavery are deeply embedded in his ethical
theory. So I don't think that there are some kind of little extra bit that you can just ignore
those. There are ways in which something is infected with a problem and you have to refactor
the teaching. And it's not just that. It's that it's even connected to what's good about the
teaching. There were years when I didn't teach it for this exact reason. Maybe it's just morally
corrupt and we shouldn't teach it. I came to think differently about it. But my point is
the question of how should we deal with the kind of ethical infractions of people who have something
to teach us, I think has to be combined with the question, what kind of thing do they have to
teach us? How theoretical is it? How practical is it? Are they the reliable or the unreliable narrator?
That's another question. Right. I mean, in philosophy, the question of reliability is almost
given that you... No, no, it's a literary device. In other words, are they speaking to us in a way
in which we can rely upon their words or do their words, in fact, tell us that they, in fact, have
a hidden truth? Right. And in some sense, with Aristotle, it's like, we know he's not reliable.
We know it. And yet, there's stuff, there's insights from him that I think we don't have
another source. And so for me, that was a deep tension that's in a way harder than the Nazi
mathematician case. But I don't think that there's a single answer here. That is, I think that the
theoretical practical divide makes a big difference. And in a way, the Nazi mathematician case is too
easy. Okay. Should we tear down the arch of Titus that celebrates the sacking of Jerusalem?
Stood there for a while. So you asked, you asked, Rob, I won't be this question too. Yeah.
Yeah. So I don't have a view about it, but I also...
Like the question, that's a very different question, right? Because that's not a question about
there's some knowledge, and then there's the source of that knowledge. We have a different
set of questions about cultural artifacts and their history and what they mean. And
like, I guess, one thing that to me is important in asking myself that question is about this sort
of question. Like, it's why I raised the Aristotle case. It's a kind of faux deliberation
that I would be engaging in, because no one is ever going to come to me and be like,
should we tear this down? No, I'm willing to start this campaign because I'm really getting tired
of people saying that you cannot teach. But so you think it should be torn down?
I'm willing to entertain your, the extension of your ideas until you start to recognize first
of all, here's what I'm having. I'm an incredible hypocrite. Okay. And the reason I've chosen
hypocrisy as a life strategy is that it offered the greatest benefits per unit of responsibility of
all major philosophies, right? Okay. I'm always troubled when people tell me that hypocrisy is
terrible. Now, I struggle to minimize my hypocrisy. So you don't think it's okay? You wouldn't
struggle to minimize? Well, the id within me struggles to maximize it because like, what a
great deal, right? But the, the supervisory capacity within me is sort of, it's an embarrassment
of riches by embracing hypocrisy that, you know, the world becomes your candy store. So that
distinction between the id, I'm sorry, interrupt, between the id and the, like, that's one of those
faux distinctions that I don't think you have a right to in the sense that I think you're one person
and you make decisions. Oh, you dear sweet child. So it's like, you struggle with your own hypocrisy
and you try to minimize it because you think there's something wrong with hypocrisy.
I don't love my hypocrisy in one region of my mind. In other regions of my mind,
I certainly enjoy my hypocrisy. I love steak dinners. And if I actually think about what,
you know, what, what veal is, it changes the enjoyment of veal because veal is pretty sick
thing to, to really take pleasure from, to be blunt, right? And so there's this issue,
you know, and I bring this up as in Cambridge, Massachusetts, there's a store in North Cambridge,
I think it says like fresh killed poultry, you know, it's just there on, it's advertising what
it is. And if you're buying from that store, you're pretty much not going to have the shock
when you actually think about what it is that you're consuming, because you bought it with that
kind of thought in mind. So there's this issue about, you know, obviously, when I, when I,
when I'm saying that I'm a hypocrite and that I've embraced as a philosophy,
there's a, there's a playful aspect to it, which is that I'm recognizing
that most people don't see their own hypocrisy, they, they're structured to see it in others
and not in themselves. That's a very easy teaching to just walk around watching for your
own hypocrisy and then, you know, kind of make yourself sick before pointing the finger at other
people. What is very odd to me is how few people are aware of how deep their own hypocrisy is.
And then to lead a naive rallying cry of, you know, I can't believe this is this hypocrisy
in other people. It's shocking to not have an idea of what baseline hypocrisy is based on
yourself seems a bit rich. I think you're the true crusader against hypocrisy.
In some weird way, but it tends to be institutional hypocrisy. In other words,
the thing that really bothers me, if we had a two by two grid, there's individual versus
individual conflicts. There's institution versus institution. What I really detest is, is institutions
against individuals. Institutional hypocrisy, the jackboot of the institution on the windpipe
of the individual is the thing that is so offensive to me that I'm pretty consistent,
that that's what I fight. So I always try. What if the institution is right and the individual is
wrong? Well, then I don't view that as being a. That's not one of the cases. That's not one of
the cases. What really bothers me is the institution using institutional power to humiliate,
to destroy the reputation of the challenging individual who's making an excellent point
on behalf of other individuals, right? There's certain institutional versus individual games,
Goliath's against David's. And when I'm, when I'm up against that case, I'm particularly animated
having turned down opportunities to behave within the institutional structure. I'm pretty sure I
really care about this case. Can I just go back to, um, so something that I, so you, um.
Typical critical institutions are different from hypocritical individuals. Yeah, but like,
you know, you, you brought up the arch case, right? And so, so the thing that I really don't like
is like when a question is posed, but it's really masquerading as a point or something else, right?
So it's like, I'm actually totally willing to deliberate about whether or not we should take
this arch down, but that wasn't really why you raised it, right? Why did I raise it, do you think?
I think you raised it as a potential point of inconsistency. Um, but I don't know what I think
about the arch. I think it's an interesting question whether or not to, to the fact that you
find it an interesting question means that you are not convinced that it, that the question is
settled. Correct. But that was sort of my point about all the cases. I don't think there is one
way to say, but I understand. I deal with a lot of people who find that these things are settled,
right? Fair enough. But then, but, but see, that's my point. You wanted to know maybe whether
I find the question to be settled or not, right? And so you asked me a question,
should we tear down this arch or not? And your desire and asking me that question was maybe
to figure out whether I thought a certain question was settled, right? But I think that's
an actually a deliberative question, like, should we tear down the arch or not? Right?
And so what I mean is like, and, and, and that's the distinction I drew between practical and
theoretical reason. Sorry. But, but by doing that, you're going to move it closer to the,
like when you say that something is a live question, it's not a neutral frame, which is,
I think it's an interesting question. I'm not sure either way. If I said to you,
what do you think about the violent overthrow of the United States? And you were to say,
oh, I think it's an interesting question. That's a very strong statement.
Yes. To find it an interesting question. Right. I think though that, you know,
this goes deep into something like conversational trust, but I could find almost anything to be
an interesting question. But I would need, it would be pretty important to me that the person
posed it to me as a question rather than as a test, right? Because sometimes questions aren't
questions. But there's something parasitic about this. You see, you can't have a society in which
everybody finds whether the violent overthrow of the United States is to be an interesting question.
In general, the substrate that makes this country possible so that a few people can find that an
entertaining question have to make sure that that question is in fact, outre.
I mean, with respect to that particular one, I haven't yet seen the interest that is you
sold me on the interest of the previous one, on the grounds of the discussion, right? On the face
of it, it doesn't, we haven't yet established the grounds that might make it interesting.
Well, the destruction of Monticello. If I found things that had been built with slave labor,
you know, I can start to create a great deal of destruction by opening up a lot of interesting
questions, thereby moving the midpoint of the discussion quite a bit farther. These are not
in fact neutral. This is part of why I find philosophy troubling because it doesn't recognize
often that the act of asking these questions is in fact, a non-neutral action. If you remember
the Dukakis question, where there was a question about Willie Horton.
Yeah, very vaguely.
Okay. Yeah, right. The memory hole. It's pretty amazing. So I think he was asked a question
about what should happen if somebody raped his wife or something.
Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes. That's right.
And in general, the correct answer is, I'm not going to answer that question and don't
make me tell you a second time. My wife is sitting right here. Thank you very much.
I will not be entertaining that. Don't make that mistake again, sir.
Because the point is, I don't wish to open this up. Now, the philosopher's impulse is,
oh, that's an interesting question, very often.
Sometimes you can tell that the person asked it as a test. You mean if it wasn't asked that one?
I'm just saying that very often the philosophical gambit is a pretend state in which we are
quite comfortable entertaining anything. Oh, yes. Let's imagine that Jane uses her steak
knife to kill Billy across the table at the philosopher's dinner. And then you start talking
about all of these sorts of things. In general, this is again, that there are no tough guys.
We all should have personal boundaries and limits in places where we wish to say,
I would prefer that that question not be asked because the question itself is a form of violence.
So you say, oh, the philosopher has this pretend interest and curiosity, but I would say the
non-philosopher has these pretend questions that they put before us. And then if we say
back to them, look, there are circumstances under which that could be a real question if somebody
were really asking me of it, it of me. And there is no question such that I could rule out in advance
that anyone could honestly ask it of me in any conversation. That's not the same thing as saying
I'm buying into your gambit and I'm going to answer your pretend question as though it were
a real question. And if I were to do that, I would have to do it with pretend interest.
But let's talk about a situation in which a question that maybe should not have been
asked too much, in my opinion, must now be asked because of the changing landscape.
So for example, the Tesla problem, which is that you might have thought trolley problems
were bizarre and academic. Well, now that you have to commit it to code and you have to say,
well, what should I do? How many baby carriages should I, right? Okay. That's an incredibly
interesting situation where we can no longer afford to leave an expression un-evaluated.
Exactly. Right.
So there can't really be questions we can't ask because we might be in those situations.
Well, my point is that there can't be a question that we can't ask under any circumstances.
But we may find that a question that was better off being unasked
now must be like that, that Pandora's box could survive unopened for this many years,
but circumstances have changed. Right.
Right. And a lot of, I mean, in that situation, it might even be that
I think what we'll probably end up doing is trying to find a lot of ways to avoid
exactly answering it, right? Managing the situation in which the question has been
asked rather than answering it. I mean, I guess, right? These kind of, like,
I thought we'd have self-driving cars away before now, right? And I think we do, right?
But we don't have them because of these.
I thought we were going to get stuck here that having to commit things to code
forces us to promote to consciousness and to responsibility things that we would prefer.
Like, I believe that one of the reasons that we tend to have more sex while drunk than sober,
at least at early stages of relationship, is because what we're actually interested in is an
excuse and that we want to find an excuse, which is I panicked. That's a great thing to do behind
