Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host Eric Weinstein and today I'm here with University
of Chicago Professor of Philosophy, Dr. Agnes Callard. Hi, Agnes. Welcome. Thank you.
I want to talk to you about everything. Do you mind? No. Okay. So you just had an interesting
and bizarre game, but I didn't know that you were coming out to Southern California.
And you said to me that after a meeting we had in your office at the University of Chicago,
hey, you should take a look at this article I wrote partially based on our meeting. And
the article is one about negotiating initial meetings and what are all of the layers of
dynamics that are going on when two people collide for the first time?
Yeah, I think that when two people collide for the first time, I guess there are sort of two
things at the base level that are happening. One of them is like they're trying to figure out how
to get along, how to cooperate. And the other is they're trying to take the measure of one
another. And those activities aren't totally separate from one another.
And I've noticed a pattern with you, which is that you take great delight in talking about the
things that many of us do sort of naturally or unconsciously and might be very uncomfortable
to promote to full consciousness so that you can use your metacognitive facility to interrogate
and dissect what is going on on many, many different levels. Some of them philosophical,
some of them rooted in biology, some of them may be with allusions to literature. When you and I
met, were you aware of what you were going through in real time or did it come to you later
that this was going to be grist for an article?
Oh, totally later. My mind was completely on another article I was working on.
So you weren't concentrating when we were meeting on our meeting?
No, not really. I mean, I think that a lot of the time,
you know, I feel like a lot of the thinking that I do is like unpacking thinking I did
earlier but wasn't realizing I was doing or something like that. So like,
it's hard with this language when you have to say I and you're actually realizing that you have
so many different processes, right? Yeah. Okay, keep going. But I guess maybe one common threat.
I do like to, yeah, maybe I have a kind of affinity towards like the provocative or something,
but maybe at a deeper level, I think that there's just like, when we talk about ourselves, when
we think about our lives, there are all these sort of cracks in the facade of like who we take
ourselves to be and how we represent ourselves. But the thing is that like, we've kind of convinced
ourselves that the cracks are parts of the design because we've been looking at them for so long,
right? We're like, ooh, what a pretty pattern. And I just want to split those cracks open and be
like, look, there's something incoherent in the way that we think about ourselves. And we've covered
that incoherence over with a certain kind of language. And just a lot of the time, those
cracks are to be found exactly in the places that you would call maybe provocative or something
like that. But sometimes they're not. And I'm interested in them in those places too. It's just
other people who are not philosophers are less interested in those cracks, right? So I wrote
my dissertation on weakness of will, where I think that there's something weakness of will,
like Ulysses lashing himself to the mast. Well, that would be a case of strength of will, right?
But yes, he's responding to the prospect or the possibility of weakness of will. So he's using
his agency ahead of time with a strong will so that he can actually go through an adaptive
valley of weak will that he anticipates correctly. Yeah, he's sort of turning a
synchronic problem into a diachronic problem, right? He's giving a diachronic solution to
a synchronic problem. So which I could do, say if I know that I'm very susceptible to certain
forms of temptation, I could in advance make sure that I don't encounter those forms of temptation,
right? So what Ulysses is doing. But I was very interested in just how we describe a situation
in which we say, I know I shouldn't have another cookie, but I take one anyway. It's totally
familiar. We're totally comfortable talking in that way. I think it's an incoherent way of talking.
So that's an example where it's not particularly provocative. It's not
controversial in the sense of a sensitive topic, but it's just a place where our
speech about ourselves is cracked and incoherent, but we just have done it for so long that we
don't notice it. Well, only because the cookie isn't a threesome or a pile of cocaine.
No, I think it would be just as incoherent in those cases if you could say it yourself.
No, no, but it would be provocative. Oh, yes, absolutely, right.
So the issue of provocation doesn't have to do with the abstract universality
class of the problem. It has to do simply with its particular instantiation.
Correct. Though I think that there are problems where even like there, the correct level of
abstraction is to abstract from the difference between cookies or cocaine. Cookies and cocaine,
because that difference isn't philosophically interesting, but there are some problems where
the correct level of abstraction is the provocative level, right? So I think the
status one, it's the provocative level. Say more about that.
I think that I guess I think it's not the case that the problem that I raised there about status
about, you know, wanting on some level to be worth more than other people, but then also
recognizing that that desire is somehow not one that you can ask another person to recognize,
right? That problem isn't some instance of a more general problem. I don't see it as an instance
of a more general problem where the solution would lie at that abstract level. I think that's
the correct level at which to address it. Why do you imagine that status? So in your article,
you say that the status game is one in which you can't really discuss your desire or need
for status. Is that true? It's not true in all contexts. Like I wrote a column about it,
obviously I can discuss it and I can discuss it with you right now, but there's this,
there would be something wrong. Like, you know, I had this interaction with somebody who I felt
was asking me to acknowledge their status recently. And I had this instinct to say,
I would like to acknowledge your status. You're more important than me. Now can we just go on?
And I couldn't do that. That wasn't allowed. I knew that was not allowed within the game. That
would have been offensive, right? So it's a rule of the game that you have to pretend that you're
not playing it, but you can then sort of like take a step back, right? And then be like, oh,
let's analyze, you can always do that. And I'm sorry, you can't always do it, but you can sometimes
do it. But that's not this, that's almost like putting the game on pause and then stepping back
and analyzing what was happening. So in other words, you have the game in a debugger and you're
stepping through lines of the code in a different facility than that, which is actually running
the code. Yes. Okay. So if that's the case, why is it... Sorry, can I interrupt you? There's no
guarantee that you won't then be reprising the game at the second level. Well, so that's the
issue, which is that each layer of analysis that you put on it becomes non-meta relative to the
following level of meta analysis that includes that layer. And then you have a question of convergence,
in essence, where you have an initial game, then you have a meta game. So your article was ostensibly
in the second level of that game. But then effectively what you did was you communicated
to me, whatever status game you and I negotiated in your office, I have a different status game,
which is that I have access to a learned journal in which I can write articles. I thought you
important enough to write an article in part inspired by our meeting. And then I am communicating that I
too have levers that may not be available to you. And I wish to let you know that you were both
important enough to warrant this thinking, simultaneously don't think that you got away
with something because in fact, I can see things. Awesome. Yeah. I think that's right. So I think
what that reveals is like, I've, so I've noticed you use in a couple of your practices were meta
cognitive. And I think that I'm much more of a skeptic about how much work the meta can do,
at least immediately for exactly this reason. I think that like, like when you step back,
it doesn't matter what you're stepping back from, okay, like you're in a situation, you're like,
let me step back and think about this or let me step back and cool my, you know, from my emotions.
Let me step back. You're never stepping back. You're always just the same person you were.
It's an illusion to think you can step back. But I think what, what does happen when you step
back is like stepping back happens at least a moment later than what was happening before.
I don't think so in some sense, because really what I, the way I see it, I'm eager to hear
if I'm wrong in your eyes is that what we just did is we had a zero with later,
which is our initial meeting. Then we had the issue where you wish to notify me that you'd
written an article partially inspired by this. And then I wish to bring this up on the podcast,
which is the next layer. And then we can talk about the fact that I just, and my point in
doing this is that we build an infinite tower of analysis of the previous level analysis. So meta
is not a different facility, but simply the recognition that layer I plus one is commenting
on layer I. Right. But the thing that that the metaphor of the tower, the problem that is that
it's synchronic. And so I think that I've changed between our initial meeting and
like the writing that article, it wasn't like I just sat down and wrote it. I had to think
really hard about that meeting. I had an initial version that was totally scrapped.
I learned in between our meeting and writing that article. And I've even learned in between
like, you know, talking about it with you. And now, right? So I'm like a different person.
You're talking to a different person than you were talking to when we first met.
In one sense.
In one sense, yes. In the sense that I've, it's not a tower, like I've, I've sort of
incorporated some of the lessons from that interaction. So, and I think one thing is like,
you know, it's a little bit like, I remember there were these, when my son's preschool,
when he first started, there were these charts that were like diagrams of how kids move around
a room in like a place. So he's like two or three years old, right? Like, so it was like this line,
like first they go to the sandbox and they go to the blocks and they, right? So what was amazing
is you look at the lines for like a three year old. And it's like, just this like scribble,
scrabble, they randomly wander around and then, and you then they had these diagrams for like the
five, you know, not even, no, I think it wouldn't be like a couple months later towards the end of the
year of the same, so they're the same age where they're like a little bit older and they're like
much more organized, right? So I see that as happening with conversation with you, where
part of what's happening is like learning to focus. And that's not really well captured,
I think, with the idea of a meta level. Not sure that I understood that.
Well, the... So can we talk a little bit about the particular status game and our subsequent
interpretations of what it meant? Yeah. Okay. So it was very interesting when I was just talking
to you before the show, you talked to me about saying, I'm not even sure that status is exactly
the right word for what we were negotiating. And that was an intuition where I hadn't grounded
yet in language, it's in some sort of more primitive kind of intangible state. And
I had forgotten exactly what the issue was, but that you'd known very little about me. I think
Tyler Cowan had maybe alerted you to me. Yes. Yes. And that wasn't particularly surprising to me. I
didn't don't expect people to know who I am. But what little you did know about me was that somehow
I was part of a money machine as a managing director of a family office. And that that was
going to be kind of the expansion point, that that was going to be like the zero with approximation.
And then we'd add first and second and third order approximations based on that expansion
point, which drove me nuts. Right. Because that would never be the expansion point that I would
choose for myself, nor do I think it is the correct one. And then we had some interesting
other issues, which is that I've heard a great deal about you more than I've read of your
thinking and work. And many people that I like regard you highly. And I thought, okay, well,
this is likely to be a singular person. And it would be a shame to lose a singular person
based on a wrong expansion point in a conversation. So there was sort of an emergency need
to rebase the conception of the other around a more fruitful point, so as not to lose a
potentially interesting interaction. And then when I communicated this to you,
you and I both share an aversion to talking about the world of exceptional people, which
often the members of the world of exceptional people constantly regard themselves and the
others exceptional in a kind of self congratulatory display. So the whole thing kind of descends into
an orgy of analysis, unanalysis, unanalysis. And I wonder why we're not just more capable of doing
this more simply like, Hey, I'm worried you're forming an incorrect impression of me, or I need
some acknowledgement from you that there is an issue of accomplishment or, you know, so you
don't start lecturing me about basic mathematics if I'm a mathematician, let's say. Right. So
first of all, like, I think I actually do think this is probably a sort of a difference between
this in that suppose that I thought you knew me as just all that you knew about me was that I was a
mother or something. Okay. Like, I'm not sure. Like, I guess what I thought you knew about me was
that I was like an academic or something. And I'm not sure that that would have mattered to me,
like which of those you had picked. But so in terms of why we can't just directly ask for this,
I think we could have if like, we were like teenagers or something. But I think we learned
not to do it. Like we learned how to interact with people. And that's a rule. And so we're
both following the rule.
Somewhat. I mean, I think that there's also this problem. Maybe I'll pose it to you.
Why truth doesn't work? Like, I'm not a huge fan of truth the way some people are.
And I'm a huge fan of truth. Oh, that's beautiful. So I pose them the problem of
if I have only mildly bad breath and you wish to let me know that for my own benefit,
what's a way in which you could communicate to me that I have mildly bad breath? And I've
actually never met anyone who's solved this puzzle. So you should try the zero with order first
and we'll see why it gets into trouble. Right. So that would just be saying you have mildly
bad breath. Right. Now, because of the context of that, the interpretation of that statement
is my God is such a taboo to talk about someone's breath. Must be horrible. That it must be horrible
for you to say that it is mild. And so what you've done is you've communicated an untruth even though
you intended. So then you start thinking about the problem of like your eyeball is distorted. So
you need a second distortion in the, in the, in this case, your spectacles so that the aggregate
of the two is undistorted. Can I give my answer? Yeah, please. I think you're the philosopher.
I think I would be like, Oh my God, I can't believe this is actually happening because
this one time I talked to Eric Weinstein and he posed this as a problem. What do you do? What do
you tell someone when they have mildly bad breath? And now I'm in that situation. That's what I would
say to the person. Do you think it gets read that way? I have no idea. I mean, I'm giving you an
answer in the abstract, abstracting from the person. Right. But I'm trying to, I'm trying to make the
point that my point is that would be a cool way that like, I would say that just because I would
be curious what how the person's going to respond. So like there's a question, how do you, how do
you do this? What's a successful interaction? Right. For me, that's a, that's a promising
response because it might generate an interesting conversation. Well, we'll generate an interesting
conversation. The issue though is to my way of thinking that you have to give up on truthful
communication because of its impossibility in order to start seeing what is possible, where
truth is a component and an interest, but it can't be a goal. In other words, if I say
what is the fractional representation of Pi, it doesn't mean you can't come close,
but you're never going to get there with two integers dividing one by the other. So
my claim is, is that it's very important to give up on the possibility of truth from the, from the
get go. So that, that doesn't seem right to me. So, I mean, one thing is it may be that I cannot
immediately communicate to you the truth. I think what's often- But as I learn you, then I will
realize that you speak it in that undistorted fashion, you believe? No. I think that one thing
that happens is that people, they learn like a new shared language, like they learn how to
communicate with one another, right? And they become better at doing that. And it may be that
it seems to me that the goal of that process is always to communicate better and more truthfully.
Though it's also, I think, really important to distinguish which truths are important and
are unimportant to communicate or less important to communicate because you have to focus somewhere
too, right? But I think that the only goals you can have in modulating that process,
the only possible goal is being able not, and not just to communicate, but to learn
