Okay. So, okay. So the presentation today as he mentioned is going to be about, you know, a paper that I've been working on with some colleagues over a few years now, and as he mentioned already is going to be related to this idea of the free energy principle active
conference, and especially we're going to focus on a construct that seems to appear regularly in the literature of these two frameworks.
That is something called the Markov Blanket. I will go through say the formal definition of a blanket, and then try to say unpack, I guess the main argument of the paper which is basically what it is not
is going by the definition. So in the literature, we will find that there are different things that people mean by this word.
I will try by the end of it to highlight that there are some things that are, you know, not as simple.
They are not just coming from the maths and they are not just coming for free, they will need like to be further discussed. And then by the very, very end of it I will try to flesh out a few things, like a few
opinions, basically on how to move forward and what I actually believe is needed for a thorough and proper discussion of these frameworks.
So, this is the team. Honestly, I would recommend to you to talk to each one of us, because we do have different backgrounds we do have different opinions about some of this stuff we did agree on, you know, the paper as a whole.
Honestly, always a great experience to be able to, you know, have a debate with each one of them because well it is really, you know, they're really great people so I can only but recommend to, you know, have them also give a presentation at some point.
We also have a reply to, I think it was like 35 commentaries we received to the paper, the thing is kind of there but not really available yet. So, you know, I might mention something during the presentation but I will not be spoiling too much.
Okay, so this is an old meme that I prepared, I think, I don't know, last year, a couple of years ago, and basically it's a bit of, you know, a personal take on the landscape of papers about active inference it goes from, you know,
I'm joking to really, really joking. So don't say this too seriously. But I think it is a good starting point to really say what I want to focus on. So basically, I want to focus on claims about active inference free energy principle being a framework of everything and I will try
to unpack what the difference is between these two words, these two say concepts actually are in my opinion, and then I will try to say something about the ways people, you know, are working around these two frameworks trying to fix some of the current shortcomings.
So, to start off, you know, very, very general perspective on what I mean by free energy principle and what I think people should actually recognize as the free energy principle.
Basically, this is a foundational theory of agents, leaving systems and more recently things, and I will try then later to say what I mean by thing by foundational I mean that this is supposed to tell us what a thing is what a living system is it is not supposed to be assuming
that is supposed to be telling us what it is.
And I think it's a thing, only if you minimize this variation of free energy. This is the main claim.
I think it's appear there because they tell us that there are two things. Well, I shouldn't be using the word thing now so easily. There are two, say, partitions of a system, one that is called internal what that is called external and the internal is the thing doing inference about external
and I'll come back to that later.
What do I mean by active inference well basically I mean, taking a state space model.
Say structure or, you know, partial observable mark of decision processes on the piece that's wrong.
And basically try to use a specific cost function which, you know, in active inference is this expected free energy. And, you know, what I believe is really important to focus on is that this is a framework that I believe can stand without the foundational
right to other free energy principle this doesn't have to tell us what a thing is it doesn't have to tell us what our agent is, we can just assume that they exist, and we can just say that we're going to model them as some partially observable market decision
process, and then doing friends according to a specific cost function. These two, I think can exist independently, and this thread will come, you know, useful by the end of the talk.
This is a very long slide I really hate slides with a lot of text but I thought that this one is the only exception. Okay, there's another one later on but that's more, I guess, you know, I will go less in detail about the following one.
This is really important because I'm trying to, you know, fix a few concepts what I think the free energy principle is this is going to be what I'm going to talk about at least portions of this for the rest, say, of this 50 and something minutes.
The free energy principle says that you need to start with a system that can be more than some random dynamical system.
This system needs to have Oh, and make sure this is in the title, this is something, you know, around early 2021. I know that there's something new but for now let me fix a few concepts.
So a random dynamical system. This system needs to have a unique steady state distribution.
And the flow of this random dynamical system can be decomposed into two components of a quasi potential, one that is divergence free meaning that is just you know something rotating around the steady state and something that is curve free, which is basically something
that goes directly down to it's basically a gradient component of this quasi potential is quasi potential because it's not a proper potential in the sense that it's not just a gradient of something because there's a curly part.
At steady state, the free energy principle claims that we can basically partition a system into internal external and blanket states, and this is an assumption that comes say on top of everything else is not derived from everything is not implied from everything I've said so far.
So one is to select some specific variables and say well this will be my internal this will be my external everything else will come, say, because well from the complementarity basically all the system as a whole.
And then there needs to be a special say assumption regarding how to connect what I just said about the partitions of internal external and blanket states at steady state, how to connect these partitions to the dynamical say representation of this
dynamical system so how is this steady state telling me anything about the the flow so this random dynamical system.
A Friston has something he calls a conjecture a sparse coupling conjecture that is basically saying that yeah if you knock out some of these divergence free components you're going to be able to do something about it.
And I'm not going to go too technically into that it's something we can discuss at the end.
You know after the talk.
On top of that, we need something that Friston calls a synchronization map that is saying well, again, another assumption that is saying well now that I have internal and external states, I'm going to say that there is some non trivial map between the sufficient
statistics of internal and external states and I'm going to say that this is what allows me by the end of this free energy principle to say that there is a sense in which one partition models the other partition.
Not problematic but yeah I will leave you to Miguel Miguel's paper Achillera 2021 was discussing quite a lot of the possible implications of this assumption in particular.
Okay, now that we have all of these assumptions lined up the claim that the free energy principle makes is that we can describe internal states as appearing to do approximate base and inference on external states
or they call the approximate base and inference lemma.
Importantly, I will only be focusing on point for everything else is does not I'm not saying that everything else is I'm problematic I'm just saying, you know, every other point could be a talk in a by itself.
I will be focusing on for which is basically what we wrote about in the paper, I might be mentioning something about five but yeah don't get too carried away hoping that I will go technical about that because well.
This is already quite a handful, trust me on that. Okay, as I was mentioning, I'm aware that there are more recent developments, especially you know trying to relax some of the assumptions that I mentioned earlier so the fact that we don't need weekly mixing systems
we don't need our courtesy apparently anymore we only need stationarity to be fair this is claimed in a paper but the system that they are using as far as I can tell is still our Gothic.
So, you know, I live it at that I might be wrong but yeah I haven't seen this actually proven.
In which we have, you know, multiple definitions of blankets and I will go through what I call the zoo, and later on the other slide I mentioned that is quite handful.
And I'm aware that there's also an attempt to develop a free energy principle for no stationary processes that would be pretty cool. And this is say where the graphic on the right actually comes from from a paper actually claiming to, you know, work in that direction.
But as far as I can tell, and you know don't quote me on this I know it's a pretty long paper and I haven't had the time to go into full detail.
But I guess that the graphic is pretty clear basically if you don't assume stationarity so this next non equilibrium steady state that we see on the left.
Then basically, we don't really have a proper definition of blankets, and we don't really have the approximate basic inference lemma which, in my understanding is the whole claim behind the free energy principle so if we don't have that, I'm less sure, you know what exactly
I'm talking about. Okay, so now I'm going to really start from the basics and I'm going to try and you know tell you a story about these blankets and where I think, you know, things have started to change.
So I'm going to use a graphical language on the right which is hopefully something you've seen before and hopefully something that is slightly more intuitive, but bear in mind we can do this completely analytically with the things saying the middle.
The graphical language is a nice decoration, I think because it helps grasping an intuition but you don't get to carry the way, thinking the market blankets, as I will define them on the exist in graphical models because that's not true.
You know, we can use a different language like you know factor graphs or whatever else and we can still define something. So, joint probability.
What do I mean by that well by that I basically mean that we have some variables and we're just looking at the system as a whole this is the distribution of X and Y joint.
I know that you know there are a lot of things that I will, you know, not covering terms of you know theory of probability distributions and you know measure theory because this is not the right place and time.
Conditional probability what do I mean by that well I mean to know what the probability of a variable X is given that I know something about why.
By marginal independence by marginal independence, I mean that the probability of X, for example, does not depend on why so if we look at the at the graphical language, we don't have an arrow between the two.
By conditional independence on drawing an example here bearing in mind there are more but you know it's not important to go.
I'm not going to list them right now. I mean to say that if I have a variable X and a variable why, and in this case a variable Z in the middle I can say that X and Y are conditionally independent given Z.
So, X does not depend on why if I know something about Z.
And I'll leave it at that. So,
you know in all of this. Well, if the whole model I had was actually you know this, why is that X that I drew earlier, then I could say the Z is essentially the markup blanket for X or for why so it's the thing that makes X and why conditionally independent.
And that's about it. That's what a markup blanket is. Now, to give a full story, I guess I should say that, you know, if we have a more complicated model than saying that, you know, Z makes X and Y conditionally dependent will not be the full story.
I would just be saying that, you know, it is something that helps making X and Y independent but there are other variables in the middle. So in this case I should say that TZ and W are the thing that makes X independent conditionally independent from why.
So Z in this case is part of the blanket but it's not the blanket.
It's not the form of definition that I could give but yeah I think this is probably more than enough to grasp my intuition. This is Marco blanket as defined by Perl in his book 1988.
Okay, so
now what I want to say is that, you know, the definition of this markup blanket is pretty clear. You know, it's like three lines in the book by Perl and you know this thing, you know, has been used for about two decades.
Successfully, I would say, for people by people trying to do inference on different problems in machine learning, you know, this is a definition that is, say, quite recurrent in standard textbooks from Bishop to, you know, what's the name of the other one.
Murphy and you can pick up your favorite like, say inference machine learning book and you will find the same definition of Marco blanket.
Now what I want to point out is why this is also what this has been applied successfully machine learning that has been a point saying time where, you know, things actually changed and this is basically what I will use to explain the turn.
In the same in this history of Marco blankets and the need that we saw to actually have two different names for two different things.
So, at the same time, say what people are using Marco blankets to do inference in machine learning models people started wondering okay, can we actually say that the brain is system doing inference.
And then you see all of these books and you know 20 years or say literature on predictive coding base and brain hypothesis, early stages free energy principle, etc, etc.
What I would say is a big, you know, turn of events, as I mentioned earlier, is happening someone time around 2012 there's a paper by freestone an hour where they mentioned where they start talking about Marco blankets as being something the separating
internal from external and freestone being a neuroscientist mentioned something about the brain, basically being the internal and the environment being the external and probably the body being this Marco blanket.
But I think it's kind of say out there is not really neither here nor there, I guess by 2012 things however change I think more drastically when we get to 2013 does this paper like as we know it by freestone.
That actually starts to make big claims about you know origins of life and how Marco blankets apparently are a, you know, a special structure a very important structure fundamental structure that we should study to understand the origins of life.
And only that you know this later gets pushed into you know studying origins of agency origins of different systems.
More importantly, however, I think this is where things actually start to change because after that we see, you know, around nine years, yeah, 2022 of you know Marco blankets of life, mind cells sex agenda pain experience religious practices climate and ecosystems, etc, etc.
So I'm not making them up. These have all been coming out in the literature, same spider freestone's work. And more importantly, I'm not trying to make fun of these of these ideas I'm just trying to say that there is a big difference a big shift in the types of claims that have been made
before, say freestone started to use Marco blankets in his work, and after. Again, make sure you know this is just to say that there is something that has to be unpacked there needs to be unpacked.
Okay, so what do I actually mean by things that I believe needs to be unpacked.
Basically, here is where I will start talking about per or freestone blankets by per blankets I will need the initial definition of Marco blankets, the one that we find the purse book 1988.
For freestone blankets, I will mean what actually happens once freestone start to say well okay this thing might actually be important to understand, you know, origins of life and perhaps like you know definitions of different things of importance to neuroscientist biologist social
So, what do you actually mean is happening well, I would say that in the literature we often find that people.
Well there's some papers actually claim well you know freestone blankets are just stochastic processes version of per blankets this is something that will unpacking a couple of slides is basically means that we move from a time independent definition of per blankets to something
that we work in for time series. And this is great.
You know, if true this will be already like a big advancement, something that you know is already like doing a lot of work.
But what I would say and what we say in the paper is that essentially there are other changes happening at the same time. So there is something that has to do with modeling.
There are blankets and inference happening with a model within a model and I will unpack that later.
And there is something to be said about the metaphysical or epistemic status that is attributed to this blanket. So in my opinion, you know freestone blankets actually are somewhere in there, they are not really saying much about stochastic processes because
they need to assume that they are stationary. So, you know, time is really not a variable there at the end of the day. And, and I would say that they are pushing quite into the metaphysical realm, not always but you know, more often than not.
And I would say that they make this big change between with the within the model which is, you know, the thing that actually got me and got us like to make a big points about this in the paper and you know you also seen the title inference with or within a model.
Okay, so starting from random variables or stochastic processes. Okay, this is where, you know, I will try to give an intuition for what I think some of the parts, some of the working parts of this idea actually are, but it is not something that I
can fully unpack without, say, doing a lot of maths then there's not the goal of these of this talk at least. So, so far I've been talking about you know Marco blankets as you know a bunch of variables that make another two bunches of variables
conditionally independent so TZ and W are shielding people like to use this word for blankets shielding why from X or X from Y.
Now this is fairly intuitive and the definition as I said is like a three lines.
The thing is less obvious when we had time series. So here read like three time series XYZ going left to right different time steps.
This is also not a really nice one in the sense that we have time in.
This is not time homogeneous in the sense that we have different connection at each time step. And in this case, I guess that the main question that people are asking is what exactly needs to be conditionally independent from everything
The thing is, if I choose a single variable, why one, it is pretty easy to just apply the same thing the same rules that we have for random variables for the per blanket 1988.
The thing, however, is that people usually use this same time series model to say that we have a system that is evolving over time. So why two is the same why one but at a different time step and why free is the same as why to but at a different
different things might have happened, but we have a concept of identity over time as you know, as weak or as strong as you would like that to be that needs to be some concept of identity for this thing to be used for example in biology or neuroscience.
This is a specific say, you know, recording of a brain area over time or this is a specific something else.
Okay, now, if I want to say that X is independent from Z in this case what I need to look at all of the possible connection between, say, X and Z through Y at different time steps.
In that case, the definition of a blanket is much more complicated because we need to consider different time steps.
In that case, are you saying that the thing needs to be the whole history of a system needs to be independent from the whole history. Sorry, of a partition needs to be independent from the whole history of another partition do you want to say that it's just that a particular
time stage you want to say that it's one time step independent of all of the history of the other partition. The thing is not obvious. I think I'll leave it at that.
And it is not obvious to an extent where you know different papers have tried to unpack how different assumptions have very different implications. If you assume some things you will not be able to do a lot.
If you try to be more general you will not get a good definition and if you try. It's a long story. It's something we can discuss later, but otherwise I'll leave it at that.
So what I will try to say, you know, at least poke at is the idea that we don't have a clear definition of crystal blankets like you know I tried to give you different, say, possible intuitive assumptions we might use to model
the line series of stochastic processes.
And, you know, different assumptions have come out like in different parts of the literature. And basically, by that I mean that there seem to be some inconsistency.
And this is the other slide I said I don't like walls of text but I thought that this was actually important to really highlight what what the literature actually looks to me.
So we have the initial definition of, you know, per blanket. That's fine.
1988. We have market blankets that could be simply interpreted in terms of market chains so you know the future of something is independent is condition independent of the past given the present.
And this is something the Perlin cell was using as early as 1989 for some work in there.
And this is also something that freestyle in 2021 finally make clear this is not what I really mean by a first time while Marco blanket, what I call a first time blanket.
Now this is clear in a paper 2021 after bill.
And others actually try to ask for some clarifications.
There is a Marco blanket in the 2013 life as we know it.
And that basically is a per blanket of the stationary distribution and then this is claimed that somehow it's also prison blanket for dynamical for the flow terms but it is never clarified why.
And this is what ignited like the need for the paper by bill and others bill and others actually come up with a counter example say well you know I can have something like a per blanket but that doesn't say anything about the dynamical the
definition of dynamical flows of this dynamical system, and then freestyle after that says oh no no okay it's really not what I mean because you're making extra assumptions and we don't like that is, you know, outcomes razor extra assumptions
they're kind of useless. Okay.
And then we have freestyle actually giving a full definition 2021 saying well, you know if you knock out some of this divergence free components, the solenoid components of the decomposed flow, then you're going to have that a free that a per
blanket a steady state is has direct connections to a decomposition of flows.
Okay. So is this the first a blanket I'm not sure I put in a question mark there because you know, it is still a bit unclear to me.
Why is it unclear because then we have another definition again 2021 if we look at one of the appendices, we see that there is some linearization process happening and something.
There are definitions that the non equilibrium system is actually really close to equilibrium which means that all of them also and all of the solenoid components are disappearing blah blah blah.
So is that what is actually meant by a freestyle blanket, not sure this is something that Aguilera is actually you know discussing in their paper.
We have attempts to actually create a definition.
That is perhaps useful to the free energy principle but that starts from different assumptions.
The course of blanket by roses starts from computational mechanics and doesn't need to assume stationarity and has a lot of other nice properties.
So definition in one of the commentaries to our paper coming from Virgil and others where they try to basically unpack what I was mentioning earlier so how do we ask, for example, the two different
variables that are specific pointing time are actually conditional independent give it the whole history, so that we don't need to assume stationarity something again we can discuss at the end.
In our reply to the commentaries we also found like two or three different definitions that were already in the literature they didn't call it blanket of anything, but they are definitions of conditional independence that apply to stochastic processes and they are already out
Okay, all of this to say, there is a reason to talk about Pearl and freestyle blankets, it is not a clear map as some, some words try to drink blood.
It is really not clear I'm not saying anything does anything needs to be wrong, but I'm saying it is not by any means clear.
Okay.
So let's get to the main point.
Inference with or within a model. So,
the main idea here is to say that per blankets are usually claim, and usually, I would say probably, and they are always claim to be a tool that a modeler.
Crazy scientist on the left uses to make inference about a system, for example, brain on the right, using some kind of model.
So the macro blanket is some is some property of a model that a modeler uses to make inference about a system.
Great. This is inference with the model there is a scientist making inferences about a system with a model, the thing in the middle.
The inference within a model is a bit different, because in this case, we don't really have a modeler.
The model is supposed to disappear from this picture. Well, we have happening is that the model itself is partitioned in what I said at the very beginning so internal external Marco blanket states, and then the claim is that internal
inferences are making are doing some inference about external ones through the blanket.
Now, I'm leaving a bunch of question marks here because, well, you know, you'll see in a couple of seconds but the whole point of inference with the within a model is that there is no modeler.
Now, the inference is happening within the model. There is a model that can be partitioned in one part of one of these partitions is the one doing inference.
This is the cool.
You know, the cool part, to be honest, like you know if this works, you know, this is a really cool, you know, perspective on what is actually happening.
Okay.
So, you know, the things that I was mentioning at the very beginning like you know we see things actually coming out quite a lot when people now talk about this free energy principle.
These things are supposed to be, you know, the internal states of a particular model so if I start with some graphical model and remember I don't have to but it's a really nice tool.
So, you know, it's nice to actually try and explain what I really want to say. If we start with some, you know, graphical model after choosing a particular target variable.
I can find the blanket for the target variable and say that everything that is not part of the blanket then is external in say in purple on the right we see the say the thing.
In green and red we see the blanket that is organized by sensory and active stage sensory being well active being all of the nodes that are directly influenced by
the target variable and the co-parent of the other active states, hence why this is actually active. And the sensory states are supposed to be all of the other ones that are still part of the blanket but are not active.
The thing is the internal thing. So this is supposed to be your microorganism and the origins of light. This is supposed to be your brain doing inference about the environment. This is supposed to be your mind, whatever that is.
This is supposed to be your agent. This is supposed to be, you know, a bunch of things.
Right. So, to, I guess, recap this point, you know, this is a picture that probably you have seen quite a lot in the literature that we reproduce from some of the active inference, but I should say free energy principle papers.
So, internal, as I said, might actually be your brain external might be the environment and sensory states are the ones where you're getting, say, your information from the environment and active states are the ones where you're giving some of your information to the environment.
Okay. Now, the question marks from earlier were there for a specific reason.
I left some question marks because essentially what I'm asking is, once you tell me that you're doing inference within a model. So the model of disappears from this picture and now we're left with the model and a system that this model is supposed to refer to.
So, are you actually saying that the market blank is within the model are actually telling me something about the system that I'm trying to model. Are you trying to say that they are exactly a feature of the system on trying to model.
Are you trying to say that the system and trying to model is in itself some sort of graphical model.
You know, there are different positions, and I think I'll leave it at that in our reply we're trying like to flash out a spectrum of different positions taken by different authors, and you know, just argue that these things actually need to be clarified.
Some people actually use freestyle black is in the literature, they might still mean different things.
Because some people interpret that literally some people interpret that as some sort of nice metaphor and some other people are a bit less the more ambiguous about that.
Something we, you know, argue and, you know, and, you know, something that we believe begs for, you know, clarification is whether some people actually believe that these blankets actually are properties of the system we are trying to model.
And we did find that a few papers actually equate a blanket a freestyle blanket with a cell membrane, the equate a freestyle blanket with whatever separates the mind from something else.
They actually do say that there's a direct mapping they are not specific like in terms of whether they mean identity whether they mean isomorphism whether they mean some other like you know, a more exotic type of relation but they are quite specific
to being a very, being there a very strong relationship. And you know, here I'm just highlighting a few say examples of what I mean by that.
It is not trying like to call out anyone specifically is just trying to say that yet there are, you know, different positions being taken and some of them are pretty strong some of them say well, these blankets are actually fundamental properties or a system.
So, you know, some, um, some people have actually told us well you know you're taking things a bit too literally.
And you know there's a paper now, basically calling us and other people are saying well you know you actually fail, you know, for this.
You fail for this and now you you actually believe that people, you know, think that the universe is just a big graphical model and that's why you're claiming that freestyle blankets have this sort of very, you know,
challenging status to be explained. And to that I just want to say with that.
I guess no, not really we are not trying to claim that anyone believes that although we did have probably some commentaries that actually pointed at that so in the same way we have you know,
people arguing for the universe to be a big cellular automaton, we have some people that might be arguing that yet the universe is a big base and network.
And that's, that's a position that people could take. We are not accusing anyone of doing that but we're just pointing out that the connection between, you know, a property of a model and the thing in the environment is really not clear you have plenty of
blankets that are not cell membranes and conditional independence is between things that are really not that interesting to model.
In this case, it's quite clear if we, for example, bring in an example from the literature of artificial life and I thank you for, you know, mentioning that at the very beginning.
In Rwanda Beers has been studying gliders in the game of life for the best part of the last two decades, and has been, you know, trying to model a lot of places in the, in the game of life and different aspects of a lot of places.
Now, does that tell us something directly about biological systems. Well, not really we're not going to find that anywhere claimed in Rwanda Beers work.
His work is actually focused on the game of life and, you know, it's supposed to give us a series of toy models to start to study all the places.
The connections from that to real auto poetic systems is not something that comes for free. The game of life is lacking a lot of features that are pretty crucial to actually model biology.
The claims there are a bit weaker, you know, since compared to what the free energy principle, for example, at times claims.
Okay.
As I was just mentioning, you know, claims. Well, you know, if we have to compare the claims made by Pearl and freestyle blankets, you know, they, they fit quite nicely, I guess, even in a single slide.
Pearl blankets focus on random variables as opposed to stochastic processes in freestyle blankets. So the time variable is not really, you know, crucial or part of the definition of per blanket is supposed to be somewhere in the
version version per blankets are usually epistemic. I'm sure there are people that are taking them more ontologically than others but usually they are more epistemic than not freestyle blankets at times they are really you know the cell membrane they are really
like the skull around your brain they are really something or they they are read as really being something.
