So if you want to use a blanket, you know, to use bird blankets you actually need to assume, which, you know, variable, you want to do inference on, and then you know find the blanket for this so that you can just consider a subset of the other variables of the system.
And, you know, the whole inference process starts from the assumption of a variable of interest.
The freestyle blankets on the other hand are supposed to be part of a theory that tells you what the system of interest is. So it's supposed to be able to tell me that there is a cell as opposed to, you know, half a cell.
If I cut a cell in a half, the thing is going to dissipate whatever something about the freestyle blankets thing is supposed to be part of a system that tells me well this is a thing cell, this is not a thing half a cell.
And finally then, you know, once we assume a system of interest like per blankets become part of a of an inference process.
You know, and the inference process is actually done by a model on a system with a model.
So some blankets on the other hand, take away the scientists take away the modular and they tell us that within the system we are looking at there is something doing inference about something else so it's a very different perspective, honestly a very
interesting one.
Question, I guess, is whether that is really what is happening. And now for those of you I mean I'm hoping I mentioned that in the right way. So, you know, if I'm right you should be able to go back to the recording.
Like the second point of this, or the three dimensional spectrum of blankets, where, you know, I tried to explain how freestyle blankets actually work and if, you know, if I'm right you should be able to say, you should be able to see that I mentioned something
that you know is really not fitting comfortably with the claims that that we found in the literature and with the claims that I summarized just in the previous slide.
What do you mean by that. Well, the thing is if I give you a graphical model.
You know, that's great you know that helps us understanding you know what is actually happening with some bunch of random variables.
Or stochastic processes.
The thing is, when we use a freestyle blankets.
We still need to assume what the thing, what the internal variables actually are.
This is, you know, something that you can see in basically all of the papers. They actually use this freestyle blankets in the life as we know it paper. Yeah, they take like eight variables and they say yeah this will be our internal
stage then we'll find the blanket and external one.
The thing is they could have chosen 12 and the thing will be different so actually believing that those eight variables actually representative of something like a proto cell is honestly a bit hard to follow hard to brass because you know you could have chosen
eight, six, 12 and the thing will still work like this framework is not telling you how to find the thing you need to say what the thing is and then actually find the blanket for that thing.
When we look at some of the analysis that were done on brain data, well, in that case, the conditional independence is are not really present due to say noise in the recordings that do and due to some of the modeling being done like before inference can
actually say be applied to the mother. And in that case, we see that, you know, there is a thresholding happening and this is you know very openly say expressed by for instance so I'm not accusing anyone of hiding this.
I'm just saying that this is happening like there is somebody thresholding conditional independence is a say oh okay below zero point something something.
This is like conditionally independent. And that process, you know, as far as I know could be done postdoc so you look at the data and you say oh okay there's this area of the brain.
And I know there are some constraints like you know topological constraints about this, say, all of these brain cells are in the vicinity of each other that is a specific there's a specific neuronal group that I'm aware of that is a specific something something.
So, you know, what you could be doing is just thresholding all of the conditional independence is from, you know, neurons part of this group and everything else.
So, you kind of have to assume that thing to begin with. Then you can do all of your nice analysis and, you know, tell me the story about freestyle black it.
The thing actually there is assumed and the sensory multi interpretation that is now applied even to neurons and neurons are sensing and acting and doing stuff which I think is really cool is still done by actually making assumptions about you know what the thing of interest is.
If you cut a new year and a half. Well, you know, in theory you could still run the same type of analysis, but it would be much less interesting.
So, you know, I'm approaching the end. And, you know, here I will be stealing very opening a title that I found absolutely great as in one of the commentaries to our paper, and the basically summarizes.
I guess the thing that I called the elephant in the room just in the previous slide, who tailors this blanket.
So in per blanket we know that there is a modular choosing the variable of interest, find the blanket, and then we apply our, you know, inference algorithm and then we do all of our cool analysis, and you know we can start claiming stuff.
Say freestyle blankets. Well, the thing is, we are still doing the same thing we still need to choose a variable. So even if the model it disappears it cannot disappear before a variable of interest is chosen.
So the part where I said oh yeah the thing is happening within a model well it's happening within a model once with once we chose the variable of interest.
Then we find the blanket and then say we start doing inference, but in this case, you know this claim that the inference is being done by the thing we are choosing.
And in that case you know the claims honestly are being more ambiguous because you know if you chose the thing and you're saying that that thing is actually doing inference.
It is less clear, I guess what the, what the final claim really is.
There is another possible issue that I will not cover it somewhere in the paper but you know, it might seem minor but it's really not something I was mentioning earlier about co parents what are co parents.
So in this case, let's see, let's look at these different graphical models. If I choose a specific variable of interest s.
m is what is called a child of s and it's part of the blanket, because it's supposed to be a variable that is influenced by s.
Now K is also part of the blanket is something called a co parent so it's basically another parent of m, and it is also something that is directly influenced by having or not having knowledge about s.
The thing is, it is probably quite trivial to imagine that if we choose a specific variable of interest, although the children of that variable of interest are kind of like you know actions in a sense they are things that are directly influenced by our
thinking of interest. It is less clear why K is supposed to be an action, I guess, of this s, because it's not really an action in fact in this model is basically, you know we are looking at a, at a patella reflex on your knee, and K will be if I'm correct
say like a hammer coming from a from a doctor and you know in that case you know it is really not clear what is an agent in this picture like is it the internal thing is it internal thing plus the blanket, but if you include the blanket then you have these sort of you know strange situations where co parents are
things that are not really part of the internal that are not really directly influenced by the internal thing, so you know it is probably a big deal, but it is also something that yeah it is not central I guess to to the main point of this
presentation so you know there's a section in the paper I'll leave it at that or for discussion later. Okay, so that brings me to basically the end, where I have just a few slides where I try and like to picture what I think should be happening or what we should look forward to
happening.
You know, given the type of context that I set up. So,
basically, in the reply to the commentaries we commentaries saying being, you know, spread over a different range of positions with respect to this freestyle blankets and the free energy principle.
We basically try to condense what we believe are four possible ways forward.
The first one is pretty simple. We're just saying well, you know, we just need some clarity.
We need people to actually tell us what they mean when they when they invoke a blanket in their words. The second one, you know, argues that we might actually look for a free energy principle without blankets and see what that means.
And even as a third one consider, you know, what I mentioned at the very beginning so active inference has been some sort of you know alternative framework to reinforcement learning different cost function, different perhaps inference algorithms or whatever.
That is in a very strong sense independent from the claims of the free energy principle, whereby we actually don't need to assume that we are defining an agent we just need to assume that there is an agent.
The fourth one is something that I will call something that I will call like beyond the free energy principle and you know I will unpack in just a few seconds.
So, by more clarity, you know, you can actually probably imagine the point I was going to make anyway.
It is not a single axis we're looking at it is not just a move from random variables to stochastic processes we're looking at.
And, you know, not only the movies not trivial and probably and probably bring some problems already but you know we have different moves and you know to that I tried to summarize so with to within a model, and perhaps epistemic to metaphysical.
You know, these are free access but probably there are even more things happening and these are not say cheap, you know, shots that honestly just a way to say that this is not that this is something that needs to be unpacked.
I will actually talk about Marco blankets in the literature of free energy principle, more often than not they mean one of the 10 different things that I listed in the zoo of blackheads.
And it is not clear which one people mean at different points and different parts of the literature. So clarity, pretty simple.
If we consider the free energy principle without freestyle blankets well, you know, my first need to look at what happens when we had them so you know we need to have an assumption of stationarity as the latest paper still seems to imply.
And the inference learning that we might be talking about very crucially and this is something we can discuss later is only happening away from the blanket like if you're in a stationary stage you know there's no real learning that is happening there's no real inference.
I guess at least in, in a trivial sense that is happening. So, you know, in a paper where people start like to say oh you know but this is really actually not true like you know, we don't need stationarity.
So I think they do this is you know show show simulation where they just bump, which is bumper system auto stationary state, and then they let it relax to stationary state again and say oh you know, see during this relaxation inference and learning are happening.
Well, yes, that's the whole point, they cannot happen if you are in a stationary state.
Say, do away with them, then you know it is less clear what the partition between internal and external will be there are other definitions but it is less clear whether some of the claims made by the free energy principle will actually stand anyway.
Crucially, I think that the main point made by the free energy principle so the presence of internal states doing inference about external states, say, captured by this approximate base and inference lemma.
It is all but obvious without blankets. So, if there is no approximate base and inference lemma is there still a free energy principle. I don't know. I actually don't know.
Third point so active inference without a free energy principle. I guess that you know usually people see just you know a single spectrum of development for free energy principle and active inference.
They say well you know it started in 2006 or what if the brain was a thing doing inference about following accounts of predictive coding.
And there's about you know seven years of, you know, models of brain activity cognition learning perception action agency attention, etc, etc.
In the 2013 life as we know it paper where things seem to move from just neuroscience to the whole field of theoretical biology.
And then there's a big paper in 2019.
The so called monograph by first and where he where he tries to say that this principle may actually apply to all non equilibrium.
All out of equilibrium systems in a thermodynamic sense so not only biology but also say physical systems out of equilibrium with some specific say extra constraints for biological ones.
You know, I'm leaving their match because of some recent work that has been done in terms of especially category theory.
And even like some of the recent work in differential geometry, where the free energy principle is being laid down like in a specific, and I guess more precise mathematical form that could actually tell us something else.
So, as I said, like, you know, some people see this as a, as a single spectrum. I honestly tend to see this more as a branching process, where at least since 2013.
We had, you know, active inference doing stuff with per blankets, you know, just normal inference with a different cost function.
We had the free energy principle with freestyle blankets. So all of the stuff that I've been talking about during this presentation, and we had an attempt to explain active inference with the specific choice of a cost function derived from this freestyle
assumptions that I had at the very beginning. And I think these three can work mostly independently. So, you know, we could do all of our cool active inference models without actually having to explain the origins of things agency minds and life.
And, and I think this is a viable, a viable option.
Beyond the FEP and this is really the last line, which probably brings me to the 60 minutes that was given. This is something you know that I largely under development and you know that I'm shame, shamefully advertising with some
people on the right that I think are doing some really cool work. So Nathaniel Virgo, Martin Biel, Simon McGregor, trying to say, capture some of the main ideas of the FEP in a category, theoretic, say framework.
And based say on
yes, synthetic probabilities, Markov categories, and, and all of the cool stuff happening there at this point in time, and not the right like something that I'm trying to work on.
Well, actually not working honestly, but when I'm trying to study. Yes, some of the stuff. Some of the claims made by the free energy principle and actually inspired by cybernetics, and all of the other cool stuff in control theory back in the 70s.
Through a also category, category, theoretic lens, and no pun intended for those of you who know what a lens is.
In terms of double categories, and yeah lenses and charts so trying to understand how different systems can actually be connected to each other.
And say like different lenses, blah, blah, whatever, we can talk about the later and how, especially their behavior is related so if I give it to dynamical systems. And if I study their behavior so their inputs and outputs, what can I say about those dynamical systems
especially if I cannot see their state.
And this is the stuff on the right is working the stuff on the left is still not working but it's something that I believe could be, you know, a good avenue for people still interested in claims made by the free energy principle.
And with that, I'll leave it to hero for the second part.
I guess of this event.
Thank you everyone.
