But here's the clever thing.
These prediction errors can suppress themselves directly
by cafling back to the real world,
by causing the muscles to contract until the proprioceptive signals
match the top-down predictions.
And all that I've just described is just a classical reflex arc.
So I don't need to revise my beliefs.
Of course, my beliefs are actually fit for purpose,
provided that my top-down predictions, my chronology discharge on my motor commands,
are realised reflexively by, in this instance, ocular motor reflexes.
So that's fitting the world to the model in a very, very simple way.
The world has just the sensation of my effector organs.
But notice these predictions, these self-fulfilling predictions,
are deeply informed by a hierarchical synthesis from all modalities.
So these are not just predictions about my eyes,
but they are contextualised by the context, what I want from the world,
and they're informed by integrating an amazing sense,
all the information that I come from multiple modalities.
So that's the basic structure that I'm going to use.
I'm going to close now, let me just quickly summarise,
where biological agents minimise their surprise or prediction error,
or their entropy, they minimise that by suppressing prediction error,
that can be reduced either by changing predictions,
maybe a perception or learning,
or by changing sensations through active sampling.
This entails perception, particularly coding,
entails recurrent message processing to optimise the predictions
while action makes those predictions come true,
and therefore minimises surprise or free energy.
So what I want to do now is introduce one of my favourite equations,
and I'll do it very gently.
It takes us back to now, we're back in the high church of variational calculus
and free energy, and I have to do this in order to speak to
the notion of what do we want to do when we sample new information,
what is our goal.
I have to say, it sounds a little simple-minded,
but it is for me the truth,
the only goal is to minimise free energy.
The preferences actually come into the free energy
through pride beliefs or pride preferences.
So we heard about goals, desires and pride preferences.
In my world, those are pride beliefs about the states
that things like me should occupy.
Therefore, if I minimise my surprise or my prediction errors,
then I will implicitly end up in my preferred states.
But there is another aspect to free energy,
which I want to explore with you at the moment,
which is what we've already heard about, the epistemic part of it.
So what I've done here is express free energy in its usual way
in terms of an energy and an entropy.
Free energy is usually an energy minus an entropy,
where the energy is a sort of information theoretic energy
that comprises the likelihood,
the probabilities and sensory samples given their causes,
beliefs about how those causes were engendered
and pride beliefs about the controllable aspects
of the hidden states of the world generating sensations
look like the positions of my eye.
Crucially, these pride beliefs entail preferences
or beliefs about what I will do.
And here's, I think, the most important point
that I wanted to communicate today.
If it is the case that it is sufficient to minimise free energy,
surprise or prediction errors,
then the only self-consistent belief that I have about my action
will be that I will act to minimise my free energy,
surprise or prediction errors in the future.
And I can write that down just by making the probability
of my control states where I am looking at the present time
and expected free energy following an action.
And if we unpack that, and I'm not going to do that here,
we can actually decompose that into the pride preferences
that we've already heard about, the goals.
So, we had to do the smaller numbers,
you had to do the bigger numbers.
That defines the hypothesis space.
And we want, we would believe ourselves in this instance
that we will provide the correct answer.
But there's another part here, which I want to focus on,
which is the epistemic value or the information gain.
And put simply, this is a component of free energy
which is all about reducing uncertainty.
And basically, all this reduces too,
is that if you believe that we act to minimise our expected free energy,
what you're saying is we are only in the game
of resolving uncertainty about hypotheses or beliefs in the world.
And I think that's really important because much of what you were,
I think trying to convey was the way that we carve our world
in terms of a hypothesis space has enormous effect
on what we do and how we resolve that uncertainty.
So, the nice audience participation example here,
we just have the hypothesis there was a minimum card
and a load of other uninteresting cards.
Whereas for you, there was a high card
and a load of uninteresting cards.
So, both of our hypothesis space were a bipartisan.
And then you were very cheekily challenging the poor subjects.
Well, in fact, there was a hypothesis space
that comprised three things, high and low cards and possibly,
yeah, intermediate cards.
So, I think it's a beautiful example of inducing a model space,
a hypothesis space.
All this is saying is everything we do is in the service
of resolving uncertainty about those hypotheses on the table.
And I'll quickly illustrate that,
how that, say, can drive cicatic eye movements
in the last slide or last couple of slides.
So, just an illustration of that
that will be familiar for those people
who are dealing with active vision and salience,
possibly also attention to a certain extent,
when we're talking about attention
just before the start of this workshop.
So, let's say I had a hypothesis
that my visual impressions, my samples,
foveal samples, limited to this little portion of the screen here,
put it by the circle,
were generated by this vast or this statue here.
This epistemic value of information game
basically scores a reduction in uncertainty
about that hypothesis, if I sample there.
And I can actually compute that, it's not difficult,
and I can compute it for every central location
determined by where I am looking you here
and create a map of the epistemic value information game,
or salience.
And this map actually does look as if it is a sort of mathematical object
that actually attracts cicatic eye movements
here from the classic work of Yabus.
So, let me just see if I can simulate this active palpatience,
visual palpatience of the world.
I won't go into this, it's just the same sort of graphical model
that we used in before,
and then convert it into a predictive coding scheme.
Here, I just want to show you the results.
So, in this example, it's the last slide now.
The agent has a hypothesis base of just three things
that can cause its sensory impressions.
There's a face out there, there's an upside down face,
or there's a face on its side.
So, its hypothesis base is threefold,
and what it has to do is to resolve ambiguity
and decide what's causing its sensory input.
So, what it's doing at each point is working out the most salient
or the parts of the visual field.
It should sample to resolve as much uncertainty as it can,
or minimise its free energy,
expect it free energy as openly as it can.
What this produces are a series of saccadic eye movements,
shown here in terms of the complete sequence here,
and here graphically in terms of the movement of the circle dot.
So, here is where the agent is looking.
These are the salient's maps driving these prior beliefs
that I will sample the world to minimise uncertainty,
or resolve uncertainty, simulated EOG,
what it actually samples,
and here's the most important graph here.
It shows the expectation of the true, normally-orientated face
relative to the beliefs about the two competing hypotheses,
the sideways of the inverted face here.
And what we can see here is that within saccadic eye movements,
and between them,
there's a progressive reduction in the uncertainty,
or the 90% posterior confidence intervals,
of a rather saltatory sword.
And of course, as it keeps on sampling,
it confirms its hypothesis and continues to resolve uncertainty,
and it happily decides this is what I'm looking at.
Of course, if it didn't,
then it would try to explore different hypotheses.
So, I'm going to give the last word to Helmholtz,
each movement we make by which we alter the appearance of objects
should be thought of as an experiment designed to test
whether we have understood correctly the invariant relations
of the phenomena before us,
that is their existence in definite spatial relations.
And with that, I'll thank the people whose ideas I've been talking about,
and thank you for your attention.
Thank you very much indeed.
