Because it's either not going to happen in my lifetime or be my kids or
grandkids, so who cares?
And the other thing that tends to happen, again, it's a human nature thing.
And particularly in the U.S., when you're talking about doing community
planning is, well, the federal government will help us out if it gets bad enough
because it won't affect the whole country.
The kind of risks that we're talking about affect the whole country at once.
There won't be any help coming.
So it's complicated.
And what I try to do is figure out, well, what are the things that help in the
short term against the hazards people see every day or are more likely to see?
And then how do you blend that so that it's also dealing and taking the edge
off some of the longer term hazards?
So if you look at, say, like a hurricane coming in, you can look at something
like, well, beach renourishment, adding more sand on the beach, protecting
your sand dunes, well, that's helping the environment.
It's helping tourism because now you've got a nice place for people to go
and it's protecting against the hurricanes.
So it's hard, but you have to find things that will help with those big risks
that help on the small end.
And I think that's where we keep coming back to governance because, OK,
good governance means the trash gets picked up on time.
It means you've got a system where you've got a good solid health care system.
It means you've got a stable economic system.
It's all those kinds of things that blends together.
And it also means you're less likely to suffer from these catastrophic big risks.
So let's go down that rabbit hole a little bit.
There was such a thing that we might agree was good governance 50 years ago,
80 years ago, 150 years ago.
But what's happening now is this phase shift towards first social limits to growth.
In other words, the economy globally and nationally is still growing,
but it's being shared now by fewer people.
So a lot of people have not experienced growth in the last 30 years,
which leads to polarization that and and social media and AI
and some of the other things we could talk about.
But governance today seems like it's placed on a game board
that makes good governance the way Walter Cronkite might have described it less possible.
So we are undergoing in real time a phase shift in governance in a negative way.
Given all the risks that you and I talk about,
what sort of governance structure could we look to in the future to help?
And how do we get that started?
I have no idea.
Yeah, that's a real tough one.
I can see a system that would work,
but I don't know how we get there because it would make a lot of people mad.
If you look at one, and actually that raises a really interesting point
because we started the discussion, you can start and design something
that may be perfectly fine for the conditions that you face now.
But then over time, the conditions change
and then you start tweaking it in ways that doesn't work.
And I would say the US government is a prime example,
something small that looks on the surface like a good idea.
Senate making the Senate popularly elected.
The Senate used to represent the states and the state governments,
but that change of now they represent people.
They're popularly elected on the surface. Oh, that's great.
That's more democracy. That's better.
But it also really screws things up because the original system
was designed around these sovereign states.
So now we've got the split system where the states still have tremendous power.
You know, the president and the authority really
don't order you to wear a mask during a pandemic, for instance,
but the state governors do.
Well, that's a real problem because now you've got individual states
with individual leaders who have very different worldviews
who may or may not want to go along with it, either for religious beliefs
or science beliefs or just a sheer political order in this.
So you just how do you.
So the system that was fine for 18th century
with sovereign states, limited communications,
you tweak it in a way that you think, oh, we've got better communications.
Now we can make it more democratic by making it more democratic.
You broke it.
So don't you think that trend is going to accelerate the battle
between state governors and the federal bureaucracy,
president, executive branch as as events unfold in the next decade?
I think so. And I think you're seeing that to an extent now.
The problem is, as you know, there's been a lot talking about risks
and systemic risk within, say, the US political system.
It's a real problem.
People talk about civil war or talk about breaking up.
Well, it's not that simple because you look at a state like Georgia,
which ordinarily you would consider, even though we ended up with two
Democrat senators this time, the reason for that is
there's a very deep urban rural divide.
And so if you do go down that road, and I don't think we will for a number of reasons,
but if you went down a road to a to a serious
conflict, civil war type situation, there's no boundaries.
There's no it's not like North and South, where you get two completely
different economic systems and two different social systems.
It's within a state, even within a city.
I mean, here in Chatham County, you've got the county, the suburbs
are largely Republican, you've got the urban areas that are Democrat.
How are you going to split that up and even have a it's just going to disintegrate
the chaos? It's not going to disintegrate into any kind of an organized conflict.
So here's a conundrum that I'm emotionally processing in real time,
talking with you. I can make the case for the type of things that you're saying
should only be said to elites who can change them.
At the same time, the elites are a product of our population
and our virtue and our values and our engagement with the issues of the world.
So how can your message and your knowledge about the risks that we all face,
including the granddaddy of all, which is some peer to peer nuclear conflict,
how can that be helped by more general public awareness?
And I'll I'll I'll just put it bluntly.
There's a reason you don't do a lot of podcasts and and we're willing to do this
because you are very worried about this.
And clearly, you think there is a path forward to both change our governance
and somehow defuse the growing nuclear risks in our world.
What do you think?
Yeah, and that hits to a vital problem that we have.
And that's information and how information flows
and how we've got this rupture now of people classifying things as misinformation.
In my experience, there's less misinformation.
It's more isolated, correct data points that are then being misinterpreted.
And so you look at what you mentioned about elites about governance.
Say, I believe that you've had Dick Epphart as a guest on your podcast
and talking about the Iraq War 2003, how that information you would think
had a leader of this nation end up with that kind of bad information about WMD.
Right. And it was pretty much unanimous at that point.
Colin Powell believed it.
I mean, everyone believed it.
Well, you say everyone believed it.
Analysts didn't believe it.
People at my level absolutely didn't believe it.
And again, I was involved in some of that.
And I can tell you nobody really believed it.
The problem is when you get higher in the organization,
you start to get selection bias.
It starts to be if you're given information, something that's maybe,
for instance, chemical weapon precursors.
Well, that was the big deal during the Iraq thing.
And it's like, oh, well, Iraq has chemical weapon precursors.
Well, today you get a bifurcation.
People say, oh, well, you know, Bush lied.
They didn't lie.
They were actually correct.
There were precursors there.
But guess what, Nate?
Every Home Depot is a supermarket of mass destruction, from my perspective.
I mean, you've got chemical weapons precursors in Home Depot, in Walmart,
and all these other places.
So if you're doing an intelligence analyst and analysis, you then come back to,
well, OK, is it militarily significant?
And maybe if you've decided on a course of action
and you're trying to justify that course of action,
you don't talk about whether it's militarily significant or not.
You just basically throw out, well, we're worried
because someday they may have that capacity.
So that's what we're going to push.
So you start to select and go, you focus on, oh, wow, precursors.
Not reading or not caring about the wider picture.
It's like, well, we can't ever let it get beyond precursors.
So that's where the problem is what makes good leadership,
what makes good decision making, certainly what makes someone
giving some of the ability to be elected.
Those are different talent sets.
And again, how do you blend all that to get into a good governance?
Underpinning all that is the fact that humans prefer simplicity and certainty.
We don't like uncertainty.
So we prefer messages that are simple and confident about a path.
And our world is incredibly complex and nuanced and fraught with risk.
So there's the individual human behavior aspect.
And then there's what manifests in governance and leadership.
And this reminds me why I never call you on a Monday
because you usually get my week off to a bad start.
And after this podcast, I'm going to go decompress with my dogs.
But we're alive at this time, my friend.
And we have to play a role in in diffusing these risks.
So getting back to the nuclear risk, maybe maybe just expand a little bit
if you would be willing.
I've read the news like most people have.
There's Saber rattling with Ukraine and Russia and the U.N.
and the U.S. role in the U.N.
And it seems to be being diffused a little.
But you seem to think that there are significant odds in the next 12 to 24
months that that gets out of hand.
If that's true, are you aware that two days ago, like it's three days ago now,
Russia basically delivered the U.S.
and NATO and ultimatum?
No, I was busy chopping wood and making a colorful video about energy.
I've been watching the news here in the U.S.
and in Europe, and it amazes me how little our current
government seems to I'm not on the inside anymore.
But just from what I'm seeing on the surface, on the outside,
what happened to all the old Russia hands, the old Soviet people
that understood what was going on and understood communications?
It basically Russia set delivered draft treaty outlines,
which a lot of people here in the West, and they mentioned it briefly
on CNN and on Foxes, oh, well, it's just paper, it doesn't matter.
They were very specifically laying out what they consider to be red lines,
what they consider to be here's things that we're worried about.
You need to take seriously.
And I wonder how seriously they're taking on the inside.
And just it's a little bit dated because it's from the 2009.
But I was horrified to see if you recall when Hillary Clinton,
the Secretary of State, gave Sergei Lavrov, the Russian Foreign Minister,
this red reset button.
Well, the word reset was actually the wrong Russian word.
How is it possible for the U.S.
Secretary of State to give something to the foreign minister
