And, of course, from a political standpoint, the pressure is have a program,
do something, but sometimes the right and patent again, a quote factory here.
But the patent was also famous for saying a failure to decide is a failure,
but a decision not to decide is a decision.
So giving politicians and we as voters, and we need to let politicians say,
I don't know, you need to let them say we need to we need to give them
the flexibility to compromise.
And that's something that's also missing from our current political dynamic.
So since you have the mic here,
maybe do you want to expand a little bit on this idea of a council of
contrarians or save that for another day?
Yeah, just to toss it out, if you gave me a clean sheet and said,
you're emperor for 20 years, restructure our society and government.
The first thing that I would do, there's way too many politicians.
There's too many elected offices here in Chatham County.
We vote for coroner.
Really? I understand the politics of it, because back in the Old English
Commonwealth, and this, by the way, gets to another point that, to me, is so
critical. You notice a lot of times I talk about history and periodization.
How do you divide history up into chunks so that you can, well, when does history
start? Because if you look at the Arab-Israeli conflict, well,
do you start it in the year 500 when the Israelis got kicked or were able
to leave Babylon and go to the Promised Land?
Do you start in the turn of the last century with the beginning of the Zionist
movement? Do you start in 1949? Do you start with last week?
And where do you do that? That's where your answer ends up, largely.
So that history and taking a view and making sure you understand the
circumstances, I think, is critical. I lost my train of thought.
But with the blank page on the Council of Contrarians.
So my blank page, system design, would be reduce the political offices,
make being a leader a profession, a decision-maker.
You know, we tend to think politicians are leaders, but they're not.
They're politicians. They are experts at getting elected.
And we just sort of hope and pray that they're also good leaders and good
decision-makers. Well, you look at somebody like a Trump who, you know,
was great politician. I mean, he was able to get elected.
He had a lot of help from the media.
And we, you know, you can argue over all that, not really a great leader in
the sense of the only people that followed him for the people that were
predisposed to follow him.
So he was able to pull the political's feet off of getting elected.
Wasn't really good at bringing people around his point of view and
perspective as leadership as a decision-maker.
Yeah, I would say it was a train wreck.
I could make similar arguments about Biden and that the system that got him
elected performed quite well.
You look at here in Georgia with the way that the campaign was run.
It had nothing. It was all about strategy and tactics.
It had nothing to do with really either, it was politics.
It had nothing to do with either leadership and absolutely nothing to do
with the ability to make decisions once you get into office.
So I would create a structure where you're not eligible to run for a higher
office until you have demonstrated an ability to perform
and make good decisions at lower level offices.
And so how do you do that?
Well, in Roman times, the Roman Republic had sensors.
And the sensors had a lot of different functions.
They conducted the census, of course.
But one of their other functions was, again, that negative contrarian role
where they could throw someone out and say, you're no longer eligible
for political office because, you know, you were corrupt.
And so sensors themselves were no longer eligible.
They were it was composed of generally former senators.
And eventually there became like a lot of processes.
You've got to have checks and balances to make sure that that system
doesn't become corrupt.
But having people whose role isn't to lead,
it isn't really to make decisions, but it's to review other people's decisions
and look at it and say, yeah, you know, go back and rethink this.
This is not technically astute.
That's particularly vital because, as you say, we've got stovepipes of technology.
We've got, you know, being an expert in AI does not make you an expert in geopolitics.
And being an expert in military affairs doesn't make you an expert in the environment.
And so getting multidisciplinary, getting people who are experts together,
but also having generalists, you know, we tend to focus on somebody and,
oh, you get your doctorate in economics or in atmospheric science or something.
Well, OK, that's nice.
But how do you cross those fields?
We get the terminology is specialized.
You get all of these things that you get over specialized.
And then you have a poor political guy who's got an elect that he wants to do a good job.
And so now he's got, as you were talking about with Biden, OK,
you've got a parade of virologists coming in to talk to you one day.
You've got, you know, maybe a military guy coming in the next day
and then you've got an economist coming in.
That's where you've got to have this very reliable framework
of experts who can provide that level of guidance and expertise.
And then the check and balance.
We currently are checking balances or our three branches.
But yeah, having a branch out there that their sole purpose is to look at things
and say, that's a bad idea.
I think it makes a lot of sense.
That does make sense.
And your last few sentences there, even though we're running out of runway,
are tooting my horn, so to speak, because long ago I decided
that society does need more generalist, more systems, thinkers
to be able to fly up high enough and look down at our situation.
So education matters.
Education of young people now so we can have critical thinking,
wide boundary thinkers as our citizens and our leaders is very important
because our education system has so far.
And yes, we have an attempt to do liberal education.
But really, we're stamping out reductionist expertise in a lot of these universities.
Yeah, absolutely.
That I agree.
I do want to very briefly say that I agree 100 percent with.
I was lucky or unlucky, depending on your perspective in that
I was put my undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
and then got graduate training in geophysics and then ultimately economics.
So I ended up being a generalist almost by default
because there was nobody really doing the kinds of analysis that I was doing.
And so I was able to just got pushed into that.
But it's frustrating sometimes because I do deal with specialists.
So, you know, I'm dealing with somebody with a PhD in atmospheric science
who looks and goes, you know, you should be talking about the economics.
Why are you dealing with computational fluid dynamics?
Even though, in some ways, I've had more CFD courses than they have.
Same with economics.
It's like, well, you know, you're a science guy.
What are you doing talking about gross domestic product?
And, you know, relative, I was just had a very I was trying to figure out
purchasing power parity in industrial sectors versus commercial versus domestic
product sectors the other day.
And so that's where I think you are on a really good track
and something that you're doing that I think is so important
is getting these students at the undergraduate level
to start thinking in terms of go take a course.
And if you're studying economics, fine.
But make sure you take some courses in biology.
Make sure you take a course in a hard science.
Try to at least take intro to engineering or something
so that you know what's going on.
And the universities need to be structuring it to make it easier
for undergraduates to get a good broad and learn some poetry.
You know, go learn some history, but all those kinds of things.
That's where, again, I was quite fortunate that I was able to to study
history and languages and linguistics and understand those different pieces.
That's vital for our future.
If they're running out of room in their schedule,
they could just bypass taking economics all together.
In my opinion, that's the dismal science.
So let me just ask you one more question here.
And I think I should have you back
because we haven't scratched the surface of some of the relevant parts here.
I am a systems thinker, but and most of my listeners
are already worried about oil depletion and financial overshoot,
ecological overshoot, climate change.
But now you're throwing in nuclear risk and governance into the mix,
which are two things I don't know a lot about.
There's a reason you agreed to do this with me, Chuck.
It's because you deeply are worried about what's coming on those two areas.
But how does sharing this information about those two risks
to individual people on this podcast
will not be listened to by the general public?
It's going to be those curious minds who are trying to make sense of this
and make better decisions in their own lives, in their communities
and maybe at a larger scale.
What recommendations would you have for them to take these things on board
that maybe they've never thought about that sound pretty fricking scary?
What do you think?
I think the biggest thing is we've got to reduce the level of geopolitical tensions.
How? That's exactly what that was.
My next sentence was the way that we do that first off is
don't buy into the propaganda.
Don't buy into this adversarial relationship
that we seem to have with different countries.
There are you look at Russia, you look at China and you look at our news today
and the you've got politicians who are basically saying there's a big threat out there.
Is there really? And I know it's it's hard because you don't have access to information.
But it read Deutsche Well or read which may not be the best
because they're kind of it can be propaganda, too.
But seek out and try to understand a little more about the world
and try to understand that
and try to seek out alternative information sources.
Don't get in your stovepipe.
I would guess Fox News or CNN
recognize that in the case of Ukraine, for instance,
it's actually if you watch those two networks, you're hearing essentially the same things
that geopolitical tensions are high, even though the perspectives are slightly different.
I'll I'll interrupt you and then continue your thought.
Two things.
Number one, I think I saw a stat recently that 60 percent of Americans
left or right have one news source.
That's where they get their news from, whatever it is, CNN or Fox.
It's a single source.
So maybe in the show notes, you can give me a list of eight or 10
broader sites where you can get information.
Yeah. And so you'll hear stuff and it drives me crazy.
You'll hear people say, well, RT, for instance, or Al Jazeera.
At least scan the headlines to see what they say is important.
And you'll be surprised because in the US, it's all the political horse race.
But you go look even at something like Deutsche Well.
And I'm happy to say I have a list, actually, of sites.
Some of them you can freely visit.
Some of them you want to use Incognito because they're considered
propaganda sources by some of the like RT is considered this foreign agent.
Or you look at some of the Chinese sources.
Al Jazeera, for instance, Al Jazeera has great
historically has had great coverage of Africa.
And we forget about Africa.
