We forget about South America.
We forget about these different areas where there's a lot going on.
And suddenly, even if you don't even if just scan, you're scanning the headline,
suddenly you realize, wow, there's more going on than what Joe Manchin did
with the Build Back Better Plan.
And that opening up that world puts those kinds of squabbles in perspective.
So what you're kind of saying is that we need to, well, the risk right now
is what happened with the Iraq situation in 2003 with the weapons of mass destruction
feels like it's bubbling up as well with respect to the Russians
interfered with our election and Russians are the bad guys, etc.
That that's it's deja vu, but at a larger stakes.
Oh, absolutely.
And again, that gets back to if I tell you the Russians did not interfere in our election.
OK, immediately you'll get a course from one side saying,
of course, they did and they'll point to Cozy Bear or point to the trolls.
Well, the thing is, this was trying to say about information and misinformation.
In fact, Russia did have troll farms that amplified and echoed certain
American voices that were saying those kinds of things.
And of course, the reason why and you may ask, well, why did Russia do that?
Is it because Putin wants to take over the world?
It's like, no, because the US has pumped billions of dollars into trying to
build up and try to overthrow the Russian government or influence the Russian government.
You look at Navalny.
Navalny is astrotourged.
Nobody in Russia takes him seriously.
You read the US media, you would think, oh, my God, Navalny is this
well-respected leader who's being oppressed by Putin.
Navalny couldn't pull more than 10 percent.
You know, Putin actually is legitimate.
Well, he's pretty popular.
People are tired of him, but they don't see a big alternative.
And in fact, the constant demonization does him more good at home than it does.
So getting back to US domestic issues, ask your political leaders those hard questions.
And I will say this, especially when it comes to geopolitical issues, be very careful
about anything coming out of our intelligence agencies, because they're basically
telling you the information that has already been compiled and processed into work
product that is designed to support a policy.
And to our political leaders, and I believe that
Representative Gephardt would be now cheering this, is that it's vital
that you question what's coming out of these and try to find alternative sources.
So your basic message to our listeners is keep an open mind.
Make sure that you are skeptical of common news outlets, try to learn more
from alternative news outlets and maybe shift your internal pattern recognition
risk calculus to include risks of war and governance, because those things
are happening in the background simultaneously with the more popular risks.
And I would add one final point that to me is absolutely vital.
When you're looking at people that you think disagrees with you, and particularly
you look at the Republican-Democrat divide here, what concerns me when I talk
to people on either side of that divide, they think that people on the other
side are being subjected to propaganda and misinformation.
And they think that people on the other side don't have valid concerns
because their information is bad.
I know that's simplifying.
Classic in-group, out-group dynamics.
In-group, out-group, exactly.
Yep. Guess what?
Same thing about your subject, those same constraints and the same problem.
Generally, I find you can pick any subject, abortion, voting rights, immigration.
And what you find if you dig away the propaganda, you may find people
are concerned about different things, but there's also a lot of common ground.
And I would say empathy and compassion.
And so you look at what's the underlying concern?
People who say to pick one of the real hot button ones that because of
Supreme Court now is abortion.
Well, OK, you've got those who are concerned with what they, and I think
for large extent legitimately, you're looking at an evolving human life
and the dignity of that evolving human life.
But the flip side of that is you've also got the dignity of the woman
who's carrying that potential human being.
Well, what did both of those points have in common?
Ultimately, you're looking at how do you preserve the dignity of the human life
and the dignity of a human being?
And to me, most of our issues boil down to that.
And then you've got this third component that's really orthogonal.
And that's what is the role of government.
And it's important to realize when you say there should be a law.
Essentially, what you're saying, I authorize government to use violence
on my behalf to make that happen.
I know that sounds a little bit libertarian, but it could.
And I'm not taking it to that extreme because there are circumstances
where government needs to say, yeah, don't do this.
You know, you have force backing it up.
But if you think of these topics compassionately and recognize.
There's very few circumstances where that person you're
disagreeing with is really just evil or really just has some crazy.
Their concerns are probably legitimate.
They're just looking at the problem differently than you are.
So what you're what you're suggesting and advocating and hoping
is that we can again, maybe put country before party and have
somewhat of shared values again, but the misinformation, the misinterpretation
of information, the distraction and the non-equalates education
combined to making us talking past each other and get hijacked by
the the polarization instead of recognizing the wider boundary picture
of, oh, my God, we're all facing these risks together and we better roll up
our sleeves and have authentic conversations about the path ahead.
And I would elevate it.
I don't like to phrase country above self because the interests
of these national entities we call nation states aren't necessarily
the interests of the people that live in them.
What I would boil it all down to is understand whoever you're
dealing with that you disagree with.
It may be that they too are compassionate, that they too have concerns.
It's just their focus may be different.
So what you need to do and what they need to do is recognize the validity
of each other's concerns and then figure out where the common ground is.
Because nine times out of ten, there is a common ground and it does.
Yeah, it's going to take some compromise.
But if you if you believe the other person is sincere, then and in most cases,
they are and they have real concerns.
And if you address those concerns, you can come to an understanding.
And that may be very meta and, you know, kumbaya, but hopefully it's real.
This whole podcast is meta and kumbaya.
But I do think we need that civil discourse again somehow because without
that, we're not going to solve any of these problems.
And we need to extend it internationally.
Russia has valid concerns.
They're not pointier tables.
OK, how do we do that?
Last question, and I'm going to have you back because there's a lot of
stuff we didn't get to.
But how do we extend the civic discourse from domestic to international?
Just a few bullet points or suggestions.
Number one bullet point is we need to insist that our leaders take into
account, not just the domestic political concerns.
So why are we pushing Europe, for instance, the way we are?
Why do we care where they get their natural gas from if it's stabilizing that society?
Well, we want to sell them more LNG.
That's selling them our LNG.
That's a domestic political economic concern.
Yeah, that's nice, but that's potentially destabilizing if we're
creating an adversary out of Russia.
Because let's face it, it's more convenience, more environmentally
sound for them to use a pipeline to send them gas.
So, OK, let's figure some other market for our goods.
Let's figure some other way of doing it.
So I would say that when talking to our politicians, we need to
press them from a global standpoint, not just we do it on the environment.
We're constantly after our politicians on the environment and say,
think internationally.
But not to go down another rabbit hole as we close.
But this gets to the super organism issue is that we're outsourcing
our governance and our planning to the market.
Yes.
Thank you so much, Chuck, this is very informative.
I learned a lot and thank you for your continued work on de-risking
our world and to be continued, my friend.
Absolutely.
I enjoy talking to you, Nate.
Again, what you do is pull together these different things in a way
and try to get it out there for people to think about.
And as being a systems guy, and I feel that I'm a systems guy as well
on a lot of detailed technical issues, what you do is essential.
So thanks for this podcast.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of the Great Simplification,
please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit
thegreatsimplification.com for more information on future releases.
