The U.S. has a as a unique position on this, right?
We're the only country that is allowed to use nukes.
Can you explain the situation there?
Yeah, that's the U.S.
has all of the other countries.
Israel is a little bit ambiguous on it, but all of the other countries
basically have a no first use policy.
They've declared that they will not be the first to use a nuclear weapon.
And it is some nuances to it.
For instance, Russia has been very clear in stating that they will not be
the first to use a nuclear weapon unless it's an existential and they've gone on.
And there's documentation what they consider to be an existential event,
like armies crossing the border and pushing deep end and Moscow is besieged
those kind of circumstances.
So essentially what they're saying is we're not going to use nukes unless
we're about to collapse.
The U.S. has said, well, you know, we'll use them for a lot of other things.
So, for instance, the U.S.
has said that it will it is willing to use tactical nuclear weapons
in response to cyber attacks.
Imagine that that is actually US doctrine.
I can send you the documentation that that shows that.
How can we get away with that is because we're top dog on the military
and that's the way we can the only way that other countries won't
band together and reject our policy.
I don't understand.
I don't really understand it either.
And it's partly why I don't think Americans fully appreciate
the extent of to which America is not respected in the world.
We're feared, but when it comes to being a moral, ethical leader,
countries deal with the U.S.
and do what we tell them to not because they like us, not because we're
the shining city on the hill anymore, but because they're afraid of us.
And because we're like the slightly crazy guy that you want to move
carefully and not make sudden moves around and understand that kills me to say that.
Because, you know, I my first experience is working for the U.S.
governor, I served in the Air Force in the 1980s.
I've been as a consultant to a wide variety of agencies, you know,
literally shed blood for this country.
It just kills me to have to say that.
But I go into international meetings and it's that level of respect
for the moral authority of the U.S., the moral position of it just
has completely evaporated since, I would say, the mid 1990s.
So to conclude that or to draw that thought to a close,
that the U.S. is not only what we say
because when you're looking from an intelligence standpoint,
you its capability, its intent and its capacity.
It's what you know what you're saying you're going to do.
And then are you building the tools you need to do that?
So the U.S. has just started production on the B61-2 nuclear weapons,
which is going to mean almost nothing to most of your audience.
But that's essentially a new class of selectable yield weapons
that can be carried on fighter aircraft.
Here's another dumb question.
Sorry to interrupt.
Why do we need more nuclear weapons?
We have enough in the world to destroy the world hundreds of times over.
What's the logic of we need a few more?
Oh, you're now into the wonderful world of acronyms.
And this is an important point.
If you look at the 60s, 70s, 80s, the Cold War with Russia,
other two prevailing schools of thought developed
around nuclear weapons, the one that most people are familiar with
is mutual assured destruction or MAD.
And that's the one that says you start using nukes.
Their their value is deterrent
because basically once you cross that threshold,
it's going to get out of hand and kill everybody.
And so that basically says the only reason you have a nuclear weapon
is to keep the other guy from using it on you
and you build a survivable deterrent.
So you don't have a first strike capacity.
So every nobody dies.
In other words, nobody uses the weapons for everybody dies.
Mutual assured destruction, the second school of thought,
which actually was one that I got my initial training in is called nuts.
And first off, only humans can come up with acronyms
like MAD and nuts to talk about nuclear bombs.
Nuts is nuclear utilization targeting strategy.
It's a school of thought that says you can use nuclear weapons.
They're just another weapon system.
It's another part of your mix.
And so you can plan to use them
and that there are breakpoints between
tactical use, operational use and strategic use.
In other words, you can get away with using small nukes
to get selected military targets without significant risk
of escalating to a general exchange.
So if you look at that, so let's look at Russian weapons systems,
US weapons systems, the Russian weapons tend to be large,
yield and dirty, which says if you use them,
there's a lot of bad consequences.
And that's the trend that they have tended towards over time
and stuck with China, essentially the same thing.
They're not building a lot of these small,
yield, selectable, yield kind of weapons.
It's the big ones. It's the deterrent weapons.
The US over the last 20 years has been going towards building smaller,
more easily delivered, the W88-2,
which is able to be launched on submarine-launched ballistic missiles.
That's an extremely dangerous weapon,
because you don't know if you see a submarine
launching one of these at you.
Is it one of those small weapons that's going for a small target
or is it part of, is it the beginning of a general exchange?
So it's very destabilizing.
So if you look at leaving politics
and just leaving aside and putting the intelligence hat on,
if you look at the kinds of weapons that the US is building,
it's saying we're building weapons that we intend to use
for tactical use, not just for deterrence and assured destruction.
And it's not just the US.
There's other countries that are going from mad to nuts, right?
Not so much.
If you look at, say, what Russia is doing is very interesting.
Their weapons systems of unguarded,
cleansed all these different systems,
they actually are gearing more towards precise, targeted,
hypersonic weapons carrying conventional weapons.
So they're trying to avoid that nuclear threshold
by building advanced conventional weapons
that can inflict tremendous damage on military targets
and are virtually unstoppable in the sense
that it's very hard to target and counteract
an incoming hypersonic weapon.
So I assume based on your recent comments
and conversations in the past that you think nuts is nuts.
Yeah, I don't think it's a smart strategy,
especially if the other side Russia is saying,
look, you use a nook, you've crossed the threshold,
we're going to have to act as though you have crossed that threshold
and are going to be using strategic weapons.
China has essentially said the same thing.
And so, you know, do you balance what people say
they're going to do, what their weapons mixes look like,
what they're going to do?
Russia, at least, is building a capacity to at least shoot down
small scale tactical nuclear weapons.
That scares the US, quite frankly,
because you look at a lot of our weapons are the cruise missiles
are reaching a point of obsolescence
against the advanced Russian air defense systems.
If you launch a salvo, very few of those are going to get through,
which means you're going to want to increase the yields on those salvos.
It's in a very complex calculations on that.
But it's a messy situation and it's dangerous.
We're going to get back to that
because I have some some deep questions to ask you about that.
But getting back to how this started, how do we think about risk?
And you were explaining how climate and nukes are interrelated
and you were talking about Russia.
But I mean, all this stuff just compounds on each other, the different risks.
It does. And that's a great point, Nate.
And what I was trying to get back to was, OK, I do a lot of climate modeling.
I've been a peer review scientist on my PCC.
You would think at least the public side of a lot of my work
is with weather, geophysical hazards, that kind of thing.
So if someone asks me, what's the greatest risk humanity is facing?
Because right now, most people are saying, oh, it's climate.
And to me, you have to when you're looking at hazards and risk,
you got to know what timeframe you're thinking about.
And you ask, how should you think about risk?
Well, this is that process is, OK, if you look at the 100 year timeframe,
yeah, climate is probably the biggie.
We're radically changing our climate systems
and it's going to change agriculture.
It's going to change whether you can live within 100 miles of the coast.
There's Florida going to be underwater,
which may or may not be a bad thing, depending on what you think of Florida.
So if you look at those kinds of things,
100 year climate environmental issues, if you look at a 50 year timeframe,
there's some people that would still say client.
But I know me and you would be saying, no, it's financial risk.
It's resource depletion.
It's those kinds of things that start to really look at
that we're on a growth curve that is just not sustainable.
And so we would probably think in those terms.
But what's the biggest risk in the next 12 to 24 months?
Surprisingly, it's nuclear war.
And in my estimation, what's worse in one sense,
and one of my favorite catchphrases, as you know, is it's worse than that,
is, of course, if you have a small scale nuclear exchange, guess what?
You've just triggered all those other risks.
You've just melted down the financial system and
imagine what would happen to the markets, to global commerce.
If a war broke out where people start slinging nuclear weapons around,
even if and even a small scale exchange, as some of the recent studies
publicly available now are showing that,
especially exchanges with the modern nuclear weapons mixes,
like the US is looking at using where you're ejecting a lot of soot.
There it's not the airburst you think of as the 1960s strategic.
You're going after hard and buried targets,
which throws a lot of stuff into the atmosphere.
That stuff comes down generally in the oceans.
What happens if you shut down
phytoplankton production in the Atlantic for a year,
which is what even a dozen or so tactical nuclear weapons could do?
So you just caused a cascading environmental catastrophe,
even with the small scale nuclear exchange.
So in the in the 1970s, everyone was worried about nuclear war
