of the Russian Federation, something that is the wrong word?
So so that was the the geopolitical equivalent of my autocorrect and my phone.
Exactly. And how is it possible?
One of our email exchanges recently, I said, you know, World War Three
is probably going to start from Google Translate or autocorrect or both.
And that's a perfect example.
That's a joke, right?
And that's not serious.
Well, think about what a misunderstanding that was Lavrov laughed it off.
But what it did was let the Russian team know these guys aren't serious.
They're doing this gimmick and they're not even able to pull this gimmick off.
How can we trust what's going on with them?
If you look at things like translations, and this gets to what you're seeing
about information, the current geopolitical situation.
A good example is Putin was recently quoted and he has said in different
contexts in slightly different ways that the collapse of the Soviet Union
was the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century.
OK, that's kind of a literal translation.
And so a lot of people have leaped on that.
And you hear all over the West, aha, he wants to recreate the Soviet Union.
But if you look at it in context and you look at what he actually said,
he wasn't saying the collapse of the Soviet Union as in the loss of the Soviet Union
is the problem. It was the collapse itself that was the.
So you get into linguistics.
Another Putin quote is that he said that no one with a heart
does not miss the Soviet Union.
No one with a brain wants it back.
And so when you put those in context, you understand what he's saying is that
the way the Soviet Union broke apart, what happened with NATO expanding to the East,
even though there were multiple solemn assurances that it would not,
has created a high geopolitical risk.
And so just taking that as a
is one situation because I'm having to be pretty familiar with it
because that was my area and what I worked in.
So you can take that to look at Taiwan, China.
You look at various other geopolitical conflicts.
You can extrapolate that to energy and resources in a lot of ways
and that it takes a very deep understanding of a lot of these issues.
And how does that deep understanding at an analytical level
get converted into information that then gets to a political leader
who is making decisions?
And that's really the focus of a lot of what I'm looking at.
And the problem is just that you you've asked
in directly a couple of ways, how do we fix this?
And this is something that I'll throw out.
I'm not sure what our time is like at this point, but I'll throw a bomb
and literally figuratively hear democracy.
Does democracy work? Is democracy a good idea?
How much democracy is too much touched on that with the Senate?
At what point does having someone who has the skills to be
elected as a political leader in a democracy?
Are those skills really such a good set of skills to be making these kinds of decisions?
So that's a tough thing to look at and a really tough problem to handle,
because we're so conditioned to think more democracy is better.
Is that really true in a very complex technical environment?
Well, it also is.
I mean, a democracy only works if the citizenry are engaged and educated about the issues.
And I mean, I don't know how that's possible.
I'm not even educated as much as I know about the systemic predicament.
I know very little about the things that you're saying, which brings up a tangential question.
I mean, you look, I can just imagine President Biden's day and daily briefings.
And right now there's a lot on Omicron and COVID and lockdowns and masks
and changing the flight rules and things like that.
But then you've got all the other things going on.
The Build Back Better Plan was just not a pass because of Manchin
and all the progressive versus middle of the road.
Democrats are in fighting.
But then you throw this stuff on what you're talking about.
Ukraine and Russia, at some point, it almost becomes unmanageable.
All the different risks that we have, whether it's democratic or not.
And that actually raises a good point.
And it raises a concern that I've seen happen in our government
and that the political influence has been seeping lower and lower into the various organizations.
And I'll toss out one example is the Defense Department.
And you look at, did you know that the Joint Chiefs of Staff are no longer in the chain of command
and have not been for like 25 years now, 30 years?
I did not know that.
Yeah, the Joint Chiefs are no longer in the chain of command.
The president can directly issue orders to what they call the combatant commanders in the field.
So what's the role of the Joint Chiefs then?
They're advisors.
They are they're in an advisory capacity.
They no longer have direct command authority.
Now, the original thinking and the reforms from the that were put in place in the early 90s
the rationale for that was the Joint Chiefs were too powerful.
They could be too obstructionist.
The thinking was that by making them advisory, it took them out of the chain of command,
gave the political leaders a direct link to the combatant commands,
which made them more accountable to the political leadership.
OK, maybe nice in theory, but what about the flip side of that?
It makes the politicians too powerful.
You know, let's say you have a nuclear use scenario or a bombing scenario
that were even conventional war, you're going to to start.
Well, OK, a two or three star combatant commander
doesn't have the connections to Congress that a member of the JCS does.
He doesn't have that high visibility profile.
Can you name the head of Norcom?
I mean, I doubt most congressmen could could name who the head of the North American command.
But you know who the Joint Chiefs is because he's test fine before Congress and all that.
So what you've done in that concrete situation is you've taken out
somebody with the stature, you know, that chair of the JCS.
He's not going anywhere except maybe to Lockheed Martin when he retires.
He's so you're what you're really describing is in this unbelievably
unique period of economic growth and largesse on the backs of
technology coupled with with fossil surplus.
Our political system is self selected for politicians
as opposed to capable technocrats on the issues of the day.
And that is a self selecting thing that has been a positive feedback,
which means that not only is maybe the structure
not conducive to the risks that we face in the coming decades,
but the personnel might not be as well.
And you look at the exactly and you look at the number of political appointees.
You look at how deep into the organizations
political influences and partly that's a societal social thing.
You know, the concept of I like to think of myself.
I I'm pretty well apolitical in the sense that
I like to think of myself that way as well.
Yeah. And that's where I don't, you know,
I've served and acted as a consultant to all kinds of governments,
both here in the U.S. and internationally.
And it doesn't what I care about is solving problems
and making things work better and making people's lives better.
And as I've said in what in on my blog and some of my posts is,
you know, you want to fix climate change.
I can give you a plan that Adam Smith would the ghost would write
and you will chapter wealth of nations or, you know,
Lenin would rise from the tomb and cry out Leechton in Red Square.
I mean, it doesn't matter to me.
You can take a Marxist approach.
In fact, I think just over my shoulder here.
Actually, it's the other shoulder.
We have one my little we have, you know, Marx
and then the opposite extreme.
We have Bender, who is the ultimate who's the ultimate libertarian.
So I don't care.
We can go from Marxism to libertarianism.
I think in certain circumstances,
either of those philosophies can solve problems
and can make a better society.
So it's my job is whichever direction society is going to take
is to say, well, here's how you can do that within that framework.
The problem is you've got to be willing to listen to expert opinion.
And that hits on and that expert opinion has to be.
A political, neutral, unbiased so that when I tell you,
look, this isn't going to work.
I'm not telling you it's not going to work
because I want to create a socialist utopia.
I'm telling you it's not going to work because it's not going to work.
And you need to trust that because as you just said,
you're never going to understand you're a smart guy.
But you haven't spent 40 years studying computational fluid dynamics.
So if I tell you our best climate models are saying X is going to happen.
Well, you've got to almost accept that.
I can explain it.
I can try to tell you the uncertainty,
but you as a decision maker have to trust that I'm telling you that in an unbiased way.
That system in this country has broken down.
And that's I blame scientists.
I blame people like me.
I blame scientists for part of that and I get it.
You know, you look at the 70s and 80s, you have a lot of the leading
researchers in climate where we're looking at the models and going,
holy crap, we got a problem here.
So they went to Congress.
They said, look, you've got to do something about this.
Congresspeople say, well, what do we do?
Well, at that point, I think you have to, as a scientist, step back and say,
look, there's several different, there's multiple options used.
There's free market options, there's centralized government options.
But I will work with you within that framework, but I can't tell you
which philosophy to use behind it because I don't want to get pinned
with the policies because once you do that, then I'm taking sides.
And the other side is going to say, well, is there a real problem?
Or are you just using that problem to force some kind of social change?
Which is exactly what happened with climate.
Well, in my experience in DC, the last two years, universally,
my meetings had three things in common.
One is the people were political.
How does this risk you're talking about land on the D versus R?
The second is I got plenty of other problems.
This is in the future.
I care about the right now.
And the third is, OK, I understand.
But what can we do about it?
I need to have a response.
And it's very difficult to get rid of those three things
and actually work on problems.
I will publicly acknowledge right now for those viewers that watch my
Earth Day talk, one of my grand interventions, my 20 interventions
that I suggested was this idea of a council of contrarians.
And you, Chuck, are the one that gave me that idea, a council that would act
as maybe a fourth branch of government where there would be bipartisan,
nonpartisan experts that would have negative authority, not positive
authority to enact any legislation or a policy, but the ability to veto bad ideas.
Well, and that kind of actually goes back to what we were talking about
with the nuclear conflict problem that actually you just hit on where my thinking
on that started to develop, probably, is that it's most of the times
when something bad is avoided, it's because somebody said no to a bad idea.
And the astronaut, I believe it was John Young, was very famous for saying,
there's very few situations you can't make worse by doing something.
