Saving the Appearances, a Study in Idolatry, 2nd Edition, Chapter 16, Israel.
We have been tracing the gradual disappearance of participation and hitherto save for a passing
reference in Chapter 10.
We have considered it only in relation to the growth of that alpha thinking which first
began to play a predominant part in human consciousness with the emergence of Greek civilization
from the Orient.
But while this was going on, there was another force quite independent of it at work in quite
a different way to produce the same result.
This was the religious impulse of the Jewish nation.
And although the two impulses operated to produce the same result, there could hardly
be a greater contrast than that which we find between them.
One from an Attic chorus or a Platonic dialogue to, say, the 104th Psalm, and you are at once
in a different climate of soul altogether.
More than that, you are among different representations.
Thou decest thyself with light as it were with a garment, and spreadest out the heavens
like a curtain.
We read in verse 2.
And for a moment we are inclined to feel that the Psalmist, too, is experiencing the representations
as representations, and the world as a theophany.
But as we read on, we are impressed more and more with the enormous difference between
this world and the world either of Greek or medieval man.
If we seek a parallel in Western literature, we shall almost find it more readily in a
later age when participation had nearly vanished.
After her, perhaps, or even Walt Whitman.
For here is not only no hint of mythology, but no real suggestion of manifestation.
Everything proclaims the glory of God.
But nothing represents Him.
Nothing could be more beautiful, and nothing could be less Platonic.
The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats, and so are the stony rocks for the conies.
But it is not, we are made to feel, by contemplating these phenomena that we shall rise to the
contemplation of the invisible divinity who brought them into being.
Here, too, the appearances are indeed grounded in divinity.
But they are not grounded in the same way.
They are not appearances, still less names, of God.
They are things created by God.
There is, in short, nothing to suggest eminence, and everything to suggest the contrary.
If moreover, we review the Old Testament as a whole, we shall scarcely find there suggested
what we find assumed by both Aristotle and Aquinas, namely, that knowledge of God's creation
can become knowledge of God.
In the Old Testament, the relation of man to God is the only thing that is of any importance
at all.
But it has nothing to do with detailed knowledge, unless, by that we mean, a knowledge of the
moral law.
Of knowledge as conscious participation in the divine ground of nature, and thus in the
spirit of God himself, we hear no whisper.
The Jew could rejoice in the appearances, but he was not curious about them.
He was not interested in them.
He was, above all, detached from them.
We have seen that, before the days of hypotheses to save the appearances, knowledge was inconceivable
except as a form of participation, and we cannot resist the conclusion that this detachment
from knowledge arose, in the case of the Jews, not so much from any want of mental alertness,
as from a positive objection to participation as such.
We cannot resist this conclusion, because the whole history of the race, from Exodus
onward, is the story of that chronic objection.
Participation and the experience of phenomena as representations go hand in hand, and the
experience of representations as such is closely linked with the making of images.
The children of Israel became a nation, and began their history in the moment when Moses,
in the very heart of the ancient Egyptian civilization, delivered to them those ten
commandments which include the unheard of injunction,
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven
above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
This is perhaps the unlikeliest thing that ever happened.
As far as we know, in every other nation at that time, there prevailed unquestioned
the participating consciousness which apprehends the phenomena as representations and naturally
expresses itself in making images.
For the Jews, henceforward, any dealings with those nations were strictly forbidden.
Everywhere throughout the world, original participation was in full swing.
For the Jews, from that moment on, original participation and anything smacking of it
became a deadly sin.
And what is the Old Testament, but the tale of their long struggle against that very sin?
Their repeated relapses and their final victory.
By the Jewish nation, participation was even apprehended as a kind of incontinence, and
it often involved incontinence in the narrower sense.
All before your mind, the picture of Phineas in Shatim, seizing a javelin in his right
hand and staying the general relapse into idolatry by transfixing his compatriot in the
very arms of the Midianite-ish woman, and you have a device which will serve well enough
for Israel's escutcheon.
As Pallas Athene, newborn fully armed from the brain of Zeus, will serve as a device
for the Greeks.
To be intensely aware of participation is, for man, to feel the center of energy in
himself identified with the energy of which external nature is the image.
Thus, in the religious aspect, original participation has always tended to express itself in cults
of a phallic nature.
The proper role played by the phallic emblem, as image of man's participation in a nature
apprehended, as later also in myth and poetry, as female, may be easily conceived.
The degeneration of such cults into orgiastic rites and excesses is equally easy, or, for
those with no understanding of participation, much easier to imagine.
The brute acceptance of phenomena at their face value, which was condemned by Plato,
is paralleled in the sphere of the will by the sensuality which seeks repose or self-extinction
in the contacts of the senses taken as ends in themselves.
Both are the passive expense of spirit, replacing its active manifestation.
Moreover, participating cults naturally cluster about man-made images.
Original representations evoke and focus the experience of nature as representation.
The grove is rendered more numinous by the idol in the grove.
Thus, the ritual of vowel of participation was closely associated with the worship of
idols, and the second commandment, already quoted, concludes with the injunction, Thou
shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them.
Indeed, the Jews were not only forbidden to make images, they were not only forbidden
to adore or to serve them, they were enjoined to destroy them.
Ye shall destroy their altars, break their images, and cut down their groves.
Now in this book, I have consistently applied the term idol to the collective representations
characteristic of today.
I have even defined it, for my purposes, as a representation or image which is not
experienced as such.
But the heathen idols which the Jews reprobated were experienced as such.
They were participated.
It may be felt, therefore, that the term was ill-chosen.
The answer to this objection really lies in the book itself, taken as a whole.
Indeed it is the book, but the following observations may not be out of place here.
In a wider frame of reference than hitherto adopted, idolatry may be defined as the valuing
of images or representations in the wrong way and for the wrong reasons, and an idol
as an image so valued.
More particularly, idolatry is the effective tendency to abstract the sense content from
the whole representation, and seek that for its own sake, transmuting the admired image
into a desired object.
This tendency seems always to have been latent in original participation, and if we could
peer deep enough into the foundations of the world, we might find it written there that
alpha thinking itself is one of the forms it takes, perhaps the noblest, certainly the
subtlest, and most lasting form.
At all events, the word idol has long come to denote not the image as such, as the Greek
idolan originally did, but the image on its way to becoming an object.
It does not, therefore, seem to me to be stretching its meaning unduly, to extend it to images
which have finished that journey.
Striking, as the Jews did, not only at the practice of idolatry, but at the whole religion
of the Gentiles centered around it, their impulse was to destroy not merely that which
participation may become, but participation itself.
Original participation is, as pointed out in chapter 6, the sense that there stands
behind the phenomena and on the other side of them from man, a represented which is of
the same nature as man.
It was against this that Israel's face was set.
The devotee in the presence of the totem feels himself and the totem to be filled with the
same manna.
They are both of them, stopping places for manna.
It was this state of affairs which Israel consciously arose to destroy.
The idols, their psalmist insisted, were not filled with anything.
They were mere hollow pretenses of life.
They had no within.
Their idols are silver and gold, even the work of men's hands.
They have mouths and speak not, eyes have they and see not.
They have ears and hear not, noses have they and smell not.
They have hands and handle not, feet have they and walk not.
Neither speak they through their throat.
And as to their representing anything of the same nature as man, he added ominously,
They that make them are like unto them, and so are all such as put their trust in them.
There is, accordingly, the deepest imaginable contrast between the non-participation achieved
by the children of Israel under the leadership of Moses, and the non-participation achieved
by the pagan and Christian West under the influence of Aristotle, although the former
accrued in the course of time to the latter.
We will here consider three special differences.
In the first place, there were no geometrical or mechanical hypotheses to render the appearances
idols in the sense in which the word is used in this book.
If the children of Israel were enjoined not to worship the sun or the moon or any other
star, it was because they were tempted by the glory of these appearances to do that
very thing.
They refrained because they were commanded to refrain, not because they had been educated
to see the greater light and the less as a ball of gas and a ball of rock, which just
happened to be there.
It was not, in other words, a materialist non-participation.
Secondly, their collective representations were necessarily involved with and colored
by their language, and the ancient Hebrew tongue has a vocally representational quality which
far exceeds that of any European language living or dead.
I shall return to this aspect in a subsequent chapter.
The third difference cannot be displayed in quite such a summary fashion.
According to the Old Testament, shortly before the Israelites took their departure from Egypt,
the name of the God of Israel was for the first time revealed to them through their representative
Moses.
And about this name, two things are to be particularly noted.
It was regarded as, for the most part, too holy to be communicable.
Thus, although in the Psalms, for instance, it will be found written where the word Lord
or God is written in the authorized version, yet when it was read aloud, other names such
as Adonai, Lord, or Elohim were, at all events, by the third century BC, vocally substituted.
The name itself was pronounced only by the priests in the temple when blessing the people
or by the high priest on the day of atonement.
Other precautions and uses emphasized and preserved its ineffable quality.
Typographically, the name is represented by four Hebrew consonants.
Etymologically, it represents a slight modification of the Hebrew verb to be, which also suggested
to breathe.
In Exodus 3, 14, the first revelation, the first person singular of this verb, Yahweh,
occurs twice, as a verb, I am that I am, and once as a noun, thus shalt thou say unto the
children of Israel, I am hath sent me unto you.
In the following verse, the third person, Yahweh, perhaps the nearest equivalent in English
sounds of the so-called tetragrammaton, is substituted.
And God said, moreover unto Moses, thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, Yahweh,
God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent
me unto you.
This is my name forever, and this is my memorial unto all generations.
The Hebrew word for Jew may be similarly rendered Yadi.
The texture of the language hints that a devout Jew could hardly name his race without tending
to utter the tetragrammaton.
Written as all Hebrew words were, without vowels, when any true child of Israel perused
the unspoken name, Yahweh may have seemed to come whispering up as it were from the
depths of his own being.
But this or something like it was increasingly the case is at least suggested by the progress
we note between the accounts in Exodus 3 of the experience of Moses, and that given
in 1 Kings 19 of the experience of Elijah on the occasion of their encounters with God.
The angel of the Lord appeared to Moses in a flame of fire and out of the midst of a
bush, and then the Lord himself called to Moses out of the midst of the same bush.
By the time of Elijah the withdrawal of Israel from participation was already far advanced,
and we are given instead, in the well-known verses, a crescendo of appearances in each
of which God was not.
