And behold Yahweh passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and break
in pieces the rock before Yahweh, but Yahweh was not in the wind, and after the wind was
an earthquake, but Yahweh was not in the earthquake, and after the earthquake a fire, but Yahweh
was not in the fire, and after the fire a still small voice.
This in-gathering withdrawal from participation, to which the Old Testament points, was clearly
then a very different matter from that ousting or suppression of participation which alpha
thinking has subsequently accomplished in the Western world.
Indeed, it might with equal truth be described as a concentration or centripetal deepening
of participation.
As to the glories displayed in the 104th Psalm, God was no longer in them, they were no longer
His representations or names, for He had now only one name, I am.
And that was participated by every being who had eyes that saw and ears that heard,
and who spoke through His throat.
But it was incommunicable, because its participation by the particular self which is at this moment
uttering it, was an inseparable part of its meaning.
Everyone can call His idol God, and many do, but no being who speaks through His throat
can call a holy other and outer being, I.
Herein lay the mystery of the divine name.
It was that name in which there is no participation between the Creator and anything else.
So wrote the renowned Jewish Rabbi Maimonides in about the year 1190, and again,
all the names of the Creator which are found in books are taken from His works except one name,
the tetragrammaton, which is proper to Him, and is therefore called the name apart,
nomen separatim, because it signifies the substance of the Creator by pure signification
in which there is no participation.
His other glorious names do indeed signify by participation because they are taken from His
works.
Rabbi Moses Ben Maimon, More Nebuchadne, quoted by J. Drusius,
a 16th century scholar in an essay on the tetragrammaton.
17. The Development of Meaning
In the course of this book, many scattered references have been made to words and language.
It is desirable that some attempt should now be made to draw the threads together.
When we are disputing about the proper meaning to be attached to a particular word in a sentence,
etymology is of little use.
Only children run to the dictionary to settle an argument.
But if we would consider the nature of meaning and the relation between thought and things,
we cannot profitably dispense with etymology.
It is long since men gave up the notion that the variety of natural species and the secrets
of their relation to each other can be understood apart from their history.
But many thinkers still seek to confine the science of language,
as the Linnaeans once confined botany, within a sort of network of timeless abstractions.
Method, for them, is another name for classification, but that is a blind alley.
Now, etymology depicts the process of language in time,
and it is a commonplace of the subject that whatever word we hit on, if we trace its meaning far
enough back, we find it apparently expressive of some tangible, or at all events, perceptible
object or some physical activity.
Understanding once meant standing under, and abstractions like concept and hypothesis
merely disguise in the garb of a dead language a similarly humble origin.
Even right and wrong are said to have once meant straight and sour.
In much more recent times, we can observe the evolution of a great deal of the emotional
and psychological meaning in contemporary words out of an astrological, chemical,
or physiological past.
Many people are aware, without turning to a dictionary, of what disposition, influence,
melancholy, etc., used to mean, and I have already referred in Chapter 12 to the fact
that similar changes are still going on in the case of such words as heart and blood.
It would be in line with the general process of etymological change if, in future,
the meaning of heart should become purely emotional, some other words such as
cardium being appropriated to the physical organ.
Here and there it is true we may observe a change in the opposite direction,
and it is certainly striking that the most abstract of all terms, relation,
should have become capable of signifying a solid three-dimensional ant or cousin.
But these are the rare exceptions. Throughout the recorded history of language,
the movement of meaning has been from concrete to abstract.
I am here using the word abstract in its broadest and admittedly vague sense to cover
everything in the familiar world we talk about, which is not actually or theoretically accessible
to the senses. Everything which a 19th century logician would have termed an attribute,
and which some 20th century philosophers classify as a mere part of speech.
In this sense, melancholy and a kind heart may be as much abstractions as concept and hypothesis.
It depends how we think of them. How we ought to think of them may be disputed,
and indeed I am engaged in disputing it. But it is enough for my present purpose
that nearly everybody today thinks of them as divorced from the appearances of nature,
which are accessible to the senses, in a way which nearly everybody before the scientific revolution
did not. Systematic reflection on the history of language can hardly begin before the second
half of the 19th century when idolatry, as we have seen, was already near its culminating point,
and when it had already, as described in Chapter 9, distorted the picture which men formed of the
remote past. It was against this background, therefore, that the philologists of the 19th
century sought to account for that unmistakable semantic progress from concrete to abstract,
from outer to inner, to which I have just referred. In those circumstances, their answer to the problem
was metaphor. Before speech was invented, they said, primitive man lived in a world except for
details very much like ours. His next step was to invent simple words for the simplest things he
saw about him, trees and animals, the sun and the moon, and so forth. And then when his reason
had evolved, he found he needed words in which to express his inner life. He used these simple
words again, but this time as metaphors. Herbert Spencer and Max Mueller went further than this
and added that later on, men made the mistake of taking their own metaphors literally, and that
this was the origin of mythology. Mythology, said Mueller, is a disease of language. Of course, as
time went on, they said, the metaphors faded. We no longer call up any mental image of standing
beneath when we use the word understand, or of a physical pressing out when we speak of expressing
a sentiment or an idea. The progress was assumed to be from the metaphor through the trope,
which is a kind of moribund metaphor, as we speak of following the thread of an argument,
to the ordinary straightforward meaning. But whatever meanings its words might bear today,
language was considered historically as a tissue of faded or dead metaphors.
Now there is no doubt that in the last few centuries, the meanings of quite a number
of the words with which we endeavor to express psychological facts or opinions have come into
being in just this way, by deliberate transference from the outer world to the inner. Emotion is
probably an example, but it is equally certain that the great majority have not. If we look into
them, we find that they point us back not to metaphor, but to participation, whether like
disposition, influence, and many others through astrology, or whether like temper and humor,
through the old physiology, or whether without being traceably connected with any particular
system of thought, in one way or another, they stem from a time before that exclusive disjunction
between the outer and inner, which the term metaphor presupposes. Such is the case with
many of the oldest words in the language, like heart and blood, to which I have already referred.
Moreover, many such more recent words, to which a simple metaphorical origin may be hastily attributed,
will be found on closer examination to betray similar birthmarks. Depression, for instance,
would seem at first sight to be in the same class as emotion, but the evidence collected by the
Oxford Dictionary suggests that its psychological significance did not, in fact, originate in a
spatial metaphor, such as we use when we speak of being on top of the world, but as a literal
description of the state of the vital spirits. Many years ago, in a book called Poetic Diction,
I drew attention to another fatal objection to this theory, that words which today have
a mental or emotional content acquired that content originally as a metaphorical extension
of their meaning. It is this. If we find language growing more and more metaphorical,
the further back we go into the past, what possible justification can there be for assuming
a still earlier time when it was not metaphorical at all? Thus, Max Müller postulated a metaphorical
period during which the progress from literal to metaphorical meanings must have taken place,
but what is this but a purely arbitrary surmise? And is it not highly improbable?
Why was such an assumption found necessary? Simply in order to make the evidence presented
by the history of language fit in somehow or another with that evolution of idols to which
I have referred in chapters 5 and 9. It would take a very long time to trace all the influences
exerted by preconceptions of this nature on the theories which men have formed about the origin
and development of language and even on lexicography itself. They are most easily detected by the
train of inconsistencies they have left in their wake. Take, for instance, the old philological
teaching of the building up of inflected and complex words from simple roots of speech.
Some languages, among which Hebrew is probably an outstanding example, are clearly formed about
a relatively small number of consonant groups consisting of three or even two letters each.
Here is the bare fact, but what we make of it is all too likely to depend on the preconceptions
with which we approach it. If we have preconceived a world in which the earliest speakers were
surrounded by idols in all respects like our own, we shall treat these consonant groups
practically as words and shall attribute them meanings which were wide because they were
generalized from particulars. This is what the philologists did, and it is particularly interesting
to watch Max Mueller relating this root concept, as it was presented in his time, to his theory of a
metaphorical period to which I have already referred. He invented a distinction between
radical metaphor and poetical metaphor. I call it a radical metaphor when a root which means to
shine is applied to form the names not only of the fire or the sun, but of the spring of the year,
the morning light, the brightness of thought, or the joyous outburst of hymns of praise.
Ancient languages are brim full of such metaphors, and under the microscope
of the etymologist almost every word discloses traces of its first metaphorical conception.
From this we must distinguish poetical metaphor, namely when a noun or verb,
ready-made and assigned to one definite object or action, is transferred poetically to another
object or action, for instance when the rays of the sun are called the hands or fingers of the sun.
The assumption is that men have had on their lips the roots and in their minds the meanings,
very much as we have words and their meanings today, and then proceeded to apply them
to a varied selection of phenomena. But as was pointed out in the book already referred to,
this assumption is inconsistent in two respects with all that we know of primitive languages.
Among very primitive and otherwise almost wordless peoples, very short words are exactly what we do
not find. Anthropologists tell us, instead of the hollow phrase, or long, rambling conglomeration
of sound and meaning, words grow longer, not shorter, the nearer we get to the end of our
backward journey toward the origin of speech. Secondly, a word meaning to shine, in general,
as distinct from any particular kind of shining, is the very thing which a primitive mind is incapable
of grasping. Indeed, much simpler generalizations such as tree, as distinct from a coconut tree or
a gum tree, are equally beyond it. If, therefore, in any language the roots were there from the
beginning, then whatever else they were they cannot have been words devised by men for the
purpose of expressing general ideas. I do not believe, then, that there is any such thing as a
radical metaphor. But I believe that reflection on the working of metaphor may nevertheless be a good
approach to reflection on the nature of roots. For it is the peculiarity of metaphorical language
that, at first sight, it does often resemble very closely the language of participation. Though upon
closer examination, its existence is seen to depend precisely on the absence of participation.
It is, at all events, important to have made some such examination before we approach the
wider question of the nature and origin of language.
