I could see other people might think otherwise,
but it's okay.
I don't know what the actual truth is,
but that wouldn't necessarily bother me.
Yeah, I agree with you.
It doesn't decrease the grandiosity of what we are.
Consciousness you're talking about?
I was surprised that the guy has so much conversation.
I didn't realize it struck a chord.
I find that I think we don't know
what the motivation is behind that tweet.
It's, I'm assuming it was meant to provoke conversation.
There's no depth in that tweet at all,
but it's not because it's dumb.
It's because like it's a tweet and there's no room
to actually talk about all the complexity of the issue.
And so I'm assuming that he's not actually making an argument
that he even thinks is like persuasive one way or another.
He's just provoking discussion.
And as such, I think it's effective.
It provoked discussion certainly.
It got a lot of discussion going
and allowed people to show their cards on this.
And I'm actually curious about what people's cards are
on this, like people don't talk about this that much.
I think it's not, it's not immediately germane
to making progress in machine learning.
So it's in some ways you might think it was a waste of time
because we can't really use this discussion to get anywhere
and people are busy trying to publish papers and stuff.
But I'm just just personally curious like
about what people think in this field
because it's obviously relevant
like to what we're trying to do.
I mean, maybe we connected into quite a lot
of the symbolic community.
And on LinkedIn, everyone was just posting saying,
oh my God, that this hype is getting out of control.
The runaway train of deep learning.
No, it's like, oh, you're basically just like
feeding into the hype.
But I could interpret that to be completely independent
from deep learning height.
Well.
It's just basically saying like,
is there a threshold that's crossed
where there actually is like conscious phenomenon happening?
And it doesn't mean that what we're doing
is right at all right now.
It's still an interesting question.
I love it because it is provoking this conversation
that we need to be a bit more defined
in what we mean by consciousness
or at least to think about it.
So I thought it was for the purpose that can things
which is to provoke conversation.
And I will admit it provoked me to tweet something.
I actually don't tweet much
but I actually tweeted something last night
because I just couldn't resist it unconsciousness.
What did you tweet?
I don't know if it'll upset you maybe.
I don't know.
Yeah, tell us.
Tell us what did you tweet.
What's upset him?
What did I tweet?
I'd have to look at my phone to remember that
what I said exactly.
Trigger warning, Tim.
Be careful.
Yeah, so this is actually connected to our discussion
in some subtle way here that we've been having
because like basically my tweet on consciousness
I was pointing out that I noticed
like since the original consciousness tweet
like a lot of people making off-handed comments
basically dismissing consciousness is not a good topic
because it lacks an objective measure.
This is an easy way to get out of this.
And the thing that's being missed here
is that is precisely why it's fascinating.
Like it is the phenomenon of subjectivity.
It cannot have an objective measure
unless we're talking about a superficial aspect of it
but the interesting aspect of it
is the part that's hard to talk about.
And so it's literally what it's like from the inside.
And so the idea that we cannot discuss that
is an interesting idea is exactly the kind of cowardice
that I'm talking about.
We're using science to block us
from exploring something that's uncomfortable.
And if science lacks the tools,
like if that's what we're saying,
it lacks the tools to address consciousness
because it is subjective.
That's not an indictment of consciousness as a concept,
it's an indictment of science.
That's right.
You've got me there, I must admit
that's a very clever response.
There's my tweet.
Yeah, I don't know how to respond to that
but I mean, I personally like to think of consciousness
as being the like qualia
and the subjective phenomenological experience.
And I thought it was a stretch to say
that something like GPT-3
could possibly have any kind of subjective experience.
I find it a stretch that did you have subjective experience?
I mean, or did I do?
I mean, why a bag of atoms has a subjective experience
like qualia?
I have no idea why that would be.
This is the problem, right?
So we know quite a few people and they are so cynical
and they argue that intelligence is just a parlor trick
that GPT-3 is intelligent
and we're not really intelligent.
And when we think we're thinking,
we're just doing some hash table lookup
and it's all a trick.
Yeah, I mean, there are people that have argued
that consciousness is just like a trick.
And we're just confused when we think we're conscious.
It's really nothing special going on.
Yeah, I mean, if you take that view,
then none of this is very interesting.
I don't take that view
because I believe that there are qualia
but that's just a belief I can't prove anything.
But then again, how could I?
It's a subjective discussion.
And so like the real issue at hand here
is like whether we think that subjective phenomena are real,
like do they actually exist?
To me, it's worth discussing
even though it's actually outside of the bounds
of current science.
I don't know any way that we can look at this empirically
but I don't find that ambiguity uncomfortable.
I think it's interesting.
I like things that are ambiguous.
That's where we start learning things.
I have to hand it to you.
You've really got me there.
Okay, well, that's good.
Yeah.
Made a point.
Yeah, I mean, part of this,
and some of those points are somewhat old.
Like the point has been made, I think many times
that science is lack of ability to describe consciousness
is not an indictment of consciousness.
It's an indictment of science.
I mean, there's things missing from it.
We need to expand it a bit.
That you're quoting a tweet there
but someone probably said it before.
Yeah, it's kind of an old indictment of it
but I think what I often see is that people often cling
to kind of extreme definitions of things
because if they're confronted with a middle ground
that's completely reasonable, it's just boring.
Like they almost just can't accept that that's the answer.
For example, for me, consciousness, from my perspective,
it's definitely a pattern of neural activity in the brain
and it's probably one that's doing something
like analyzing the neural activity
of other parts of the brain and or itself and that's it.
Like it's, you know, what's the big mystery here
but that definition is almost like too easy
and too reasonable and then we have to start talking about,
yeah, but what does it feel like to be that,
you know, that pattern of neurons?
And I saw this happen like in a debate
between Daniel Dennett and Sam Harris about free will, okay?
Where Daniel Dennett is saying, look, to me,
free will is the fact that you can evaluate options
and you evaluate those options
and one path is taken based on that evaluation.
So for example, a chess program,
if it's evaluating the board possibility
and doing a Monte Carlo tree search
and it evaluates one as being the best option
and it takes that path, that's free will.
In other words, it's freedom of parameter space.
It's, you know, freedom of options.
And Sam Harris' only response to that is like, well, okay,
but that's not what people think.
Like that's not what somebody on the street says is free will.
They think it's this magical thing that, well, who cares?
I mean, who cares what people think is surprising?
Like there's people that believe all kinds of things
that don't have any type of scientific basis
or mathematical basis.
We find a very reasonable definition of free will
that's totally compatible with the reality
and the pragmatic experience of free will.
