will only be trivialized by vacant attempts
to formalize them through oversimplification.
Because inevitably, we'll chop off many aspects
which might not be captured by the formalization.
I had always associated Ken's philosophy
with the missing information problem
rather than the representation problem.
The missing information problem
is that we don't know something
or we only know part of the truth.
The representation problem is that we simply don't understand
or at least we can't verbalize what we're experiencing.
Ken says that the corporate world is dominated
by the attempted veneer of objectivity.
If you're trying to land an engineering role in Fang,
your tolerance for ambiguity and subjectivity
is the single most selective feature
of the level which you get hired at.
If you can solve clearly defined problems, you're a level four.
If you can find the problems,
you're a level six.
If you can find the areas, you're a level seven.
And if you can find people who can find the areas,
you're a level eight or a level nine.
I give loads of open-ended tasks to my team,
discover people in the organization
who are subject matter experts in domain X,
build an operating model for knowledge sharing
and standardization.
What does good look like?
It's possible we don't know it yet,
which is the missing information problem.
But it's also possible that we know it,
but we're not able to verbalize it,
which is the representation problem,
inherent with all complex phenomena.
It's quite interesting, actually.
I'm building a code review platform called Merge.
And it's easy to objectify all of the low-level metrics
such as how many customer engineers we support
or how efficiently we're sharing knowledge.
All of the high-level outcomes
like a better engineering culture.
They're emergent properties, right?
It's a bit like pornography.
You know it when you see it.
So now, I give you Professor Ken Stanley.
We have a nose for the interesting.
That's how we got this far.
That's how civilization came out.
That's why the history of innovation is so amazing.
Everything washes out when we start ruling by committee.
Like, we have to allow people
to follow their passions to their extremes.
And yet we run society as if this actually
makes any sense at all.
I think the gradient of interestingness
is probably the best expression
of the ideal divergent search.
You get to this problem that, like,
I don't know how to formalize interestingness,
which you get to then are proxies for interestingness.
That not everything that's novel is interesting,
but just about everything that's interesting is novel.
It is in my personality and nature
to want to overthrow this,
I guess we could say, tyranny of objectives.
So today, we have an incredibly special guest.
Indeed, my hero in AI, Professor Kenneth Stanley.
Now, the Kenneth Stanley show that we filmed,
which is to say episode 38,
was my favorite episode that we've ever done.
Reading Kenneth's book,
Why Greatness Cannot Be Planned,
and preparing for that show,
triggered an incredible amount of intellectual growth for me.
And a hallmark of that, you know,
when you learn something profound,
is that you start recognizing it
in many other domains of your life.
I mean, you remember when you learned probability theory
for the first time,
and you started seeing exponential distributions
absolutely everywhere.
So I was just saying to Kenneth
that when we listened back to the show last night,
it was probably the best example ever of a show
we overprepared for,
which is to say that during the interview,
we were just bamboozling Kenneth.
We were so excited,
we almost couldn't control ourselves.
And I think in particular,
Keith and Kenneth reached a common ground, actually,
in the sense that divergence and convergence
don't have to be hyperbolic
or entirely mutually exclusive.
Now, Kenneth thinks that we have a nose for the interesting.
That's how we got this far.
It's the basis of all innovation
and the secret of our society.
Kenneth believes that the concept of deception in search,
which is to say getting stuck in local optimans
and indeed deluding ourselves
that we even know what good looks like in the first place,
is what regularly sends us into brick walls.
Kenneth thinks that institutions are full of gatekeepers
and the gatekeepers only want to see your objectives
and metrics.
Any expert on search would know that it's completely naive
and yet we still use this approach
for the most complex problems in our society.
Committees wash out everything.
We need to let people follow their interests to the extremes
and risk has to be tolerated
in order to make the greatest discoveries.
Anyway, Professor Kenneth Stanley,
it's an absolute honor to have you back on the show.
Thank you for having me here.
So it's been great.
I really enjoyed being on it and I'm glad to be back here.
I mean, even the thing you made in front of that show
was awesome.
That was, I showed that to my son and he was like,
what the heck is that?
He's like, that's not my dad.
And I was like, that is, he's like,
you've never seen me in that kind of environment,
but it was pretty cool.
Oh yeah, so we painted a cafe in behind you,
but we did that first thing in Blender.
But I had to learn Blender just for that.
It was the first thing I ever did.
And what I started doing afterwards,
I wished that we did your show a tiny bit later.
I started using my virtual reality headset.
So I've got an Oculus Quest and then I use Google tilt brush
and then I can kind of create a beautiful 3D environment.
I can put slides and videos and all kinds of stuff up there.
And that would have been perfect for that
because I wanted to show all of the stepping stones
in the divergent search in a 3D environment.
But that's a cool thing is we're getting more sophisticated
and we're starting to use, you know,
manum to do animations
because we want to be able to really kind of,
at least for some of the episodes,
tell the story in a very visual and educational way.
So we're kind of going back now and revisiting
some of our favorite, you know, favorite episodes
and can we tell parts of it again
with this new technology, if you will,
or new techniques that we have skills at.
That's cool, yeah.
I got to tell you, just on a personal note,
because you mentioned, you know, your son saying,
that's not my dad, part of my motivation
for doing these YouTube, you know, shows
is that I want there to be something
where my kids can go maybe when I'm gone or whatever
and look back and say, oh yeah, that was my dad.
That's what he sounded like.
That's what he looked like.
You know, that's how we talk.
It's a really nice thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
The problem is no one understands
what we're talking about.
Well, maybe they will.
One of my friends and family,
they say, oh, I tried to watch it,
but I just couldn't understand what you were talking about.
It's so funny because from my perspective,
we're really making things accessible
and dumbing things down as much as possible.
And I still think of myself as completely clueless,
but it's quite deceptive, isn't it,
that you don't realize you're talking another language.
Yeah, it's funny.
I mean, my mom, I said, here's this video,
and she has no idea what this is,
and but she showed her sister who's like eight years old
and didn't know anything.
And her sister was just like, you know,
it seemed like you were really winning in that discussion,
even though I have no idea what you're talking about.
That's cool.
Well, that's good.
I mean, at least the tone sounded like I'm winning.
Well, yeah, it's kind of funny.
Well, speaking of winning,
and that's kind of the question I wanted to ask you is that,
you know, it's one of those ideas,
Tim mentioned these kind of ideas
that the first time you hear them,
and after you kind of digested them a bit,
then you start seeing them everywhere,
and you start seeing, you know, connections,
connections to it everywhere.
