But much of art throughout art history has been about that.
It's certainly a part of art is to reproduce
natural phenomena and artifice.
And that's what art AI is.
So it's not just a connection.
I think it is art.
It's just that we're not willing to discuss that side of it
because we're very proud of ourselves for being scientists.
It makes us feel good about ourselves.
But the reason I started thinking about this
is because I was getting in some arguments with people
where the kind of the crux, the breaking point
where they tried to basically stop it
and say this is the end of the argument
was basically to say that what I was saying was not scientific.
Or like this is not a scientific question.
It can't be objectively analyzed.
You can't get an objective,
you can't get falsification on this question.
So it's basically not subject to debate.
Like let's not talk about it because it's pointless.
And I felt like that is just pure cowardice.
Like we are, you are just saying you are afraid to inquire
in directions where you don't know how to falsify.
To me that's just cowardice.
And I do not like associating science with cowardice.
And I started thinking about, am I really doing science?
Like maybe there's another few here.
I don't know that I was like fully just trying
to create generate hypotheses and validate or falsify them.
There's an artistic side to I think creating these algorithms.
And I think it might be healthy to acknowledge that.
It's interesting to think about.
I think your frame of reference doesn't seem to fit
into the paradigm of science in so many ways.
And I remember you said on the show last time
that you were exasperated that pickbreeder was not recognized
as being scientifically useful.
And there was another convergent committee version
of pickbreeder and then the images just looked
like wallpaper backgrounds.
But to your point before, I kind of agree with you
that when you look at what happens in the process of art,
it seems very intelligent.
But I'm trying to understand where the intelligence lies.
Because I'm interested in the idea of it being embodied,
for example, and an emergent phenomenon.
So clearly when human beings collaborate together
in this divergent way, that's something very interesting.
But what would happen if the agents producing the art
were much less intelligent than humans?
Do you think that could still lead to a kind of intelligence
at a larger scale?
Yeah, and I just will also like preface
by just saying that I'm not against science.
I do like being associated with science.
I don't want to be the out-characterized as an artist
only.
I just think that we're straddling both here.
And the mechanisms of science clearly
have served us well in many cases.
So I don't want to be associated with kooky views
that we should get rid of science or something like that.
I just think it expands our horizons
to understand what we're doing and how it relates to art.
And also just before to answer the question,
I think it's also important to note
that I'm not just making the generic point
that there's an aesthetic aspect to science, which
people have written entire books about.
People have pointed out before, not me,
but there's famous books that have
been written about how science has an artistic side,
like an artistic inclination can help you as a scientist.
I mean, this is not new to point these things out.
But I'm trying to make a much more literal point
that AI itself, specifically AI, with the word artificial
in front of it, is really about art in a strong way.
And this is what has not been acknowledged.
This point has also come up in mathematics.
And for the life of me, I can't think of whether it was
Penrose or maybe even Gauss or somebody,
but a legendary mathematician made this point.
They were bemoaning the fact that there wasn't
more creativity in mathematics.
Because if you look at some of the greatest achievements
of mathematics, they were these things that were created
that were entirely new, like calculus from Leibniz
or Newton, right?
I mean, just these new creations, new ways of thinking
about things that were really inspired
from a more artistic sense.
And he was making the same point that like,
that's mathematics.
And to kind of say like, well, no,
if it doesn't have a certain level of rigor,
it doesn't approach mathematics.
Well, in order to get to those forms of rigor,
you first have to have that stepping stone,
that inspiration that generates something brand new.
And I gotta figure this out,
but I forget who it was and they made this point.
So if it applies even to mathematics,
it has to apply also to things
that are more grounded in reality.
So I think your point completely stands.
And it is sad that people tried to dismiss it as,
well, that's not science or that's not mathematics.
There's an interesting response.
There's a good, it's not science.
Like, I wonder where that leads exactly.
It's like, I'm not pretending to be talking about science.
Like, it's still so we should discuss.
Good, it's not already known, I'm doing something new.
Yeah.
So where does the intelligence lie?
I think was where I was getting at.
I'm really fascinated by this idea
that it's not in the brain that it's in the process.
And I think your ideas are going in that direction.
Yeah, I remember your question.
Yeah, yeah, so like, if there was a less intelligent
kind of move towards our less intelligent type of agent
that was involved in an artistic evolution,
like what would be the quality of that?
Yeah, I think, I do think it's possible for there to be
artistic, it's complicated because like art is subjective.
I mean, we're making it for ourselves.
So like, if there were things that aren't us
that are doing something artistic,
presumably they're making it for themselves.
So it might not be interesting to us.
I'm not sure it would, it might be interesting to us,
but it would be a process worth paying attention to
in some way, I do believe that,
because it would have these properties of trends
and stepping stones and like an evolutionary process,
like a phylogeny would result from that.
Whether it's of interest to us is,
I mean, just the artifacts themselves,
I'm not totally sure that they would be.
Cause a lot of, I mean, art does often reference things,
like I said, in nature, cause that's what our experience is.
I mean, if you have no experience of nature,
art can't be about that then.
So what is it about?
And it could be about other things,
just mathematical relationships.
Some small subset of art is, like I said,
like I mean, some modern art has nothing to do
with referencing anything in the world.
So maybe some people would appreciate that,
but even those things seem to relate
to some emotional resonance or something like that.
Like these beings may have no emotion.
So I don't know where you'd enjoy this,
but from a kind of like just like analyzing
the process point of view,
I think it might be interesting
cause there would be such a process.
It's so interesting because the rubber meets the road.
We're talking about this, all of these brains
operating together in this divergent process.
And you were just saying that an artist possibly
has some kind of phenomenological resonance
with a situation.
And I'm interested in the kind of continuum
between brains and the kind of algorithms
we produce in computer science.
Because I think we could all agree
that neural networks and optimization algorithms,
they don't seem very human-like
and they certainly don't think the way humans do,
even if they can produce intelligent senior behavior.
So you really lean into this idea
of trusting our instincts and subjectivity.
And a cynical reading is that our subjectivity
is essentially random.
And a random search would be the most divergent search,
but that would clearly be rubbish, right?
So there must be some kind of continuum
between a totally random search
and a principled divergent search.
So how would you kind of articulate and reason about that?
Yeah, it's true that any kind of divergence
that pushes too far towards a randomness,
I don't think would be interesting.
And I don't think that's what artists
I don't think that's what human artists are doing
because I don't think it would be interesting.
It's just that art is,
they are really concerned with what's interesting, I think,
but without the constraints of science.
So it's not supposed to prove something that you're trying
to figure out whether it's true or not.
It's just supposed to lead to some kind of insight
or feeling or something, it depends on the artist.
And of course that then points back to things we care about
because we're humans and we care about having insights.
And of course the things we want to have insights about vary
