To achieve your highest goals,
you have to be willing to abandon them.
Today, we're publishing the first
in a small series of conversations
with Professor Ken Stanley.
Reading Ken's book, Why Greatness Cannot Be Planned,
was one of the most intellectually awakening moments
of the latter part of my life.
It really turned my thinking upside down,
making me question many deeply held beliefs
which I had previously.
The episode that we did with him
was many months in the making,
and perhaps the greatest ever episode of MLST.
Ken argued in his book that our world
has become saturated with objectives.
The process of setting an objective,
attempting to achieve it,
and measuring progress along the way,
has become the primary route to achievement in our culture.
It's not like he's saying that objectives are bad, per se,
especially if they're modest.
But what he thinks are that when goals are ambitious,
which is to say they are unknowable, complex, or abstract,
or put more simply, that they entail discovery, creativity,
invention, innovation, or happiness,
then the search base becomes deceptive,
which is to say the measure itself becomes a false compass
which blinds us to the stepping stones
which we should actually take.
I mean, is the key to artificial intelligence
really related to intelligence?
Does taking a job with a higher salary
really bring you closer to being a millionaire?
The problem is that the stepping stones
which lead to ambitious objectives
tend to be pretty strange.
They don't resemble the final end state.
Vacuum tubes led to computers, for example,
and YouTube started as a video dating website.
In a sense, creativity itself is actually a search problem.
Is it possible to explore a search space intelligently
without using an objective to align towards discovery
and away from the trap of preconceived results?
Greatness is possible if you're willing to stop demanding
what greatness should be.
The greatest moments and epiphanies in our life
are so often unexpected and unplanned.
Serendipity can play an outsize role in our lives.
At the end of Joel Lemon and Ken Stanley's 2011 paper,
Abandoning Objectives,
they concluded that it was almost like a riddle.
Novelty search suggests a surprising new perspective
on achievement, which is to say,
to achieve your highest goals,
you must be willing to abandon them.
I always get engineers on my team to read this paper
and it's illuminating in so many ways.
I love using the visual analogy of a maze
to represent the search problem of life
and stepping stones in that maze
as being either potential objectives or end states.
Of course, we don't know about the existence
of most of the objectives and the fog of war
blinds us from seeing far ahead into the maze.
The fundamental problem is the missing information problem.
But as we'll soon find out,
not just the information itself,
but how we represent it, understand it,
experience it and even know it.
The fascinating thing is that if we were an oracle
and we knew exactly which steps to take in life,
we could become billionaires within months
or we could achieve anything we wanted to.
The only inconvenient thing stopping us
from realizing our dreams
is that the space of possibilities is exponentially large.
It's very expensive to sample many trajectories
in that space, so we tend to get stuck
in certain sections of the maze for long stretches of time.
Ken thinks that the most valuable commodity in search
is information.
We must accumulate as much of it as possible.
There's an arrow of informational complexity
and natural evolution.
And Ken was the first machine learning researcher
to take seriously the growing yet controversial view
in biology that adaptive selection
does not explain the arrow of complexity in nature.
We're standing in a maze right now.
There are many doors within walking distance
which lead to unthinkable greatness.
We simply haven't walked over and open them.
We are existence proofs of general intelligence.
Every single one of us has a brain,
but just like the infinite number of doors
we could open in the maze of life,
it took evolution billions of years
and gazillions of individual life forms
to create our brains.
Now, Ken is known for his pioneering research
in the open-endedness space.
You might recall the poet paper,
the pairwise open-ended trailblazer.
It was the first ever episode of MLST that we spoke about that,
but that's an example of this line of research.
Open-endedness might seem like a nebulous term,
but you can think of it as being an AI system
which doesn't have a boundary in its state space
and doesn't ever finish accumulating information.
Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington,
the notorious astronomer and physicist
born in the late 19th century,
spoke about the subjectivity in science.
His point is that science only tells us a sliver
of what's really happening in the world around us,
and we should be a lot less arrogant in our claims
to understand it and our attempts to formalize it.
Physics, he argued,
can never reveal the true nature of things,
rather it deals with relations between observables
which are subjectively selected by the human mind.
He says that he was inclined to attribute
the whole responsibility for the laws of mechanics
and gravitation to the mind
and deny the external world any share in them.
He went on to say,
the laws which we have hitherto been unable to fit
into a rational scheme are the true natural laws
inherent in the external world,
and mind has no chance of molding them
in accordance with its own outlook.
Subjectivity is everywhere,
and yet in so many ways we delude ourselves
that we are transforming subjectivity into objectivity.
Imagine a fisherman catching fish in a small ocean.
Depending on the size of his net,
he might reason that there's nothing very small in the ocean
because those objects are slipping through his net.
What we can agree on is that our understanding
of physics breaks if we zoom in too much
or zoom out too much,
so at best we have a frame of reference
which Eddington would argue is observer relative.
Surprisingly little in our world can actually be objectified
without using abstract motifs.
Have you ever asked a philosopher
to define what it means to be real,
or what it means to exist?
I can guarantee you that they'll be reaching.
They'll say things like something exists
if it has a causal effect on the world,
or if it can be measured,
or if it's not illusory,
which is to say it is as it appears,
or perhaps that it's genuine in big air quotes.
What does it mean to be intelligent?
What is life?
Describe an ecosystem.
What is British culture?
Describe your mind.
Describe your conscious experience.
Have you heard of the parable
of the blind men and the elephant?
Any attempt to formalize a complex phenomena
lead to excluding large parts of the truth.
What fascinated me about this conversation
with Ken this evening
is I got a much deeper understanding of his philosophy.
He led by saying that he thought
it's worth questioning
whether artificial intelligence
is even a science or not.
Just let that sink in for a moment.
I'd been too focused on my mental framework
of objectives, behavior, and actions.
The broader story is that Ken thinks
society and institutions
are scared of any subjectivity.
Subjectivity in general.
He thinks that attempts to formalize complex,
emergent, and integrative phenomena
like intelligence, consciousness, life, society,
the mind, or anything else for that matter,
only deludes us and blocks us
from potentially discovering a deeper reality later.
It's a very human trait to seek to understand
the world around us
to varying degrees of self-delusion.
Before we understand a particular phenomena,
it's almost impossible to come up
with a good scientific and formal definition.
How could we possibly define something
which we don't understand well?
This is the paradox in computer science and philosophy.
The more we seek something,
the more it eludes us.
It sounds almost anti-intellectual, doesn't it?
This idea that we should reject formalization.
But Ken thinks that many phenomena
